Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3511 VN
Development Credit Agreement
(Poverty Reduction Support Credit)
between
Socialist Republic of Vietnam
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 5, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3511 VN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 5, 2001, between SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated March 
20, 2001 describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
poverty reduction and structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter 
called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program 
during the execution thereof; and
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:
"‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.";
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement.";
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions";
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; and
(f)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the term "Deposit Account" means the account referred 
to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one hundred ninety seven million two hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 197,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the 
Page  3
Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded 
to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after the aggregate 
of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have reached the 
equivalent of SDR 78,900,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an 
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Association: (i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Program; (ii) that the macroeconomic policy framework of the 
Borrower is satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed between the 
Borrower and the Association; and (iii) that the actions described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement have been taken. If, after said exchange of views, the Association 
shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken 
are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not 
have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association, in respect 
of (i), (ii) and (iii) above, then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, 
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as  may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)   Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 2011 and ending January 15, 2041.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on January 15, 2021 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Association of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify 
the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
Page  4
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, 
including any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, 
a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Page  5
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement  is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Governor or any Deputy Governor of the Borrower’s State Bank 
of Vietnam is designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
State Bank of Vietnam
49 Ly Thai To
Hanoi
Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
VIETBANK
412248
844-8250612
Hanoi
NHTWVT
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as of the day and year first above written.
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
By /s/ Le DucThuy
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
Page  6
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse 
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, unworked
or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing
machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including 
set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party); 
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
Page  7
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d)
of this Agreement
1.
Removed or modified business licenses of at least 50 trades, industries and 
services, so that entry in those sub-sectors is eased.
2.
Streamlined the equitization process to expand capital and security markets, to 
remove existing ceilings on shareholdings by individuals and legal entities in 
equitized state-owned enterprises (SOEs), to improve transparency of the process, and 
to move responsibility for issuing, selling and registering shares out of individual 
SOE’s management.
3.
Completed major equitization (i.e., selling more than 65 percent of shares to 
non-State shareholders and having no dominant or special State shares), sale under 
Decree No. 103-1999-ND-CP of September 10, 1999 on Transfer, Sale, Management Contract 
and Lease of State Enterprises, or liquidation of at least 200 SOEs, with the 
equitized and sold SOEs operating and existing under the Enterprise Law.
4.
Completed minor equitization (i.e., sales of shares with the State having 
dominant or special shares) of at least 200 SOEs, with the equitized SOEs operating 
and existing under the Enterprise Law.
5.
Adopted detailed restructuring plans for Seaprodex, Vinatex and Vinacafe General 
Corporations (GCs), including a timetable of specific actions to be taken to improve 
corporate governance and competitiveness of key SOEs in these GCs (de-regulation of 
entry into SOE subsectors, new corporate governance mechanisms for the GCs, 
equitization or sale of non-core assets, liquidation of non-viable operations, 
installation of appropriate accounting and management information systems) and 
specific operational targets for cost-reduction and revenue growth. 
6.
Modified the design of the fund established to finance the social safety net for 
state-owned enterprise workers, put the fund as modified into operation with dedicated 
staff in adequate numbers and completed a review and written report on the 
disbursement performance of the fund.
7.
Removed Quantitative Restrictions vis-à-vis all countries, from all tariff lines 
for clinker and paper, replacing them with tariffs where necessary and appropriate.
8.
Adopted restructuring plans for four state-owned commercial banks (Vietnam 
Commercial Bank (VCB), Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (VBARD), 
Bank for Investment and Development of Vietnam (BIDV) and Industrial and Commercial 
Bank of Vietnam (ICBV)) in accordance with the key principles of State Bank of 
Vietnam’s State-owned Commercial Bank restructuring framework, and achieved the first 
year milestones of said restructuring plans.
9.
Closed nine joint-stock banks (JSBs) under State Bank of Vietnam intervention 
and ensured compliance of all remaining JSBs with existing regulations.
10.
Amended Decision No. 284/2000/QD-NHNN1 of August 25, 2000 Issuing Regulation on 
Lending to Clients of Credit Institutions to bring criteria for loan-classification by 
banks in accordance with international practice, and initiated implementation of 
revised criteria for classification of non-performing loans as well as for their 
provisioning. 
11.
Completed audits of financial statements for the 2000 fiscal year of VCB, VBARD, 
BIDV and ICBV in accordance with international auditing and accounting standards by 
international auditors acceptable to the Association and furnished said audits to the 
Association.
Page  8
12.
Improved transparency and reliability of national budgetary information by 
designating the Borrower’s State Treasury as the agency responsible for a 
comprehensive management information system for government expenditures and by 
publishing sectoral breakdowns of at least 75 percent of total government spending.
