Page  1
GRANT NUMBER TF 050261
Memorandum of Understanding
(DFID MOU)
for
the Administration by 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
of Grant Funds to be made available by the
GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND 
to the 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Co-financing of the Poverty Reduction Support Program
Dated December 7, 2001
GRANT NUMBER TF 050261 
DFID MOU
Memorandum of Understanding, dated December 7, 2001 between THE GOVERNMENT OF 
THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND acting through the DEPARTMENT 
FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (DFID) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association) to provide for the administration, by the Association, of certain funds 
to be made available by DFID to the SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM (hereinafter 
referred to as Vietnam).
WHEREAS: (A) DFID has decided to contribute an amount not exceeding Fourteen 
Million Pounds Sterling (14,000,000 ) (hereinafter referred to as the DFID 
Contribution) out of which an amount not exceeding thirteen million seven hundred 
twenty thousand Pounds Sterling (£13,720,000) (hereinafter referred to as the DFID 
Grant) will be made available to Vietnam as a grant in aid to assist Vietnam in 
implementing its economic reform program (the Program) supported by the Poverty 
Reduction Support Credit extended by the Association, as described in the attachment 
to this MOU.  
WHEREAS: (B) DFID has requested the Association, and the Association has 
accepted, to administer the DFID Contribution.
NOW THEREFORE DFID and the Association hereby accept as follows:
PART I
Section 1.01. The DFID Contribution will be provided by DFID and administered by 
the Association in accordance with the provisions of this MOU.
Section 1.02. The Association as administrator on behalf of DFID will enter into 
such arrangements with Vietnam as it may deem ppropriate for the purpose of providing 
Page  2
this additional financing in support of Vietnam’s Program. Before sending missions to 
review the progress of the Program supported by the Poverty Reduction Support Credit 
the Association will inform DFID on the timing of such missions so as to enable DFID 
either to discuss questions of mutual interest prior to such missions, to participate 
in such missions, and to exchange views on the results of such missions.
Section 1.03. The administration and enforcement of any provisions of any 
arrangement entered into between Vietnam and the Association for the purposes of this 
MOU will be handled solely by the Association, and the Association specifically 
reserves the right, at its discretion and without notice to DFID, to exercise, refrain 
from exercising or waive any rights under such arrangement or to modify any provision 
thereof; provided, however, that before suspending the right of Vietnam to make 
withdrawals of funds under such arrangement, the Association will inform DFID and 
afford DFID a reasonable opportunity for consultation with the Association.
Section 1.04. The Association will not knowingly allow the proceeds of the DFID 
Grant to be used to meet the cost of import or custom duties (or any similar fees) 
imposed by the Government of Vietnam on any goods imported or services provided in 
connection with the Program. 
Section 1.05. The Association will exercise the same care in the discharge of 
its functions under this MOU as it exercises with respect to the administration and 
management of its own affairs.
PART II
Section 2.01. (a) For the purpose of this MOU, DFID will deposit the DFID 
Contribution into the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development’s (IBRD’s) 
T- Account (the T-Account) (Account Number 39729123) maintained at HSBC Bank PLC, 
International Division, P.O. Box 181, 27-32 Poultry, London, in accordance with the 
following schedule:
(b)
DFID will make an initial deposit of a sum not exceeding Seven Million 
Pounds Sterling (£7,000,000) following signature of this MOU and at the request of the 
Association. An amount of six million eight hundred sixty thousand Pounds Sterling 
(£6,860,000) from this deposit will be immediately disbursed to the Socialist Republic 
of Vietnam in accordance with the terms of the arrangement between Vietnam and the 
Association.  A second and final deposit not exceeding Seven Million Pounds Sterling 
(£7,000,000) will be made on June 1, 2002, out of which an amount of six million eight 
hundred sixty thousand Pounds Sterling (£6,860,000) will be disbursed to the Socialist 
Republic of Vietnam simultaneously with the release of the second tranche of the 
Poverty Reduction Support Credit, as and when such release is effected. The second and 
final deposit will be paid only after DFID has received an unaudited financial 
statement from the Association showing in Pounds Sterling details of actual 
disbursements from the DFID Grant relating to the first tranche. The Association may 
invest or re-invest the DFID Contribution pending its disbursement. Any interest 
accrued from the investment or re-investment of the DFID Contribution will be returned 
to DFID.
Section 2.02. The Association is hereby entitled to an administrative fee equal 
in the aggregate to 2% of the DFID Contribution. The Association will deduct the 
administrative fee on a pro-rata basis from each instalment of the DFID Contribution 
referred to in Section 2.01 (b) above.  
PART III
Section 3.01. The Association will maintain separate records and accounts in 
respect of the funds in the T-Account and disbursed by the Association pursuant to the 
provisions of this MOU.
Section 3.02. The Association will provide DFID annually with a management 
assertion, together with an attestation from the Association’s external auditors, on 
the satisfactory performance of the procedures and controls used by the Association in 
administering trust funds.  The costs of such attestation will be borne by the 
Association.
PART IV
Section 4.01. At the request of either of them, DFID and the Association will 
consult from time to time on all matters arising out of this MOU and on other matters 
of common interest to them in the administration of the T-Account or on the progress 
of the Program
.
Page  3
PART V
Section 5.01. This MOU will become effective as of the date first above written 
and, subject to the provisions of this Part, will continue in effect until the entire 
proceeds of the DFID Grant have been disbursed.
Section 5.02. If at any time it appears to either DFID or the Association that 
the purposes of this MOU cannot effectively or appropriately be carried out, this MOU 
may be terminated at the initiative of such entity on ninety days’ (90 days) notice in 
writing to the other entity.
Section 5.03. Upon termination of this MOU, unless DFID and the Association 
decide on another course of action, any funds including any accrued interest on such 
funds or other property of DFID held hereunder by the Association will be returned to 
DFID and the Association’s administration will be considered terminated.
Section 5.04. Promptly after termination of the MOU, the Association will 
furnish to DFID a final report and a financial statement with respect to the funds 
deposited in the T-Account under this MOU. 
PART VI
Section 6.01. This MOU may be amended only by written agreement of DFID and the 
Association.
Section 6.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this MOU and any arrangement between DFID and the Association contemplated by 
this MOU will be in writing.  Such notice or request will be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it will be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or 
facsimile to the entity to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at 
such entity’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such entity 
will have designated by notice to the entity giving such notice or making such 
request.  Deliveries by facsimile will also be confirmed by mail. The addresses so 
specified are: 
For DFID:
Department for International Development South East Asia (DFIDSEA)
c/o The British Embassy, Wireless Road
Bangkok 10330
Thailand
Fax:
(66 2) 253 7124
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Fax:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI), or
(1-202) 477-2733
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned duly authorized thereto have signed this 
MOU.
GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND
By /s/ Mark Mallalieu
Head, DFID SEA
Date: December 7, 2001
Page  4
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Andrew Steer
Country Director
World Bank, Vietnam
Date: December 7, 2001
