Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GRANT NUMBER TF 050047 
Memorandum of Understanding
(DFID MOU)
for
the Administration by 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
of Grant Funds to be made available by the
GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN 
IRELAND 
to the 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Pilot Restructuring Project of Three General Corporations 
Dated January 8, 2002
GRANT NUMBER TF 
050047
DFID MOU
Page  2
Memorandum of Understanding, dated _January 8, 2002 between THE GOVERNMENT OF 
THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND acting through the 
DEPARTMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (DFID) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) to provide for the administration, by the 
Association, of certain funds to be made available by DFID to the SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF 
VIETNAM (hereinafter referred to as Vietnam).
WHEREAS: (A) DFID has agreed to make available to Vietnam _________, DFID has agreed to 
contribute an amount not exceeding four million eight hundred eighteen thousand eight hundred 
seventy-eight Pounds Sterling (£ 4,818,878) (hereinafter referred to as the DFID Contribution) of which 
an amount not exceeding four million seven hundred twenty-two thousand five hundred Pounds Sterling 
(£
 
4,722,500) (hereinafter referred to as the DFID Grant) will be made available to Vietnam to assist 
Vietnam in financing a Pilot Restructuring Project for Three General Corporations
 
(the Project), as 
further described in Schedule 1 to this MOU (the Project).  The Project will have an estimated duration 
of about two years and six months, approximately beginning January 1, 2002 and ending September 30, 
2004.
WHERAS: (A) (B)Through an exchange of letters between DFID and Vietnam dated 22 March 
2000______.
(CB) DFID has requested the Association, and the Association has agreed, to administer the 
DFID Contribution.
NOW THEREFORE DFID and the Association hereby agree as follows:
PART I
Section 1.01. The DFID Contribution willshall will be provided by DFID and administered by 
the Association in accordance with the provisions of this DFID MOU.
Section 1.02. The Association as administrator on behalf of DFID, willshall enter into such 
agreements with Vietnam as it may deem appropriate for the purpose of financing part of the cost of the 
Project.  Before sending missions to review the progress of the Project, the Association willshall inform 
DFID on the timing of such missions so as to enable DFID to participate and to exchange views on the 
results of such missions.
Section 1.03. The administration and enforcement of any provisions of any agreement entered 
into between Vietnam and the Association for the purposes of this DFID MOU willshall be handled 
solely by the Association, and the Association specifically reserves the right, at its discretion and without 
notice to DFID, to exercise, refrain from exercising or waive any rights under such agreement or to 
modify any provision thereof; provided, however, that before suspending the right of Vietnam to make 
withdrawals of funds under such agreement, the Association willshall inform DFID and afford DFID a 
reasonable opportunity for consultation with the Association.
Section 1.04. The Association will not knowingly allow the proceeds of the DFID Grant to be 
withdrawn to meet the cost of import or custom duties (or any similar fees) imposed by the Government 
of Vietnam on any goods imported or services provided in connection with the Project. This provision 
should form part of the Letters to be exchanged between Vietnam and DFID since it is an obligation to be 
Page  3
assumed by Vietnam rather than by the Bank. Thus Section 1.05 should be deleted.
Section 1.055. The Association willshall exercise the same care in the discharge of its functions 
under this DFID MOU as it exercises with respect to the administration and management of its own 
affairs.
PART II
Section 2.01. (a) For the purpose of this DFID MOU, DFID will deposit the DFID Contribution 
into the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development’s (IBRD’s) Cash Account “T-” Account 
(the T-Account) 
(ABA number 0210-8002-5Account Number 39729123) maintained at HSBC Bank PLC, International 
Division, P.O. Box 181, 27-32 Poultry, London in New York City, in accordance with the following 
schedule: of payments:_____________
  Schedule of payments to be agreed upon.
(b)
(bAs soon as this DFID MOU comes into operation, as of the date written above, DFID 
will shall will make an initial deposit of a sum not exceeding one million Pounds sterling (£ 1,000,000) 
promptly after the enter into effect of this MOU.following signature of this DFID MOU and at the 
request of the Association. . Subsequent installments from the DFID Contribution not exceeding one 
million Pounds sterling (£ 1,000,000) each, will be deposited semi-annually, on October 1 and April 1 of 
each year, starting on October 1, 2002, to replenish the Account upon receipt of semi-annual unaudited 
financial certificates expressed in Pounds Sterling. These certificates will provide details of total receipts 
from the DFID Contribution, actual disbursements from the DFID ContributionContribution and the 
undisbursed balance held in the Account, and will be accompanied by estimates of the amount of funds 
needed for the next six-month period. severy ssy following receipt from the Association of a satisfactory 
financial statement showing how the previous installment was spent. The financial statement will be 
accompanied by an estimate of the funds required for the next six-month period. in amounts of not less 
than three million pounds sterling. The Association may invest or re-invest the DFID Contribution 
pending its disbursement. Any interest accrued from the investment or re-investment of the DFID 
Contribution will be returned to DFID.
Section 2.02 The Association is hereby entitled to an administrative fee equal in the 
aggregatededuct from the DFID Grant funds deposited into the said Cash Account, an amount or amounts 
equivalent to 2% of the DFID Contribution. The Association will deduct the administrative fee on a 
pro-rata basis from each semi-annual instalment of the DFID Contribution referred to in Section 2.01 (b) 
above.  
Section 2.03. The Association willshall withdraw from the T- Account such amounts as from 
time to time willshall be needed to meet the reasonable cost of the Projects to be financed pursuant to 
Section 1.02 of this DFID MOU, such withdrawals to be effected through the normal disbursement 
procedures of the Association.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association willshall otherwise agree, the procurement of 
consultants’ services financed from the proceeds of the DFID Grant willshall be undertaken in 
accordance with the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers,” 
published by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997 and January 1999 (The Consultant Guidelines).
Page  4
PART III
Section 3.01. The Association willshall:
(a)
maintain separate records and accounts in respect and accounts in respect of the funds in 
the T-Account and disbursed by the Association pursuant to the provisions of this DFID MOU; and 
(b)
maintain an updated record of procurement contracts financed from the proceeds of the 
DFID Grant.
Section 3.02.  The Association will provide DFID annually with a management assertion, 
together with an attestation from the Association’s external auditors, on the satisfactory performance of 
the procedures and controls used by the Association in administering trust funds.  The costs of such 
attestation will be borne by the Association. 
PART IV
Section 4.01. At the request of either of them, DFID and the Association willshall consult, from 
time to time on all matters arising out of this DFID MOU and on other matters of common interest to 
them in the administration of the T-Account or the carrying out of the Activities.
PART V
Section 5.01. This DFID MOU willshall become effective as of the date first above written and, 
subject to the provisions of this Part, willshall continue in effect until the entire proceeds of the DFID 
Grant have been withdrawn.
Section 5.02. If at any time it appears to either of DFID or the Association that the purposes of 
this DFID MOU cannot effectively or appropriately be carried out, this DFID MOU may be terminated at 
the initiative of such entity on ninety days’ (90 days) notice in writing to the other entity.
Section 5.03. Upon termination of this DFID MOU, unless DFID and the Association agree on 
another course of action, and except for such funds as may be subject to prior commitment entered into 
by the Association or to procurement contracts executed prior to such termination, any funds including 
any accrued interest on such funds, or other property of DFID held hereunder by the Association 
willshall be returned to DFID and the Association’s administration willshall be considered terminated.
Section 5.04. Promptly after termination of the DFID MOU, the Association willshall furnish to 
DFID a final report and a financial statement with respect to the funds deposited in the T-Account under 
this MOU. 
PART VI
Section 6.01. This  DFID MOU may be amended only by written agreement of DFID and the 
Association.
Section 6.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this DFID 
Page  5
MOU and any agreement between DFID and the Association contemplated by this DFID MOU willshall 
be in writing.  Such notice or request willshall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it 
willshall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to the entity to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such entity’s address hereinafter specified or at such other 
addresses as such entity willshall have designated by notice to the entity giving such notice or making 
such request.  Deliveries by facsimile will also be confirmed by mail. The addresses so specified are: 
For DFID:
Department for International Development South East Asia (DFIDSEA)
c/o The British Embassy, Wireless Road
Bangkok 10330
Thailand
Fax:
(66 2) 253 7124
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Fax:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI), or
(1-202) 
477-2733
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned duly authorized thereto have signed this DFID 
MOU.
GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND 
NORTHERN IRELAND
By
/s/ Warwick Morris
British Ambassador to Vietnam
Date: January 8, 2002
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Andrew 
Steer
Country Director
World Bank in Vietnam
Date: January 7, 2002
Page  6
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
1.
The objective of the Project is: (a) to assist Vietnam in the reform of three General Corporations 
(GCs) – Vinatex, Vincafe, and Seaprodex – and selected member State-owned Enterprises (SOEs), with 
the aim of increasing their competitiveness and business efficiency, through restructuring, divestiture and 
equitisation, and (b) in support of the overall State-owned Enterprise Reform Programme, to disseminate 
information generated and lessons learned in implementing the Project, and to develop models of GC 
governance for possible adoption by other GCs.  Further details are contained in the Project Document.
2.
The Activities under the Project for which the DFID Grant, described in the MOU, is given are 
as follows:
(a)
provision of advisory services to the three GCs to enhance their overall business 
strategies, to optimise their corporate governance arrangements, to improve their organizational structure 
and to engender portfolio management skills;
(b)
provision of advisory services for enterprise development to selected SOEs to increase 
productivity, production efficiency, sales and marketing growth and to improve financial management;
(c)
provision of advisory services for restructuring identified SOEs and the evaluation of 
realistic divestment and exit strategies;
(d)
provision of advisory services to support the development and implementation of 
appropriate processes for equitisation and divestiture of assets;
(e)
provision of training for both GCs and SOEs to enhance management skills in the above 
subjects, as well as in corporate planning, business strategy and equitisation issues;
(f)
provision of technical assistance for the delivery of comprehensive Human Resource 
Development programmes to address excess and under-employment;
(g)
provision of advisory services for the evaluation of SOEs’ current social obligations and 
services enterprises, and for the development and implementation of mechanisms for their transparent 
management and of proposals for their managed divestment to other agencies; 
(h)
provision of advisory and support services for Vietnam’s National Steering  Committee 
for Enterprise Reform and Development; and
(i)
provision of technical assistance for the delivery of “management of change 
programmes” involving employees and other groups of stakeholders.
3.
The Project is expected to be completed before September 30, 2004.
