Dacimern of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Ck  j)3L/-4)
Report No. P-4379-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 26.4 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
THIRD DHAKA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
September 9, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duLies. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
The external value of the Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation to a
basket of reference currencies, with the US dollar serving as intervention
currency. On February 12, 1986, the official exchange rate was set at Tk
30.27 buying and Tk 30.33 selling per US dollar.
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
cu m         -   cubic meter (220 Imperial gallons or 264.2 US gallons)
km           -   kilometer (0.62 miles)
1            -   liter (0.22 Imperial Gallons or 0.264 US gallons)
m            -   meter (39.37 inches)
mld          -   million liters per day (0.264 million Imperial
gallons per day or 0.264 million US gallons per day)
ml           -   million liters or 1,000 cubic meters
km2          -   square kilometer (a.386 sq. miles)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARV          -   Annual Rental Value
CWASA        -   Chittagong Water Supply and Sewerage Authority
DMC          --  Dhaka Municipal Corporation
DWASA        -   Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Authority
GDP           -   Gross Domestic Product
ICB          -   International Competitive Bidding
LCB          -   Local Competitive Bidding
MPO          -   Bangladesh Water Master Plan Organization
NGO          -   Non-government Organization
ROR          -   Rate of Return
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIUL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
THIRD DHAKA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           People's Republic of Bangladesh
Beneficiaries:      Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Authority (DWASA)
Dhaka Municipal Corporation (DKC)
Amount:             SDR 26.4 million (US$30.0 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard
Onlending           The Government of Bangladesh would on-lend US$25.2 million
Terms:              equivalent of the proceeds of the credit to DWACA and DMC
at an annual interest rate of 11.5% repayable in equal
installments of principal and interest over 25 years
including a five-year grace period. US$4.3 miLlion
equivalent of the proceeds of the credit would be provided
as a grant by the Government to DWASA for the Demra
resettlement component. The foreign exchange risk would
be borne by the Government.
Project             The objectives of the project are to improve DWASA's
Description:        operational and financial performance, expand existing
water supply and sewerage systems in metropolitan Dhaka,
and strengthen sectoral training and planning. These
objectives would be achieved through: implementation of
a large-scale leak detection program to reduce leakage and
unaccounted-for water; installaticn of a computer system
in DWASA for commercial management and monitoring of
operations; a study of DWASA staff productivity and
deployment of staff resources; expansion of water supply
and sewerage facilities; rehabilitation of old water
mains; and a pilot low-cost sanitation program. The
project would also provide for the resettlement of
residents at Demra if necessary.
Project Risks:      The main risks to the proposed project are that tariffs
may not be revised regularly and that improvements in
operating efficiency may be achieved more slowly than
expected.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii -
Estimated Project Costs: /a
Local     Foreign      Total
----… US$ million-…
Civil Works                      6.14       1.04        7.18
Materials and Equipment          7.74       7.56       15.30
Demra Resettlement               3.15       0.65        3.80
Engineering, Training and
Technical Assistance           0.60       1.33        1.93
Land                             0.67        -          0.67
Physical Contingencies           2.01       0.95        2.96
Price Contingencies              7.57       2.03        9.60
TOTAL PROJECT COST         27.88     13.56        41.44 a/
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign      Total
- --US$ million--
IDA                        16.44     13.56        30.00
Government of Bangladesh  11.44         -         11.44
TOTAL                      27.88      13.56       41.44
Estimated Disbursement of IDA Credit (USs Million)
Fiscal Year       FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92
Annual              6.9  10.2   6.9   3.6   2.1   0.3
cumulative          6.9  17.1  24.0  27.6  29.7  30.0
Economic Rate
of Return:        13Z
Appraisal Report:  Bangladesh: Third Dhaka Water Supply and Sanitation Project,
Report No. 5964-BD, dated June 10, 1986.
Maps:              IBRD #19282 and IBRD #19283
a/ Includes US$7.9 million equivalent of duties and taxes.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
THIRD DHAKA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 26.4
million (US$30.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a
Third Dhaka Water Supply and Sanitation Project. The Government of
Bangladesh would onlend US$25.2 million equivalent of the proceeds of the
credit to the Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Authority (DWASA) and Dhaka
Municipal Corporation (DMC) for a period of 25 years, including a grace
period of five years, at an interest rate of 11.5Z per annum. US$4.8 million
equivalent of the proceeds of the credit would be provided as a grant by the
Government to DWASA for the Demra resettlement component.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.      An ecor.amic report entitled "Bangladesh:  Recent Economic
Developments and Medium Term Prospects," (Report No. 6049 dated March 17,
1986) has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.      Bangladesh, which became independent in 1972 after a devastating war,
is a country with a very high population density and widespread poverty.
Annual per capita income was only about US$130 in 1985. The high rate of
population growth (2.6% per year), a very low literacy level (about 25%),
poor health and nutrition, and weaknesses in public administration and in the
financial system act as major constraints to economic and social development.
Domestic savings finance less than a quarter of gross investment which has
averaged about 16% of gross domestic product (GDP) in recent years.
Bangladesh has very few natural resources other than natural gas and is,
therefore, highly dependent on imported raw materials and intermediates.
Export earnings cover less than 30X of the import bill; the resource gap of
about 15% of CDP is financed primarily by workers' remittances and foreign
assistance equivalent to about 5% and 1OX of GDP per year, respectively. The
capacity to finance imports can be sharply affected by external factors (such
as the terms and volumes of trade) beyond Government control, and their
effect on the economy is amplified by the heavy dependence of budgetary
revenues on import-related duties and taxes, which account for almost 60%
of tax revenues.



-2-
Recent Economic Developments
4.      Following the severe disruptions of the independence struggle and
devastating floods in the early 1970s, output in agriculture and industry
recovered only slowly to reach pre-independence levels by the late 1970s.
Large budget deficits, inflation, rapid population growth, and political
instability during the first few years of independence added to the country's
plight. However, during the late 1970s and early 1980e, political and
economic stabilization helped the Government to focus more on longer-term
development objectives. As a result, despite the country's structural
constraints and repeated disruptions caused by natural disasters, Bangladesh
has recently made significant progress. In particular, agricultural,
industrial, and export policies have been strengthened, and average GDP
growth of about 4% per year has been achieved during the past five years.
5.      Foodgrain production, which has always been a high priority for the
Government has grown on average by 3.5% per year during the 1980s, up from
2.9% in the second half of the 1970s and welL above the 2.6% annual
population growth rate. This encouraging growth has occurred despite major
natural calamities and substantial reductions in agricultural subsidies.
Industrial output, which stagnated in the early 1980s, has more recently
shown solid growth - 9% per year in 1984-86 - although the base remains
small. The introduction of the New Industrial Policy, and the increased
availability of foreign exchange resulting from import substitution in energy
and growth in non-traditional exports have contributed significantly to this
trend.
6.      Macroeconomic policy has sought to maintain a balance between
promoting growth and maintaining stability; performance has been mixed. In
order to stimulate growth following the 1982-83 recession and the 1984
floods, private credit was expanded very rapidly during FY84 and the first
haLf of FY85, creating serious pressures on the balance of payments and
domestic prices. However, starting in late 1985, the Government has taken a
series of measures to curb the growth in credit, including increases in
interest rates, the imposition of credit ceilings, and controls on
refinancing by the Bangladesh Bank. In addition, the exchange rate has been
depreciated by over 15% in terms of US dollars since February 1985 in order
tu ease the pressure on the balance of payments. These stabilization
measures are being supported by a Stand-By Arrangement with the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) in the amount of SDR 180 million covering the December
1985 - June 1987 period. Overall, domestic inflation has remained moderate
(10-12% per year) over the last three years, aided by a combination of record
foodgrain production and the stabilization measures. Fiscal policy has for
the most part been cautious; the major problem has not been excessive
expenditure but rather the inability to mobilize domestic resources. Much of
the additional revenue mobilized through tax and pricing measures has been
utilized to pay for necessary increases in public sector salaries. The
Government's poor performance in raising public savings has contributed to
the decline in real public investment since 1980. Part of this decline can
be attributed to significantly Lower public investment in line with the
Government's privatization policies.



-3-
7.      Bangladesh suffers from a persistent shortage of foreign exchange,
but in the past two years the balance of payments position has been
especially difficult. In FY85, workers' remittances declined and imports
rose rapidly due to strong industria' growth stimulated by the rapid growth
in credit and the need for substantial foodgrain imports following the 1984
floods. The depreciation of the taka and other associated stabilization
measures have resulted in some improvement in the current account deficit,
from 8% of GDP in FY85 to 7% in FY86. Real GDP growth in 1986 is expected to
be about 5%, aided by a record agricultural output and a strong growth in
manufactured exports. Despite this improvement, the balance cf payments will
continue to constrain growth prospects in FY87 and FY88.
8.      Bangladesh's public long-term debt (excluding obligations to the IMF)
has risen from US$3.55 billion (25% of GDP) at the end of 1980 to US$5.97
billion (40% of GDP) at the beginning of 1986. IDA accounts for US$5.97
billion or 33% of this total. The bulk of Bangladesh's debt (96%) is on
concessionaL terms. However, in 1984 and 1985 domestic food shortages
necessitated borrowing at commercial rates for food imports. Servicing of
these loans has been partly rcsponsible for a sharp rise in the ratio of debt
service to total export earnings (including workers' remittances) from 11.2%
in 1983 to an estimated 18.4% in 1986 and 1987. Including repurchase
obligations to the IMF would bring the debt service ratio to an estimated
26% and 30Z, respectively, in 1986 and 1987. As commercial loans and IMF
obligations are repaid, however, this ratio is expected to fall to about 17%
by 1990.
Medium-Term Prospects and Development Issues
9.      The Third Five Year Plan (1986-90) emphasizes the alleviation of mass
poverty and includes as its main medium-term targets: (a) 5.4% per year CDP
growth; (b) a reduction in the population growth rate from 2.6% to 1.8% per
year by 1990; (c) the attainment of foodgrain seLf-sufficiency by FY90;
(d) an enlarged role of the private sector in the economy; (e) rapid
employment generation through the development of modern medium- and
small-scale industries and the promotion of export/import-substitution
enterprises; and (f) major efforts to raise literacy levels. These are
desirable and appropriate goals. Unemployment and poverty must remain a
source of major concern. Increasing land]essnLss and an associated increase
in poverty coupled with the need to absorb 1.3 million new entrants to the
labor force each year underscore the need for sustained and strong overall
economic growth and continued emphasis on human resource development and
population policies. Agriculture, which still accounts for 50% of CDP, will
remain the backbone of the economy and the major source of employment and
income generation bnt increasingly the private industrial sector will be
required to play a critical role in the creation of output and employment and
in the generation of foreign exchange earnings.



-4-
10.     Achieving these goals will not be easy.  It will require increased
efficiency in the use of resources and higher levels of investment by the
public sector in basic infrastructure (power, transportation, communications,
education, and health) and by the private sector in industry and agriculture.
However, the foreign and domestic resources needed for investment and for
subsequent operations and maintenance remain in short supply.
11.     Foreign exchange availability is expected to remain very constrained
over the next five years during which the need for imported goods for
industrial growth will be rising. While oil imports will be substantially
reduced (by about $100 million per year) by the decline in oil prices, this
reduction is expected to be more than offset by lower remittances from the
Middle East, which are unlikely to rise again even over the medium term.
Bangladesh's terms of trade, which fell by 17Z in FY86 due principally to
lower jute prices, are not expected to recover rapidly, and even under fairly
optimistic projections, export earnings from jute and jute products (which
account for 55% of export earnings) are expected to show no real growth over
the next decade. Finally, over a quarter of total export earnings, including
workers' remittances, will be required to service external debt over the next
two years as obligations to tne IMF and commercial debts are repaid
(paragraph 8). On the more positive side, non-traditional exports, if
supported by appropriate policies and substantial private investment, can
continue to grow at about the 20% annual real growth rate of the 1980-85
period. Total export growth should rise, albeit slowly, due to expanding
non-traditional exports which will account for an increasing proportion (from
less than 20% in FY85 to about half by the early 1990s) of total export
earnings. During this transition period, however, the economy wilL remain
vulnerable to external and internal shocks and will require substantial
inflows of balance-of-payments assistance in the form of fast-disbursing
commodity and program aid to finance the imports required to maintain
reasonable levels of output and employment.
12.     A major effort is required in mobilizing domestic resources.  The
growth of public revenues is seriously Limited by the narrow revenue base,
the heavy dependence on import-related taxes, and the subsistence nature of
the economy. The tax to CDP ratio remains among the lowest in the world, and
despite very low taxable incomes, could be significantly raised through
reform of the tax structure and improvements in administration. Economic
pricing of publicly provided goods and services (natural gas, power,
transportation, irrigation), the elimination of subsidies on food, and
improved profit generation in public enterprises could also provide
additionaL resources.
13.     The mobilization and efficient use of savings within the private
sector is hampered by the undeveloped and inefficient financial sector. The
financial system faces a serious loan recovery problem with large accumulated
debts in both agriculture and industry. The legal framework is ineffective
and the Bangladesh Bank has inadequate supervision of the rapidly expanding
system. Key public financial institutions lack autonomy in their operations,



-5-
resulting in minimal accountability, weak internal management, and
operational inefficiencies. Major reforms will have to be undertaken to
improve financial discipline if the financial system is to deliver sufficient
resources for productive investments in an efficient manner.
14.     Efficient resource use will require improvements in project
implementation. Although some progress has been made, as reflected in an
improvement in the ratio of project aid disbursement to the pipeline from
15.2% in FY83 to 16.2Z in FY85, this ratio should be raised appreciably to
accelerate utilization of the present large pipeline of external assistance.
1/ The project approval process also needs to be improved and greater
operational autonomy shbuld be granted to implementing agencies.
15.     Returns on public investment could also be raised if more attention
were given to operation and maintenance (O&M) expenditures. Neglect of O&M
has led to a serious deterioration of public assets over the past decade.
Returns to O&M expenditures are likely to be significantly higher than those
from new investments.  Since these expenditures should not be borne entirely
by Government, increased cost recovery efforts are justified on both
efficiency and equity grounds. Budgetary management would benefit from
increased attention to pLanning and allocating adequate resources to O&M for
ongoing and completed projects, as well as from a change to multi-year
rolling budgetary plans.
16.     Finally, wichout renewed efforts in the medium term to reduce
population growth, the problems of longer-term development may well be
insurmountable. In this context, the family planning performance appears to
have deteriorated recently, as reflected in a significant downturn in 1985 in
the rate of increase in acceptance. Even a partial achievement of the Plan's
population growth rate target - e.g., from 2.6Z to 2.2% per year by 1990 -
would require a sustained effort to strengthen the delivery system for health
and family planning services.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
17.     Cumulative Bank Group commitments to Bangladesh total US$3,640.11
million. This figure includes reactivation of eleven credits (US$154.41
million) made to Pakistan before 1971 as welL as a consolidation loan
(US$54.90 million) and a consolidation credit (US$37.45 million) approved in
1975 to cover liabilities arising from projects completed prior to
independence. The Bank has approved 94 new credits since Bangladesh became a
1/ Disbursements under IDA-financed projects have improved markedly over
the last two years. The ratio of disbursements to pipeline rose from
16.1% in FY85 to 23.2% in FY86 and is well above the average for all
aid-financed projects in Bangladesh.



-6-
member in 1972. Of the total IDA commitments, approximately 21% have been
for agriculture, irrigation, and rural development; 9% for industry; 16% for
power and energy; 6% for transportation and telecommunications; 8% for
education and technical assistance; 4% for population control; 2% for urban
infrastructure; and 34% for imports program support. IDA lending over the
next several years is expected to reflect increased emphasis on the
development of the energy and industrial sectors. Since Bangladesh became a
member of tFC in 1976, five investments have been approved. IDA chairs the
annual Bangladesh Aid Group meeting which provides a forum for donor
consultation, and IDA's Resident Representative chairs regularly scheduled
donor meetings in Dhaka to exchange views on policy issues, project
implementation, and aid coordination.
18.     IDA's country assistance strategy is designed to support the Third
Plan's priority development objectives (paragraph 9). IDA lending has
emphasized agriculture, with particular importance attached to increasing
food production by augmenting the supply of essential inputs such as
irrigation equipment, fertilizer and improved seeds, developing extension
services, research programs and rural cooperatives, providing agricultural
credit, and promoting input and output pricing policies that allow adequate
incentives to farmers to increase production. IDA has also supported the
Government's efforts to encourage greater private sector participation in the
supply and distribution of agricultural inputs. Finally, IDA's lending
program has promoted agricultural diversification through increased
producticn of fish and forestry products.
19.     IDA assistance to Bangladesh's industrial sector is intended to
support the broadening of the country's development strategy by enhancing the
sector's capacity to contribute to a higher, sustained level of growth,
provide productive employment for a rapidly growing work force, and improve
the country's external trade and payments position on a sustained basis. IDA
has assisted Bangladesh's industrial sector through program credits as well
as projects to increase fertilizer production, rehabilitate the jute and
textile industries, strengthen the development finance institutions, and
promote small-scale industries.
20.     IDA's power and gas lending has been designed to expand the use of
natural gas in substitution for imported oil, promote conservation measures
and more efficient energy use, and encourage further gas and oil exploration.
IDA is also financing projects to expand the country's power generation and
transmission capabilities and rural electrification system. Recognizing the
criticaL shortages in traditional fuels, IDA is financing investments in
forestry to increase the supply of fuelwood.
21.     IDA has supported projects to improve the inland water transport
system as well as the road network. Bangladesh's road network is extensive,
but the roads are in poor condition and inadequately maintained. IDA's
future transport lending will concentrate mainly on supporting the
Government's programs to rehabiLitate deteriorated roads and to improve
maintenance standards, techniques, and expenditure levels.



-7-
22.     In the education sector, IDA's lending strategy focuses on primary
education and skills development. Lending for primary education supports the
national goals of achieving universal primary education and reducing
illiteracy, expanding access to education, and upgrading quality. Projects
for vocational and technical education promote the training of craftsmen,
technicians, and engineers.
23.     In order to alleviate the severe economic and social pressures
created by the extremely high population density and the continuing
population increase, IDA and other donors are assisting the Government in
implementing an accelerated family planning program. With Bangladesh's urban
population expected to increase frcm about 16-18 million in 1985 to between
35-40 million by the year 2000, IDA activities will also help the Government
address the problem of providing low-cost shelter and infrastructure services
to the urban poor. IDA has supported the Government's efforts to provide
water supply and sanitation services by financing several projects in Dhaka
and Chittagong (paragraphs 38 and 39). The proposed credit is a continuation
of those efforts.
24.     Because of the urgent need for sustained transfer of substantial
financial resources, a significant proportion of IDA's annual lending to
Bangladesh has been in the form of fast-disbursing program credits. In
addition to providing much-needed foreign exchange and local counterpart
financial support, annual program credits have provided a useful vehicle for
addressing a wide range of sectoral and macro-economic policy issues.
Bangladesh will continue to need substantial fast-disbursing foreign exchange
resources on highly concessional terms because of the large structural
imbalances between the cotntry's export earnings and its import requirements
and ;ts domestic savings rate and investment needs. T. assist Bangladesh in
addressing these structural problems, IDA plans to focus its future policy
dialogue with the Government on measures designed to improve the efficiency
and international competitiveness of the industrial sector, improve credit
discipline and strengthen the financial system, encourage development of the
country's domestic energy resources through a well-formulated investment
program, economically efficient pricing policies, and sound energy sector
institutions and to address policy and institutional issues in education.
IDA will support appropriate policy and institutional reform in these areas
through fast-disbursing sectoral adjustment credits. IDA will also continue
to provide support for adjustment policies designed to mobilize more domestic
financial resources in the public and private sectors and more efficient
resource utilization, through measures to increase public sector revenues,
enhance the efficiency of the public sector enterprises, and improve the
planning of public expenditures and investment.
25.      Project implementation is hampered not only by a shortage of
domestic financial resources, but also by weak development institutions,
limited managerial capacity, and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures. IDA, in
consultation with other donors, is engaged in a continuing dialogue with the
Government on ways to improve project implementation. In support of broader



-8-
irnstitutional reform, IDA is providing technical assistance for project
preparation and implementation, financing projects to train civil servants
and other managerial and technical personnel, and encouraging the Government
to introduce administrative reforms and improve the strurture and management
of the civil service. Although progress is being made in implementing
reforms, which include administrative reorganization and improvements in
financial planning and budgetary procedures, adequate institutional
capabilities can be achieved only over the long term.
PART III. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
Introduction
26.     While Bangladesh has an ample supply of surface water, this resource
is frequently polluted and the country's predominantly flat terrain provides
few opportunities for impounding rivers to control dry season flows.
Groundwater, however, is abundant, generally of good quality, and relatively
inexpensive to develop.
27.     Although less than 20% of Bangladesh's population resides in urban
areas, about two-thirds of the anticipated popuLation growth over the next 15
years is expected to occur in towns and cities. The urban population growth
rate is currently about 10% per year versus a rural growth rate of about
1.5%. This rapid rate of urban growth will place increasing pressure on
urban infrastructure and accelerate the demand for services such as water
supply and sanitation. In both urban and rura' areas, families typically
have relied on two or more water sources: ponds, rivers and irrigation
canals for bathing and laundry, and well water for drinking and cooking. In
1980, sanitary facilities (pit latrines, septic tanks or sewers) were
available to about 222 of the urban population and 3% of the rural population
and, by mid-1985, about 40% of the urban population and half the rural
population were supplied water from weLls. Only Dhaka has a waterborne
sewerage system.
Sector Goals and Organization
28.     The Government has established as goals for the International
Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Decade, which ends in 1990, 60% coverage
by safe water supply and 50% coverage by sanitation in urban areas; and 80%
coverage by safe water supply and 20% coverage by sanitation in rural areas.
Investments during this period are focused on the continued development of
water and sanitation facilities in Dhaka and Chittagong and on the
development of the 464 Upazila Centers under the Local Government Development
Program. DeveLopment of water supplies and sanitation facilities is
constrained primarily by a lack of adequate financing and also by shortages
of skilled manpower and institutions which can efficiently operate and
I



-9-
maintain systems. Trained personnel at the operating level are generally
available in the major urban centers but are in short supply in rural areas
where adequate maintenance, even of hand-pumped tubewells, remains a problem.
29.     Capital investments in water supply and sewerage have been financed
primarily from external grants and credits. About 2.4% (Tak' 330 crores) of
the Second-Five Year Plan (FY 1980-FY 1985) was committed to the water supply
and sanitation sector; this figure included foreign assistance. IDA has
assisted sector activities in Dhaka and Chittagong; the Asian Development
Bank, Japanese Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund and Dutch Development
Cooperation Department have financed improvements in water supply in the
district towns. An extensive rural water supply and sanitation program has
been executed by UNICEF with substantial grant support from the Danish
International Development Agency. In addition, the United States Agency for
International Development and IDA have financed projects to supply manually
operated shallow tubewells to be used for dry season irrigation and for
domestic water supply. The cost of meeting the Government's targets for the
Water Decade was estimated by the World Health Organization in 1982 to
average Taka 260 crores a year over the ten-year period. Government sector
investment expenditures over the first half of the 1980's averaged Taka 66
crores or 25% of che estimated average yearly cost of meeting the targets.
Since funding to the sector is unlikely to increase substantially, the
prospects for meeting the targets are small. Improvements to urban service
levels will be particularly difficult given the high population growth rate
and the relatively high unit costs required to provide basic levels of
services in densely populated areas.
30.     The Government manages the development and operation of the sector
through the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives.
Under MLCRDC, the Department of Public Health Engineering plans, constructs,
and operates water supply and sanitation facilities in district towns and the
Local Government Engineering Bureau assists local governments in constructing
water and sewerage facilities as part of a national program to decentralize
responsibility for local government services. In Dhaka and Chittagong,
independent Water Supply and Sewerage Authorities (DWASA and CWASA) provide
services on a commercial basis.
31.     The Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Authority was established in 1963
to construct, operate, and maintain water supply and sewerage works in Dhaka.
DWASA is managed by a Board of Directors appointed by the Government; the
Chairman of the Board also acts as DWASA's Chief Executive. DWASA is divided
into Engineering, Commercial, and Administrative Departments and six central
service divisions. Engineering Operations are divided into four divisions:
Planning and Design, Construction and Development, Maintenance and
Distribution, and Repairs and Equipment. DWASA's total staff has grown from
1,800 in 1979 to about 2,400 employees now. Since staffing levels are high
in relation to the scale of operations and wages equal about one-third of
direct operating costs, closer assessment of staff resources and of their
deployment is warranted. A Staff Productivity Study would be included in



-10-
the proposed project (paragraph 46). DWASA's operating staff is trained ar
an in-house center which also offers training to the staff of CWASA.
Although some problems have been encountered in retaining experienced
trainers, the center has been successful and over 400 staff have benefited
from its courses. During the proposed Third Project, DWASA would expand iL
training program to become the central sector training facility for
Bangladesh (paragraph 46). DWASA's Commercial Department was reorganized
under the Second DWASA Project (Credit 941-BD), and new billing and
collection procedures were introduced with the assistance of consultants.
Qualified accountants and revenue officers were also added to the staff.
Improvement would continue during the Third Project with introduction of a
computerized billing system (paragraph 57).
32.     DWASA is mandated to operate as a commercial enterprise and to
recover both its capital and operating costs and generate a moderate Rate of
Return (ROR). However, during much of its history, DWASA has been unable to
fully accomplish these goals due both to inadequate tariffs that do not
reflect inflation and real price rises, and to operational inefficiencies.
DWASA's revenues from water supply have covered all its direct operating
costs but not its capital costs. Because of Bangladesh's high inflation
rates, the real tariff has declined sharply ia recent years. Tariffs are
politically difficult for the Government to in-rease and thus are revised
infrequently.
33.     The Dhaka Municipal Corporation (DMC) was established under a
Government Ordinance in 1963 and provides an array of urban services such
as public health and sanitation, maintenance of public infrastructure, and
education. It is also responsible for undertaking town planning activities
and development works. It is estimated that about 15% of DMC's revenues come
from property-based taxes, about 25% from rates and fees, and about 60% from
Government grants to cover capital and operating expenditures. Property
taxes are based on the Annual Rental Value (ANV) which is greatly
undervalued. Despite a reassessment in 1985 that increased the ARV by an
average of 100%, the assessed ARV is still only about one-third of actual
market values.
Water Supply and Sewerage in Dhaka
34.     The city of Dhaka is the administrative, commercial, and industrial
center of the country. From 1971 to 1985, Dhaka grew at an estimated rate of
12.8% a year, reaching a population of about 3.5 million in mid-1985. Dhaka
is expected to have a population of about 8 million by the year 2000. About
35% of Dhaka's population lives in conditions of extreme poverty with few
available urban services. As it has grown, Dhaka has extended northward from
the old riverside city, to areas with insufficient water and sewerage



-11-
services. 21 In the older parts of the city, low pressure in the water
distribution system and intermittent supply at public standpipes and
individual connections have continued to cause water shortages.
35.     Dhaka has increased the supply of water more than six-fold since the
end of the 1960s, but the city's rapid population growth means that the per
capita water supply has increased only 71. Water production in Dhaka is now
about 413 million litres per day (mld) which is about 242 mld less than
estimated demand. About 27% of DWASA production is unaccounted for due
primarily to system leakage and, to a lesser degree, illegal connections.
Of the water distributed, domestic users consume about 88%, industry and
commerce about 6%, and Government and community institutions the remaining
6Z. There are about 90,000 individual water connections and 1,190 public
standposts servicing directly about 58% of the city's population. At least
another 15Z of the population is served indirectly by households with
connections. The current estimated demand of about 655 mld will grow to 800
mid by 1990 and 1380 mld by 2000, if Dhaka's projected growth rates are
realized. The proposed projecL would bring DWASA's total production capacity
to 465 mld by 1990, about 57% of projected demand. However, DWASA is
planning to develop a surface water source (paragraph 37) and additional
tubewells which would increase its water production capacity to about 950 mld
by 1996, thereby meeti g about 83% of projected demand.
36.     The main trunk system for waterborne sewerage currently covers about
75% of Dhaka's total area of 73 km2. DWASA initiated a vigorous sewer
connection program in 1980 and succeeded in increasing the number of
connections from about 8,500 to about 25,000. Waterborne sewerage now serves
about one-half million people (15% of the population). Sewerage is financed
by a 100% surcharge on the water bill. Waterborne sewerage is very expensive
and sewerage connections will probably continue to be affordable to only
about 15% of the population. Under the proposed proje:t, DMC would develop
and implement a pilot program to provide low-cost sanitation alternatives
(paragraph 44).
Long Term Water Source for Dhaka
37.     The central issue affecting the long-term development of water
supplies for the city of Dhaka is whether to rely upon surface or
groundwater. In 1981, engineering consultants completed a long term planning
and feasibility study for DWASA, which concluded that further groundwater
development would both lower significantly the water table and produce water
of declining quality. The study recommended that a large surface water
2/ A study funded by the Asian Development Bank1 The Dhaka Metropolitan Area
Integrated Development Plan and Feasibility Study 1981, looks at various
growth alternatives for Dhaka and the inter-relation of various sectoral
investments.



-12-
source be developed to augment Dhaka's future water supply. A site at Demra
on the Lakhya River about 10 km east of Dhaka was identified by the study
as the best site for a water treatment plant. The Government and IDA have
agreed that the design of the proposed Demra Water Treatment Plant could be
financed under the IDA Technical Assistance Credit 1440-BD and that, provided
issues raised by the Bangladesh Water Resources Master Plan Organization
(MPO) are satisfactorily resolved, the Third Dhaka Project could help finance
preparatory works for the plant's development chrough the resettlement of
approximately 20,000 persons who presently live on the Demra site
(paragraph 47). The HPO, which is funded by UNDP and IDA, has expressed
concern that: (a) dry season river flow at Demra may be insufficient due to
upstream withdrawals for irrigation and aggradation of the river bed;
(b) backflow of highly polluted water at Demra from other rivers during the
dry season may result in very high treatment costs; and (c) available
groundwater near Dhaka may be more plentiful than projected in DWASA's
studies, thus making groundwater development feasible and more economical.
Under a UNDP grant, executed by rDA, DWASA engaged two specialists to assess
the previous studies on surface water and groundwater availability and other
related data in an attempt to resolve the discrepancies between conclusions
reached by DWASA's consultants and the MPO. As a Condition of Disbursement
for the Demra Resettlement component, the Government would confirm, with
expert assistance, that development of a surface water source for Dhaka's
long term water supply is appropriate and that Demra is the best site for a
water treatment plant. No other component of the proposed project is
dependent on the outcome of these assessments.
IDA's Role in the Sector and Experience with Past Lending
38.     The fundamental objective of IDA's ongoing involvement in the sector
has been to support the Government's efforts to provide equitable and
increased access to basic water supply and sanitation services. This
objective includes concern for the cost-effectiveness of both capital
investments and operations and maintenance, and for the extension of
coverage. In order to address these concerns, IDA has focused on three
primary areas of potential improvement. First, it has encouraged and
assisted the development of efficient sector institutions. Parastatal
organizations have been created with IDA assistance in both Dhaka and
Chittagong (DWASA and CWASA).  These organizations have been assisted in
developing operating procedures, financial policies, accounting systems, and
manpower development programs. Second, IDA has promoted long-term planning
for capital investments. This planning has focused on the identification of
needs for expansion, the constraints on capital investment, and recurrent
requirements. Third, IDA has sought to strengthen financial discipline and
lessen reliance on scarce sectoral resources through the direct recovery of
costs through user charges. IDA has concentrated its financial support in
Dhaka and Chittagong where it is particularly interested in the operational
efficiency of the two WASAs and their performance in recovering costs. The
operating and funding problems facing the WASAs anticipate the policy issues
that eventually will confront other cities in Bangladesh, and the experience
of the WASAs can benefit operations throughout the sector.



-13-
39.     IDA has helped Bangladesh to finance four projects in the water
supply and sanitation sector. The First Dhaka Project (Credit 368-BD, 1973)
was approved in 1963 as Credit 41-PAK for US$26.0 million (later reduced to
US$13.0 million). Implementation of the project was delayed first by bids
which substantially exceeded estimated project costs and then by political
events culminating in Bangladesh's independence. In order to adjust the
scope of the project to available funds, in 1969 the project was reduced in
scale and modified to rely on groundwater, rather than surface water as a
source of supply. The revised project also provided for the extension of
sewerage facilities. A Second Dhaka Project (Credit 941-BD, 1979) provided
$20.5 million to finance tubewells, water distribution mains, elevated
service reservoirs, service connections and meters, sewers, workshops,
vehicles, training, and consulting services. A first project for Chittagong
(Credit 42-PAK) was approved in 1963, revised in 1968, and then transferred
to Bangladesh following-its independence. The revised project (Credit
367-BD, 1973) provided $20.0 million to finance groundwater development,
extension of the distribution system, metering and technical assistance. The
Second Chittagong Project (Credit 1001-BD for $20.0 million, 1980) extended
distribution facilities and provided a surface water treatment plant. Under
the first Dhaka project, as noted in the Project Performance Audit Report
(No. 3245, December 1980), water supply was increased substantially and
physical targets were basically met, although institutional objectives were
not fully achieved. In the Second Dhaka project, physical works again were
implemented satisfactorily although delays were experienced due to shortfalls
in local Government funding and to procurement problems (which were
subsequently corrected). Cost recovery has been a key objective of both the
Dhaka and Chittagong projects. Some progress toward this objective has been
made by both DWASA and CWASA, which now recover all operating costs but are
still unable to generate positive rates of return and to cover debt service
(paragraphs 32 and 54). In addition, DNASA and CWASA have not achieved
projected efficiencies and performance standards. These shortfalls derive
from delays in achieving financial reforms and from persistent problems in
staffing and institutional development. Both the financial and institutional
problems of DWASA would be addressed under the proposed project.
40.     A study financed by Dutch Aid is underway to strengthen the analytic
basis for sector policies and priorities. This study includes: (a) design
standards and phasing of investments, as determinants of overall capital
requirements; (b) cumulative operation and maintenance requirements
(recurrent funds, staffing, etc.); (c) affordability and cost recovery; and
(d) the institutional development strategy for the sector. IDA has commented
on the terms of reference and draft reports of the study. Any further
studies or pilot projects required following this review would be financed by
bilateral assistance, UNDP and/or the IDA TechnicaL Assistance Credit. IDA
would be invited to comment on the terms of reference and findings of any
such further assistance.



-14-
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.     The proposed project was prepared by DWASA with assistance from
consultants and IDA staff. It was appraised in May/June 1985. A timetable
of key events relating to the project and special conditions of the credit
are listed in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington in April/Kay,
1986. The Government of Bangladesh was represented by a delegation led by
Mr. Nazem Ahmed Choudhury, Minister (Economic), Bangladesh Embassy,
Washington.
Project Objectives
42.     The proposed project would improve DWASA's operational and financial
performance, strengthen sectoral training and sectoral planning, and address
immediate needs for additional supplies of water and for sanitation services.
Specific project objectives would be to: (a) continue the institutional
development of DWASA emphasizing operational efficiency, cost recovery and
manpower development; (b) develop further Dhaka's groundwater resources in
order to increase the supply of potable water; (c) expand distribution of
water to areas where service is poor or non-existent and maximize use of the
system through additional connections; (d) strengthen DWASA's control of
leakage and unaccounted-for water; (e) rehabilitate parts of Dhaka's water
distribution system; (f) extend secondary sewers to areas in which
conventional scwerage is affordable in order to maximize use of the existing
waterborne sewerage system; (g) develop an on-site sanitation program as a
low-cost alternative to waterborne sewerage; (h) implement a pilot scheme
to promote maintenance of public standposts by users; Ci) resettle residents
of the proposed site of the surface water treatment plant at Demra; and
Cj) expand DWASA's Training Institute and extend training to other agencies
in the sector.
Project Components
43.     Water Supply and Sewerage.  In order to upgrade and expand water
supply and sewerage facilities in Dhaka and surrounding areas, the project
would provide for: construction of 25 tubewells; installation of 144 km of
watermains; installation of about 40 km of new sewers and rehabilitation of
about 23 km of existing sewers; rehabilitation of about 125 km of existing
watermains; installation of 25,000 water connections (serving about 550,000
people) and 8,000 sewer connections (serving about 176,000 people);
installation of 10,000 water meters at production wells, distribution
branches, and service connections; construction of 55 standposts and
associated water lines in order to serve about 11,000 residents of the Old
City and the low income community of Shaheednagar; procurement of vehicles to
be used by DWASA for operation and maintenance, and five standby generators
for emergency power supply at tubewells.



-15-
44.     Low-Cost Sanitation Program.  The project would provide funds for a
study to assess sinitation needs in Dhaka and to develop a low-cost
sanitation program. In order to help implement on-site sanitation systems in
Dhaka, DHC bas created a low-cost sanitation cell under the direct
supervision of its Chief Engineer. The cell would be responsible for:
promoting low-cost sanitation; maintaining minimal technical standards in the
manufacture and installation of equipment (traps, pans, cisterns, etc.);
devising a system to assist households to finance the investments; and
providing maintenance (principally pit emptying services). The cell's
activities would focus on the development of institutional arrangements to
implement low-cost sanitation on a city-wide scale. Consultants would carry
out a study and develop a pilot program to test approaches for meeting the
requirements of a large-scale program. The pilot project would provide about
4,000 sanitary units (serving about 88,000 people). Terms of Reference for
the lou-cost sanitation study and pilot project have been prepared and
submitted to IDA for review. Consultants would be engaged by October 31,
1986 to prepare and execute the component. Implementation of the pilot
program would begin by December 31, 1987.
45.     Leak Detection and Repair Program.  A leak detection and repair
program would strengthen DWASA's capacity to identify and reduce physical
losses from its water distribution system and thereby increase the effective
supply of water to customers. System leakage and illegal usage account for
about 27Z of DWASA production that is not billed; another one-third of
production is consumed through unmetered connections where consumption cannot
be accurately measured or billed. A comprehensive leak detection and repair
program would be carried out under the project using consultants working
closely with DWASA staff. To measure production accurately, DWASA needs to
ensure that all its production meters are in working order and calibrated.
Therefore, all meter repair or replacement would be accomplished before
September 30, 1986 when the leak detection program would begin. Reduction of
unaccounted for water and leakage would be addressed through identification
of major system leakages, conversion of connections from non-metered to
metered, and improvement in operations. DWASA has prepared Terms of
Reference for the leak detection and repair program and requested proposals
from consultants. DWASA would engage the selected consultants by
November 30, 1986. In view of the expanded program and need for higher
standards of technical supervision, DWASA has transferred responsibility for
the waste reduction cell and for the meter repair cell from the Commercial
Manager to the Chief Engineer. Accurate plans of the greater Dhaka area,
with the existing water distribution network plotted are needed before
initiation of comprehensive leak detection work. Base mapping of Dhaka, at
scale 1:1,200 has been acquired by DWASA, and its staff is preparing
distribution system plans for the areas to be covered by the leak detection
and repair program. The plans would be completed by September 30, 1986. The
consultants engaged to assist DWASA with project design would complete the
remaining distribution system plans by December 31, 1987.



-16-
46.     Staff Productivity and Training.  The project would provide about
eight man-months of consultancy to analyze staff productivity and the
deployment of staff resources more fully, to propose a system to monitor
staff performance, and to define workable incentives for operating staff.
DWASA has submitted Terms of Reference for the staff productivity study to
IDA for review and would engage consultants by October 15, 1986. The project
would provide for the expansion of DWASA's Training Institute. Training
would be offered to other sectoral agencies and local bodies responsible for
the operation and maintenance of water supply facilities. Courses would also
be developed on health education to promote improvements in hygiene.
47.     Demra Resettlement.  Included in the project is a component for
resettlement of the residents at Demra, the site for DWASA's proposed future
water treatment plant. This site was purchased in the 1960s as the location
for a surface water treatment plant but subsequently has been settled by
low-income and landless households. The proposed resettlement program is
intended to relocate these settlers while protecting fully their investment
in shelter and community facilities. Preliminary planning for the
resettlement component has been completed but further work has been postponed
until a decision is reached on whether a plant at Demra is the best solution
to Dhaka's long-term water source (paragraph 37). A site at Gandhrabpur
would be prepared and basic infrastructure (drainage, sanitation, tubewells,
access roads, schools, and core housing) would be constructed. Gandhrabpur
is located 5 km upstream from Demra and is easily accessible by local river
transport. DWASA and invoIved non-governmental organizations (NGO's) have
prepared a detailed resettlement and rehabilitation plan which is
satisfactory to IDA and the Government and which provides for infrastructure,
sites, core housing, community services, and other facilities at Gandhrabpur
at a standard at least equal to those existing at Demra. CONCERN, an NGO,
has offered DWASA its help in supervising the development of the resettlement
site. CONCERN has been assisting the Demra community for several years and
expects to continue its involvement through a health care and education
program at the new site. Another NGO, World Vision, would assist DWASA in
coordinating the social aspects of the resettlement. The Government's
Housing and Settlements Directorate wauld assist DWASA, which would be
responsible for overall implementation of the component, with construction.
The resettlement site and related works would not become part of DWASA's
assets and DWASA would not be responsible for the maintenance of the new
community, which would become part of the existing local Upazila. If the
decision is made to proceed with the water treatment plant at Demra thereby
necessitating resettlement of residents, (see paragraph 37), DWASA would
prepare and furnish to IDA for approval by December 31, 1986 a detailed
timetable for implementing the resettlement and rehabilitation program. By
April 1, 1987, DWASA would engage an organization, satisfactory to IDA, to
monitor and evaluate implementation of the resettlement program. Necessary
Government approval for implementing the resettlement and rehabilitation
program satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of credit effectiveness.



-17-
Project Implementation and Supervision
48.     The project would be implemented over a period of five years.  This
implementation period is consistent with the experience of the Second Dhaka
Project, wbich corresponded to the pt7oposed project in both size and scope.
As in the previous two projects, DWASA would implement the water and sewerage
component and DMC would implement the low-cost sanitation component. DWASA's
staff is experienced in IDA procurement procedures and sufficiently qualified
to supervise construction activities included in the project (paragraph 43).
DWASA's Project Monitoring and Evaluation Division gained experience
monitoring the Second Project, and would be able to do more detailed analysis
of operations with a computer system which would be supplied under the
project. DMC has set up a cell, under its Chief Engineer, to implement the
low-cost sanitation program; the cell would be assisted by the UNDP/World
Bank Technical Advisory Group, which has had considerable experience in the
field. The water supply and sanitation components of the project were
identified in a feasibility study completed in 1983 by DWASA and its
engineering consultants. The tubewells, water mains, sewers, and
rehabilitation work envisaged under the project are part of DWASA's on-going
development program and are similar to works which DWASA has carried out
previously. Local contractors have proved adequate in earlier projects. The
low-cost sanitation units represent relatively simple technology and
construction requirements. DWASA and DMC have formulated an Action Plan,
acceptable to IDA, which would provide a framework for monitoring the
implementation of interrelated project activities. This Action Plan would be
reviewed annually and updated by DWASA in consultation with IDA.
Project Costs
49.     The proposed project is estimated to cost US$41.4 million equivalent,
including US$7.9 million equivalent in taxes and duties. Physical
contingencies are estimated at US$2.9 million equivalent or 10% of base cost
estimates. Price contingencies are estimated at US$9.6 million equivalent
based on projected annual escalation rates of 12.0% in FY1987 and 10.0%
annually thereafter for local costs, and 6.3% in FY1987, 7.8% in FY1988 and
8.0% annually thereafter for foreign costs.
Project Financing
50.     An IDA credit of US$30.0 million, representing about 90% of the total
project cost of US$41.1 million, net of duties and taxes, would cover 100% of
the project foreign exchange costs and about 82% of local costs net of duties
and taxes. The IDA credit would be utilized 16% as grant and 84% as loan.
The Government would finance the remaining project costs. Project funds
would be passed to the implementing agencies as loans (60Z), equity
contribution (26%) and grants (14%). The Demra Resettlement component would
be financed through a Government grant, funded 85% from the IDA credit. The
Government would on-lend the rest of the IDA credit funds to DWASA and DMC
for the water and sanitation components and would provide the balance of



-18-
financing required by DWASA (about US$10 million) as a Government equity
contribution. The Government would on-lend US$25.2 million equivalent of the
proceeds of the credit to DWASA and DMC at 11.5% per annum interest rate to
be amortized over 20 years in equal annual payments, following a five-year
grace period. Given the projected rate of inflation in Bangladesh in the
medium term, the on-lending rate of 11.5% is expected to be positive in real
terms. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the Government.
Conditions of credit effectiveness would be that a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Government and DWASA has been executed and that financial
arrangements between the Government and DMC for onlending credit proceeds
have been finalized. Approval of the Project Proforma 3/ by the Government
also would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Procurement
51.     Equipment and material contracts valued at US$20.5 million would be
awarded under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA
guidelines. Only cement and reinforcing steel would be awarded under Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB), since limited quantities of the materials are
required and local prices are competitive. As in the first two Projects, all
civil works (consisting mostly of watermains, sanitary sewers and tubewells)
of aggregate value US$13.2 million would be carried out through a number of
relatively small contracts which would be awarded under LCB. These works,
which are limited in scope, require no special equipment or techniques and
are well suited to the labor-intensive methods employed by the local
contracting industry. IDA guidelines would be adhered to for all project
procurement. Given the Condition of Disbursement for the Demra resettlement
component (paragraph 37), the costs of civil works and materials for this
component have been identified as separate items from the rest of the
Project. Dredge-filling of the new site (about US$2.8 million) accounts for
about half the Demra resettlement component cost and would be done on force
account by the Government, which carries out all dredging activities in
Bangladesh. In evaluating bids for equipment and materials, domestic
manufacturers would be given a preferential margin equal to 15X of the CIF
costs of the competing imports, or the existing rate of custom duty,
whichever is lower. All ICB and LCB materials and equipment contracts, and
civil works contracts worth over US$100,000 equivalent, would be subject to
IDA's prior review of invitation to bid, bidding documents and proposed
awards and final contracts. Approximately 80% of the total estimated
contract value would be subject to IDA's prior review. All other contracts
would be subject to random post review by IDA after contract award.
Consulting services wouLd be obtained in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines for the use of consultants.
3/ An internal Government document, the approval of which is a
prerequisite for the release of funds and the hiring of staff.



-19-
PROCUREMENT TABLE
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
TotaL
ICB     LCB     Other    NA    Cost
Project Element
Civil Works                         -       13.2/a   2.8/b   -        16.0
(11.9T  (2.4)            (14.3)
Equipment and Materials           21.3/c    0.4        -      -       21.7
(12.0}   (0.3)                     (12.9)
Training and Consultants             -        -       2.8     -        2.8
(2.8)            (2.8)
Land                                                          0.9      0.9
TOTAL                              21.3     13.6      5.6     0.9    41.4
Portion Financed by IDA          (12.6)   (12.2)   (5.2)   (0.0)  (30.0)
/a Includes US$1.8 million for civil works related to Demra resettlement
component.
lb Estimated cost of dredge/filing Demra resettlement site under force
account by the Government dredging agency.
Ic Includes amount of US$1.0 million for materials procurement related to
Denra resettlement component.
Disbursements
52.     Applications for disbursement would be fully documented except for
civil works contracts costing less than US$20,000 equivalent each and
dredging at the Demra resettlement site which would be disbursed against
Statements of Expenditure. Disbursements under the IDA credit would cover:
(i) for civil works (other than the Demra resettlement component), 90%;
(ii) for equipment and materials (other than the Denra resettlement
component), 100% of foreign expenditures, 100Z of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost), and 65% of local expenditures for other items procured
locally; (iii) for consultants' services and training, 100%; and (iv) for the
Demra Resettlement component, 9UZ of civil works, 100% of foreign
expenditures, 100Z of local expenditures (ex-factory cost), and 65% of local
expenditures for other items procured locally. To facilitate disbursements,



-20-
a Special Project Account would be established in the Central Bank of
Bangladesh on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The initial deposit
in the Bangladesh Bank would be US$2.0 million. To avoid delays in project
implementation, retroactive financing, not to exceed US$3.0 millioi
equivalent, would be available for project expenditures incurred after
October 1, 1985.
Accounts and Audits
53.     DWASA would be required to prepare commercial financial statements
and have them audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Audits
would be provided to IDA within nine months of the end of each Fiscal Year.
Statements of Expenditures would also be certified by the auditors. For the
low-cost sanitation program, the project expenditures would be audited by the
Accountant General's Office.
DWASA's Finances
54.     DWASA's basic financial objective is to achieve full cost recovery
and to be self-financing within the limits of affordability to consumers.
This is especially important in light of the large investment program which
will be required to develop future water supply sources for Dhaka. DWASA
would have a higher degree of self-financing under the proposed project than
under the previous two; DWASA's loan portion would be increased to 72Z (from
50%) of project capital costs and the equity contribution would be reduced to
28% (from 50%). In order to extend water supply and sanitation coverage to a
majority of the population, DWASA would have to generate a large portion of
its funds through direct user charges. Throughout the 1980s DWASA has had
net income deficits. In FY84 and FY85, DWASA reported a negative 1% ROR,
although the debt service coverage remained above 1.50. Following a 25%
tariff increase in June 1985, DWASA is projecting a 0% ROR for FY86. Under
the proposed project, DWASA would be required to cover fully all operating,
maintenance and overhead costs, and debt service, and achieve at least a 3%
ROR from FY87-FYS0 and a 5% ROR from FY91 and thereafter. The 31 ROR on the
assets revalued in 1982 is roughly equivalent to the target of 5% ROR on
non-revalued assets required under the Second DWASA Project. In order to
compensate for the lack of adequate tariff increases in past years, nomiral
tariffs must increase substantially in FY87 and FY88. A 25% tariff increase
was implemented as a condition of Board presentation. Under the project, an
additional 20% tariff increase would be implemented by July 1, 1987. In
order to meet the agreed financial targets, from FY89 onward tariffs would
need to be increased by an average compounded rate of about 5% a year. This
rate is less than inflation because of the incremental revenue expected to be
generated from improvements in operating efficiencies. Analysis indicates
that the tariffs required to meet project targets are within affordability
limits (2.5%-3.5% of household income) for DWASA's connected consumers.



-21-
55.     Tariff Adjustment Clause for Power Costs.  Because tariff increases
have been late and irregular, it has become difficuLt tor DWASA to operate
on a commercial basis. The authority to modify tariffs to reflect increases
in electricity charges is needed because power represents about 602 of the
direct cost of operations and maintenance for DWASA, and thus increases in
power rates seriously affect its financial position. DWASA and the
Government have agreed to implement a Tariff Adjustment Clause for Power Cost
analogous to the Fuel Adjustn-nt Clause allowed to the Power Development
Board. As a condition of effectiveness, the Government would take all
necessary steps to enable DWASA to implement the clause. The proposed change
would allow DWASA, without prior Government approval, to increase water
tariffs by up to 10 over any 12-month period in order to cover any increase
in power costs for the production and distribution of water. Thus, it would
permit routine, modest tariff increases and reduce the need for very large
increases every few years.
56.     Meterin.  Nearly one-half of domestic connections, accounting for
one-third DWASA s production, currently are unmetered. Furthermore,
unmetered consumption is billed at 17.5% of the Annual Rental Value of
property which is seriously under-assessed by the tax iuthorities. As a
result, unmetered consumption is billed at about 501 of the current tariff
rate. Under the proposed project, all new connections would be metered (with
a target of about 4,000 new connections per year from FY87-FY95) and
unmetered connections woul4 be converted (with a target of about 3,000
connections per year from PY87-FY95). The project would also introduce
rigorous computerized monitoring of meter performance and of meter readings
in order to improve the accuracy of metering, billing, and collections.
57.     Billings and Collections.  DWASA recently increased the frequency of
its billings and at least 95% of private connections are now billed once
every two months. Under the proposed project, billings would be maintained
at this level. Collections however remain problematic. DWASA has reduced
accumulated arrears on private billings (net of disconnection arrears and
arrears over four years old, which should be written off) to the equivalent
of six months' accumulated billings, down from nine months in mid-1985.
DWASA has also stepped up its program to disconnect customers whose accounts
are over six months in arrears, and to monitor illegal reconnections. Under
the proposed project, private accumulated arrears would not exceed six
months' billings. The introduction of computerized management of billing and
collection under the project would allow 100% monthly billing, more accurate
monitoring of arrears, and identification of under-billing. Sales to the
Government for supply to public standposts, public housing colonies, and
Government departments represent about 30% of current billings and Government
payments have been an average of ten months in arrears. The Government has
now paid all its outstanding arrears due to DWASA as of January 1, 1986 and,
under the proposed project, Government arrears would not exceed six month's
accumulated billings.



-22-
Project Benefits
58.     The primary benefits of this project would be to strengthen further
the Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Authority and to help meet the city's
rapidly growing need for supplies of safe water and sanitary facilities. By
1995, nearly 20% of DWASA's production would be attributable to the project
and over 560,000 people would be served through new connections and
standposts. Where affordable, the project would increase utilization of
existing sewerage facilities. The pilot low-cost sanitation component would
benefit directly about 4,000 households (88,000 people) and develop a
replicable program for providing sanitary facilities to the 85% of Dhaka's
population without sewerage. About three-fourths of project beneficiaries
have per capita incomes of less than US$91 a year. The project would
increase the efficiency and effectiveness of DWASA's operations and
strengthen its finances. DWASA, as the leading urban water authority in
Bangladesh, is expected to serve as the model of the operation and financing
of water supply and sanitation services, and to develop systems and
procedures for use by other urban authorities. Under the project, training
would be extended to other Government agencies and local bodies responsible
for water supply in order to address the manpower constraints in the sector.
59.     The economic rate of return on this project is 13% under the
conservative assumption of the maintenance of the prevailing tariffs, and
of nine-tenths of the customers being willing to pay at least this tariff.
For the project the marginal cost of water is substantially below the average
tariffs using either market price or border prices. The marginal cost of
water is below the average cost of water. A 30-year life span of assets was
used.
Project Risks
60.     The technical design of this project minimizes financial and economic
risks by constructing tubewells in response to demand. Tubewells in
Bangladesh are subject to "choking" (the obstruction of the well screen by
fine sand particles that move through the aquifer). Consultants are being
provided under the project to optimize the development of the aquifer and to
help select well screens in order co minimize the risk of choking. Because
of DWASA's experience in procuring materials under ICB and LCB, constructing
similar type tubewells, and using local contractors, implementation is not
expected to provide any unusual problem to the Authority. Therefore, project
technical risks are low. Although the financing of operations and
maintenance would be improved through greater control of costs, there is some
risk that operating efficiency would not improve as quickly as expected.
Lack of timely approval of tariff increases in response to inflation also
poses some risk that DWASA may not meet financial targets. Large tariff
increases of (25% in 1985 and 25% in 1986) have been required as conditions
of project appraisal and Board presentation and an additional 20% increase
would be required under the project for FY87. The project would also
introduce the principLe of automatic adjustments to tariffs in response to
increases in the price of power, which represents about 60% of direct
operating costs.



-23-
PART V - RECOMMENDATIONS
61.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association. I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
September   , 1986



-24-
ANNEX I
T A BLE L    Q                                       PAEEI
BANGLADESH              - SOCIAL INOICATDNS DATA SNCEST
BANGLADESH                            REFERENCE CROUPS (WEICHTLD AVERAGESI In
IIST                      (HtUM  WcOENT ESTIMATE) lb
RECENT              LEW  INCOE            MIDDLE [HCUE
1q6Dlb      1,7U/h  ES7TIItIiTKLŽ     ASIA £ PACIFIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
ARMA (HOUSAND SQ. MU
TOTAL                                144.0       1"4.0       I&4.0
AGRICULrURAL                         94.6        97.0         97.4
CGP PR  CAPITA (US)                      ..           ..        130.0              278.3                     1011.1
ISI CHSUMPTION PB CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)         ..         20.0         35.0              U5.7                       5.6.6
POPTATS   C  AID VItAL  sTtSTIcs
POPULATEON,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   53491.0    661L7.0       95497.0
URBAN POPULATION (2 UF TOTAL)         5.2         7.6         17.0               Z2.3                       35.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION tIN YEAR 2000 (atLL)                            141.1
STATIONARi POPUATION (KILL)                                310.0
POPULATION MIEENrWN                                          1 .9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 33.                       371.5       473.0        663.2              173.8                      38b.9
PER SQ. KM. ArRI. LAND            565.3       702.5       955.3               353.3                     1591.2
POPULAnTON AGE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 YRS                          44.2        46.2         43.6               36.3                       38.2
15-64 uS                           52.5        51.1        53.6                59.4                      57.7
65 AND ABOVE                        3. 1        2.6          2.6                4.3                        3.5
POPULATION CROWr0 RATE (Z)
TOTAL                               1.9         2.4          2.6                2.0                        2.3
URBAN                               3.7         6.2          6.2                4.1                       4.1
CRUDE BIRTH HATE (PER THOUS)         46.8        *8.0         41.5               27.5                       30.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TODUS)         22.5        20.9         15.7               10.2                       9.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4          3.4         3.1                1.7                        1.9
FAMILY PLANNIHC
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOOS)           ..        373.0       1607.0 Ic
USERS (Z OF MARIED  utEN)           -. ,,                   25.0 7d            49.4                       56.5
FoMo An macTnoN
INDEX OF FDOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       106.0        101.0       14.0               116.6                      124.4
PER CAPI'A SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)       63.0        90.0         63.0              1u6.3                      115.7
PROTEINS (tRAZi PER DAY)           43.0        45.0        42.0                60.1                      bO.3
OF R11ICH MIAIL AND PULSE          9.0         9.0          7.0 IC            14.4                       14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE          25.4        22.6         19.0                7.3                        7.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)        41.5        44.9         49.6               60.5                      6U.b
INFANT PORT. RATE (PER THOUS)       159.0       150.0        132.0               69.2                      64.9
ACCESS TO SAFP bEATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                 -         45.0        38.0 1c            44.2                       4e.0
UdAAN                               ..         13.0         26.0 /c            77.2                      57.6
RURAL                                .         47.D        40.0 7c             34.6                      37.1
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(t OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          6.0         3.0 Ic             7.8                       50.1
URBAN                               ..          ..          21.0 Ic            2e8                       52.9
X1hl                                ..          ..           1.0 7W             5.5                       44.7
POPUMATION PER PHYSICIAN              ..       8430.0      7810.0              3318.0                    7751.7
POP. PER NiURSIIC PERSON              ..      76810.0     22570.0              4690.7                    2'b4.B
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 -       7U20.0 it  4b90.G              1039.2                     1112.1
URBAN                               .          810.0 7T    600.0 Ic           299.1                     651.4
RLRAL                               ..          ..      23470.0 le           bO28.2                    2596.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL  ED E               ..           .                       52.3                      41.1
305i1=
AVERAE SIZE OF hOUSEPOLD
TOTAL                                ..          5.9 If      5.8 /C
URBAN                                           6 .1 .iF    6.1 7W.
RuRAL                               ..           5. 9 If     5.8 Ic
AVERASE NO. OF PERSONS/ROO04
TOTAL                                                        ..
URBA4                               ..
RURAL                                            ..
PERCENTAGE OF DUELLI1JCS W7IM SLECT.
TOTAL                                      .                 3.5 /c
URBAN                               ..
RURAL                               ..



-25-                                          ANX  1I
L_ a L 1f. A                                    P age  2!
NSAWLAnfhSII            - SOCIAL IVOICATIS DATA 3NEk
BANGLAP.SN                             KEFEKILNCe GEROUPh (WEIGHTED AV.RS) p
USDT                       (P35  MMCVII ESTINATEJ) a
uRccEr1             LOW INCH               1m(nu  IECCME
lI         II7   ESTMATML&.           ASIA & FACIPtC          ASIA 6 PACIVIC
NPUATIOU
ADJUSTED ENROLWENT RATIOS
PRIHAIW:   TOTAL                    47.0        52.0        *U.U                92.6                      20 .
"ALE                    66.0        tE.U         6,.0                05.5                      101.4
FEMALE                  26.0         34.0        Sl.U                79.3                      b.,
SECONCANtY  TOTAL                    I.0        11.0         23.0               31.3                       47.8
MALT                    14.0         29.0        24.0                41.8                       SU.6
IMALE                    1.0          6.0         6.0                21.9                       44.6
VOCATIONAL [T OP SEWDNA>R)             l.u         U.8         14.3                3.2                       13.4
PUPIL-TEACNEK RATIO
PRIM                                            45.0         5.D 0/d            36.0                       30.4
SECONDARY                            ..         2b.0        21.0E               17.4                       ZZ.2
PASSTXGER CARS/TOUSSAND POP            ..          0.4         0.4 Ic              0.9                       10.1
RADIO RCETVERS/TNOtISAND POP           ..          ..          8.1               129.                       172.9
TV RECEIVERS/TNOUSAND POP              ..          ..           0.9               19.8                       58.5
NEWSPAPER ("DrILY GENERAL
zIMREnSTr CIRICLATION
PER mTOUSAND POPULATION               ..          ..           5.8               25.7                       65.3
CINEM  AtNUAL ATEMNDANCE/CAPITA        ..          ..           ..                 6.0                        3.4
LABO P03C3
TOTAL LtAOR FORCE (TWOOS)          19252.0     23611.0      33542.0
MALE (PEwCENT)                      15.2        16.6        17.8                33.2                       33.6
ARICIULTURE (PERCEN)                67.0        86.0        74.0 Ic             69.6                       52.2
INDSTRY (PERCENT)                    3.0         3.0         11.0 Te            IS.o                       1.Y
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               36.0        34.7         35.1               4.11                       3d.Y
MUE                                 5l8.7       55.9        36.3                53.6                       y0.6
rEKAL!                              11.4        11.9         12.8               29.1                       £6.8
ECOMIC DZDENCY RATIO                   1.3         1.4          1.3           -    1.0                        1.1
Th5 DIST3335flIM
PERCENT OP PRIVAsT INtCOE
ItECEIVED tf
IGCHEST 52  OF HOUSEHOLDS           18.3 71     4    /        .                   .                        48.0
HICHEST 20S O  IIOUSEHOLIDS         18.3       /      h      .,        ..                                  *  O
LEST 20S OF HOUSEHOLDS              6.9 r        .7 r        ..                 ..                         6.4
LOEST  40S OF HOUSENOLDS           17.9        19.6 LF ..                       ..                         5.5
ZSTIAUTED AR-SOLUTE PDOVRTY INCOME
LeVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URAN                                 ..          ..         139.0 Jo           133.9
RURAL                                .,                    11i1.0              111.6                      151.9
ESTDIATED RELATIVE POVERTr INtOIE
LEEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URI"                                 ..           .1 ..                          ..                       177.9
RURAL                                ..          ..          ..                 61.7                      164.7
LbLALW re. n.- ;
PoVzrTf INODu£ LEVQ A  )L
URBSA                                ..          ..         66.0 1.             43.1                       23.5
RURAL                                ..          ..         *6 01-              51.7                       37.8
NOT AVAILAU
NOT APPLICABLE
N 0 T e s
Is   The group averages for each (dated tor are pepulatio_m-lghted arltlumtLc  uan.   bworage of cwuntrlm
aong the tdlecaorm depends on evailabiltty of deta med to noa  unifors.
lb   Unles. otherwise noted. 'Data for 1960' refer to any year botwen 1959 and 1961; Data for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; and data for "nat Racet Esclamt' bewemn 1981 snd 1981.
Ic   1980;  Id -1984;  I.  1977; _n 1973; Af 1963;  b 1967  11 1972.
JUNE, 1985



A2ANEX I
-26-             .                                       Page 3
DEFINMONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Nots: Although thedata arc drwn from souet genelly judged the moat authontative and rdiabk. it should also be noted that they may not be internationally
comparabk bemusc or the lack of standardized dehnimom nd coedcpa used by different countrines in collcting the data. The datai are, tonetheles, useful to
describe ordenrs or  gnitude. indicate trends, and chlmcterize crnain major differenc.s btweetn countries.
The reference group are (1) the sanm country group of the subiect country and (2p a country group with somewhat higher average income than the country
group of the subpes country (except for "High Income Oil Exponert- group where 'Middle Income Nonh Africa and Middle East- is chosen bemuse of stronger
socio-cultural affiudiies. In the reference group dais the averags are population weighted arithrnetie means fof cads indicator and shown only when najority
of the countesn in a group has data for dtha indicator. Since the coverae ofcountries among the indicators depends on the availability ofdata and is rnot unifoan,
canuon must be exercised in rdating averages of one indicator to another. These averges are only useful in comnpanng the value of one indicator at a time among
the country and refernct groups.
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                             Cnrde Birth Rare (per thousand)-Number or live births in the year
TotaL-Total surface area comprising land arma arid inland waters;  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 dta.
1960. 1970 and 1933 data.                                          Crude Death Rate (per thousnid)-Number or deaths in the year
Agricnfturar-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or     per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Reprodution Role-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                              wiN bear in her normal reproductive period ir she experiences
present agc-specific fcrtiuty rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USSJ-INP per capita estimates at current           in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prics  calculated by same conversion method as World        FriNly PloRing-A cceptors, Annual (theusandsl-Annual num-
Bank Arias (1981l-83 basis); 1933 data.                            ber of acceptors ofbirth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                     family planning progran.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignitc.        Family Puning-Llsers (percen  f maried womeu)-The percen-
petroleum, natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal eec-     tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960, 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form ofcontraccption. Women
1982 data.                                                         of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
somc countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATlSTICS                                    groups.
Total Population, Mid- Ye  (tlonsandsj-As of July 1; 1960, 1970,   FOOD AND NUTRMITON
and 1983 data.
Index of Food Production Per Capita (1969-71 = 100)-index of per
Urbaii Population (percent of ttoral-Ratio of urban to total       capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population: different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food comnmodities
ability of data among countries 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.         include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Population Projectios                                              which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population inz year 2000-The projection of population for 2000,    excluded): they comprise cereals. root crops, pulses, oil seeds,
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on     vegetables, fruits, nuts, sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock, and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates, mortality rates, and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each eountry is based
international migration in the base year 1930. these parameters    on national average produecr price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.                Per Capita Supply qfCalies (percent ofrequfrmnse)--Comput-
Stationary population-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-   ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available ir country
tality rates havc not changed over a lon-g period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacenent level  tion. imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate = 1)- In such a population, the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also    food processing, and losscs in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth ratc is zero The stationary population    estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normnal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics or  and health considering environmental temperature, body weights,
the population in the year 2000. and the rate or deccine of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacenent level.                                         waste at household level; 1961, 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momenunm- Is the tendency for population growth to      Per Capita Supply of Prorein (grams per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply orfood per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. evcn aRter the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population irn the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams or total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
mrcnt level from year f onward. 1985 data.                         75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Poplation Deniy                                                    averagc for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.--Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-     Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                   Per Ccpita Prtein Supply ionm Anml and Palse-Protein supply
Per sq.krm. agricultural land-Computed as above for agricultural   of food derived from animals and pulscs in grams perday: 1961--6'.
land only, 1960, 1970. and 1982 data.                              1970 and 1977 data.
Pupadation Age Structure (percent) -Children (0- 14 years), work-  Child (ages 1-4) Death Raze (per rhousand)-Number or deaths of
ing age (15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data-                 group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Pbpudation Growth Rate (percert)-total-Annual growth rates of      from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.       HEALTH
Populaion Growth Rite (percent)-smrban-Annual growth rates         life Expectancy at Birth (years)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 195040. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.         infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-27-
ANTNEX I
Page 4
.at the time or of its birth were to stay the same throaghout its life:  PupIl-teaeher Ratio - primary. and seeandary-Totul students en-
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                      rolld in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
oft Manality Rote (per thesmod)-Number of infants who die      teachers in the corresponding levels.
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year, 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMPllON
Acen t. Si  Watr (potet ofpopmlathmP--otal, xhau, and          Passenger Cus (per showed pepuuienk-Passenger cars com-
Nwue-Nmber of people (total urban, and rural) with reasonable  prise motor cars setting less than eight persons; excludes ambul-
access to safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or  ances. hearses and military vehicks.
untreated but uncontaninated water such as that from protected  Rado Relvers (per theusapapopadu )-All types of reeive.s
boreholes, springs and sanitary wells) as #ercentaes of their  {  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population:
tive populations. In an urban area a publc fountain or standpost  exdudes un-licensed receivers in countries 2nd in years when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  registration of radio sets was in effect. data for recent years may
as being within reasonable access of that house. In rural areas  tot be comparable since most countries abolislid lcensing.
reasonable acuws would imply that the housewife or menbers of the
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TV genera p per thosadpopuati_)-oV reclueds fur broaeset
in feidicing the Gralily's wiltcr needs.                       to general public per thousand population; exdlLdes unlicensed TIV
irn fetching th7etg family's water needf.   p lreceivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
Acces to Excrete Disposal (percent of puasnj-talrwhm,          in riect.
and nrua-Number of people (total, urban. and rural) served by
excreta disposal as percntages of their respective populations.  Ie'pr Circaakrm (per tshmsad popubaS)-Show  ti%e aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or  age circulation of -daily generWal inerest newspapecr. defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  penodical publication devoted pzimarily to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privics and similar instaUations.  It is considered to be -dailf' if it appears at least four times a week.
PepWales per Ppsicimn-Population divided by number of prac-    C&oN. Amal Attendnc    per Capta per Yea-Based on the
tisingphysiciansqualifledfromamedical schoolatuniversitylevel.  number of tickets sold during the year, induding admissions to
PopWle. pr NaIV  Persn-Population divided by number of         drive-in cmernas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurse.. assisiant nurses.
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                      LABOR FORCE
Populin per Hepdaf BeRd-iet4 dho,, and rnr-Population          Total Labor Farce (thusaids)-Econornically active persons. in-
(otouL urban, and rural) dividec by their respeeive number Of    dcluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives,
hospital beds availabl) in pu blic and privathe grneral and specialize d students. etc.. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehavilatation centepl . Hospitate    are establshments  various countries are not comparable; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by at least one physicianL Establishnents p.rov-  ae  (rcenr)-Nmale labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principaMly custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals,  force.
however, indude health and medical centers not pmanently staffed  Agrikah   fprcenr)-Labor force in farming, forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant nurse, mnidwire, etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accomtnodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                         Indnsy (percent)-Labor force in mining, construction. manu-
Admissions per Hospital ed-Total number or admissions to or    facturing and eectricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number or beds,       force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Participo. Rate (percent j-tora, 4ngle, andfeaz-Participation
HOUSING                                                        or activity rates are computed as total male, and reinale labor force
Average Size of Hwsheld (persn per houehokLd-teoul,  he-.      as percentages of total, male and female population of all ages
and ruw1-A houschold consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data. Tlese are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structureorthe population. and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Average lNmber of Persm per Room-tortal. urhan, and rura--     EcoAonoc Dependency Raio--Ratio of population under 15, and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural     65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanczt structures and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percentage of Delns with EWer-rotaL urhan, and rurail-         Perentage of Total Disposable Icome (both i cash and kind)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban. and rural dwellings respectively,        hold income
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adiuswed Eiwrolment Ratios                                     The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Pronarv school - total, male and fiemale--Gross total. male and  levels, rnd should be interpreted with considerabic caution.
remale enrollment of all ages at the primary level as percentages of  Esdh'aed Abselate Povert,y Inee Level (USSper crapita t-ben
respective primary school-age populations, While many countries  and rural-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country praaiccs in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estimated Relative Paverry leome Level (USS per rapita)-rban
education, gross enrollment ray exceed 100 percent since some  and rmral-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils arc below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary swetol - toral, m    andfemale-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estiined Popaation Below Absolute Poverty Inconme Leve (per-
mary instruction; provides general. vocational, or teacher training  cent)--rhban and raral- PN-cent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of agc: correspond-  who are "absolute poor. 
ence course. are generally excluded.
Vocational Enrollment (percent of ecandarri -Vocational institu-          Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical. industrial, or other programs which operate   Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                              June 1985



-26-
ASI
P 5
Populetimn: 100.01 mitiLme (1915B
iii Per Capita: UB$130 [(184)
_  . _ ~ ~   ~    ~     Anu
Amount
(million ll6           &verie Ar nal Inree {Z                            Share of G0M at Market Prie.o (1)
in current prices)          (in censtat  rices)                                  (it currant arces)
lildicator                   Ms65          fl60Z7    hn7-7i   fsID   St                 60    n7ti  .75   fmBo    Mg.  fi    It  r
NATION" ACCOiTOTS
Cross dmesitic prodect ft        1.S63             4.0      -0.6        5.5     3.1        100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  10D.0
4rieulture Li                   7.383             3.1     -1.3        3.3     2.0         59.9   56.9   62.5   53.4   46.7  46.9  48.1  4B.S
Industry La                                       7.9     -3.2       6.6      3.4          7.7    9.5   11.3   12.7   13.8  13.1  12.0   11.
Service, ft                    f.576              4.S       3.3      8.1      4.1         30.1    30.0   26.2   34.0   39.6  40.0  39.9  39.3
Ciununption                      15.175            4.4      -0.7       6.0      2.2         92.4   12.3    99.2   98.0  103.6  98.3  96.0  97.2
Cros denestic tuvestuet           21376            10.9    -10.9       2.0      0.7          6.9   11.3    0.1   15.7   13.9  16.4  16.2  14.9
Experts ol goods 6 ofa            1.173            0.0    -11.7        3.4      7.4         10.0    3.3    3.0    7.8    7.7   5.5    0.5   8.9
mparts of good. & nfu             2.863            U.S    -12.0        6.1      1.1          9.3   12.5   10.3   22.5   25.2  23.2  20.7  21.0
Cross nstLI l eaing.              1.043            26.5    -17.7      n.1    15.7            0.9     6.1    1.0    4.0  -..0    6.0   S.5   5.S
_ .   .~ ~ ~ ~ teo
Amount
(millions 158                           Compoaition of Arbhandies Trade (Z)
in currt price)                                    (i.n curreat uricee,
M_s    _m                           n               ml   an   ni
NERIACWDISE TRADE
Kerehandiec exports                 933                        100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   lO0.0   100.0
?Tietpy lb                        196                         41.8    31.5   29.7       I.S    33.3    31.S    31.
Manufactures                      637                         58.2    68.5   70.3    68.1    66.7    66.1    66.2
Mercbhadise import                2.647                        100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0  1I0.0
7usd                              616                        47.6    46.4   33.4    14.0    19.5    21.0    23.5
Petroleum                         367                         3.9    11.1   16.2    21.3    29.7    15.1    13.9
macbinery 6 equipment             616                         12.8    11.5   23.0    23.9    29.5    18.3    23.4
Other                           1.046                         35.7    33.0   27.4    40.3    31.3    35.6    39.2
MA an  Mt ma am  m                                        s n  o   ma  ma mn ma
PRICE AND TE1s oF TUDBE IlDlC0S (1972173-100)
CI1? Deflator                                 140.6   240.7   183.1   177.2   203.6   Z16.6   252.7    267.3   295.9   331.4   365.7   433.1
Exchange rsete C/IIJS)                          7.9661   8.6759  14.5521  15.667  15.1215  15.2226  15.4771   1b.3447  20.0400  23.7500  24.9437  ZS.0620
Exert price index                             106.5   119.0   103.4   108.9   126.5   160.9   196.9    175.7   147.7   154.5   175.6   208.5
Import price inLde                            144.9   181.3   180.2   173.2   168.7   208.9   234.9    263.9   219.9   237.4   223.4   213.7
Tes of trade  isde                             72.1    633       37.6    61.1    75.0      ".0    84.7        66.6    56.6    65.1    78.6    97.8
As 2 of CW
(at crret  rice_s)
1175    1177    FY80        1102    FY3    1164    1103
PUBLIC PIMAUCE
Current revenue                                     5.4      9.5     10.3       11.6    10.7       9.6    10.0
Current expenditure                                4.5       7.0      7.7        0.4      8.5      8.0      8.3
Current eurplus C.) or deficitC-)                  .0.9    .1.7     * 2.5      * 3.2    *2.2    +1J6    +1.7
Capital ependiture                                  3.1      9.5     13.3       11.4    11LJ       9.6      9.2
roreign linancing                                  2.4       6.0      8.2        8.0    11.4    861         6.3
TTm-7D      me0-75       mt5-nl       mt4u
OTHER IS1DICATOS
CGP growth rmte (2) 7c                            4.2         -0.6           5.1        3.7
CliP per capite grotb rate (2) C                   1.5         -3.0          0.7        1.1
- E nt Sa-ilable
- nut applicable
Is At arket prices.
lk ba  jute, tea,  nd = iaberie..
La C overnent data seed in calcutations.
ANA
Aun-t  13. 1506



-29-                                                Pags 6
MA ILEC  Pr FATIUb8.  TECEA  CALIAUL AIM DNWT
(millico LV, in currnt prices)
8&ILACE OF UAmED?S
Actwl
mi Wn m6  c=  ci Zma Zn8 u   ¢6 n4 an
Net exprts of goods                             -1,059    -903    -470    -459    496  -1.650  -I,S22  -1,946  -1.623   -1.542   -1,714
Exports of goods                                 366     372      405     490      610     722      711     626      686      aL        933
Iports of goods                               -1.403  -1,275    -875  -1.349  -1,556  -2,372  -2.533  -2,572  -2,309   -2.353  -2,647
Net experts of servicea                             21     - 7      -29     -32      -23       4       15     -70    -112       -33       -74
Workera  remittances                                35       29      60     113      143     210      379     624      628      627       477
Curreat account balance                         -1.003    -8J2    .439   z-77        31   1435  -1.42B  -1.5;92  -1.107        -94S   -1L311
Direct private investment                            .               ..       .       .       ..       ..      ..                ..
,.T loans (net)                                    498      497     238      398     42O      580     513     508      476       563      643
Graits & grant-like flues                          382      245     265      394     551     592      58      697      720      768       701
Other capital flows (net)                          274       87      17     -39      -16     144      307     255      164      -42        23
Change in reserves (- - increase)                 -151       53     -81       25   -124      119       24     127    -236      -181       146
lnternationel reserves (end of period)             266      213     294     269      393     271      249     122      358      539       395
Rseerves a. motha of imports of nest year          2.5      2.9     2.6     2.1      2.0     1.3      1.2     0.6      1.8      2.8       1.8
Actual
n75      mlit L6 ni77      Y78    0Y1    O         fYl      MI         3    FM8 M85
GROSS DISBUILSDENTS
Total gross disbursemeats                     519      563      268     402      676     685      627     680     6D4      562        537
Conceseioal                                458      533      244     382     460      665     610      604     541      543       507
Bilateral                                 343      390      144     243     216      337     356      369     272      188       140
LOA                                       112      128      86       as     153      152     170      358     190      281       226
Other  uttilsteral                          3       15       14      51      91      176      84       77      79       74       141
Non-coucesmional                            60       30       24      20       16      20       17      76       63      19        30
Bilateral                                  45       16        6       3       4       16       3        7      28        4         4
11.40                                       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -         -
Other mulcilateral                          -        I        -       -       -        -       1       31      17        6        22
Private                                    15       13       1S      17       12       4      13       38      23        9         8
NET DISWDDSEHENr                                  49B      497      238     365      420     635      577     640      530     423        339
DENT OOTSTADIDNG
Total outstanding and disbursed             1.355    1.797   2,053    2,473  2,853   3,173   3,637   4,133   4,678   5.133          5.433
Official                                  1,233    1,689   1,940    2,394  2,775   3,099   3,572   4.045   4.578   4,870         5,371
ItRD                                       55       55       55       55      55      55      55       55      55       55        55
IDA                                       255      3B0      466      554    707      859   1.027   1.181   1,366   1,633       1,547
Other                                     923    1,254   1.419    1,785  2,013   2,185   2,490   2,809   3.157   3,352         3,49
Private                                     122      108      113       79      78      74       65      88     100       92        F2
Undisbursed debt                            1.019      94B   1,016    1,309  1.825   1,830   2,150   2,666   2,817   3,263          3,170
DEBT SERVICE
Totsl debt service                             31        88      59        69     93      92      101      98      135     139        198
Amortization                                 21       66       3D        37     56      50       50      40       74      65        121
Interemt                                     10       22      Z        32      37      42      51       58      61       74        77
TItD dek service                                0         2       3         3      4       4        4       4        3       5          3
IDA deht ervicr                                 1         2       3        4       6       6        7       8        8      13         19
Average interest rate
official                                    I .8     1.2      1.3      1.2    1.3      1.2      1.6     1.8      1.0     1-3        1.3
Private                                     2.3      8.9      7.2      6.2    6.1      6.9    10.8      8.6      8.6     5_3       4.4
Aversge wturity
Official                                   35.1     42.9    38.6      38.5   36.2    34.2    35.1    35.5    39.5    40.5         40.4
Private                                    15.3     11.3    11.0       9.5   14.B    19.2       7.7    11.7    12.9      7.3       14.3
i GROUP E PosutE (: )
INID DCD/total DOD                              4         3       3         2      2       2        2       1        1       1          1
ItAD diabhraemenatstotsl diabslrsenentr         0        0        0         0      0       0        0       a        0       0          0
ItRD debt serviceltotal debt service            0         2       6         5      4       4        4       4        2       2          2
IDA DOD/totsl DOD                             19        21      23        22     25      27       28      29       29      32         34
IDA disbursements/cotal disbursements          22       23       32        20     33      23       28      26       35      50         42
IDA debt aervice/total debt service             3         3       5         5      4       6        7       8        6       9         10
TERM SlT3UCauE                                        At June 1985         IRRDIDA LIZNDIiC (At June 1985)    lERD    IDA
starity structure of debt                                                 Outstandilng & Disbursed             54.9    1,847
Maturities due within 5 years                           12.8           Undisbursed                             -     1,127
Maturities due within 10 years                          31.8           Outstanding, intl. Undiabureed       54.9    2,974
Interest structure of debt
Interest due within I year                              1.6
- not available
August 18, 1986



-30-                               ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK ROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH la
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31. 1986)
Amounts
Loan or                                                             (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                 US$ Million lb
Number     Year   Borrover                Purpose              Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
One loan and 43 credits fully disbursed                        54.90 1,523.21          -
864       1978  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control            -       19.00        5.79
890       1979  Bangladesh  Oxbow Lakes Fisheries               -        6.00        1.00
912       1979  Bangladesh  Vocational Training                 -       25.00      11.13
921       1979  Bangladesh  Population & Family Health II    -          32.00        5.91
934       1979  Bangladesh  Greater Kbulna Power
Distribution                    -       28.00        3.16
955       1979  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Drainage &
Flood Control                   -       25.00        9.71
964       1979  Bangladesh  Highways II                         -       10.00       2.07
1001       1980  Bangladesh  Chittagong Water Supply II          -       20.00        6.12
1023       1980  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                  -       29.00        6.55
1032       1980  Bangladesh  Jute Industry Rehabilitation        -       20.00       7.69
1042       1980  Bangladesh  Mangrove Afforestation              -       11.00       4.59
1054       1980  Bangladesh  Education IV (Primary Education) -          40.00       11.79
1065/c     1980  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry III            -       35.00        7.67
1091/c     1981  Bangladesh  Bakhrabad Gas Development           -       85.00       0.69
1096/c     1981  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Transport                -       25.00      10.36
1117/c     1981  Bangladesh  langladesb Shilpa Bank II           -       33.83        9.71
1124kc    1981  Bangladesh  Technical Assistance IV              -       16.00       0.66
1140/c     1981  Bangladesh  Hand Tubewells                      -       18.00        9.51
1147/C     1981  Bangladesh  Agricultural Credit                 -       40.00       6.82
1184/c     1982  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control II         -       27.00      20.95
1204kc    1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Urea Fertilizer           -       15.00      12 38
1205Jc     1982  Baugladesh  Textile Industry Rehabilitation  -          30.00      24.77
1215kc    1982  Bangladesh  Extension & Research II              -       27.00      16.20
1247/c     1982  Bangladesh  Cbittagong Port                     -       60.00      54.39
1254/c     1982  Bangladesh  Ashuganj Thermal Power              -       92.00      71.98
1262/c     1982  Bangladesh  Rural Electrification               -       40.00      17.75
12871c     1982  Bangladesh  Deep Tubevells II                   -       68.00      57.16
1301/c     1983  Bangladesh  First Highway Project
(Supplemental)                  -        6.00       1.19



-31-
ANNEX 1U
Page 2 of 4
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (continued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                             (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                 US$ Million /b
Number     Year   Borrower                Purpose              Bank       IDA    Tndisbursed
1318/c     1983  Bangladesb  Business Management
Education & Training             -       7.80        6.18
13211c     1983  Bangladesh  Telecouunications III               -       35.00       24.16
1349fc     1983  Bangladesh  Public Administration
(Training and Personnel
Management)                      -      12.00        8.34
13571c     1983  Bangladesh  Energy Efficiency and
Refinery Rehabilitation         -       28.50       25.29
1384ft     1983  Bangladesh  Rural Development II                -      100.00       91.26
1396kc    1983  Bangladesh  Agricultural Training II             -        8.10        6.50
1399/c     1983  Bangladesh  Sugar Rehabilitation and
Intensification                 -        20.00      16.82
1402/c     1983  Bangladesh  Petroleum Exploration Promotion  -           23.00      13.48
1440jc     1984  Bangladesh  Fifth Technical Assistance          -        25.00      27.09
1455kc    1984  Bangladesh  Second Agricultural Research         -        24.50      25.53
1467/c     1984  Bangladesh  Water Development Board             -        41.50      42.22
1477/c     1984  Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehab. I1          -        23.00      24.59
F022kc    1984  Bangladesh  Textile Industry R&hab. II           -        22.00      23.56
1490kc    1984  Bangladesh  Technical Education                  -        36.00      34.23
1504-0 k   1984  Bangladesh  SAP  725 BD                         -        10.00       8.13
1504-1 /c  1984  Bangladesh  SAP 1023 RD                         -         5.00       4.29
1504-2 kc  1984  Bangladesh  SAP 1247 BD                         -         7.00       3.94
1504-3 /c  1984  Bangladesh  SAP 1262 BD                         -         8.00       7.64
1574kc Ld  1985  Bangladesh  Second Primary Education            -        78.00      86.62
1586fc     1985  Bangladesh  Second Gas Development              -       110.00    128.51
1587fc     1985  Bangladesh  Flood Rehabilitation                -        30.00     24.22
1591!c     1985  Bangladesh  Third Flood Control & DrRinage   -           48.00     53.38
1633Lc Id  1986  Bangladesh  Rural Electrification II            -        79.00      79.00
1634fc Id  1986  Bangladesh  Second Forestry Project             -        28.00     28.00
1648/c Id  1986  Bangladesh  Power Trans & Distribution          -        56.00      56.00



ANNEX II
-32-                                    Page 3 of 4
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Baniladesh (continued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                             (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                 USS Million /b
Number     Year   Borrover                Purpose              Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
1649L /ed  1986  Bangladesh  Population & Family Health III   -           78.00     78.00
1651/c /d  1986  Bangladesh  Shrimp Culture                      -        22.00     22.00
1655Lc     1986  Bangladesh  Imports Program XIII                -       200.00    212.52
Total                                                      54.90  3,571.44  1,559.20
of which repaid                                           2.21     11.30      -
Total now outstandinz                                      52.69  3.560.08
Amount sold                                               0.00      0.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA                             52.69  3,560.08
Total undisbursed                                                            1,559.20
la  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report On
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b  The original principal of credits under replenishments 1 to 3 has been increased
by the amount of the translation adjustment as a result of the devaluation of
the United States dollar in 1972 and 1973.
ic IDA Sixth and Seventh Replenishments Credits denominated in SDRs. The principal
amounts are shown in U.S. dollars equivalent at negotiations as shown in the
President's Reports. The undisbursed amounts of effective Credits are calculated
at the rate of exchange on March 31, 1986, and for non-effective Credits, the
amount undisbursed is the dollar amount at negotiation (the amount shown in the
President's Report). The amount of fully disbursed IDA Sixth and Seventh Credits,
is based on the rate of exchange on the date of disbursement.
/d Not yet effective.



-33-
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31. 1986)
Fiscal                                                               Amounts in US$ Million
Year           Obligor                 Type of lupine.!             _La&n   EuitX    Total
1969    Karnaphuli Paper Hills Ltd.   Pulp & Paper Products          5.60    0.63      6.23
1979    Highipeed Shipbuilding &
Heavy Engineering Co., Ltd.   Shipbuilding                   1.20     0.36      1.56
1980    Industrial Promotion and
Development Company of         Development
Bangladesh, Ltd.               Finance Company                -       1.05      1.05
1985     Bata Shoe Co.                 Shoe Manufacturing
(Bangladesh) Ltd.             and Tannery                  3.58      0.51     4.09
1985     Industrial Development
Leasing Co. of Bangladesh
(IDLC)                        Capital Market               2.19       0.17    2.36
Total gross _comitments                                             12.57      2.72    15.29
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales             6.88     0.63      7.51
Total now held by IFC                                                5.69      2.09     7.78
Total undisbursed                                                    5.44      0.08     5.52



-34-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
THIRD DHAKA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
One year.
(b) Agency preparing the project:
DWASA.
(c) Date of first preparation mission by IDA:
December 1984.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
May 1985.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
Nay 14, 1986.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
90 days following signature.
Section II:     Special IDA Implementation Action:
None.
Section III:    Conditions of Effectiveness are:
(a) execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and DWASA (paragraph 50);
(b) execution of financial arrangements between the
Government and DMC for onlending credit proceeds
(paragraph 50);



-35-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) completion by the Government of all steps necessary to
enable DWASA to implement a tariff adjustment clause
for power costs (paragraph 55); and
(d) approval of the Project Proforma (paragraph 50).
A Condition of Disbursement is:
(a) for expenditures in connection with preparation of Demra
resettlement site, IDA satisfaction (based on the recom-
mendation of the Government) that development of a surface
water source for Dhaka is appropriate, that Demra is a
satisfactory site for a water treatment plant, and that
all terms and conditions for the resettlement of Demra
residents are acceptable (paragraph 37).
Other Conditions are that:
(a) the Government, DWASA and DMC would update the Operational
Action Plan annually in a manner satisfactory to IDA
(paragraph 48);
(b) DWASA would achieve at least a 3% ROR for FY87-FY90, at
least a 5% ROR for FY91-FY95, and full debt service
coverage from FY87 onwards; (paragraph 54);
Cc) the Government would implement an additional 20Z tariff
increase by July 1, 1987 (paragraph 54);
(d) DWASA would meet billing target of at least 95% of
connections once in every two months, and would limit
private arrears to six months' billings (paragraph 57);
(e) the Government would limit its arrears to DWASA'to six
months' billings (paragraph 57);
(e) DWASA would engage consultants, according to terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA, to prepare and execute
the low-cost sanitation study and pilot project by
October 31, 1986, and implementation of the pilot project
would begin by December 31, 1987 (paragraph 44); and
(f) DWASA would engage consultants, under terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA, for the staff productivity study by
October 15, 1986 (paragraph 46).



IBRD 19282
_Sf if | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                        ii,Yi ,,-A F1.,A.. - - A. a.. __  . ~0 d
IL                                   t. - X - A. K~A. ~ - A. bif n.A.*l P...._. .-_-_A
£1   j                                          .m.~~ 'A  twe .9.,  -w 1 ..v   6v.101-  PI  
77        1 PALLABI & MIRPUR j_tl
I10 
0                  1INDIA
/~~~~~~~~~~~~
( BANGLADESH             /
0                                                                          ?OHAK~     
,,I   1                                  \I N D I A                                              \        j
DAR-JUS-SALAM&                                                     4                            i
MD. PUR  2                                                    j                              BURMA
0      200      g00     60°0
DHANMANDI                     J_
-\ ALUNIAGAR    r-
1          <.  j   t - 9tB  
f-I
_   A   S L^                              M                                              ,_ _,
ISLAMB
BANGLADESH
THIRD DHAKA WATER SUPPLY
AND SANITATION PROJEf,T
(WATER SYSTEM)
[     ] 7Proposed project areas
Water mains
Tube wells
Ton ks
A   Million gallon ronks
Roads
Railroads
- Rivers
0      1       2      3      4       S      b6 
KilemeterS
S EPTEMBER 19g



IBRD 19283
tl~~~~~~~i    -   -    .       .ei  n.   bs    ...      nm. . L
~~~~~~~~ALM   A,            _     fiMN    S L,  N  Ma ma., -  .  - -
11<~~~~~~~~~~~ I. .n Ns Dw IN. 5M .    Sl  .. A, p,s5i-
INDIA
.BANGLADESH
INDIA  I 
{    s        /      n                   X           t                             F    su  RNIAF  -
j  ~ ~    ~     ~        ~ BURMA
A I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
o    200oo        0  00
t ~~~~~~~~~GORAN
HwiSs A.  I ~m 
BANG LADESH                                      N
THIRD DHAKA WATER SUPPLY
AND SANITATION PROJECT
(SEWERAGE)
`1 Proposed project areas
Sewers and pumping mains
Sewage pumping slations
Roads
Railroads                                                                           -    Pu       nlos .e
Rivers
-  \'Effis.enf OutFall
0            _  2      3       A       '      e
K'iemet.rS                                                                                         19 '
SEPTEMBER 198S



I



