Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16205
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
THIRD DHAKA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(CREDIT 17734-BD)
DECEMBER 31, 1996
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department 1
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                  =      Taka (Tk)
Taka 1                         =      Paisa 100
Taka 1                               US$ 0.0323
US$1                           =      Tk. 31.00  1,
US$1                           =      Tk. 40.21  l/
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
cum         =      cubic meter (220 imperial gallons or 264.2 US gallons)
gcd         =      gallons (imperial) per capita per day
ha          =      hectare (10,000 m2 or 2.47 acres)
km          =      kilometer (.62 miles)
1           =      liter(.22 imperial gallons or 0.264 US gallons)
lcd         =      liters per capita per day
m           =      meter (39.37 inches)
mgd                million imperial gallons per day
mld                million liters per day (0.220 million imperial gallons per day
or 0.264 million US gallons per day)
ml                 million liters or 1,000 cubic meters
mm           =     millimeter (0.04 inches)
km2         =      square kilometers (0.386 sq. miles)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         =      Asian Development Bank
ARV          =     Annual Rental Value
DANIDA      =      Danish International Development Agency
DCC         =      Dhaka City Corporation
DPHE        =      Department of Public Health & Engineering
DWASA       =      Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Authority
ERR         =      Economic Rate of Return
FAO         =      Food and Agricultural Organization
FY          =      Fiscal Year
GDP         =      Gross Domestic Product
GOB         =      Government of Bangladesh
IDA         =      International Development Association
LGED        =      Local Government Engineering Department
MLGRDC       =     Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development & Cooperatives
MPO         =      Bangladesh Water Master Plan Organization
NGO         =      Non Governmental Organization
PMED        =      Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Division (of DWASA)
ROR         =      Rate of Return
TAG         =      Technology Advisory Group
UNDP        =      United Nations Development Program
UNCHS       =      United Nations Center for Human Settlements
UNICEF      =      United Nations International Children Emergency Fund
USAID        =     United States Agency for International Development
WHO         =      World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
Director-General, Operations Evaluation          Mr. Robert Picciotto
Director, Operations Evaluation Department       Mr. Francisco Agiurre-Sacasa
Division Chief                                   Mr. Yves Albouy
Task Manager                                     Mr. Tauno Skytta
Conversion rate at appraisal.
Current conversion.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S .A.
Ofrice of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 31, 1996
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Bangladesh
Third Dhaka Water Supply and Sanitation Project (Credit 1734-BD)
The attached Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Bangladesh Third Dhaka Water Supply and
Sanitationproject (Credit 1734-BD, approved in FY87), was prepared bythe South Asia Regional Office with
Part II prepared by the Borrower, and reviewed by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED). The credit, for
US$30.0 million equivalent, was closed on March 9, 1994, about one year behind schedule. US$6.25 million of
the credit was canceled.
The project's stated objectives were: (i) to improve the Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Authority's
(DWASA) operational and financial performance, (ii) to strengthen its sectoral planning and training capacity,
and (in) to address immediate needs for additional water supply and sanitation services. The project design,
however, mainly comprised physical investment such as new tubewells, water mains, water connections and
standposts, new sewer mains and rehabilitation of existing sewers, and an on-site sanitation program. The
institutional development components were a pilot leak detection program, expansion of training facilities, and a
pilot program for computerized billing and collection.
The project mostly achieved, and in some cases exceeded, its physical targets. The groundwater supply
capacity was increased by nearly 60 percent, and the extension of the distribution network was more than double
the appraisal target of 144 km. The target of new house connections was exceeded by about 30 percent. As a
result, an additional population of about 800,000 was provided with water service, some 30 percent over the
appraisal target. No standpipes, however, were installed to serve the poor and the overall service coverage did
not improve as the population growth more than offset the expansion achieved. The sewerage system was
expanded, but on-site sanitation improvements did not materialize.
Achievements were mixed on the financial and institutional fronts. The rate of return on assets was 4.0
percent in FY93, short of the target of five percent, accounts receivable represented 6.6 months of sales in FY94,
still above the generous target of six months; and consequently, DWASA was unable to cover operating costs and
debt service. Technical staff gained experience through participation in project implementation, and DWASA
also benefited from the training and institutional support provided by the project in other areas.
OED rates the outcome of the project as marginally satisfactory and its institutional development impact
as moderate. Due to pending institutional improvements and DWASA's still relatively weak financial situation,
project sustainability is rated as uncertain. These ratings are consistent with those implied in the PCR.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2 -
This operation points to the importance of up-front actions on fundamental reforms of institutions and
policies. A recently approved follow-on project in Dhaka is reported to have met critical up-front conditions and
is thus expected to improve the prospects for long-term sustainability.
The quality of the PCR is satisfactory.
The project was audited with two other sector projects and the Performance Audit Report, issued on
June 28, 1996, confirms the above ratings.
Attachment



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
THIRD DHAKA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 1734-BD)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface . ..................................................... i
Evaluation Summary .................................................... ii
PART I:      PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK PERSPECTIVE ......................  1
1.    Project Identity .....................................             .      1
2. Background.                                                                   1
3.  Project Objectives & Description.                                           2
Project Objectives.                                                2
Project Description.                                               3
4.  Project Preparation and Structure.                                          4
Project Design.                                                    5
Project Organization.                                              5
DWASA.                                                             5
Dhaka City Corporation.                                            5
5. Project Implementation.                                                      5
Credit Effectiveness & Project Start-up.                           5
Implementation Schedule.                                           6
Procurement.                                                       6
Project Cost.                                                      6
Disbursements.                                                     6
6. Project Results.                                                             7
Objectives.                                                        7
Physical Performance.                                              7
Institutional Performance.                                         7
Operationa.l Performance.                                          8
Accounts Receivable.                                               8
Billing.                                                           8
Collection.                                                        8
System Losses.                                                     9
Water Tariffs.                                                     9
7. Financial Performance .10
8. Audits .11
9. Project Justification .11
10.   Project Sustainability ........................................... 11
Ms document has a restrictcd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
l official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



11.   IDA Performance .       ................................................ 12
12.   Supervision . .................................................... 12
13.   Covenants ....................................................... 13
14.   Borrower Performance ...........        ................................. 13
15.   Project Relationship ...........        ................................. 14
16.   Consultant Services ............................................. 14
17.   Project Documentation and Data .................................. 14
18.   Conclusions and Recommendations Made ............................ 14
PART II:    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....           ............ 16
A. Analysis of key Issues .16
B. Banks Performance .19
C. Bank Officials .21
D.    Evaluation of Borrowers Own Performance .21
E.    Assessment of Effectiveness of Relationship between the Bank
and the Borrower .21
PART III:   STATISTICAL INFORMATION ...................................  22
Table 1    -       Engineering Design and Construction Schedule
Table 2    -       Procurement of Material and Equipment
Table 3    -       Project Cost
Table 4    -        Schedule of Disbursement by Quarters
Table 5    -       Basic Operating Data
Table 6    -       Data on Water Connections & Water Meters
Table 7    -       Income Statements
Table 8    -        Balance Sheet
Table 9    -        Sources & Applications of Funds
Table 10   -       DWASA Tariff Structure
Table 11   -       Financial Plan
Table 12   -       Revised Economic Rate of Return



-i-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
THIRD DHAKA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 1734-BD)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Dhaka Water
Supply and Sewerage Project in Bangladesh for which Cr. 1734-BD in the amount of
SDR 26.4 million (US$ 30.0 million equivalent) was approved on January 27, 1987.
The credit closed on March 31, 1994, fifteen months behind schedule.   Final
disbursement was made on May 09, 1994 after cancellation of the undisbursed
balance of SDR 4.37 million (US$ 6.25 million equivalent).
The PCR has been jointly prepared by the Bangladesh Resident Mission
of South Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and
the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR started in May 1994, but it was delayed due to
staff changes in the Resident Mission. The report is based, inter alia on the
Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit and Project Agreements,
supervision reports, correspondence between IDA and the Borrower, progress
reports of the Borrower and internal IDA memoranda.






-ii-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
THIRD DHAKA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 1734-BD)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.         Since 1963, IDA has been involved with the Dhaka Water Supply and
Sewerage Authority (DWASA) to help improve the water supply and sanitation
services in Dhaka. The city's population is growing rapidly and the metropolitan
Dhaka's current population estimate is about 7.9 million.   By the year 2000
Dhaka's population is projected to reach about 9.6 million. Water supply to the
greater Dhaka area has increased ten-folds since the 1960's due to capacity
increase as a result of the three IDA financed projects undertaken by DWASA.
However, the level of water produced per capita has not increased much because
of the rapid population growth of the city. Water production at the end of FY94
was estimated to be 740 million liters per day (mld) against estimated gross
requirements of about 1,100 mld. Ground water has been the major source of water
supply in Dhaka.   Dhaka's sewerage system extends over 450 km and has about
40,790 sewer service connections. The Third Dhaka Water Supply and Sanitation
Project focused on the continued use of ground water supplies and was prepared
based on a 1981 long term plan and feasibility study completed during the
implementation of the Second DWASA Project.
Objectives
2.        The project's  principal  stated objective was  to improve DWASA's
operational and financial performance, strengthen sectoral training and planning,
and address immediate needs for additional water supply and sanitation services.
Specific project objectives are outlined in para 3.1 of Part-I of the PCR.
Except for the Demra Resettlement and the Rehabilitation Program, the Low Cost
Sanitation Program, and the installation of street hydrants, implementation of
all other components of the project were completed.   Although the financial
objectives were not achieved, DWASA's operational performance improved during the
project, in comparison to its performance prior to the project.
Project Organization
3.        The project implementation agencies were the Dhaka Water Supply and
Sewerage Agency (DWASA) and the Dhaka City Corporation (DCC).
3.1       DWASA:  DWASA was established under the East Pakistan Water Supply and
Sewerage Authority Ordinance of 1963, as an autonomous body to provide adequate
and safe drinking and sewerage facilities.   Its functions are to construct,
improve and operate water supply and sewerage works and to improve environmental
sanitation in the city. Since 1989, the Authority has the additional function
of operating Dhaka's stormwater drainage system.   DWASA was responsible for
implementation of the water, sewerage and technical assistance components of the
project including procurement of equipment, materials, installation of tubewells



-iii-
and construction of new and rehabilitation of the existing water and sewer
distribution system.    To  facilitate  the  construction  of water  and  sewer
components of the project, a Project Director was deputed from DWASA to oversee
the implementation of these components.   Other project activities, including
planning, institutional and financial development components were handled by the
relevant divisions of DWASA.
3.2       DCC:   DCC is responsible for providing municipal services such as
public health and sanitation, education, maintenance of public infrastructure,
including town planning activities and development.works. The project included
a component to be implemented by DCC to develop a low-cost sanitation program
based  on  an  assessment  of  sanitation  needs  in  Dhaka.    To  facilitate
implementation of this program, a low-cost sanitation cell was established under
the direct supervision of DCC's Chief Engineer. The cell was responsible for
promoting the sanitation concept and ensuring that minimal technical standards
are maintained for manufacturing and installation.
Implementation Experience
4.        Overall project implementation was satisfactory, and most components
were completed ahead of the original schedule. Project completion was, however
extended by fifteen months due to: (a) the inclusion of additional work in the
project; and (b) delays in the Government approval of a revised project proforma
prepared to accommodate the revised project.  At the end of the project, two
components in the original project were not implemented: the sanitation
component, for which Dhaka City Corporation was the executing agency, and the
Demra resettlement component.   At project completion,  SDR 4.37 million was
canceled.
Results
5.        The original physical investment program was implemented substantially
as planned, and in most cases, original targets were exceeded. A total of 55
tubewells were installed, (against an original target of 25); 391 km of water
lines and 83 km of sewer lines were laid (against original targets of 144 km for
water and 37 km for sewerage); 32,938 water meters were installed and 16,406
meters replaced (against an original total target of 10,000 meters); and about
33,302   water supply and 7,505 sewerage customers were connected  (against
original targets of 25,000 water and 8,000 sewer connections).  In the end, the
project increased water production by 59% and provided water to an additional
200,000 people beyond the appraisal estimates.   However,  the financial and
institutional objectives were not met, and financial covenant targets could not
be achieved. DWASA was unable to comply with the following covenants: (i) the
rate of return covenant requiring it to achieve a 3% ROR in fiscal years 1987
through 1990 and 5% ROR in fiscal year 1991 and thereafter (DWASA's ROR was 1.4%
in FY91; 2.3% in FY92 and 4.7% in FY93); (ii) a cash generation covenant
requiring it to generate enough cash from its operations to cover fully operating
costs and its debt service requirement; and (iii) an additional financial
covenant requiring it to maintain its accounts receivable arrears to no more than
six months of billings (while DWASA managed to reduce its arrears significantly
during the project period, it never managed to meet this covenant, except in
FY93).



-iv-
Institutional Performance
6.        The institutional development objectives of the project were not
achieved, and DWASA's institutional performance continues to be unsatisfactory.
Its staffing level is relatively high. During appraisal DWASA had 2,390 staff
and in 1993 the approved number of staff was 3,137 with an existing strength of
3,078 reflecting about 4% annual increase. A staff productivity study conducted
during the project indicated that only about 71% of the staff working time has
been productively used. DWASA's operations continue to be inefficient, and the
Commercial Management Division needs to be strengthened further to increase
efficiency and regular training to the revenue and meter inspectors needs to be
organized.   The Training  Institute  lacks  appropriate physical  facilities,
manpower and effective  course curriculum/  design.   The only institutional
improvement benefit that appears to have been gained from the project was from
the technical staff involved in the project implementation who have benefitted
from some transfer of expertise and technology from their interaction with
expatriate consultants under the project.
Financial Performance
7.        DWASA was expected to improve its financial performance sufficiently
to meet agreed financial performance targets, laid down in covenants. While some
progress was achieved (accounts receivable were reduced from 10.4 months of
billings in 1988 to 6.6 months in 1994 vs a 6 month target, and the rate of
return increased to 4.7% in FY93), DWASA was unable to meet most of the targets.
Unfortunately, these targets were in themselves inadequate as mechanisms for
improved performance. Improved financial returns were achieved primarily through
tariff increases rather than improvements in efficiency.   As a result, DWASA
continues to be an inefficient operator, as evidenced by water losses of over
45%, high accounts receivables, ineffective billing and collections, inadequate
consumer records, and poor maintenance of fixed assets. To improve financial
performance, DWASA would need to undertake a comprehensive program involving all
aspects of its operations involving improved billing and collection through
contracting out to local private sector operators, reduction of revenue losses
through a comprehensive leak detection program, and training of the commercial
management staff on revenue management, billing, collection, supported by a
public sector efficiency improvement program supported by the Government to
enable DWASA adopt commercial management practices. These are the elements of
the proposed Fourth Dhaka Water Supply Project.
Sustainability
8.        While the physical objectives were met, the financial objectives could
not be achieved. Nevertheless, DWASA showed some marginal improvements in its
operational performance, when compared to its performance prior to the project.
Installation of deep tubewells, expansion and rehabilitation of water and sewer
distribution system, installation of water meters and procurement of equipment
and meters under this project have resulted in increased available water and
brought about significant benefits to consumers, as well as increased revenues.
Based from experience with earlier projects, the benefits arising from the
physical investment program would be sustainable, although the per capita
availability of water may not be sustained due to the high population growth of



-v -
Dhaka. Routine maintenance of the physical assets would help to increase life
of the assets, and their productivity, thus enhancing sustainability. For the
marginal institutional and financial performance gains to be sustained, they
would need to be followed by a comprehensive program that combines public sector
efficiency improvements to enhance accountability and increase operational
autonomy, as well as increased private sector involvement in DWASA's operations,
e.g., billing, collection, meter repair and rehabilitation.
Findings and Lessons Learned
9.        DWASA, and in particular, its Commercial Management Division continues
to be weak and should be the focus of future institutional development technical
assistance to increase its efficiency.   The following are lessons from the
project experience:
(a)   Institutional support needs to be clearly linked to institutional
objectives and specific components to have any significant impact.
There was incongruity between the project objectives and components
in the project.   While the stated objectives seemed to focus on
institutional performance improvements as the main objective, the
project components largely supported the physical objectives, with
hardly any components to support the institutional objectives (para.
3.1 and 3.2).
(b)   Poor initial progress caused in part by the delay in the appointment
of consultants, could have been avoided if such appointments and
designs for the first year works had been ready by Board
Presentation.
(c)   DWASA's inability to comply with financial covenants was partly due
to the lack of clear linkage between financial and institutional
development components in the project and the covenants; thus there
was no specific program whose implementation would have helped meet
the covenants. IDA should have made these covenants part of clear
and   adequate   specific   institutional   development   technical
assistance.
(d)   Lack of autonomy, accountability and responsibility within DWASA
adversely affected the efficiency of the organization. The need for
a regulatory framework that provides clear lines of responsibility
for the Government as the policy maker and DWASA as the operator
would help improve accountability and enhance DWASA's autonomy.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
THIRD DHAKA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 1734-BD)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA's PERSPECTIVE
1.    Proiect Identity
Name                  Third Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Project
Credit Number         1734-BD
RVP Unit              South Asia Region
Country               Bangladesh
Sector                Water Supply and Sanitation
2.    Background
2.1       Bangladesh, with an area of 144,000 sq km and a population of 111
million is one of the most densely populated countries in the world. The total
population is growing at about 22 per annum while the urban population has been
growing at about 4%. Currently the urban population accounts for about 17% of
the total population.
2.2       The trend in urban population distribution is towards an increasing
proportion of slum dwellers and squatters. Most of the migrants to urban areas
are poor and without marketable skills.  They contribute little to municipal
revenue but nevertheless increase pressure on existing services. Consequently,
although 77% of the Government's total investment in water supply and sanitation
over the period 1981-90 was in the urban areas, slum dwellers and squatters have
a very low level of service, with only about 30% having access to, piped water
supply and about 20% to sanitary latrines.
2.3       The Government manages the development and operation of the water
supply sector through the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and
Cooperatives (MLGRDC). The two largest cities, Dhaka and Chittagong, have their
own independent water supply and sewerage authorities (WASAs), which provide
water and sanitation services on a commercial basis.   In other towns, the
Department of Public Health and Engineering  (DPHE) plans,  constructs,  and
operates water supply and sanitation facilities in municipalities and district
towns and the Local Government Engineering Department  (LGED) assists local
governments in constructing water and sewerage facilities as part of a national
program to decentralize responsibility for local government services.   Both
agencies are under MLGRDC.
2.4       IDA involvement with the Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Authority
(DWASA) started in 1963 when Credit 368-PAK for US$ 26.0 million was approved.
Due to the activities leading to Bangladesh's independence in 1971 the project
was suspended. The project was, however, revived in April 1973 (as Credit 368-
BD) with an allocation of US$ 13.0 million and by March 1979 the Credit was fully
disbursed.



-2-
2.5       The Second DWASA Project  (Credit 941-BD)  for US$ 22 million was
approved on June 29, 1979. The objective was to meet Dhaka's immediate needs for
water supply and sewage disposal facilities focusing on the urban poor and
strengthen DWASA's  institutional  capabilities.   Project  implementation was
delayed by two and half years and the project was completed in June 1985. The
project facilitated installation of deep tubewells, expansion of water and sewer
systems and training of DWASA staff.
2.6       In 1981, during the implementation of the Second DWASA Project, a study
was undertaken to assess the options of meeting Dhaka's long term water supply
requirements. The study concluded that continuous groundwater development would
lower the water table significantly and produce water of declining quality. The
study recommended that a large surface water source be developed to augment
Dhaka's long-term water supply requirements. A site at Demra on the Lakhya River
was  identified  as  the  best  site  for  a water  treatment  plant.   Although
preparation of the Third Dhaka Water Supply Project initially focussed on surface
water it was later decided that the project should be scaled down, and focus on
rehabilitation of the system, and selective expansion of the system, using
groundwater. The project, with a credit amounting to US$ 30.0 million (SDR 26.4
million) was signed on January 27, 1987, became effective on July 31, 1987 and
closed on March 31, 1994, fifteen months after the original closing date.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
3.1       Proiect Objectives:  The project's stated objectives were "to improve
DWASA's operational and financial performance, strengthen sectoral planning and
training capacity, and address immediate needs for additional supplies of water
and sanitation services".   Specific project objectives as described in the
appraisal report were to:
(a)   continue  the  institutional  development  of  DWASA  emphasizing
operational efficiency, cost recovery and manpower development;
(b)   further develop Dhaka's groundwater resources to increase the supply
of potable water, expand water distribution to poor and unconnected
areas and maximize use of the system through additional connections;
(c)   rehabilitate parts  of water distribution  system and strengthen
DWASA's control of leakage and unaccounted-for water;
(d)   extend secondary sewers to areas where conventional sewerage is
affordable in order to maximize the use of the existing waterborne
sewerage system;
(e)   develop an on-site sanitation program as a low-cost alternative to
waterborne sewerage and implement a pilot scheme to promote
maintenance of public standposts by users;
(f)   finance the resettlement of squatters from the Demra Water Treatment
Plant site.



-3-
(g)   expand DWASA's Training Institute and extend training to other
sector agencies.
3.2       While the stated objectives seemed to indicate a focus on improvements
in financial and operational performance (including sectoral planning), the
specific objectives and its components indicated otherwise, i.e., the project was
in fact, mainly a physical investment program. In fact, the only institutional
development components in the project were a Pilot Leak Detection program
covering one of DWASA's seven zones; expansion of DWASA's training facilities,
and a staff productivity study; and a pilot program to computerize billing and
collections, (altogether representing only 2% of the total project cost).
Furthermore, it is unclear what sectoral planning strengthening was to be
achieved in the project since there was no specific component in the project
related to sectoral planning.
3.3       Project Description
3.3.1     The project was to upgrade and expand water supply and sanitation
facilities in Dhaka and the surrounding areas of Narayanganj, Tongi, Jinjira,
Joydebpur and Savar which are a part of the master plan for the development of
water supply and sanitation in Dhaka. The project had the following components:
(a)  construction  of  25  deep  tubewells;  (b)  installation  of  144  km  and
rehabilitation of 123 km of existing watermains; (c) installation of 37 km and
rehabilitation of 23 km of existing sewers; (d) installation of 25,000 water
connections and 8,000 sewer connections; (e) construction of 55 standposts and
associated water lines; (f) installation of 10,000 water meters at production
wells, distribution branches and service connections; (g) implementation of a
pilot leak detection and repair program; (h) development of a low-cost sanitation
program to be executed by the Dhaka City Corporation (DCC); (i) procurement of
11 vehicles and five standby generators; (j) expansion of DWASA's training
facilities;  (k)  a staff  productivity  study;  (l)  installation  of  a pilot
computerized billing system; and (m) preparation of 33 hectares of land at
Gandhrabpur for resettling about 20,000 squatters from the site of the proposed
Demra water treatment plant.
3.3.2     Except for the Demra Resettlement Program which was canceled (para.
3.3.3), and the Low Cost Sanitation Program (para. 4.2.2), implementation of all
other original components of the project were completed prior to the original
project closing date. During FY91, DWASA identified credit savings of about US$
10.0 million and requested IDA's agreement to utilization of the savings for
additional work. The savings were mainly due to: (a) the cancellation of the
resettlement program; (b) exchange rate variations between the Taka and the US
Dollar; and (c) lower procurement costs. The use of these savings for additional
work under the project was approved by IDA on November 20, 1992 after DWASA met
the following  conditions:  (i) submission of an updated  action program for
reduction of arrears and improving collections; (ii) agreement between GOB and
DWASA on the amount and schedule for the payment of debt service arrears; and
(iii) submission of the FY90 audit report.   To allow DWASA to complete the
additional work, IDA agreed to extend the credit closing date from December 31,
1992 to December 31, 1993 and subsequently to March 31, 1994.



-4-
3.3.3     The Demra Resettlement Component was intended to make available a site
that had been purchased earlier by DWASA for a surface treatment plan, by
resettling about 40,000 squatters who had occupied the site illegally. During
implementation, it became clear that there would be insurmountable problems in
resettling the squatters due to the lack of a clear resettlement policy.   In
particular,  the cost of compensation was expected  to be prohibitive.   An
alternative, less costly solution was to refill a water-logged site that DWASA
owned that was free of squatters. It was therefore agreed between IDA and GOB
that the Demra Resettlement Component should be dropped from the project.
3.3.4.    The estimated and actual quantities of work carried out under the
project, including the additional work, are given below:
Items                        Original  Additional  Total        Actual
Approved  Approved                 Done
Water Supply
Construction of tubewells (Nos.)         25        30         55         51
Installation of Watermains (kms)       144        223        367        381
Rehabilitation of Watermains (kms)   123           -         123         95
Water connections (Nos.)            25,000    10,000    35,000    33,302
Construction of standposts (Nos.)       55         -          55         -
Procurement of Water meters
(Nos.)       10,000    65,000    75,000    40,000
Sewerage
Installation of new sewers (kms)       37         33          70         81
Rehabilitation of sewers (kms)         23         -           23         25
Sewers connections (nos.)            8,000      3,000    11,000       7,505
4.    Project Preparation and Structure
4.1       Project Design:  The project was prepared on the basis of the 1981 long
term development plan and feasibility study.   The water supply and sewerage
components of the project were identified from this plan and the detailed project
feasibility study completed in 1984. The engineering design was well conceived
and the proposed schemes represented the least cost solution.   The physical
project components were aimed at meeting the need for additional supplies of
water  and  sanitation  services.    The  preparation  of  and  design  of  the
institutional components was however inadequate. The procurement arrangements
for consultants for implementation support and studies included in the project
as part of institutional development components, were not initiated prior to
Board and the process for consultant appointment only started after the project
was approved and became effective.   This caused delays in project start-up,
especially with regard to the appointment of Implementation Support Consultants.
Furthermore, with regard to the studies, there was no commitment beforehand on



-5-
the timing of the studies, or on implementation of the results of the studies.
As a result, the low-cost sanitation study never started (consultant appointment
was only finalized about nine months before the credit closing date); the Staff
Productivity Study, although completed, was never implemented; and there was no
real commitment to go ahead with the other institutional development components.
4.2       Project Organization
4.2.1     DWASA: DWASA was responsible for implementation of the water, sewerage
and technical assistance components of the project, including procurement of
equipment, materials, installation of tubewells and construction of new and
rehabilitation of the existing water and sewer network. A Project Director was
deputed from DWASA who was specifically responsible for the construction of water
and sewer lines. Other project activities including planning, institutional and
financial development and procurement of goods and services were handled by the
relevant divisions of DWASA.   Despite some initial delays,  the project as
initially planned was completed prior to the original closing date. However,
implementation was affected by issues like insufficient delegation of authority
from the Government on matters like tariff reviews and adjustments, staff
appointments, budgetary and spending authority, and procurement decisions, which
delayed progress.  Decision making within GOB was slow due to a multi-tiered
procurement approval process involving various levels of GOB officials on issues
that could have been decided by DWASA without delay. As a result, some of the
additional work which was included under the revised project could not be
completed and SDR 4.37 million was canceled.
4.2.2     Dhaka City Corporation  (DCC):   DCC is responsible  for providing
municipal services such as public health and sanitation, education, maintenance
of public infrastructure, including town planning activities and development
works.   The Project included funds to DCC to develop a low-cost sanitation
program involving an assessment of the sanitation in Dhaka and implementation of
a pilot project providing 4,000 latrines covering about 88,000 people. To help
implement on-site sanitation systems, DCC created a low-cost sanitation cell
under the direct supervision of its Chief Engineer.   The cell was to be
responsible for promoting the concept of on-site sanitation, ensuring that
minimal technical standards are maintained in the production of manufactured
elements and in their installation, devising a system to assist households to
finance the investments and provide maintenance.   DCC was however, unable to
implement the component due to lack of commitment by DCC and insufficient
interest by potential beneficiaries in the project. DCC took about five years
to approve the TOR, prepare a shortlist of consulting firms, finalize the bidding
procedures and eventually revised the Project Proforma to reduce foreign inputs
and local man month costs. The shortlist of consultants was finally submitted
to IDA only nine months prior to the Credit closing date when it was no longer
possible for DCC to implement the program.
5.    Proiect Implementation
5.1       Credit Effectiveness & Project Start-up:  The Credit was signed on
January 27, 1987 and declared effective-on July 31, 1987. Delays in approval of
the Project Proforma and execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement delayed
Credit effectiveness by about three months.



-6-
5.2       Implementation  Schedule:       The  project  implementation  schedule
(estimated and actual) is shown in Table I.  Although project completion was
extended by fifteen months, this was only to enable completion of additional work
agreed beforehand between IDA and GOB.  Implementation of the original DWASA
physical components was satisfactory. DWASA was able to complete the physical
program within the five year implementation period starting in FY88. By FY91
when the project was about half way through, it became obvious that there would
be credit savings of about SDR 7.66 million, and DWASA requested IDA to agree to
the use of these savings for additional investments. A program of additional
work was prepared and approved by IDA in FY92, after DWASA had met the conditions
agreed for use of the savings. To complete the additional work, more time was
needed, and consequently, GOB requested, and IDA agreed to extend the project
closing date from December 31, 1992 to March 31, 1994. However, DWASA was unable
to complete all the agreed additional work and eventually an undisbursed balance
SDR 4.37 million was canceled.
5.3       Procurement:  Except for the two components canceled and some of the
additional work not completed, all the equipment and material under the project
was successfully procured. This involved the processing of 34 foreign and local
contracts. The process of bid evaluation and award of contracts, particularly
with regard to the procurement of services, was slow and to a certain extent,
hampered the progress of work. In the early years, lack of counterpart funds by
GOB for payment of duties and taxes delayed release of materials from the port
and subsequent delivery of the material at site.   However,  this was not a
critical concern, and did not substantially hamper the project's progress.
5.4       Project Cost:  The appraisal estimates and the actual project costs
shown in Table 3.   The project cost at appraisal was Tk.  1,285.00 million
equivalent US$41.4 million, including physical contingencies of US$2.9 million,
price contingencies US$9.7 million and duties and taxes of US$7.9 million. The
IDA Credit of US$30.0 million (SDR 26.4 million) represented about 90% of the
total project cost, excluding duties and taxes, covering 100% foreign exchange
costs and 82% local costs. GOB funded the remaining cost of US$11.44 million.
The funds were provided to the implementing agencies as 60% loan, 26Z equity
contribution and 14% grants. GOB on-lent the Credit proceeds to DWASA and DCC
at an interest rate of 11.5% with a repayment period of 25 years, including a
grace period of 5 years.  The project completion cost was US$ 47.22 million,
equivalent to Tk.1,888.90 million, which is about 14% higher than appraisal
estimates. The increase in project costs occurred due to the appreciation of
the SDR in relation to the dollar, and the additional works carried out under the
project.  Because of this, comparison of the project costs at appraisal and after
completion would be meaningless. Since the credit savings were identified and
the additional work started prior to the completion of the original works, it is
not possible to determine what the original project would have eventually cost.
5.5       Disbursements:  The estimated and actual disbursements are shown in
Table 4.  Disbursements took longer than originally envisaged.  This was due to
the extension of the Credit Closing Date to allow DWASA to complete additional
work.  On the disbursements closing date (May 09, 1994), a total of US$ 29.6
million (SDR 22.03 million) was disbursed against eligible expenditures and the
balance amount of US$ 4.96 million (SDR 4.37 million) was canceled. Due to the
fluctuation in the SDR amounts vis-a-vis the US dollar, the total of the final



-7-
disbursements figure plus the canceled amount is higher than the original IDA
credit amount.
6.    Prolect Results
6.1       Obiectives:   The project's overall objectives were to: (a) improve
DWASA's operational and financial performance; (b) strengthen sectoral planning
and training capacity; and (c) address immediate needs for additional supplies
of water and sanitation services. The project achieved its physical objectives
of increasing water supply, but did not meet its financial and institutional
objectives.    DWASA's  financial  and  operational  performance  showed  some
improvement during the project, compared to its performance prior to the project.
However, DWASA is still financially weak, has poor cost recovery, and cannot
provide efficient services to its customers. The economic rate of return for the
project, which was calculated on the water supply investment only was 13Z at
appraisal. The revised ERR estimate is now 17%. Details are shown in Table 12.
6.2.1     Physical Performance:  The project aimed to upgrade and expand water
supply and sanitation facilities in Dhaka and the surrounding areas.   The
physical achievements included: (a) installation of 22 and replacement of 33 deep
tubewells which helped to increase water production from 420 mld in 1987 to 700
mld in 1994; (b) installation of 381 km and rehabilitation of 95 km water mains
which increased water supply coverage to cover an additional 800,000 people; (c)
installation of 80 km and rehabilitation of 25 km sewers which increased the
number of sewer connections. Most of the original physical works were completed
ahead of schedule, although, due to increase the increase in project works, the
overall project closed about a year behind the originally scheduled project
completion date. The project has exceeded the original physical targets and has
resulted in an increase in water production of about 59Z, and enabled DWASA to
supply water to an additional 200,000 people, beyond appraisal estimates.
6.2.2     Institutional Performance:  DWASA was unable to meet the institutional
objectives agreed under the project.   The institutional components were:  (a)
carrying out a staff productivity study, provision of local and foreign training
to DWASA staff and the expansion and rehabilitation of the DWASA Training
Institute; and (b) a pilot leak detection program to strengthen DWASA's
effectiveness in reducing leakages and unaccounted-for-water in one zone; and (c)
a pilot program to computerize billings.
6.2.3     Progress in implementation of these programs was slow, and in some
cases, non-existent. As an example, the results of the productivity study were
never implemented.  Although the study confirmed that DWASA is over-staffed.
DWASA management disagrees, and in fact, believes that it is understaffed. There
are some areas, e.g. in the technical department, where DWASA is indeed
understaffed, but the Commercial Department, is significantly over-staffed, and
efficiency low.  The pilot leak detection program was completed although lack of
adequate funding prevented DWASA from continuing in other zones (this program is
expected to be continued under the proposed Fourth Dhaka Water Supply Project).
In retrospect, the institutional components were inadequate for a project whose
major stated objective was improvement in institutional and financial
performance. Furthermore, some of the institutional components were inadequately
prepared.   As an example, to effectively install a computerized billing and



-8-
collection system, a complete and accurate consumer data base was necessary, as
the manual system in place at the time was incomplete, had ghost consumers who
were not billed and in some cases, contained the wrong customer information. It
was therefore necessary that a consumer survey be done prior to the
implementation of the computerized billing system. However, such a survey was
not included as part of the   project.   Eventually, DWASA was persuaded to
undertake the survey prior to the implementation of the computerization sub-
project, using savings from the credit. Institutional performance has also been
affected by labor problems brought about by union affiliations. In general, the
benefits expected from the institutional components of the project have not
materialized. However, staff working in project implementation have benefitted
from the transfer of experience from expatriate consultants and contractors.
6.3       Operational Performance:  Despite some improvements in its billing and
collections record ( para 6.3.3) DWASA is still an inefficient operator, as
evidenced by its high level of water losses, poor service and weak financial
performance. The paragraphs below describe operational performance during the
project period.
6.3.1     Accounts Receivables:  One of the covenants in the project required
DWASA to reduce the level of its accounts receivables arrears to no more than six
months of billing. As of June 1994 DWASA's accounts receivables were Tk. 445.0
million out of a total annual billing of Tk. 807.6 million. Of this, Tk. 110.5
million (about 22%) represented arrears from Government departments and public
corporations.   Under the project, some progress was made in reducing total
arrears. Accounts receivable were reduced from 10.93 months of billings in 1988
to 6.63 in June 1994. In FY93, DWASA managed to reduce the ratio of its accounts
receivable to-5.9 months of billings, thus meeting the covenant agreed under the
project.
6.3.2     Billing:  During FY94 DWASA's billings increased by 28% over the same
period in FY93 (from Tk. 634.6 million to Tk 807.6 million). This increase is
attributed to a tariff increase of 10% in November 1993, increased water
production as a result of commissioning of new tubewells under the project, and
improved billing following the completion of the consumer survey in April 1992.
During the project period, DWASA on average, billed 95% of its customers. During
special drives, usually conducted at the end of the fiscal year, DWASA achieves
a 100% billing target.
6.3.3     Collection:  DWASA's collections in FY94 were about 75% of billings.
While the level of billings increased steadily, collections were erratic.
Sporadic collection campaigns were usually made at the end of the year, usually
driven by the need to show good end-of year performances.   The table below
outlines the performance of billings and collections activities of DWASA from
1988 to June 1994:



-9-
BILLINGS AND COLLECTIONS PERFORMANCE 1988 TO MARCH 1994
FY    BILLINGS    COLLECTIONS   Coll. as          Arrears
(Z increase) (% increase)   Z of bill.       (months)
1988       1.6         0.2           79.4             10.39
1989       1.9        38.6          108.0              8.96
1990       4.5         7.4          111.0              7.44
1991       7.4        -3.5           99.8             6.88
1992      25.5        16.0           92.2             6.43
1993      31.6        29.8           91.0             5.99
1994      28.2         5.7           75.0             6.63
6.3.4     System Losses:  In 1991 a pilot leak detection and waste prevention
program was carried out in one service zone to identify causes of system losses,
and prepare a program to address the problem. The program indicated that in the
pilot zone where the study was carried out, the estimated system loss was around
56% (administrative losses 31% and technical losses 25%) i.e. of the total water
produced by DWASA in these zones, only 44% was billed.   The major factors
contributing to administrative losses were: (i) incomplete customer data base;
(ii) unmetered service connections; (iii) illegal and illegally reconnected
service connections; (iv) inaccurate and tampered meters; and (v) inaccurate
meter reading, faulty invoicing and rent seeking behavior by revenue inspectors.
Technical losses were mainly caused by leaking pipes, service connections,
inoperational fittings and overflow from tanks and pump stations. In August 1994
a follow-up review showed that the level of unaccounted for water remained
consistently high. While the statistics on unaccounted for water are unreliable,
due to lack of proper monitoring mechanisms, and since systems losses vary from
zone to zone, it is estimated that on average, losses are between 50-47%. This
reduces revenues by as much as Tk. 500 million annually.
6.3.5     Water Tariffs:  Table 10 provides DWASA's tariff structure from June
1985 to December 1993.   Under the project DWASA was required to cover its
operating, maintenance and overhead costs including debt service. In order to
cover increases in power costs for the production and distribution of water, the
Government agreed, through an amendment of the ordinance, to allow DWASA to
adjust power tariffs by up to 10% of its direct costs over any twelve month
period. However, tariff increases were irregular and the power adjustment clause
was rarely used as a guideline.   During the project period, however, DWASA
implemented water tariffs increases of 25% in July 1986, February 1988 and
November 1990, 15% in October 1992 and 10% in November 1993. Because of these
increases, DWASA's tariffs are high compared to those of utilities in other major
cities in South Asia. Essentially, DWASA used tariff increases to subsidize its
inefficient operations, thus passing on the cost of its inefficiency to
consumers. It is therefore possible to improve financial performance through
efficiency gains, rather than through more tariff increases.



-10-
7.    Financial Performance
7.1       DWASA's past audited income statements show that between FY91 and FY94,
its total operating revenue increased over 110% (i.e. 23% between FY91 and FY92;
35% between FY92 and FY93; and 25% between FY93 and FY94). These increases were
partly due to tariff increases, 15% in October 1992, and 10% in November 1993,
and increased water production as a result of new tubewells commissioned under
the Project. Despite these revenue improvements, DWASA's profitability was still
not satisfactory.  Net profits fluctuated from a marginal loss in FY92, marginal
profits in FY93 and a loss in FY94, although in all the years, DWASA managed to
cover all its operating expenditures. Interest charges increased significantly
during the period (by about 300%), particularly in FY94 due to new loans
incurred, thus contributing significantly to the net loss. Electric power costs
(representing 56% of operating expenditures) also increased substantially (by
89%) over the three year period, mainly due to increased pumping costs as a
result of the draw-down of the groundwater table in the service area.
7.2.      Despite this performance, DWASA's cash flow statements showed positive
annual cash balances in all years and huge accumulated balances because:
(a) lack of proper records in the Ministry of Finance made it possible for
DWASA to default on its debt service obligations without incurring any
pressure from the Government, thus accumulating the cash it was
supposed to use to service the debt; (e.g., in FY92, interest due
according to the income statement and subsidiary loan records was Taka
35.7 million; DWASA only paid Taka 15 million, although it had enough
cash to pay all the interest due); and
(b) annual development grants disbursed by GOB and donor agencies to DWASA
to finance agreed investment programs, without regard to actual annual
work programs to be implemented, resulted in cash balances being
carried forward, thus enhancing DWASA's cash flow position.
These cash balances gave the illusion of DWASA as a financially healthy and
solvent company, thus, there was no incentive or pressure to improve financial
performance and efficiency.
7.3       DWASA's erratic performance is due to:
(a) inefficient operations: Despite high tariffs and low cost operations,
DWASA is still an inefficient operator.   These inefficiencies are
passed on to consumers in form inadequate service coverage, low
quality supply and high tariffs;
(b) unaccounted for water: The level of unaccounted for water, estimated
to be as high as 50% reduces actual revenue substantially and
increases unit operating costs.



-11-
(c) collections: DWASA was unable to collect all of its revenue billed;
the ratio of collections to billings were about 75Z for 1994. Some of
the collection problems stem from consumer resistance to pay for poor
service, irregular payments by the Government for service provided
and lack of a reliable system for arrears follow-up and disconnection.
8.    Audits
8.1       MLGRDC  selects  and  appoints  auditors  for  DWASA.    The  project
experienced delays in the appointment of auditors in the earlier years due to the
need for the Government's approval of the auditors, which subsequently delayed
submission of audit reports.  In case of delays in the appointment of auditors,
IDA's remedies were to withhold approval of procurement contracts for follow-up
programs, which helped speed up the appointment process. The situation improved
in the last four years of the project, and audit reports were submitted in time.
The audit was conducted by private auditors registered in Bangladesh. The audit
firms were paid unrealistically low fees and thus there was little incentive to
perform good quality audits. The audit reports were, however, acceptable and met
international auditing standards, and were satisfactory enough to enable IDA to
review the use of credit funds and DWASA's financial performance.
9.    Project Justification
9.1       The objectives of the project were to strengthen DWASA's operational
and financial capability and meet the city's need for supply of safe water and
adequate sanitation services. The project upgraded and expanded water supply and
sewerage facilities in Dhaka and the surrounding areas. Water production has
increased by more than 75%, i.e. from 420 mld in 1987 to 740 mld in 1994 (and by
59% beyond appraisal estimates) and the distribution system extended to 381 km
of main lines. About 33,302 new water connections serving about 800,000 people
and 7,505 new sewer connections serving about 50,000 people were provided. This
has helped control high incidence of sanitation-related diseases and reduced
environmental pollution to a certain extent. Some of the slum areas have also
benefitted from the expanded water supply and sewerage facilities. However, the
cancellation of low cost sanitation program meant that the benefits of such a
poverty oriented program could not be achieved. The pilot leak detection study
provided the first step in strengthening DWASA's capacity to identify and reduce
physical losses in its water distribution system, although this needs to be
followed up with additional programs in the remaining zones; and the staff
productivity study helped analyze staff weaknesses, although this has not
resulted in an improved and efficient deployment of staff resources.
10.   Proiect Sustainability
10.1      The project managed to raise the availability of water and sewerage in
the Dhaka metropolitan area significantly, and based on past experience, DWASA
will be able to sustain the investments from the project, and the additional
service provision arising from it. The sustainability of these achievements will
depend on the extent to which DWASA is able to maintain and operate its assets,
to avoid deterioration of service.   However, while the investments may be
sustainable, overall service provision will depend on the future demand growth
and the extent to which DWASA is able cope with the increased demand. Over the



-12-
past 30 years, the overall water and sanitation availability has improved
considerably as a result of previous IDA financed projects, although the per
capita availability of water has only increased marginally because of DWASA's
inability to cope with the tremendous population growth of the city.  DWASA would
therefore have to step up its system rehabilitation, improve service efficiency,
and, to the extent possible, invest in additional service provision.
Sustainability  of  the marginal  improvements  in  financial  and  operational
performance  pose  some  uncertainties.    Continued  improvement  in  DWASA's
performance will depend on the Government's and DWASA's commitment to address
issues of improved cost recovery, reduction of unaccounted for water, increased
commercialization of DWASA operations and increased private sector involvement
to increase efficiency. While the Government and DWASA have indicated that they
are committed to address these issues, lack of any meaningful progress in
addressing them would result in deterioration of institutional and operational
performance, thus affecting overall sustainability. Under the proposed Fourth
Dhaka Water supply Project, IDA is seeking to strengthen DWASA's performance by
implementing a public sector reform strategy that includes a leak detection and
rehabilitation program, a crash meter installation program and contracting out
of billing and collection to address problems of water loss, and a twinning
arrangement with an outside utility to help introduce commercial management
practices in DWASA operations. If these programs are carried out according to
plan, they will help consolidate and expand upon earlier efforts and the marginal
gains achieved in financial and operational performance.
11.   IDA Performance
11.1      IDA's performance in the formulation of the physical aspects of the
project was satisfactory. However, the design and appraisal of the institutional
aspects of the project were inadequate. In addition, IDA's claims of focussing
on institutional and financial improvement as the main objective of this project
was somewhat overstated, considering that there were three small components
representing only 2Z of the total project cost, which were inadequate as a basis
for significant improvements in institutional performance.   This led to high
expectations regarding the efficiency gains DWASA was capable of achieving by
implementing these programs.   In the case of the pilot Leak Detection and
Rehabilitation Program, it was recognized during implementation that such a
program would only be effective in reducing water losses if it was comprehensive
enough to cover the majority of DWASA's service area.   On the basis of this
recognition, a more comprehensive program has been prepared for the proposed
Fourth Dhaka Water Supply Project.   While the engineering designs for the
physical program were completed before Board, the preparation of the
institutional components (i.e., the process of consultant appointment) did not
commence until after project effectiveness, which contributed to delays in their
implementation.
12.   Supervision
12.1      The project was closely supervised by IDA.   Fourteen supervision
missions visited Bangladesh after the credit became effective in July 1987, up
to its closure in June 1994, a period of about 7 years. This works out to an
average of two supervision missions a year, which is normal for the average IDA-
financed project. Project implementation improved every time a mission visited



-13-
Bangladesh, particularly on issues requiring Government decisions on procurement,
but in between such visits, progress was slow.
13.   Covenants
13.1      The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreements had several
covenants most of which dealt with project implementation.   There were three
covenants dealing with financial performance: (a) DWASA to meet agreed annual
rate of return targets; (b) DWASA to meet agreed billing and collection targets,
and to reduce its account receivables arrears to no more than six months of
billing each year; and (c) DWASA to generate adequate revenue to cover its
operating costs and debt service charges.   In the absence of specific programs
or components under the project to improve financial performance, the covenants
in themselves proved inadequate as mechanisms for improved financial performance,
as they only addressed the symptoms, rather than the underlying problem of poor
operational efficiency. As an example, to meet the rate of return covenants,
DWASA resorted to increasing tariffs, which generated the required revenues
without necessarily improving efficiency, thus passing on the cost of its
inefficient operations to its consumers.  Because of this, DWASA tariffs are high
compared to other utilities in the South Asia region.   Despite its efforts,
DWASA's performance in meeting these financial covenants was unsatisfactory.
While billing and collection performance improved significantly during the
project (i.e., the ratio of accounts receivables was reduced from 10.4 months of
billing in 1988 to 6.6 months in 1994), it was unable to meet the covenant
requiring it to reduce these arrears to 6 months (except in 1993, when these were
reduced to 5.9 months). In retrospect, even if DWASA had met these covenants,
it would still be an inefficient operator, with water losses of more than 45Z,
and incapable of providing an efficient service to its customers. To summarize,
in the absence of specific programs to address operational efficiency,  the
covenants were not effective tools for improved financial performance.
14.   Borrower's Performance
14.1      DWASA executed the physical investment program satisfactorily.  Even
with initial delays in project implementation, it was able to complete the
original program as originally planned. However, the borrower's performance in
the institutional and financial performance was not satisfactory. There appeared
to be no commitment to implement the institutional components, as evidenced by
the delays in consultant appointments, and the fact that the results of some of
the studies e.g., the Staff Productivity Study, were never implemented. GOB's
performance in helping DWASA meet physical project objectives was satisfactory.
However, commitment in helping DWASA meet financial objectives was lacking. To
assist in implementation, IDA recommended the appointment of a Project Director,
with the overall responsibility for all aspects of the project, but with the
specific responsibility of coordinating the implementation of the water and
sanitation components.   While this appointment was expected to help improve
implementation, it also proved inadequate in that the Project Director did not
have complete autonomy in overall project implementation, particularly
procurement decisions, which were always decided by the Government of Bangladesh.
This lack of autonomy contributed to procurement delays, since all decisions were
deferred to the Government.



-14-
15.   Project Relationship
15.1      IDA's relationship with the Government and DWASA was satisfactory.
16.   Consulting Services
16.1      Several   consulting   services  were   used   during   the   project
implementation.     The  lead  consulting  firms,  which  coordinated  project
implementation were  the  consortium  of  the  Engineering  Design  Consultants
(Engineering & Planning Consultants Ltd., Bangladesh in association with Desh
Upodesh Ltd. Bangladesh, Mott. McDonald & Partners Ltd., UK and Camp Dresser &
Mackee International Inc., USA) which prepared the system mapping, design, tender
documents and monitoring and supervision of the civil works contracts.  Other
consultancies, for the staff productivity, leak detection, and consumer survey
were also carried out satisfactorily, although in some cases, the results were
not fully implemented. The project also provided a useful opportunity to engage
local consultants in various aspects of DWASA operations, thus facilitating the
transfer of technology and expertise from foreign consultants. The consultants
contributed productive and useful reports to DWASA.   Performance of all the
consultants was satisfactory.
17.   Project Documentation and Data
17.1      The Staff Appraisal Report and the Engineering Designs provided a
useful framework for both IDA and DWASA to guide project implementation. There,
however, was insufficient guidance from the project documentation on the
institutional aspects of the project. The Development Credit Agreement and the
Project Agreement provided the basic framework of what DWASA and the Government
had agreed to undertake in the project, including the covenants under the
project. The Quarterly Progress Reports and the monthly Management Information
System reports prepared by DWASA were useful for monitoring the project progress
and DWASA's performance.
18.   Conclusions and Recommendations Made
18.1      The physical components of the Third Dhaka Water Supply Project were
well  conceived,  and represented  a project  that would provide  significant
development benefits to consumers in the Dhaka City area.  The project managed
to achieve significant improvements in the level of water and sanitation to Dhaka
City.    However,  these  benefits would  have  been more  significant  if the
institutional and financial performance of DWASA had improved considerably as a
result of the project. The lack of improvement threatens the sustainability of
the  investment  from  the project,  and DWASA's  capability  to maintain  the
investments. The major weaknesses of the project ranged from the weak design of
the institutional components, to the lack of commitment by DWASA to improve its
financial and institutional performance, and the lack of accountability of the
management in the day to day operations of DWASA.  Some of the lessons which
could be derived for similar projects are:
(a)   institutional development objectives need to be well defined, and
have  clear  linkages  to  project  components.    Stated  project



-15 -
objectives,  in  particular  institutional  objectives,  should  be
consistent with project components to avoid high expectations
regarding what could be realistically achieved.
(b)   delays in project implementation should be avoided by adequate
procurement planning, including consultant recruitment prior to
Board presentation;
(c)   financial  covenants  should  be  consistent  with  institutional
development programs rather than unrelated mandatory targets that
the borrower should comply with.
(d)   DWASA has always been a weak utility.  As such, technical assistance
should consist of a comprehensive and adequate program of related
improvements that address all aspects of operations.
(e)   A   clear   regulatory   framework   that   defines   clearly   the
responsibilities of various parties, e.g., the Government as the
policy maker and the water utility as the operator is necessary to
instill a sense of accountability.   Lack of autonomy and clear
responsibility on critical issues, including the lack of political
will to address difficult issues, affected DWASA's ability to
implement the institutional aspects of the project.



-16-
THIRD DHAKA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1734-BD)
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWERS PERSPECTIVE
A.        Analysis of Key Issues
1.        The metropolitan city of Dhaka is the administrative, commercial and
industrial center of the country. From 1971 to 1985, the capital city of Dhaka
grew at an estimated rate of 12.8% a year, reaching a population of about 4.0
million in mid-1985. Dhaka is expected to have a population of about 8.0 million
by the year 2000. During mid 1985, about 75% of Dhaka population used to live
below the poverty level and about 35% of the population lived in conditions of
extreme poverty with seriously deficient diets and few basic urban service
available to them during the period.
2.        During the aforesaid period the water production in Dhaka was about 413
million liters per day (MLD) which was about 242 MLD less than estimated demand.
About 47% of production was unaccounted for, mostly due to system loss and
illegal connections.   During the project period about 9000 individual water
connections and 1190 standposts supplied water to about 50% of the city's
population.  DWASA estimated that at least another 15% of the population was
served indirectly by households with connections. However water revenue financed
the cost of operating and maintaining the system but could not fully cover debt
services  or  depreciation.    Domestic  users  (some  of whom  had  unmetered
connections) consumed about 88% of water distributed by DWASA; industry and
commerce consumed about 6% and GOB and community institutions together consumed
the remaining 6%. It was observed that uncontrolled abstraction of ground water
could draw down the aquifer and render more shallow, neighboring walls useless.
The proposal of legislation to control abstractions was accepted by GOB allowing
private extraction under a licensing system an on annual payment of royalties.
3.        During the period, sewerage service represented over one quarter of
DWASA's operations (in terms of costs and revenues). It was financed by user
charges that are billed at a rate equal to that of the water bill for all
customers with a sewer connection. It was observed that even after substantial
increase in water supply, supplies of water to most houses will not be sufficient
to permit water borne sewerage collection. It was also observed that DWASA would
need to expand its effort to promote the proper use of all sanitary facilitates.
Keeping in view the overall sanitation and urgent need of water supply and
sanitation of Dhaka Metropolitan city, the IDA came forward to support the Third
Dhaka Water Supply and Sanitation project through financial assistance.
4.        Dhaka Metropolitan city and its adjoining areas were covered through
the project.   A credit agreement was signed between GOB and the IDA for
implementation of the project on January 27, 1987.
5.        But the effectiveness of credit was subject to fulfillment of the
following conditions by GOB/DWASA:



-17-
(a)   the subsidiary loan has been executed on behalf of the borrower and
DWASA pursuant to the provision of section 3.01(b) of the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA);
(b) the Project Proforma for carrying out the project has been approved by
the borrower.
The credit became effective from July 31, 1987 on fulfillment of the above
conditions by the concerned authorities.
6.        The total credit amount was SDR 26.40 million (equivalent to US$30.36
million in 1985) of which SDR 25.60 million was for DWASA and the rest was for
the then DMC (Dhaka Municipal Corporation). As per Development Credit Agreement
signed between the Borrower and IDA, the project was expected to be completed by
December 31, 1991. The project progress and its expenditure were reviewed by the
World Bank visiting mission in March 1991. The mission observed that there would
be some cost overrun on some categories and some surplus on other categories, the
net effect was a surplus of SDR 7.58 million out of DWASA's share of the credit.
As per request of GOB, the IDA agreed on March 11, 1992 to amend schedule to the
DCA as follows, subject to (i) increase of tariff by 15% at the minimum; (ii)
reach an agreement satisfactory to the IDA for the payment of Debt Service
Liability (DSL) under the subsidiary financial agreement signed between DWASA and
borrower:
(a) construction of about 55 tubewells;
(b) installation of about 367 km of water mains;
(c) installation of about 3500 water connections;
(d) installation of about 7,500 water meters are those project total or
additional for extended provided at service connection, production
wells and distribution branches;
(e) provision of 70 km of new sewers and rehabilitation of about 25 km of
existing sewers;
(f) installation of about 11000 sewer connections; and
(g) carrying out a consumer survey to improve and update DWASA consumer
base and service levels.
7.        The IDA extended the closing date of the credit up to December 31,
1993 for which disbursement for the credit would be made for
withdrawal application received by close of business on April 30, 1994
in respect of eligible expenditures incurred before the closing date.
Final disbursement was made on May 09, 1994 after cancellation of the
undisbursed balance of SDR 4.37 million (US$6.25 million equivalent).



-18-
8.        The following works were completed under the project:
(a) Water Supply
Construction of tube wells       -    55 Nos.
New                              -    24
Rehabilitation                   -    31
Water line                       -    391.27 km
Water Connection                 -    40249 (Nos)
(b) Sewerage Line
(Construction & Rehabilitation)  -  -83.12
Sewerage Connection                -   8535 (Nos)
Construction of Sewerage
Lift Station                     -   5 (Nos)
(c) Others
Procurement of Vehicles            -   11 (Nos)
(d) Technical Assistance
(i)   Engineering (Consultancy)
(ii)  Leak Detection
(iii) Staff Productivity
(iv)  Aquifer and subsidence study
(v)   Consumer survey
(vi)  Computerization (including hardware and software).
(e) Training
With the implementation of the project, DWASA gathered the following
experience:
(i)   DWASA should not go for further abstraction of water in the
metropolitan city area;
(ii)  Legislation rules to control abstraction should be followed;
(iii) DWASA's operational and financial performance with supplies of
water and sanitation service were improved significantly; and
(iv)  Unaccounted for water was reduced from 56% to 47%.   Efforts
could be taken for further reduction in future.
9.        The project was completed in April 1994.  The total amount of SDR 22.03
million was spent and the remaining SDR 4.37 million was surplus out of DWASA's
share of credit (No. 1734-BD). Financial covenants and its compliance by DWASA
are given below:



-19-
Covenants                                  Compliance by DWASA
Section 4.02 (Project Agreement)            DWASA could not earn ROR as agreed.
(a) Except as the Association shall         However, DWASA is trying to improve
otherwise  agree,  DWASA  shall:  (i)       its financial position to earn better
earn an annual rate of return (ROR)         position of ROR as net with the IDA.
on  the  average  current  value  of        The details of ROR achieved from 1978
DWASA's fixed assets operation of at        to  1994  is given at Annex-I.   A
least 3% in fiscal year 1987 through        revised   interest   and   principal
1990, and 5% in fiscal year 1991 and        arrears payment schedule for paying
thereafter,  and (ii) generate cash         debt   service   arrears   to   the
from its operations to cover fully          Government on previous IDA credits
its   debt   service   requirements         has already been prepared by Dhaka
(including  principal  and  interest       WASA  and  is  being  processed  for
payment).                                   approval of Government of Bangladesh.
Section 6.08 (SAR)                          A statement showing the billing of
(b)  Assurance  were  received  at          connections on bi-monthly basis from
Negotiations  that at least  95% of         1987 and onwards in given at Annex-
connections  will  continue  to  be         II.    The  receivables  of  monthly
billed  once  every month  and  that        billing during 1993-94 was equivalent
accumulated   arrears   of   DWASA's        to 6.63 months of billing.   DWASA
private billings, net arrears over          completed  a consumer  survey.    An
four  years  old  (which  should  be        audit of consumer accounts with a
written off) and net of arrears on          view to write off the bad debts as
disconnected   accounts,   will  not        per existing rules is in progress.
exceed  the equivalent of six months        On completion of this consumer audit
billing from FY87 onwards.                  it is expected  that  the ratio of
receivables will come down below the
level of 6 months of billing.   A
statement of receivables from 1987 to
1994 is given at Annex-III.
B.        Banks Performance
10.       The area coverage of Third WASA project was Dhaka Metropolitan city.
Before the implementation of these project IDA provided financial assistance for
First and Second Dhaka water supply project.
11.       In line with the policy guidelines of IDA pre-appraisal and appraisal
were undertaken by the Bank for the project.   During the pre-appraisal and
appraisal of the project, IDA came to the conclusion that it appears to be
urgently needed to improve DWASA's operational and financial performance, to
strengthen sectoral training, sectoral planning and to address immediate needs
for additional supplies of water and sanitation services. IDA also observed that
support to the water supply and sanitation sector in Bangladesh and to DWASA from
the contribution of Bank assistance can contribute to the orderly and efficient
development of the sector. IDA's involvement into the project was justified in
the following manner:



-20-
(a) upgrade and expand water supply and sanitation facilities in greater
Dhaka metropolitan city;
(b) water supply and sanitation are inescapably capital intensive and
sound analysis of investments and capital planning is very important;
(c) the project promises to meet the need for sanitary disposal of excreta
at one fifth of less of the cost of conventional, waterborne sewerage;
and
(d) institutional development of DWASA is urgently needed by further
strengthening the operational and financial management to improve
efficiency by reducing system losses.
12.       During negotiation of the project GOB/DWASA had to ensure IDA regarding
fulfillment of certain conditionalities which in turn has helped obviously the
Executing Agency (DWASA) in shaping and catering the need of the project to a
highest extent as well. At the time of the implementation of the project, the
borrower complied with the IDA's suggestion to increase the tariff by 1OZ as per
Tariff adjustment clause of the Development Credit Agreement.  IDA played a very
important role to strengthen the institutional capabilities of DWASA, emphasizing
operating efficiency,  cost recovery and manpower development.   These were
performed with the implementation of leak detection program to reduce leakage and
unaccounted for water, installation of a computer system in DWASA for commercial
management and monitoring of operations, study of DWASA's staff resources,
expansion of training  activities,  extension  of water  supply  and  sewerage
facilities, rehabilitation of old water and sewer mains. These helped DWASA to
reduce system loss of water and bring down the receivables at a minimum level of
over to six months current billing value.
13.       The procurement of materials was completed in several tranche.  By an
extension of two year period towards the closing date of the credit by IDA, DWASA
utilized the surplus savings thus enabling to cover more areas by
construction/rehabilitation of more deep tubewells, water lines and sewer lines.
14.       In regard to the compliance with some of the covenants like special
account for each fiscal year audited, furnishing certified copy of the report of
such audit by independent auditors, furnishing to IDA such other information
concerning the accounts and audit thereof, information with respect to
withdrawals from the credit account on the basis of statement of expenditure,
DWASA faced some problems at the initial stage. Under the constant monitoring
of IDA and due to recommendations made in the Aide-Memoire from time to time
DWASA could attain compliance with most of the covenants.   DWASA did not
encounter any problem with regard to reimbursement/disbursement procedure of the
IDA.
15.       IDA's overall role during the project implementation in general, and
its involvement in solving many outstanding issues in particular, was found
beneficial for continuous and uninterrupted success of the project as a whole.
DWASA would appreciate such a valuable role of the IDA at any critical juncture
of future program as well.



-21-
C.        Bank Officials
16.       Quite a good number of Bank officials including Resident Mission
members were involved in the implementation of the project.  The supervision
mission were composed of officials having sound engineering, economic/finance and
planning and monitoring background in the relevant field who have contributed by
rendering their thoughtful advice and intensive monitoring to achieve the desired
goal of the project in a smooth manner.   DWASA deeply acknowledges their
relentless efforts and professional advice without which implementation of the
project would have been difficult.
D.        Evaluation of Borrowers Own Performance
17.       Under the project the works completed were: construction/rehabilitation
of 55 DTW's, installation/rehabilitation of 391.27 km of water mains,
installation of about 40249 number of water connection, installation of about
8535 (no) sewer connection, installation of about 40,000 water meter at service
connections, production of wells and distribution branches, construction and
rehabilitation of 83.12 km of sewerage and implementation of technical assistance
programs.    DWASA  did  not  face  any  problem worth  mentioning  during  the
implementation of the project.
18.       Although the overall system loss of DWASA was much beyond acceptable
level, DWASA management has put maximum effort by infusing various means to
redress the grave issue. DWASA is very much optimistic that with the timely and
expeditious implementation of the recommendation made in technical assistance
program, the system loss has come down to a considerable extent and expected to
reduce  further  in future.    The  receivables  of DWASA will  also  decrease
substantially with regular billing and collection.
E.        Assessment of Effectiveness of Relationship between the Bank and the
Borrower
19.       The good and effective bond of relationship which was established
between IDA and DWASA during the implementation of the First Water Supply and
Sanitation Project and Second Water Supply and Sanitation Project, has further
been cemented and strengthened during the implementation of the reporting
project. Due to confidence developed on DWASA during the last three decades by
working together on a defined objective IDA has once again shown interest to
extend financial assistance to DWASA-IV project.



-22-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
THIRD DHAKA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 1734-BD)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION



11ANG LADI)SiM 
''ii I) D)1IAKA WATER SUIPILY ANI) SEWERAG[E PROJECT
(Cro(il 1734-BD)
_______    ____  ________                         ~ENGINEERING DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION SCIHEDULE
5D  FYv                        1985-86               i1986-i7   _             1987-88                1988-89                 WI'J90-j               1990-91                1991-92                 1992-93                1993-94
Oiaitog            J~~~~AS ONDJE   AMJ JAS OND JFM  AMJ JAS OND JFM  AMJ JAS OND) JFM  AMJ JAS 014D JFM  AMJ JAS OND JFM  AM)JA                                       140 JFM  AMJ JAS OND JFM  AM) JAS OND JFM  AMJ
TubowuwlIs   AppIgli.llSd-------------
EM1111ateNN I.N..                  N .... N.....M  .... ........ I... INN. .N..M.                   MNNliNKNNN    N                   I   iN    N NNU                  INU                N
#A##   #k##h##   Nh=1h#Nh##   #h##  #M### =                                    h#R   ##   #h##   #A#    ## -  #=A ##h=##A=##  ###  #==   ##h
--   - -     - - - -     - - - -     - - - -     - - - -    - - - -     - -I - - -  -    - - - -           - - - -     - - - -    - - - -       - - -  - -      -
W alet  Maiui     Appiakal     --  - -  -  --- -                                                        -  --  - -  -  --  - -  -  --  - - -   -- - -  -  --  - -  -  --  - - -   -- - -  -  -  --   - - -  --  -
U ##UN   INN  #NN  N#A #NIA N##A NI#A UNNN   IN    MU#  MUN  MIff  NNN# NI# NNN* Nil# fNN  #NNN  MNN  NINh ##NN  UNh INNA #IN  #MU                            fN
= ==  = ==  == = =  = . ..=   .         ...     = =       = = =  ==    - =         =    .    =    =
 ~   ~  ~   ~   ~  ~   ~   ~  ~   - -      -- - - -   - - - -     - - - -     - - - -    - - - -    --     - --- 
Suwers  AI~~~~~~~~~~~~praieal                                                                                                         -.....  ..-........  ........-.....-..  --
Acrliar.lu..    .                                                                                                                                                    ....    ....    ....    ..                     ....
MMI 1MM  iNN  MIM  MMN  MNM  iNN  INNh ##Ni  ##NN  Miff  MNR # h NIh ###i  ##NN  I#NN  MNMA UN#  #NN  ##NN  INNN                #A Mif#MA  Miff ##N     f ##r##h       ##k#
Sewato  AlififaiGal  ----   ----   ----   ----   ----   ----   ----   ----   ----   ----   ----    -    -   ----   ----   ----   ----   ----   ----   ----   ----   ----   ----   ----   ----   --- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~c~
Aclual                  .............   ....    ....    ......    ..  ........    ....    ....    .........    ........
###A  ##A  ##A  NNA #oh       Miff#   ii ##  NWNi  ##MNMf N IN ##  Mif  ##NA Miff  ##NN  Miff  INNh Miff  ##i N  NN M     RN NMN  INNA MIMN Il  1M M##Nif                  1f
Coninectioni Estimnato                If   I   NiN f###A    iN#k  iNWN  Ni# I  III  II N    iII        Il I#bWt##   # I  Nilh iNNh ###N  Miff  MR N #NM N  INN  #Nil  iMi      N Il*  ii*  IIIh  IIk  INN#  #NN
Conrieciicoir  Eslitrruite           Mu INNNN     N   iiN   IN   iNN  INN# N# NN  M##M  #INi  NINh M#A INN II   u             M    #INN  ###A ##NN  INNh I    IN   ll N#k   N NN #       IN look   INNiNN IN
NM    NI  IN     iNN   I NNo  INA  INN  NNM  kNi# MNIb INNk NNk N # INNk MN   Mi N II II  iIIIIMf   N                                      ffNfI    N       I
----        - - -DESIGN'              ......         R. IDDING & CONSTRUCTION:                        NNNNNNM              SUPPLY MATERlIALS:- =-======    CONSTRUCTION &COMMISSIONING



PROJECl COMPILETION IlEPOlT                                                T-able 2
BANGL.ADESI-I
TlI inD DI IAKA WATE11 SUPPLY AND SEWEllAGE P ROJECT
(CMedil t734-0t))
ItOCURIMIENF (l MAII.R II.S Att) EQIIIIS
TOTAL QUANTITIES  COST(IN 000 TIl.)       COST(IN 000 USS)      NO. OF      METHOD OF
MATERIALS                  UNITS ESTIMATE  ACTUAL ESTIMATE  ACTUAL  ESTIMATE  ACTUAL  CONTRACT PROCUREMENT
1. WAT ER PIPES (Including Fillings)
a) DUCTILE CAST IRON PIPES               KM             69       40     241,083    94.430       6.898    2,702           4        [CB
b) UPVC WATER PIPES                      KM            200      221     112,039    99,976       3,206     2.861          5        ICB
2. DEEP TUBE WELL
Complete with all appurlenance           Sets           25       65     126,052    66,047       3,607     1,890          3        ICB
Screen, housing pipes &
column pipes for DTW                   Nos.                    55       -        35,602           0     1,019           3       ICB
PFI Plants lor D1W                       Sels                    25      -          1.261          0        36           1        lCB
3. SEWER PIPES (Including littlings)
a) VC SEWER PIPE & FITTINGS              KM             10       48      47,918    38.588       1,371     1,104          6        ICB
b) UPVC SEWER PIPES & FITTINGS           KM             65       30      45,788     7,556       1,310      216           2        ICB
Sewerage Pumps & Pumping                 Sels       -            15      -         14,265          0       408.          1        ICB
4. S.R.CEMENT                             MT           2,500    4,000       9,850    15,572        282       446           3        ICB
5. REINFORCEMENT BAR                      MT             20      -          2,792     -             80         0       _
6. UTILITY VEHICLES                       Nos.           11       11        6,250    13,797        179       395           1        ICB
7. METERS                                 Nos.        10,000  109 506      12,049    60,477        345      1,730          7        ICB
8. COMPUTERS                              Sels             1       8        3,600     6,000        103       172           1
9. STANDBY GENERATORS                     Nos.            5      _          3.000     -             86         0       _
10. GAS CLORINATING EQUIPMENT             Sets        -           85       -        37,369           0     1,069           3        ICB
11. OTHER VEHICLES                        Nos.        -            6       -         2,196           0        63           2        iCB
12. GATE VALVES/AIR RELEASE VALVES        Nos.        -        2.280       -        21,632           0       619           4        [CB
13. LEAK DETECTION EOUII MENTS                        -         -          -          1,631          0        47           1        ICB
14. EQUIPMENTS FOn TnAINING INSTITUTE                      -               -           900           0        26           2
Tolal       610,421   517,298      17,466    14,801          47
Note: Actually about 92,000 rneleds were purchased, but wrillen docunionts wero found only for this amounl



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH                                       Table 3
TI IIRD DHAKA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT                     Page I of 2
(Credlt 1734-BD)
PROJECT COST
ESTIMATE                                         ACTUAL
Taka Millions           USS Millions           Taka Millions        USS Millions
TEM   DESCRIPTION    LOCAL FOREIGN TOTAL  LOCAL FOREIGN TOTAL LOCAL FOREIGN TOTAL  LOCAL FOREIGN TOTAL
1          2            3    4          5      6       7       69             10   11         12   13       14
Water supply
Civil             145.68   24.91   170.59   4.70    0.80  5.50  222.57    -       222.57   6.37    0.00   6.37
Mat'l               1.33  185.14  186.47   0.04    5.97  6.01   24.42  397.09  421.51   11.36    0.70  12.06
Dutles            188.24    0.00  188.24   6.07    0.00  6.07    0.00  290.00  290.00   0.00    8.30   8.30
Total             335.25  210.05  545.30  10.81     6.77  17.58  246.99  687.09  934.08  17.73    9.00  26.73
1S
Sewerage
Civil              40.29    6.89   47.18   1.30    0.22   1.52  150.28    -       150.28   4.30    0.00   4.30
Mat'l               0.56   37.92   38.48   0.02    1.22  1.24  114.30   70.97  185.27   2.03    3.27   5.30
Duties             38.88    0.00   38.88   1.25    0.00   1.25    0.00  124.29  124.29   0.00    3.56   3.56
Total              79.73   44.81   124.54   2.57    1.44  4.01   264.58  195.26  459.84   6.33    6.83  13.16
Low cosl Sanitation
Civil               4.44    0.76    5.20   0.14    0.02  0.16    _
Mal'I               2.48    0.28    2.76   0.08    0.01  0.09
Dutles              0.31    0.00    0.31   0.01     0.00  0.01
Consult         .   0.00    6.20    6.20   0.00    0.20  0.20
Total               7.23    7.24   14.47   0.23    0.23  0.46
Resettlemenl
Civil              77.86   18.77   96.63   2.51    0.61   3.12
Mal'l              10.23    1.24   11.47   0.33    0.04  0.37
Duties              9.61    0.00    9.61   0.31     0.00  0.31
Total              97.70   20.01   117.71   3.15    0.65  3.80
Sub-total         519.91  282.11  802.02  16.76    9.09 25.85  511.57  882.35  1393.92  24.06   15.82  39.88



'I'able 3
Page 2 of 2
ESTIMATE                                           ACTUAL
Taka Millions              US$ Millions         Taka Millions         US$ Millions
ITEM   DESCRIPTION    LOCAL FOREIGN TOTAL  LOCAL FOREIGN TOTAL LOCAL FOREIGN TOTAL  LOCAL FOREIGN TOTAL
1           2            3    4           5      6       7       8          9  10         11    12      13        14
Operating Equipment
Vehicals             0.00     6.68    6.68    0.00    0.22   0.22    14.34    _       14.34    0.41    0.00   0.41
Generators           0.00     2.50    2.50    0.00     0.08   0.08        -            -       -       -       -
Duties(Vehicles)     6.95     0.00    6.95    0.22    0.00   0.22     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Compuler             0.00     1.70    1.70    0.00    0.05   0.05     3.93    -        3.93    0.11    -      0.11
Duties(computer)     1.36     0.00    1.36    0.04    0.00   0.04     -       -        -       -       -       -
Total                8.31    10.88    19.19    0.26   0.35  0.61    18.27     0.00    18.27    0.52    0.00   0.52
Miscellaneous
Land(lubewells)     20.75     0.00    20.75    0.67   0.00   0.67     9.24    -        9.24    0.26    -      0.26                     o
Training             4.15     2.05    6.20    0.13     0.07   0.20    0.66    14.33    14.99    0.02    0.41    0.43
Consult-leak-deln    3.92    24.03    27.95    0.13   0.78  0.91      -      70.97    70.97    -       2.03    2.03
Consult-engineer     8.11     7.46    15.57    0.26    0.24   0.50    40.41    25.16    65.57    1.16    0.72    1.88
Consull-managemen   0.54      3.07    3.61    0.02     0.10   0.12    6.09    2.69     8.78    0.17    0.08    0.25
Consult-aquifer      -       -        -       -       -       -      10.34    -       10.34    0.30    0.00   0.30
Consumer survey      _        _                       _       -      19.30    -       19.30    0.55    -       0.55
Supervision          -       -        -       -       -       -    193.06    -       193.06    5.52    -      5.52
Total               37.47    36.61    74.08    1.21    1.19   2.40   279.10   113.15   392.25    7.99  3.24   11.22
Base Cost          565.69   329.60   895.29   18.23    10.63  28.86   808.94   995.50  1804.44   32.57    19.06  51.63
Physical contingency  62.26    29.46    91.72    2.01  0.95   2.96
Price contingency    234.76    62.84   297.60    7.57  2.03   9.60
_  Total               862.71   421.90  1284.61   27.81    13.61  41.42
I<EY: Civil   - Civil Works
Mal'l    - Materials and Equipment
Duties    - Duties and Taxes (900h of materials & equipments)
Consult   - Consulting Service
Reselllement - Resettlement of Demra Residents
Note: US$ conversion using Avg. Exc. Rate US$ = Tk. 34.95



-27-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPCRT
BANGLADESH
THIRD DHAKA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT                               Table 4
(CCdiL 1734-BD)
SCHEDULE OF DISBLtRSEM%ETSrrS BY QUARTERS
Disbrusements in USS million
IDA Fiscal year                               Cumulative
& Quarter Ending                               Estimated           Actual
FY 1987
September 30, 1986                                   1.2             0.0
December 31, 1986                                      3             0.0
March 31, 1987                                       4.2             0.0
June 30,1987                                         6.9             0.0
FY 1988
September30. 1987                                    9.3             2.8
December 31, 1987                                   12.0             2.8
March 31, 1988                                      14.7             2.9
June 30.1988                                        17.1             3.5
FY 1989
Seotember 30, 1988                                  18.9             3.8
December 31. 1988                                   20.7             4.3
March 31. 1989                                      22.2             5.1
June 30,1989                                        24.0             7.4
FY 1990
September 30. 1989                                  25.2             7.8
December 31,1989                                    26.1             9.2
March 31, 1990                                      26.7            10.3
June 30.1990                                        27.6            11.6
FY 1991
September 30. 1990                                  23.2            12.8
December 31, 1990                                   28.8            15.4
March 31, 1991                                      29.4            16.5
June 30.1991                                        29.7            18.9
FY 1992
September30. 1991                                   29.8            20.4
December 31. 1991                                   30.0            21.4
March 31, 1992                                       0.0            23.1
June 30.1992                                         0.0            23.8
FY 1993
September 30. 1992                                   0.0            24.2
December 31, 1992                                    0.0            24.3
March 31, 1993                                       0.0            25.0
June 30.1993                                         0.0            25.4
FY 1994
September 30. 1993                                   0.0            25.6
December 31, 1993                                    0.0            27.3
March 31, 1994                                       0.0            28.7
May 30. 1994                                         0.0            29.6
Ditference between total disbursements and
total project financing by IDA (Table 11) is
due to the amount of interest charged on SAFE
Account.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH                                            Table 5
THIRD DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
BASIC OPERATING DATA
FY1987       FY1988        FY1989       FY1990        FY1991       FY1992        FY1993       FY 1994
Population (millions)           3.80         3.97          4.15          4.34         4.81          5.01         5.21          5.42
WATER
Dofnestic Connections (No     98.436       99,510       103,120       112,154      114.179       119513       130,439       136,658
No. or accountt (Nos)         98,436       99,510       103.120       112.154      113,442       117709       129.052       140.274
Capaciy (inld)                 479.3         479.4        491.0         529.6        634.6         696.0        741.2         757.6                                                      t1
Disiibution (mId)              420.8         423.8        448.6         517.2        571.0         655.5        679.5         700.7



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESI-I                                      Table 6
THIRD DHAKA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(C-flic 1134-I3))
DATA ON WAIER CONNECFIONS AND WA1TR MINTERS
FY 1986-1994
1986      1987    1988       1989    1990        1991    1992       1993       1994
I_________________   .________   (A)                      (Feb.1994)
Waler Conneclions
Metered                   -       63,760    _          -      68,403     78,099   79,571    90,377     99,335
Unmetered                 _        34,676    _         _      39,711     31,211   33,738    38,675     40,939
Total (Units)             -        98,436    _         _      108,114    109,310  113,309    129,052    140,274
Water Meters (Units)
Purchased                 -        13,304   11,200    12,750       0          0  57,746          0          0
Converted                4,887      4,130     827      1,736    6,076       687   3,588      6,647      3,054
Replaced                 2,603      1,925     553       847      939        294    1,421     4,087      2,775
Repaired                  -        -         -         -        -           147      75        136         82
^ The figures after 1990 shows the no. of accounts



z - ----                        - --  --                        .
0 0    -
-                     >   >   p
-                                   -
C             0
0  -
C                                                                       -     -           C
-                                       t,.
.4         -                      -                                                                    5
z
z                                                 C
g   *.               .4   -                                .4---                       
7
>1
- -
.4   a   -                                                            *                       -                 I
.4 - -                                           .4.4.4a.J                   o.4
.4                                           0*  t t             .4*ta                S   - 0 -
-                                            -                           o      >
.4                                                      .4        -   .4       
.40          a - -                  Ca.4a0                       .4
-                                                       .4a.4.4.4  - -                                    -, > Z
ij
-                                                              -   -.4 .4   -  .4  a  a  -    -                              -
-      
.4                                                              .4a.4.4-.4           .    -   -            V.
o          -                               0       -           -        -   -J      -     -   -   -
- - o                                                 .         -   0.4 aCe          0     -   0   =           C            -        -
-                                            .00
-
a            a      -   o
                                            a              .4                 >
*   a   -                         4        -   -            -.  -
- - -                                                                                        -   a   a
cc.   -   -
.-J..         a.4-.4.4            -   .4   a
-          %4  -    4        .4a-..                                                 ..   a   -
.4  .4  .4                .4   .    .              -         .
- '.0I I *                                                                           . - -
-                        -             -     a      -   -   -
-              '.a.a.4ce.a  .4                                                                .. -
o*-CO    0  .4 - 0                             C
**4.40..4  .4* . . .                                                                        .  .
.4-O.4a    0   0.
-   -        -   .4   -   -                    .4       -   -       -          -a           E
.440    .4 - a    a     S                                        .4                   -    -    >=  0                        -
- .45         a   .4   -                                          .4  .4.40.  .4      C      4  .4
--.4---*1I                                                                            .4 - .4
.4              -   -             0        -                   a              4     0          .4  .4
a   0                                        40   -                                  .4     a   ...  -
.4'4                  -   .4                   oo                              .4    o      a   .
--a-    .4  a    .4
-0-



PROJ BCT COM PLI'rION REPORT7                                                                     __ Ta_)_ Fe
TI IIRD DI)IAKA WATER SUPPLY ANI) SIEWERAGE PROJECT
(Ciedil 1794-131)
IBALANCE SiSEETS PlIOJECTE) AND ACTUALt FY 1987-19D3
Fig. In nillion TakO
_  19I 7SoO _ID9                                                 10990                191                  1992                 1993
APPAAIS  ACIUA,   APPlAISAI ACIUiAl AlPlIIAiSAI AC1MUAL APIlilAISAI ACIUAL APPIFIAISAL ACIUAL MPPRAISAL ACTUAL   PI'nAISAI ACIUAL
ESfIlATE            CSTIIAI             E            [SSIMATE|  ESFIUATE            ESTTIATE                                  ESTIMATE
ASSEIS
FIXEI) ASC::I S
Qt... Fi..d Asset.                            2937.31  2290.A4    3234.07  2335.36    3434.U4  2450.38    3558.37  2976.27    3605.00  3320.69    3621.56  3605.43    3648.91  3894.65
(L.ss)Accemola.d D.pcil.aion                  895.83   010.17      984.79   0862.69     1079.24   918.68    1177.04    976.4    1278.10  1063.71       1372.77  1159.07    1473.12      1266
h.1 ri..d Ass.ts                              2041.48  1479.87    2250.08  1472.87       2356.3   1633 8    2379.33  1999.U7       2328.9  2204.92    2248.79  2445.78    2176.79  262&.65
Inlngibi. Assel.                                    -       2.9          -    11.92           -    20.18           -   692.76           -   1248.2           -  2394.92           -  2720.26
Wo.A-In-poc.e                                      -        -           -        0           -       6.8          -    10.28           -      29.1          -    68.44           -   434.48
U.i.-d E.p..c..                                     -    225.4           -   23:.00           -   245.13           -   258.93           -    218.6           -   283.81           -   302.47
i.... m-..                                          -     0.71           -     0.92           -      1.04          -      S.S           -        -           -        -           - _
TOTAL LOIl TEHIM ASSETS                       2041.48  1709.04    2250.08   1720.6        2356.3  1814.76    2379.33  2962.99       2329.9  3816.72    2248.79  6190.03    2176.79  6085.85
CU11nEHC ASSETS
AJ,ans.. on Mailal.                             11.94    75.12        13.6    80.47       16.33   309.41       17.31   214.09       19.12    352.3       21.03   131.67        23.3    152.6
1.l1 Acco..ls Ii.c.loble                          86   319.39       96.D8    38U.31      108.64   360.63      118.79   215.52      139.55    233.4      150.72   278.41      160.49   379.t4
Slots.                                         47.70   191.96          04   200.68        61.32   222.87       69.24    278.0       76.48   274.12       94.12    424.8        93.2   225.02
Oil-, Cil'ol Assles                                0      3.66          0       4.4           U     8.61           0     9 67           0    20.28           0    32.89           0    69.38
Cash                                          101.79   190.22      161.61   310.82       239.07   613.08       321.2    408.6      361.89   612.63     32.85   974.906       277.08   932.17                                               W
IoIAIL cuiUIITJI ASSCIS                        247.49   7e0.25      328.27   092.59      423.30   1416.4       632.64  1127.6a     603.04  1302.63      602.62  1847.43       654.87  1148.69
IOlALAS5I:IS                                  2288.97  2489.29    2676.35  2713.19    2728.68  3230.16    2911.87  4090.67    2931.94  6211.35    2831.31  7038.38    2730.70  7834.64
EQUItY & LLAI1ILITIES
CURRENHT LIABILITIlES
Accounts PNya.i                                 31.91    33.32       30.13    31.67       41.02    17.72       48.41    17.61       61.83    28.86        67.3    69.45       63.04    69.41
Oth., Cullon Liabl8l.                         20.09      6.5       14.07     9.07        9.98    13.b0        8.09    39.76        2.44    17.53        0.82    88.68        1.31    42.68
TOfAL CUIUIENT LIAUILIIIES                        62.0    38.82         61    40.74           61    31.28        62.6    61.28       64.07   104.38       68.12   166.11       86.33   102.09
LONfl TEfAt lOANS
FlIsI IDA CladIl                              202 92   198.48       195.02     -         187.12   162.24      179.22   166.76      171.32   181.14      163.42   155.36      155.62   139.13
S.cond IIIAC, dII                              615.58   630.36      488.64     -          450.6   874.17      428.45    836.9      398.42   614.42      36U.30   689.15      336.34   612.13
Ilhd IDAC,sdlt                                360.18    68.22      576.17      -         719.19   261.73      801.71      410       843.8   649.64      822.61   862.26      780.33  1018.34
TOTAL L014(l lEIIM tLOANS                     1081.68   893.04     1268.73  1009.91      1384.81  1088.14    1416.39  1213.80    1413.34   1425.2    13U4.31  1696.78    12Z4.19   1727.0
fIA.TAIn.nI Equity                              954.8   897.99    1045.91   929.58        1110.1  1007.38    1161.95  1068.86    1162.86  1240.74    1163.69  1253.93    11U4.36  1344.32
lt**l.*.                                           -   171.66           -   243.04            -   270.69           -   194.75           -   216.94          -    21.8             -   296.25
010h.  -an. & F.nd.                                -    34.09           -    20.89            -   348.60          -  1004.14           -  1134.99           -  32805.27          -  3059.64
R-Wmaltaton Snp,.s                               427   421.02         421   427.02         427   427.02         427   427.02         421   427.02         427   427.02         427   421.02
Aou-Wnul.ld (D.IcIhljSu.plus                 -221.01    19.71    -208.29    34.11    -174.26    6308        -134.91    88.90    -116.27    8308    -162.07    67.67    -190.12    10.72
TOTAL tlET WtlYIll                            1164.79  1657.43    1261.62  1662.64       1362.85  2110.73    1443.98  2819.76    1484.69  3681.77    1418.82  6289.49    1391.24  6004.85
TOTAL LlAIIILITICS & NET VtlTII               2208.91  2489.29    2671.35  2713.10    2178.88  3230.16    2911.87  40900.7           2032  6211.30    2831.2S  7030.38    2730.78  7934.64
CUMIEHNT ASSETSlCUIUEtIT LIABILITIES             4.71    20.10        8.40    24.38        8.30    45.25       10.14    19.69       11.16    13.34       10.02    11.83        8.49    17.13
DET/IIOUIIY(IIAS(D Oil
AVEItAOE ASSE IS)                                0.47     0.38        049      037         0.49     0.34        0.49     0.30        0.40     0.21        0.48     0.23        0.47     0.22
OlUOItAI COl.tililI SIOCK                        20 3        -        20 3     -           29.3     -           29.3        -        29.3        -        29.3        -        20.3        -
AUDDIIIhlt1AI lAiiIllWCAIIIAL                    9Th 6   917.17    101881   86269         1060 8  1060.48    112265  1133.84    1123.68  1303.62    1124.69   1321.8    1126.08  1423.04
9s40   917.18    104091   9G2.C0         1110.1  1060.46    1161.95  1133.84    115268  1303.82    1163.89   1321.6    1164.38  1423.04



PROJ lCI' COM PLETION REPOR'I'                                                                                Table 9
Tl.I1RD DIIAKA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWARAGE PROJECT
(Credit 1734-[1D)
SOURCE AND APPL.ICAT ION OF FUJNDS, PROJEC'IED2 AN D ACMtAI.. 1917-1993
ril. In n"lliom, T.t
1987                        1911                  1919                  1990                  1991                  1992                  1993
I'PRAISA  ACIUAI  I'PRAISA  AtI'UAI  I'lRAISA   ACIUAI  PI'IIAISA  ACI'UAI  P'PRAISA  ACI'UAI  PPRAISA  ACI'UAI I'I'RAISA  ACI'UAI
I.SI'IMATE            ESI'IMA1.            I'S-I'IMATL:          I  SlMAlE             ESI'IMA'1-'           ESI IMAlE             ESIIMAT1 
SOURCE OF FUNDS
1 .2s1 Sull.lix (.Iklidi)                            9.06     19.69       20.71     14.34      32.04       57.5       39.28      31.9        19.7    -3.89      -37.39      4.37      -37.44     2I.09
80.7    67.49       88.96    62.08        94.45      64.4        971         71       99.14    97.36        99.39   116.69       100.33   117.93
AJju.aicnl.                                             _         _           _         _           _         _           _         _           _         _           _         _           _ 
l .ulc                                                                                                                                        $2 - _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _1.01  -  -  -        -
T.lf.. f   f,w. Iw,n orcntion.                      19.76    17.18       109.68    76.41       126.49     121.9      137.08     122.9      118.84    175.54        62.2   120.26        62.89   129.02
EQUriY & GRANI'S                                                                    1
(;o"Csnnmc                                         129.08      0.66       82.17         -       53.65         -       33.31         -       12.92   174.88            -    199.2            -   227,22
Odwr G(;mg.ng                                           -    33.01            -         -           -       0.1           -      -0.2           -   674.36                1 2250.28         -    12.73
l'ol     Equtli(y/Granlls                          129.08    33.67        12.57         -       53.65       0.1       33.31      -0.2       12.92   849.24                1 2449.48         -   239.97
LONG lltM 1I3EIr
GovelNnj                                                -      3J.2           -        30           -      79.5           -      39.5           -         -           -    28.9t            -      72.3
II)A L.o.n,(MhirI cicJjij                           282.8    12.34       214.99   115.71       144.02       140       88.52     193.2        35.1   189.47                231.51                200.84
O h.,                                                                                                     11 _   _  _   _  327.7  -    716.4    -         -                 1123.3          -    346.6
TA.1 L.ong-tc-n dtA                                 281.1   117.54       214.99   125.73       144.02    537.2        88.32    969.1         35.1   189.47            -   373.83            -   619.94
1'Ol'AI. SOURCES OF FUNIDS                         501.64   231.39       407.24   262.15       326.16    659.2       258.91   1091.8       166.16  1214.23         62.2  1943.57        62.19   988.93
APPi.lCA'I 120NS OF FUNDS
lnvestmelints                                           -      25.4           -    11.65            -      0.1            -       0.1           -    27.56            -    27.21            -    30.24
'IhM. IDA P2,j--s                                ,411.88          -      297.56    45.22       199.67     132.9      121.83   1214.4        48.71   371.26            -   276.74            -   266.39
I)WASA                                                  -    33.12            -     9.02            -     39.2            -      38.2           -    96.29         16.4  1139.35       27.33   356.61
WoUing cpi.uI ch,j.                                -1.134     -9.02       20.26    17.69       20.83    204.4         18.53   -127.7        28.23    95.06        16.66    -82.3        13.91   -67.96
Pli"sd..I Irn,ni of I_n                              29.4    38.34         29.4    31.16         29.4      61.8        29.4      67.6        49.9       45         70.3       41         10.3       41
Ie.szl .I.e.q.ynn                                       _         _           _        _            _        _            _         _           _        I5           -        I5           -       25
Oi2c.                                                   -         -           -     4.11            -       3.6           -       4.7           -   460.11            -    60.47            -   374.89
'I'OTAL APPLICATIONS OF FUN US                     422.94     110.1      347.22   133.35       249.9       464       169.78    1197.2      126.86  1110.12       103.36  1482.17       111.56  1030.17
Increasc(tdecrease  ) in cash                       71.7   128.29         60.02    128.6       76.26     195.2       19.13   -105.4            40   103.93      -41.16    462.4       -48.67   -41.24
DEBT SERVICE REQUIREMEINT
12EBT SCRVICE                                  .____



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
llANGLADESII                                           Table 10
TlhIRD DIIAKA WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE PROJECT1
(CiedI. 1734-0D)
DWASA TAnlIFF STRUCTUnE
Figures in Taka per Unit
I listorical    Appraisal                         Actiual
Froim      From    :From      From       Fromii     Fromii     Fromii     Froiii
June/85    June/86  June/87   July/86    Feb/88     Nov/90    Sep/92      Dec/93
UNIT
WATER SUPP'LY
A. METERED                  000 galloni
Residential andl Coniiuiniiity                      8.75    10.94      13.13     10.94      11.33      12.52       14.4      15.84
Cominercial and Office                               28.5    35.63     42.75      35.63         37       40.7       46.8      51.48          (
Indtistrial                                          28.5    35.63     42.75      35.63         37       40.7       46.8      51.48
B. UNMETERED                Per anilunu on
Annutal Valuation
of Building
Residential and( Comiiitiiy                         12.5%    na        na         15.63%     16.25%     17.88%    20.56      22.62%
Commilercial and Office                             12.5 %    na       na         15.63%     16.25%     17.88%    20.56%    22.62%
Industrial                                          12.5%    uia       na         15.63%     16.25%     17.88%    20.56%     22.62%
C. NON-CONNECTIED IIOL  P'er annum on
Annuial Valuiation
Water                                               3.00%    na        na         5.63 %     5.85%      5.85%      5.85 %     8.15 %
Sewer                                               4.50%    na        na         5.63 %     5.85%      5.85%      5.85 %     8.15 %



Table 1 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
THIRD DHAKA WATER SUPPY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(C,.>lit 1 734-R11))
PROJECT FINANCING
Figures in million US$
TOTAL                    IDA                       GOB
ITEM   DESCRIPTION
1 Civil Works                10.29                     7.31                      2.36
2 Equipment, Vehicil s       26.30                    17.82                      8.48
& Materials
3 Consultants' Servi es       5.74                      5.74                     0.00
4 Training                    0.43                     0.36                      0.07
5 Others                      3.64                      0.00                     3.64
TOTAL                    46.40                     31.23                     14.55
Note:  Using Exchange rate SDR=1.43077 US$ =SDR1=US$
TOTAL is from WASA's Project Cost Sheet, March 31,1994
IDA from Monthly Disbursement Summary of March,1994



-35-
BAiNGLADESH                             Table 12
THIRD DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF WATER SUPPLY INVESTMENTS
BENEFITS                                COSTS
YEAR                INCREASED          VALUE OF             ADJUSTED            ADJUSTED           TOTAL
NET CAPACITY    NET CAPACITY           CAPITAL COSTS   0 & M COSTS             FLOW
(mlI/day)         (M Taka)            (M Taka)
1986                 0.0               0.00                 0.00                0.00               0.00
1987                 2.8               0.00                 0.00                0.00               0.00
1988                5.3                3.22                69.56               12.02             -78.36
1989               30.6               21.44               75.36                19.84             -73.75
1990               99.2               72.42               81.15               42.27              -51.01
1991               153.0             120.63               144.92               92.87            -117.16
1992              237.5              214.99               98.53               168.38             -51.93
1993              261.5              236.71               28.49               183.99              24.24
1994              322.0              329.08               79.77              228.71               20.61
1995              322.0              329.08                                  228.71              100.38
1996              336.0              343.39                                  228.71              114.68
1997              336.0              343.39                                  228.71              114.68
1998              336.0              343.39                                  228.71              114.68
1999              336.0              343.39                                  228.71              114.63
2000               336.0             343.39                                   228.71              114.68
2001               336.0             343.39                                   228.71              114.68
2002               336.0             343.39                                   228.71              114.68
2003               336.0             343.39                                   228.71              114.68
2004               336.0             343.39                                   228.71              114.68
2005               336.0             343.39                                   228.71              114.68
2006               336.0             343.39                                   223.71              114.68
2007               336.0             343.39                                   228.71              114.68
2008               336.0             343.39                                   228.71              114.68
2009               336.0             343.39                                   228.71              114.68
2010               336.0             343.39                                   228.71              114.68
2011               336.0             343.39                                   228.71              114.68
2012               336.0             343.39                                   228.71              114.68
2013               336.0             343.39                                   228.71              114.68
2014               336.0             343.39                                   223.71              114.68
2015               336.0             343.39                                   228.71              114.68
2016               336.0             343.39                                   228.71              114.68
2017               336.0             343.39                                   228.71              114.68
2018               336.0             343.39                                   228.71              114.68
2019               336.0             343.39                                   223.71              114.68
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN                      17%



-36-
Table 12
(page 2 of 2)
BANGLADESH
THIRD DHAKA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF WATER SUPPLY INVESTMENTS
Assumptions:
(i)   Gross taxes and duties on capital costs were deducted from the
project's total costs;
(ii) A standard conversion factor of 0.90 was used to adjust local costs;
(iii) calculations have assumed that although the average billing is less
than 70% of total production, some of the unbilled water reach
customers, and therefore have an economic value. A factor of .80
has therefore been used to adjust the value of the net capacity to
take into account of water delivered but not billed.
(iv) an asset life of 30 years has been assumed for the analysis
(v)   the average incremental cost of water has been assumed to reflect
willingness to pay.



I









IMAGING
Report No:       16205
Type: PCR



