CREDIT NUMBER 1734 BD
Project Agreement
(Third Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
DHAKA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
Dated                              , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1734 BD
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                     c  7    , 1987, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPM4;ASSOCIATI    (the Association) and DHAKA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY (hereinafter called DWASA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between People's Republic of Bangladesh (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty six million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 26,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that DWASA
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and DWASA, parts of the proceeds of the
credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will
be made available to DWASA on the terms and conditions set forth
in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS DWASA, in consideration of the Association's enter-
ing into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to Lhis Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) DWASA declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project (other than Parts C and F.5 thereof) with due


﻿- 2 -
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative,   financial,  engineering   and  public   utility
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, DWASA shall carry out the Project (other than
Parts C and F.5 thereof) in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between
the Association and DWASA.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. DWASA shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relL-ing to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project
Agreement and its part of the Project.
Section 2.04. DWASA shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the financial arrangement
re'erred to in Section 3.01 (e) of the Development Credit Agree-
ment. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, DWASA
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement, the aforesaid financial arrangement, or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) DWASA shall, at the re4uest of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project (other than Parts C and F.5 thereof), the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the financial arrangement referred
to in Section 3.01 (e) of the Development Credit Ag-eement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) DWASA shall promptly inform the Association of any con-
dition which interferes or thr-atens to interfere with the


﻿-3-
progress of the Project (other than Parts C and F.5 thereof), the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance
by DWASA of its obligations under this Agreement and under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the financial arrangement referred
to in Section 3.01 (e) of the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of DWASA
Section 3.01. DWASA shall carry on its operations and con-
duct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, finaa-
cial, engineering and public utility practices under the supervi-
sion of qualified and experienced management assisted by com-
petent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. DWASA shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. DWASA shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insateirs, or make other provision satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, for insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) DWASA shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with normal commercial
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) DWASA shall:
(i) have   its   accounts   and  financial   statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after


﻿-4 -
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audit thereof c:d said records, as
the Association shall from tiM, to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, DWASA shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures were used for the purposes for
which they were provided.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, DWASA shall: (i) earn an annual rate of return on the
average current net value of DWASA's fixed assets in operation of
at least 3% in fiscal years 1987 through 1990, and 5% in fiscal
year 1991 and thereafter, and (ii) generate enough cash from its
operations   to  cover  fully   its  debt   service  requirements
(including principal and interest payments).


﻿-5-
(b) Before April 1 in each of its fiscal years, DWASA
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by DWASA and satis-
factory to the Association, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year
and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation the results of such review upon its completion.
(c) If any such review shows that DWASA would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for DWASA's fiscal years
covered by such review, DWASA shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the
structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such
requirements.
(d) For the purposez of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated by
dividing DWASA's net operating income for the
fiscal year in question by one-half of the sum of
the current net value of DWASA's fixed assets in
operation at the beginning and at the end of that
fiscal year;
(ii) the term "net operating income" means the total
operating revenues less total operating expenses;
(iii) the term "total operating revenues" means revenues
from all sources related to operations;
(iv) the term    "total operating expenses" means all
expenses related to operations, including admini-
stration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments
in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation
on a straight-line basis at annual rates accept-
able to the Association and calculated on the
average current gross value of DWASA's fixed
assets in operation, or other basis acceptable to
the Association, but excluding interest and other
charges on debt;
(v) the average current gross value of DWASA's fixed
assets in operation shall be calculated as one-
half of the sum of the gross value of DWASA's
fixed assets in operation at the beginning and at
the end of the fiscal year, as valued from time to


﻿- 6 -
time in accordance with sound and consistently
maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to
the Association; and
(vi) the term    "current net value of DWASA's fixed
assets in operation" means the gross value of
DWASA's fixed assets in operation less the amount
of accumulated depreciation, as valued from time
to time in accordance with sound and consistently
maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to
the Association.
Section 4.03. Without limitation to the provision of Section
4.02 (b) and 4.02 (c) of this Agreement, DWASA shall take all
such action as shall be necessary to increase, with effect from
July 1, 1987, by 20% its water and sewerage tariffs in effect as
of the date of this Agreement, or such other percentage increase
as the Association shall otherwise agree.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of DWASA thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i)  the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 25 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
DWASA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For DWASA:
Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Authority
Kawran Bazar
Airport Road
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:
WASADAC
Dhaka
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of DWASA may be taken or executed by the
Chairman or such other person or persons as the Chairman shall
designate in writing, and DWASA shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.


﻿-8-
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   /
Regional Vice President
South Asia
DHAKA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
Byid                              pen        v
Authorized Representativ


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
-1.  DWASA shall carry out the Project in accordance with an
Action Plan satisfactory to the Association.
2.   DWASA shall, commencing in fiscal year 1987 and thereafter:
(a) install meters on about 25,000 all new connections
(about 5,000 new connections per year); (b) carry out a
program for installing about 15,000 meters on existing
connections (about 3,000 such connections per year); and
(c) carry out a program for installing about 8,000 sewerage
connections (about 1,600 connections per year).
3.   DWASA shall: (a) continue billing once every 2 months at
least 95% of private connections; and (b) ensure that,
commencing in fiscal year 1987, its accounts receivable from
the sale of water to (i) private connections will not exceed
the equivalent of the six preceding months' sales; and (ii)
the Borrower's departments, public standposts and housing
colonies will not exceed the equivalent of the six preceding
months' sales.
4.   DWASA shall carry out a program satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, including an implementation time-table, to reduce
unaccounted-for water in its water supply and distribution
system.
5.   DWASA shall carry out Part D of the Project: (a) pursuant to
the principles and objectives set forth or referred to in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (b) in accordance with a
resettlement and rehabilitation program satisfactory to the
Association,   including  a   detailed  timetable   for  its
implementation.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Resettlement and Rehabilitation of the
Project Affected People
(a) The main objectives of the resettlement and rehabilita-
tion of the Project Affected People are to ensure that the
Project Affected People shall, promptly after their displacement:
(i) improve or at least regain the standard of living they were
enjoying prior to displacement; (ii) be suitably integrated into
the community in which they are resettled; and (iii) be provided,
under terms and conditions satisfactory to th'e Association, with
adequate social and physical rehabilitation infrastructure,
including allotment of sites and core housing, community services
and other facilities.
(b) Commencing on April 1, 1987 and thereafter until one
year after the completion of the Project, DWASA shall employ an
organization satisfactory to the Association, for purposes of
monitoring and evaluating the implementation of the resettlement
and rehabilitation program of the Project Affected People, such
organization, to prepare and furnish to DWASA and the Association
quarterly reports of its findings and recommendations.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


