Report No. 962-TUN
Appraisal of Banque De
Developpement Economique De Tunisie
Tunisia
December 19, 1975
Industrial Credit and Development
Finance Companies Division                            FILE  COPY
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY  EQUIVALETTS
(as of September 30, 1975)
Currency = Dinar -- 1,OO0 millimes
D 1=               US$ 2.34
D 1,000      -      US$ 2,335.90
D 1,000,000  =      US$ 2,335,900.00
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
API       - Agence de Promotion des Investissements
BDET      -  Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie
CCCE      - Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Econom_que
COFITOUR  - Compagnie Financiere et Touristique
DFC       - Development Finance Company
ERR       - Economic Rate of Return
KfW       - Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
ONIT      -  Office National du Tourisme
SIDA      - Swedish Internabional Development Authority
BANQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT ECONONIQUE
FISCAL YEAR:   January 1 - December 31



APPRAISAL OF
BANQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT ECONOMIQUE DE TUNISIE
TUNISIA
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUIMARY ....o.................................                     i-ii
I.    INTRODUCTION      .......................................              1
II.   THE ENVIRONMENT ....................................                    1
Industry   ...........................................                 2
Tourism ............................................                   4
Financial Environment and BDET .....................                   6
III.    BDET'S INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT .....             ..............      8
Statutes and Policy ................................                   8
Ownership and Control ..............................                   8
Board and Committees ...............................                   9
Management, Staff and Organization ....            .............       9
Interest Rates and Foreign Exchange Risk ....           .......       10
Procedures .........................................                  11
IV.   BDET'S OPERATIONS ..................................                   13
Characteristics ....................................                  13
Economic Impact ....................................                  14
Evaluation of Performance:  A Summary ....            ..........      15
V.   BDET's FINANCIAL SITUATION .........................                   16
Resource Position ..................................                  16
Auditors' Reports on BDET ..........................                  16
Quality of Portfolio ...............................                  18
Financial Performance and Position ....            .............      21
VI.   PROSPECTS ..........................................                   22
Economic Environment ...............................                  22
Projected Operations and Resources ....            .............      23
Financial Projections ..............................                  23
VII.    THE LOAN--ITS OBJECTIVES AND PRINCIPAL FEATIJRES   ....               25
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....             ..........      26
This report was prepared by Messrs. R. Storch and F. Batzella on the basis
of their two-week mission in November, 1973 and on the basis of a number of
subsequent visits of varying duration by Bank staff through September, 1975.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
BASIC DATA
ANNEXES
1.   Development of the Tunisian Tourism Industry, 1968-75
2.   Selected Interest Rates in Financial Community (%)
3.   Ownership Structure
4.   Board of Directors and Executive Committee
5.   Organization Chart
6.   Characteristics of Operations and Economic Impact
7.   Outstanding Loans and Equity Investments, December 31, 1974
8.   Long-Term Resources as of December 31, 1974
9.   Audited Income Statements, 1970-1974
10.   Audited Balance Sheets, 1970-1974
11.   Performance Indicators, 1971-1974
12.   Assumptions Underlying Projected Operations, 1975-1979
13.   Projected Operations, 1975-1979
14.   Projected Resource Needs, 1975-77
15.   Projected Income Statements, 1975-1979
16.   Projected Cash Flow, 1975-1979
17.   Projected Balance Sheets, 1975-1979
18.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements



TUNISIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
BANQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT ECONOMIQUE DE TUNISIE
Summary
i.        The Societe Nationale d'Investissement was formed in 1959 and re-
organized with the help of the Bank Group. Its name was changed in 1973 to
Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET). The purpose of BDET is
to provide term financing for industry and tourism in Tunisia. BDET has so far
received five Bank loans totalling $49 million, the last of which amounted to
$14 million and was signed in February 1973. IFC holds 10% of the company's
shares. All of the Bank loans have been fully committed, and BDET has re-
quested a sixth loan.
ii.       Tunisia's GDP grew at an average annual rate of 9.7% in real tems
during the 1971-74 period. The economic boom was the result of several major
factors: changes in Government policies, high agricultural productivity, and
increased prices for major exports (hydrocarbons, phosphates and oliver oil).
The annual growth of manufacturing industry averaged 17% in real terms from
1971 through 1974; performance of the private manufacturing sector and the
attraction of new investment to it was particularly noteworthy, due in part to
Government incentives. Tourism, which provides 15-23% of foreign exchange
receipts, had record years in 1971 and 1972 followed by declines in both 1973
and 1974. For 1975 the projected growth rate of the economy is 9.5%, in line
with the 1971-74 average, and this rate of growth is expected to continue
through 1976.
iii.      BDET's relative share in term lending by Tunisia's financial sector
has almost doubled over a three year period. As of end 1974 BDET held approugi
mately 40% of the outstanding term loans to manufacturing, 35% of term loans
to tourism, and 11% of term loans to the construction industry. Quantitative
performance has measured up to Government objectives and far surpassed BDET's
own previous forecasts and the Bank's expectations. BDET's project financing
has shown a healthy diversity in its characteristics, and the economic impact
has been demonstrable. Although the quality of projects financed by BDET in
the manufacturing sector has generally been good, this has sometimes not been
the case in tourism where sectoral problems have hampered operations. BDET has
played a significant role in the capital market through a variety of activities0
iv.       Since the previous loan appraisal, in 1972, BDET's institutional and
financial performance has been mixed. Good progress has been made in business
promotion, appraisal work, and recruitment of qualified staff. However, super-
vision of borrowers and efforts to validate mortgage security on loans have so
far not been adequate. There has also been a tendency on occasion to assume
greater financial exposure to single borrowers than BDET's own policy permits.
Significant success has been achieved in mobilizing new resources, so essential
in view of the increase in approvals of 63% in 1973 and 103% in 1974. Never-
theless, BDET acquired more business than it could service with available funds,
so commitments tc disburse could not always be met. This great increase in



business happened to occur at a time when problems in BDET's portfolio of hotel
loans worsened. If BDET had made larger provisions against probable portfolio
losses, as auditors and the Bank recommended, it would not have shown profits
in 1973 and 1974; it woul'd also have had to cut back the rate of growth in"ffew
business in order to keep within the debt/equity limit as defined by the Bank.
v.        During the lengthy negotiations for the proposed loan, agreements
were reached o0l a broad spectrum of measures. Progress has been made to
strengthen BDET's management. Operational strategy will now emphasize the
consolidation of business, and approvals will therefore be kept at a constant
level over the 1975-77 period. Priority will be given to collecting loan
arrears, validating mortgages, reducing tourism exposure, making adequate
provisions, writing off losses as necessary, and increasing profitability.
Given the large volume of commitments built up and the maintenance of business
at the new high level, BDET has to mobilize a large amount of resources. Pro-
cedures applying to the next capital increase have been agreed upon, and some
of the funds have already been mobilizedo BDET's recent success in raising
funds domestically and from foreign aid agencies is expected to continue, and
on a larger scale. In view of BDET's strategy of consolidation, it is credit-
worthy for a sixth Bank loan. The proposed loan of $20 million would amount to
about 10% of resources to be raised over the 1975-77 period. Principal justi-
fication for the loan is that it will enable the Bank to continue exerting
appropriate influence on BDET's performance and helping improve operational
standards.
vi.       Proceeds of the Bank loan will be utilized to meet the foreign
exchange costs of imported goods and services. The loan cannot be used for
financing tourism sub-projects.  The foreign exchange risk on BDET's sub-loans
will continue to be borne by the Central Bank, in accordance with current
practices in Tunisia.  BDET will re-lend the proceeds of the loan at the rate
of 9% and for a period no longer than fifteen years.  The Bank has agreed to
an increase in BDET's debt/equity ratio from 4:1 to 5:1. BDET's total exposure
to any sub-project will not exceed 20% of BDET's equity, unless the Bank agrees
to exceptions. The free limit will be increased from $400,000 to D 200,000
(equivalent to $467,000) in order to be in harmony with the limit of BDET's
Executive Comm:Lttee. The aggregate free limit will be $5 million. The pro-
posed loan will have a flexible amortization schedule, to conform substantially
to the aggregate of sub-loan repayments to BDET. Other terms of the loan are
those normally applied to DFC borrowers, including the standard commitment
charge.
vii.      Agreement having been reached on the principal issues, subject to the
condition of effectiveness, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of
$20 million to Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie, to be re-lent
to qualified sub-borrowers. In view of lending practices in Tunisia, an appro-
priate term for the loan is 15 years including two years of grace.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Societe Nationale d'Investissement was formed in 1959 and
reorganized in 1965 with the help of the Bank Group. Its name was changed in
1973 to Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET). The purpose of
BDET is to provide term financing for industry and tourism in Tunisia.  BDET
has so far received five Bank loans totalling $49 million, the last of which
amounted to $14 million and was signed in February, 1973.  IFC's holdings in
BDET are declining from 20% to 10% of capital by end 1975. A report ("Operations
Evaluations Report: Development Finance Companies" - 774-529) was distributed
to the Board on July 26, 1974 and contains, in part, an evaluation of BDET's
role and operations up to 1971.
1.02      BDET requested a sixth Bank loan in the autumn of 1973. A Bank
supervision/appraisal mission at the time considered that the need for another
loan following so quickly after the fifth loan was not fully justified and
that BDET had possibilities for raising funds from other sources which would
help meet requirements during 1974. BDET succeeded in mobilizing new re-
sources to carry out the unexpected surge in business which attended the boom
in Tunisia's industrial sector. Several missions were undertaken in 1974 and
the first six months of 1975 to continue the appraisal process and monitor
BDET's progress. Negotiations started in January, 1975 and were concluded in
September. The primary reasons for the protracted preparation of the sixth
loan were the various problems which emerged during the appraisal/negotiation
process and the difficulties in reaching agreement on remedies. The proposed
loan of $20 million should meet about 10% of BDET's resource requirements over
the 1975-77 period and constitutes a relative decrease in Bank assistance, as
is appropriate for a maturing development finance company (DFC) which is now
raising funds from other foreign sources on favorable terms. BDET plays a
key role in providing term financing to industry and tourism in Tunisia, and
its developmental objectives are appropriate.
II. THE ENVIRONMENT
2.01      The most recent report on the economy of Tunisia, "Memorandum on
the Economic Position of Tunisia" (May 23, 1975) was distributed to the Board
under cover of Sec M 75-428 of June 4, 1975. The economic performance of
Tunisia since BDET was last appraised has been characterized by a relatively
fast growth of both production and investment through 1974 despite a slow-
down of economic activities in the course of 1973. After having grown at an
average annual rate of 4.5% during the 1960's, Tunisia's GDP grew in real
terms by 9% in 1971, 18% in 1972, 2% in 1973, and almost 11% in 1974.
2.02      The Tunisian economic boom in the past few years was caused by sev-
eral factors. The shift in 1970 in the Government's economic policies from
central planning to more liberal economic policies greatly encouraged the
private sector's initiative. The good crops harvested in 1971, 1972 and 1974,
together with the increase in production and prices of the country's main



- 2 -
export commodities (hydrocarbons, phosphates, and olive oil) greatly In-
creased the momentum of economic expansion in those years. Good results in
agriculture and in commodity exports, together with increased inflow of for-
eign exchange from tourism and workers' remittances, boosted domestic income
and consumption as well as investment demand. Conversely, the return of
agricultural production to a normal level in 1973 (down 12% from the record
harvest of 1972), together with the disappointing results ef 1973's tourism
season, were the principal causes of the temporary slowdown of Tunisia's
economic growth that year.
2.03      Tunisia's rate of inflation has traditionally been kept under
control through the application of strict price controls and Government
subsidies on basic commodities. The cost of living index from 1971 to 1974
shows an average increase of only 3.4% per annum. Through 1973 the general
wholesale price index showed the same modest annual rate of increase, but in
1974 it jumped suddenly by about 20%, largely as a result of higher prices
for imported raw materials and industrial products. The increase in the aver-
age cost of construction from May, 1974 to May, 1975 is estimated at about
45-48%. Overall investment costs increased nearly 30% from 1972 to 1974, but
this did not deter investments which rose 13% p.a. in real terms over the
same period and amounted to 23% of GDP in 1974 at current prices, comparod
with 21% on average in the previous three years.
2.04      Tunisia's terms of trade have substantially improved since 1971¶72
due to the rise in international prices of its principal exports in 1973 ad
especially 1974. The current account balance showed a small deficit through
out the 1971-74 period which varied between D 15 - D 40 million, in spite of
the trebling in value of Tunisia's exports, because imports of goods &ed oGT-
vices also increased at a comparable rate. The capital account had a surpluo
varying between D 55 and D 74 million in the 1971-74 period, and this explains
how the overall balance of payments produced a continuing increase in net
external reserves: at end 1974 they amounted to D 160 million (equivalent to
over four months of commodity imports) compared with D 55 million at emd ¶97¶M
Tunisia's outstanding external debt has grown steadily over the past fet- y@G@9
but as a proportion of GDP it declined from 37% in 1971 to about 30% in 1974.
The structure and conditions of external debt have continued to improva as a
consequence of the Government's policy of limiting borrowings from private
sources in favor of foreign borrowings on concessionary terms. Foreign dsbt
service has diminished considerably in relation to export earnings, from
about 18% in 1971-72 to about 9% in 1974.
Industry
2.05      The annual growth of manufacturing industry has zveraged 17% p.a.
in real terms since 1971 despite the slowdown in 1973.  About 55% of totali
manufacturing output comes from the food processing industry, textiles,c and
the apparel industry. In relative terms, the output of the manufacturing
industry has grown from 9% of GDP in the 1970-73 period to 13% in 1974.
Mining, including petroleum production, grew at a slower pace until l973;
however, the recent increases in petroleum prices and especially the quadrupl-
ing in 1973-74 of the price of phosphates (Tunisia's main mining product after



-3-
petroleum) have increased the importance of the mining and petroleum s@ctor9
whose output represented 8.6% of GDP in 1974 compared with 5.6% in 1973.
2.06      The private sector has provided an increasing proportion of n@e
investments in manufacturing industry, due to the encouragement of fiscal
incentives for new investments established in the Investment Code which Nao
first issued in 1969 and revised in 1974. Such incentives include a 3-5
years' tax holiday; duty-free import of equipment; and the right guaranteed
to non-resident investors to re-export both their capital and the profits
arising from investments in foreign exchange. Incentives are linked to
criteria such as employment creation, value of exports, and location. M/
In addition, the Law of April, 1972, provides special incentives for expo%t-
oriented enterprises such as total or partial tax exemption for up to twenty
years; exemption from customs duties for imported equipment and intermediate
goods; exemption from turn-over taxes on purchases from domestic sources;
and the right granted to non-resident investors to dispose of the proceeds
of their exports.
2.07      New private investments have also been encouraged through an i
portant promotional effort carried out mainly by the Agence de Promotion dos
Investissements (API), a Government agency created in early 1973. One of
the primary functions of API is to expedite and simplify the procedure for
determining the eligibility of new investments for concessions under the
Investment Code and the Law of April, 1972. API also provides administrntiv
assistance to prospective investors, both at home and abroad. Another funce
tion of API is to supervise the administration by the banking system of Fonda
pour la Promotion et la Decentralisation Industrielle, a special Treasury
fund set up in August, 1974 to provide subsidized financial assistance to
small-scale entrepreneurs. A new initiative to foster individual investme2=
has been the recent creation of Agence Fonciere Industrielle, which is impleL
menting a program to establish and equip industrial estates in the five
existing industrial development areas as well as in several new locations.
Finally, the Centre Technique du Developpement de la Construction was setib-
lished in January, 1975. Its function consists of assisting the Tunisiin
construction industry, whose deficiency has been a constraint to the couty'
industrial development, by improving and rationalizing methods especially 16
project design and procurement of materials.
2.08      As a result of promotional efforts undertaken by Tunisian authori-
ties, API approved over 1,500 new investment projects in manufacturing in th@
course of 1973 and 1974, for a total investment cost of about D 300 millicn
of which about D 100 million was for export-oriented industries; over 62,G00
new jobs are expected to be created by these projects (cf the Plan's projec-
tions of D 160 million in investments and 41,000 new jobs in the manufactuTiag
1/   The Tunisian authorities have decreased their previous unconditiouzl
support for basic heavy industry and import substitution.



4 
industry for the entire 1973-76 period)0  A survey taken by API's project
follow-up department indicates that the raQe of execution of approved projects
is good: of all projects approved in 1973D 68% in terms of number and 57% in
terms of investment costs had been completed or were in the course of execu-
tion by mid-19750  Almost all new sxporttoriented industrial projects are
sponsored by European investors, either alone or in association with Tunisian
promoters.
Tourism
2.09      Annex 1 shows statistics on the development of the tourism industry
in Tunisia since 1968. The Tunisian tourism boom, which really started in
1963, continued unabated through 1972. Over these ten years, foreign visitors'
bednights grewJ at an average annual rate of 32%. This unprecedented growth
rate could not be further sustained, and the 1973 season showed a sharp de-
cline in visitors' arrivals (down 7% compared with 1972's record results) and
in visitors' bednights (13% less than in 1972)o In 1974 there was a further
decline of about 4% in foreign visitors' bednights. The situation improved
substantially, however, in the last months of 1974, partly due to the unstable
political situation of several countries competing with Tunisia for Mediter-
ranean tourism. The data on the first quarter of 1975 show a continuing
uptrend compared with the results of the first quarter of 1974: arrivals
increased by 50% and foreign visitors' bednights were up by 74%. Foreign
exchange receipts from tourism, which have represented a major item in
Tunisia's balance of payments since the mid-sixties, had more than doubled
(to D 67 million) in the period 1970=72; in the following two years, tourism
receipts tapered off, despite the sizeable increase in prices (about 25%)
that occurred in 1972-73. In relation to total current receipts in Tunisia's
balance of payments, the importance of tourism receipts has declined from
about 21% in the period 1972-73 to about 15% in 1974.
2.10      The decline of tourism in 1973 and 1974 was caused by contingent
difficulties of a temporary nates, as wall no by certain intrinsic con-
straints in the Tunisian tourism sector0 the external factors which contri-
buted to the decline were the gen@ral economic difficulties experienced by
those countries sending tourists to Tuaisia, the devaluation of certain cur-
rencies vis-a-vis the Dinear, the increases in Tunisian prices and hotel
tariffs, and the wide publicity given abroad to the occurrence of a few cases
of cholera in Tunisia. Internal constraints in Tunisia's tourism sector have
been the deficiency in planning hotal development by location and categories,
insufficient training of hotel persounel, inadequate infrastructure, lack of
coordination between promotion and marketing programs, and shortage of
diversified recreation facilities and centers.



2.11      Investments in the tourism sector, which have been encouraged by a
number of Govranmaeat incentives, I/ amounted to D 20   D 26 million per year
in the period 1971-73 (about 12% of total gross fixed capital formation).  In
the same period, capacity increased by about 14% a year to attain almost
55I,000 beds at enud-730 Follmoing the decline in business and the low occu-
pancy rates of the last two years, new investments in tourism were reduced to
about D 16 million in M974, or less than 5% of total inveotments in the coun-
try. The curTen attnitude of tourism investors is one of wzit-andoaso, be-
cause of           factors affecting tourism and because the oxioting accooe-
datiou capaci't7e-y as uurdGutilized in 1973-74. Governmaent nthozities have
consequent>ly becums more stringent in granting approvals for new investment
projects ina the sectr.  Ina viet of the recounaendatUos oef a study caEried
out In the framcwark of fthe Tourism Infrastructure Project of the Baigk the
Governmant has iadicated its intention to limit financfat aad fiocal iacnm-
tives to5) thos@ Po,jeStO whiCh are economically justifid om t-h(e basis of Ea
proven mand foT e:Cxpandsd accommodation capacity in a givse  area.  kiMzai ile,
legislvtion ozi _n en@(taives to tourism investments is bein?g r?e vsoad, and the
GovernmentB s spacialized agency for tourism developmant, O`fince Nationasl du
Tourisme (ONT)), io baing strengthened to effectively carry out the economic
evaluatico  of prospect:ive investment projects.
2.12      Tunisia's efforts to strengthen its tourism sector are now ccn-
centrating on more efficient exploitation of the =isting hotels, rteher than
on expansion of accoumodation capacity.  This is wise in view of unutilized
hotel space and the alou annual occupancy rates the sector @aperienced in 1973
and 1974. Gevament agencies and private entrepreneurs are joint g fores to
solve some of the  baslc problems. Plans for the joint financing of rTcrea-
tion facilities by several hotel owners in the same area are being drawn up0
New regulatios  rs beaig enforced concerning official clsification of hotels
and minimum qu uaiLty otadndcrds0  A massive and apparently sucocssful promot-ional
campaign wFs unoated by ONT ia Europe early this year, w.ith the result that
mast a ailanble bes&  at good htlels were booked for JEly a61 August.  Tes Bank
is contrib-ting ..'O)    xathrvitali2ation of Tunisia's tourism i:_ndusCxy by providing
assistance  antwo prrit y eas, namely, infrastructure &,ad htGl staff
traiming0 2/
/    lThs 4VGoetmenm3 t IMcetivos offered to hotel iveastors in, Tunisia include
im nttorest-£ ratoe subsidy of up to 3%, the possibility of depxociatfng
bul:Udirags cver fifty years. free connections to mai  infrastructure lines,
a ft vG-ys&z r t2a tolicd Way, reimbursement of architectural and angEnsering
costs involvGovd in planizing the hotel, and duty-frse impo )tation of equip-
ment.
2/   Tourszi   nfra$strucure  Project (Appraisal Report NFo PT-5e of May 30, 1972)
and EBtel 'aing Project (Appraisal Report No0 441a-TUN of May 23, 1974).



-6-
Financial Environment and BDET
2.13      The institutional make-up of Tunisia's financial system has remained
basically the same since the 1972 appraisal of BDET.  Total assets of the bank-
ing system have grown by about 45% over the past two years, reflecting the
strong performance of the economy. Medium and long-term credits extended by
the financial community to the sectors in which BDET operates 1/ have corres-
pondingly increased, as follows (D millions):
1973     1974      1975 (Feb.)
Total medium and long-term credits             119.5    168.2    174.9
-  of which Manufacturing Industry            16.9      30.0     31.4
-  of which Construction                      17.6      33.1     34.3
-  of which Tourism                           36.2      37.2     38.5
Origin of term funds used
-  ordinary resources of banks                49.1      82.3     87.6
-  foreign aid, Government loans, etc.        70.4      85.9     87.3
Total                                119.5    168.2    174.9
This growth in term credit is only partially explained by the rate of monetary
expansion which averaged 16% in 1972-73 and 25% in 1974. Since August 1973,
Tunisian authorities have gradually introduced a series of measures designed
to improve the mobilization of savings and expand the role of banks in devel-
opment financing. The interest rate on demand deposits was lowered while
rates on savings accounts and term deposits were raised. The Central Bank
began to intervene actively in the interbank market by influencing the alloca-
tion of resources between banks. The requirement of commercial banks to in-
vest 30% of deposits in Treasury paper was reduced to 20%. To encourage term
lending, the Central Bank instituted a requirement that 14% of commercial bank
deposits must be used for medium and long-term loans to the private sector;
the Central Bank rediscount rate for medium-term loans was lowered by 0.75%;
and the definition of medium-term credit was extended from five to seven years.
To encourage investments, banks were authorized to subscribe to up to 30% of
the capital of an individual enterprise. Another measure to meet the demand
for term credit was the continued injection of fresh funds into the banking
system by the Government, which borrowed abroad on concessional terms.
2.14      Tunisia's interest rate structure is shown in Annex 2.  Although
rates are obviously low compared with many developing countries, they have
to be viewed within the setting of Tunisia's highly centralized, controlled
and insulated financial system. Together with other measures used by monetary
authorities, described above, the interest rate structure has contributed to
the overall balancing of the supply of funds with the demand for credit.  On
the supply side, rates have been effective in mobilizing resources, since
1/   As a rule BDET is not active in agriculture, mining, energy or services
(other than tourism, and transport to a limited extent).



-7-
domestic savings averaged about 22% of GDP during the 1972-74 period and
financed 85-90% of fixed investment. On the demand side, term credit has
been rationed by the ceiling on interest rates which deprives banks of the
incentive to take term risks. Thus, borrowers are forced to settle for
short-term credit, which consequently has to be rolled over, even though their
need is for longer term funds; this is a defect in the interest rate structure
which should have larger differentials between short and longer term opera-
tions. No privileged credit circuits exist other than those sanctioned by
Government policy for favored sectors of development, such as agriculture,
mining, and energy.
2.15      BDET competes with all the commercial banks, Societe Tunisiemne de
Banque in particular which is Government owned and Tunisia's biggest bank.
Commercial banks can make term loans out of equity (i.e. up to 75% of equity)
and out of liabilities having a maturity matching the loans extended. Although
the medium-term loan limit is seven years, these loans are often rolled over
and are thus comparable to what BDET offers in long-term facilities. In
financing tourism investments, BDET collaborates rather than competes with
COFITOUR 1/ since they have common interests and problems -- the two insti-
tutions held 63% of all term loans to the tourism sector at end 1974.
2.16      In mobilizing resources BDET and similar financial institutions have
been handicapped in competing with commercial banks. By law BDET cannot accept
short-term deposits and its ability to attract savings and time deposits is
negligible since it has no commercial banking functions and has only one
business location, compared with the many branches commercial banks have.
Also, long-term loans are not rediscountable at the Central Bank whereas
medium-term loans are. To raise resources, BDET therefore has to rely almost
entirely on (i) issuing bonds and raising capital subscriptions in the thin
domestic capital market where investors have attractive alternatives, such as
earning 7% on time deposits; (ii) borrowing from the banking system through
the Central Bank; and (iii) borrowing abroad from government and international
institutions on concessional terms. As a result of this, BDET has a higher
cost of funds than commercial banks and therefore a lower rate of profit-
ability, because BDET has to charge the same lending rate in order to compete
and because 8% is in any case the ceiling permitted for term loans. Another
result of this system is that it makes BDET dependent on the Government for
some of its domestic resources and, in a sense, for all of its foreign bor-
rowings on concessional terms since Government support is required as guarantor
or conduit. Tunisian authorities are reluctant to introduce modifications at
this time in the interest rate structure or other conditions affecting BDET's
mobilization capabilities.
1/   COFITOUR is The Compagnie Financiere et Touristique in which IFC is a
shareholder.



-8-
III. BDET'S INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Statutes and Policy
3.01      BDET's Policy Statement is unchanged since the last Bank loan ap-
praisal. The Statement includes the requirement that BDET's financial expo-
sure to any one company normally not exceed 15% of BDET's equity (capital,
free reserves, Government grant and subordinated loan). The 15% limit may be
exceeded in "exceptional cases" after a particularly thorough and detailed
study by management and careful examination by the Board. There were four
exceptions to the 15% limit in 1973, 13 in 1974, and none during the first six
months of 1975. Often these large projects were presented to Board members
at the very last moment and, consequently, could not be given the careful
scrutiny required. During loan negotiations BDET and the Government asked
that the single exposure limit be raised from 15% to 25% because of the in-
creased size of projects in Tunisia. The Bank approved an increase to 20% in
view of measures being taken to strengthen BDET's existing portfolio (para.
5.10); exceptions would still be allowed under the established criteria. On
a project basis (not a single company basis), BDET agreed that it would also
not exceed a 20% exposure limit, unless otherwise agreed upon by the Bank.
Finally, an informal understanding was reached during negotiations that pro-
jects would be submitted to Board members at least 15 days prior to Board
meetings.
3.02      As of December, 1974 BDET had made loans to and investments in nine
companies in which BDET directors held a direct or indirect interest of 51%
or more.  According to Tunisia's Commercial Code, dealings with directors
which occur during the "normal course" of a bank's business are not subject
to conditions, such as reporting such transactions to a bank's shareholders.
BDET's Statutes, however, required special procedures to be applied to deal-
ings with directors, but in December of 1973 the Statutes were amended in
order to be in harmony with the more lenient provisions of the Commercial
Code. The Bank had not given its prior approval to this change and, believ-
ing that it is in the best interests of BDET to follow appropriate safeguards
in such transactions, urged that the special procedures be restored to the
Statutes. As a result, necessary amendments to the Statutes were approved
at an Extraordinary Shareholders Meeting in June, 1975. As it now stands,
BDET's dealings with companies in which a director has a position, or a direct
or indirect interest (amounting to one-third of capital or more), are subject
to the following: (i) a declaration to BDET's Board by the director concerned
about his position or interest; (ii) unanimous approval of the proposed trans-
action by the Board with at least half of the Board members attending; (iii)
notification to the "Commissaire aux Comptes" whose report must be approved by
the Annual Shareholders' Meeting. BDET and the Bank have reached an agreement
on the applicability of these special procedures.  BDET's Policy Statement                -
will be suitably amended by the Board to reflect this change in Statutes and
the increase in the siagle exposure limit indicated in para 3.01.



-9-
Ownership and Control
3.03      In 1974 BDET raised its capital from D 3 million to D 6 million.
A 20% premium was charged to subscribers at the time of subscription; face
value of new shares was to be paid in two tranches, 50% towards BDET's end
1974 accounts and 50% during the course of 1975. Most existing shareholders
exercised their rights, with two exceptions: IFC which did not subscribe
since it already had a heavy exposure in the company and wished to see a
broader share ownership, and private Tunisian shareholders who only oxercised
about 30% of their rights. The subscription gap was filled by (i) the Tunisian
public sector which increased its share of BDET's capital from approximately
23% to 30%, and (ii) foreign institutions whose holdings rose from approximately
15% to 33%, not counting IFC's 10% (for details on ownership structure and
changes see Annex 3). The result of this process was that BDET gained three
important new foreign shareholders: Libyan Arab Foreign Bank (7%), Kuwait
Investment Companv (6%), and Deutsche Entwicklungsgesellschaft (6%). These
institutions are expected to bring various benefits to BDET's operations,
such as advice, introduction of new investors to Tunisia, and assistance in
raising long-term funds for BDET.
Board and Committees
3.04      The composition of BDET's Board of Directors is shown in Annex 4
and reflects the change in ownership since the last Bank loan appraisal. The
statutory limit on Board membership is 15, and is composed as follows: two
directors representing Government, three each from the Tunisian public and
private sectors, one from BDET management, and six from foreign shareholders
including IFC. The Executive Committee, entirely Tunisian in membership,
continues to have a D 200,000 upper limit on its authority to approve loans
and investments. In March of 1974 the Board created a Management Committee
and delegated to it the approval of operations of up to D 50,000, or 15% of
the original amount approved if an increase in financing is requested. The
Board meets quarterly, the Executive Committee once or twice a month, and the
Management Committee as often as needed.
Management, Staff and Organization
3.05      In the past three years, BDET's total staff has grown from 96 to
143, of which the number of professionals increased from 36 to 53. The re-
organization started in 1972 has been completed successfully, although it
will still take some time to reap the additional benefits since more staff
and training are needed.  The organization chart (see Annex 5) reflects the
restructuring of internal responsibilities along more conventional lines
which are appropriate and a needed improvement.  Moreover, clear job defini-
tions and guidelines have been established, in contrast with the rather
amorphous situation several years ago. However, internal communications and
coordination still need further attention.  As for the calibre of personnel,
BDET has made significant progress in attracting able younger employees,
almost all of whom have been assigned to the Projects Department.
3.06      BDET's top management echelon was reduced from three to two members
in 1974, due to the resignation of the number-two man. The new General Manager,
Mr. Fakhfakh, was formerly the Deputy and is now carrying the major burden of



- 10 -
day-to-day management responsibilities. Given the great increase in BDET's
activities, the gap in the management structure needs to be filled, and the
Bank has urged that a qualified person be appointed as soon as possible. As
an interim measure, Mr. Crifo, formerly head of the Projects Department, and
Mr. Farhat, formerly head of the Controller's Department, have been appointed
as advisers to the top management. Mr. Crifo, whose term of service has been
extended for two more years, will specifically supervise the Projects Depart-
ment (including project follow-up and technical services) and the P>omotion
Department; Mr. Farhat will be the Secretary General of BDET and assist manage-
ment in all its supervisory functions. All department heads, including that
of the Projects Department, are now Tunisian staff. This restructuring brings
promising younger staff into positions of higher responsibility. It does noZ,
however, provide for a more permanent strengthening of in-line management at
the top level, and the Bank is continuing to urge that a qualified person for
such a position be found and appointed well before Mr. Crifo's departure.
Interest Rates and Foreign Exchange Risk
3.07      BDET's interest rate charged to borrowers was lowered from 9% to
8%, effective in April 1973. The primary reason for this change was that
the Government wished to reduce the cost of BDET's credit to borrowers in
order to stimulate economic development and to harmonize term lending rates
between BDET and other banks. Given the favorable projections on profit
margin furnished by BDET during discussions on this subject in February of
1973, the Bank agreed to the lower lending rate of 8% provided that (i)
periodic review showed it would not harm BDET's profitability, and (ii) the
decision to lower the rate would be revised if the Bank and the Government
thought it would benefit the economy to do so. Because of the lower lending
rate, BDET subsequently concluded a standby arrangement with the Government
which would guarantee a minimum operating margin to BDET of 2.5% on the use
of borrowed resources. BDET's operating margin in 1973 was 3.41%, due to two
factors: almost all loans being repaid by customers during the year bore the
old lending rate of 9%, and the Government was not adding a surcharge to new
borrowings from foreign sources (they were passed on to BDET at the net con-
cessionary rate charged the Government). In 1974, however, the margin fell
to 2.94% and in 1975 it is projected at 2.58%, reflecting the full impact of
the disbursement of most of the proceeds of the last two Bank loans which cost
BDET 7.25%.
3.08      At the Bank's urging, an understanding was reached during negotia-
tions to return BDET's interest rate to the 9% level for all customers as of
January 1, 1976, or earlier if possible. The new Bank loan would only be
available for BDET sub-loans denominated at the 9% rate. Since other Tunisian
term lenders will continue to charge 8% and since the Government does not wish
to see BDET's competitiveness jeopardized, it is expected that there will be
a 1% interest rate rebate paid directly by the Government to those resident
(Tunisian-owned) industries borrowing from BDET at 9%. Though the rebate
will not be available for BDET loans to non-resident (foreign-owned) indus-
tries and hotels who will pay the full 9%, 1/ BDET does not think this will
1/   Hotel investors are in any case eligible to receive an interest rate
subsidy of up to 3% from the ONT on their loans.



- 11 -
significantly affect its volume of business since such borrowers will com-
pose only a small portion of projected operations. During negotiations an
informal understanding was also reached that the Government would not permit
use of the standby arrangement. It is the Bank's view that (i) such an
arrangement is not in the best interest of a privately-owned dfc primarily
serving the private sector where independence in operations should be main-
tained, and (ii) BDET's profitability should result from the real spread on
resources used, not on the availability of a Government guar'anteed opereting
margin.
3.09      Tunisia's highly centralized and insulated financial system places
control over foreign exchange transactions in the hands of the Central Bank
which also assumes the attendant risks. In the past, the tight foreign ex-
change position of the country fully justified this exercise of authority
over scarce external resources. Following recent increases in Tunisia's
foreign exchange reserves (para. 2.04), the Central Bank has applied increas-
ingly liberal criteria controlling conversions of Dinars into foreign exchange.
Given the increasing degree of sophistication in the manufacturing and hot@l
industries, most of BDET's customers are qualified to assume the foreign
exchange risk on their loans; for the Central Bank to continue doing so is a
form of subsidy. However, to allow enterprises to carry the risk would in-
volve a complete overhaul of the Tunisian system with many regulatory, admin-
istrative, and financial implications. Before making such major changes, a
study of the consequences is needed. Government authorities have indicated
that they will cooperate, in the context of work on capital market develop-
ment being undertaken by IFC in response to a Goverament request, in an
examination of the foreign exchange risk issue and the domestic interest rate
structure.
Procedures
3.10      Project Appraisal.  BDET's appraisal work has improved during the
past two years. The Projects Department, which is headed by an experienced
and competent director, has more than tripled in size and is now staffed with
fourteen economists and nine engineers, though it should be noted that the
Department's technical staff is conceived of as a pool of experts to be made
available to other departments when needed. The calibre of the staff is good,
though somewhat lacking in experience. The financial analysis and financial
rate of return calculations employed in BDET's appraisals continue to be
satisfactory. Market studies are more accurate and comprehensive than before,
though they still represent the weaker side of the reports. The analysis of
technical aspects has improved. Although there has been marked progress in
BDET's appraisals of manufacturing projects, hotel appraisals are not yet
satisfactory. An informal understanding was therefore reached during negotia-
tions that BDET would recruit additional personnel and institute training
programs in order to improve its tourism appraisal work.
3.11      In November 1973, the Bank provided guidelines for calculating the
economic rate of return (ERR) on projects. Due to the burden of work in
1974, BDET was simply unable to employ this method in its appraisal work.
Two senior members of the Projects Department attended EDI in 1974 and 1975,



- 12 -
and they have begun to introduce practical application of the ERR to their
colleagues. BDET's appraisals of almost all projects submitted to the Board
in 1975 included ERR calculations. Though the application of techniques by
BDET's staff still requires further refinement, these calculations are gen-
erally carried out in a correct manner and constitute a substantial improve-
ment in BDET's appraisal work. During negotiations, an informal understanding
was reached that BDET would apply the ERR to all projects presented to the
Board, i.e. those for which BDET financing exceeds D 200,000.
3.12      Project Supervision.  At the Bank's suggestion, and with the help
of Caisse Centrale pour la Cooperation Economique (CCCE), BDET's control and
supervision functions have been systematized. The four staff members of the
Supervision Division, which is now part of the Projects Department, are grad-
ually gaining experience.   The head of the division has participated in a
Bank-sponsored training program and is presently trying to apply new methods
in supervision to the Tunisian environment. The division obtains, when
necessary, the cooperation and advice of the technical staff in the Projects
Department. Routine supervision visits are supposed to be made to borrowers
with arrears of more than three months and to borrowers to whom BDET's
exposure exceeds D 500,000; lack of manpower, however, does not permit full
execution of this requirement. The quality of the reports prepared by the
division is not yet adequate and is mostly limited to an effort to evaluate
the customers' financial position and to indicate whether insurance and valid
mortgages have been obtained. Possible technical and marketing problems are
generally not analyzed in the reports, although these deficiencies will prob-
ably be corrected as competence and experience improve. The recent record of
supervision visits made is as follows:
Number of      Number of         Number of      Visits as %
Loans        Borrowers       Suprv. Visits   of Borrowers
1973              343             175               20              11
1974              511             273               50              18
BDET management is now aware of the problems and importance of supervision
because of the effect borrowers in difficulty have had on the quality of
BDET's portfolio (see paras. 5.05 to 5.10). As a result, during negotiations
an informal understanding was reached that BDET would recruit additional
personnel and institute training programs in order to strengthen the super-
vision of tourism projects.
3.13      Promotion.  The Promotion Division began its activities in earnest
in 1973 when the staff was doubled, to four persons, the two new employees
having been formerly employed by Centre National d'Etudes Industrielles. The
major promotional effort undertaken on a regular basis has been regional busi-
ness solicitation, and significant progress has been made. BDET sends repre-
sentatives on periodic visits to over 20 towns in Tunisia. During 1974, the
results of business solicitation and promotion by these means were as follows:
254 projects considered (totalling D 14 million) and 45 approved by BDET for
financing of D 3.3 million; of these operations, 33 were loans of less than



- 13 -
D 50,000. In addition, BDET has invested D 135,000 in 33% of the equity of
the Regional Investment Company of Sfax which, in turn, makes local investments.
BDET's promotion on a larger scale, particularly for projects involving foreign
investors, is done in cooperation with API (see para 2.07) as well as through
direct contacts abroad. To conclude, significant improvements have been made
in promotion during the past three years. Given the boom in Tunisia's indus-
trial sector and the flood of business coming to BDET, an increase 4n promo-
tional efforts during the next year or two will not be necessary. In fact,
BDET is besieged with requests for financing and the problem in 1974 and so
far in 1975 has been in selecting those projects which are the most deserving.
3.14      Procurement and Disbursement.  Competitive bidding is practiced by
BDET's customers for civil works contracts of over D 30,000 - D 50,Q000 gen-
erally in accord with criteria established by the Ministry of Public Works;
BDET in turn keeps records on the qualifications and performance of local
contractors. In the procurement of equipment, the majority of BDET's cus-
tomers follow comparative shopping procedures, including notification to
commercial offices and embassies established in Tunisia. Very large projects
are subject to international competitive bidding. The remaining procurement,
particularly for expansion projects of manufacturers, is usually limited by
proprietary considerations. For small and medium-size projects BDET's re-
view is based on experience and comparability. For larger projects BDET
checks into the details of procurement, including the ranking of bidders.
BDET's procedures are satisfactory. Accounting and disbursement systems are
adequate and reflect improvements brought about through the technical assist-
ance of CCCE.
IV. BDET'S OPERATIONS
Characteristics
4.01      At end 1974 BDET's portfolio was composed of 61 investments and
511 loans to 273 borrowers (quality of portfolio is analyzed in paras 5.05
to 5.10). Equity investment opportunities for BDET are limited because pub-
lic sector enterprises dominate the Tunisian industrial sector, because the
capital market is still at an early stage of development, and because private
sector entrepreneurs in manufacturing and hotel businesses prefer to control
ownership through closely held companies when possible. BDET's equity invest-
ments have nevertheless represented 11-13% of its total portfolio over the
past three years. This performance indicates BDET's ability to pick up
share capital when making loans, particularly to new enterprises.
4.02      Characteristics of BDET's loans are shown in the Basic Data and
Annex 6. The degree of foreign exchange financing in overall operations is
determined by the proportion of industrial to hotel lending--the former cate-
gory of project requiring a substantially higher foreign exchange component
than the latter. The mix of industrial and tourism projects directly reflects
the prospects of those sectors respectively (paras 2.05-2.12). The same direct



- 14 -
linkage does not exist, however, between the number of new-versus-expansion
projects and the health of Tunisia's economy; there are too many variables to
generalize on a relationship. Financing of public sector companies constituted
16.5% of loans disbursed and committed but undisbursed as of early 1975, a
proportion well below BDET's 25% exposure limit to the public sector. In 1974,
47% of loan and investment operations approved were for amounts of D 50,000 or
less. This is an increase over the 40% average level of previous years and
reflects BDET's efforts to assist medium and smaller sized manufacturt,:s. The
geographical location of projects approved is a function of the mix in indus-
trial and tourism projects; the fewer hotel loans and investments there are-
the greater the approvals for the Tunis region where industry is still con-
centrated. The dispersion of BDET's financing through many branches of indus-
try (Annex 7) is excellent, with no single branch having more than 11%; further-
more, tourism financing has declined from 50% in 1972 to 41% of total portfolio
at end 1974, which is a welcome development (see para 5.05).
Economic Impact
4.03       In spite of the constraints on equity financing (para 4.01), BDET
has contributed to the development of the capital market by subscribing to
the stock of new companies, introducing established companies to the official
exchange listing, making a market for a variety of securities, and selling to
the public those stocks which have appreciated in value since first acquired
for BDET's own investment portfolio. BDET has placed three bond issues in
the Tunisian market. Finally, BDET acts as a broker for its own customers
trading on the market and ranks among the top two or three brokers in volume
of transactions handled.
4.04       BDET's relative share in term lending by Tunisia's financial sector
has almost doubled over a three year period. As of end 1974 BDET held approx-
imately 40% of the outstanding term loans to manufacturing, 35% of term loans
to tourism, and 11% of term loans to the construction industry. Annex 6 shows
the economic impact of projects financed by BDET. Of the projects BDET approved,
the portion of costs it financed reached a high point of 47% in 1973, due to
the unusual concentration of industrial operations that year. As the Annex
indicates, the average cost per job created actually declined somewhat from
1972 to 1974, in both real and relative terms. The present average of about
$20,000 per job is in line for manufacturing and tourism investments in an econ-
omy like Tunisia's, and creation of almost 12,000 jobs through the projects ap-
approved in 1974 is certainly a noteworthy contribution by BDET to Tunisia's
development. The value added of projects financed by BDET has steadily in-
creased since 1972 and primarily reflects the greater share of manufacturing
compared with tourism projects (the ratio of total investment over gross value
added in the first full year of operation improved from 2.8 in 1972 to 2.0 in
1974). BDET's economic rate of return calculations on projects approved in
1975 showed returns ranging from 18% to 70%. Even after adjusting for the
occasionally optimistic assumptions, the economic rate of return on BDET's
projects is satisfactory.



- 15 -
Evaluation of Performance: A Summary
4.05      The increasing volume of BDET's operations and its contribution
to the development of the economy were particularly noteworthy during the
1972-74 period. Quantitative performance has measured up to Government ob-
jectives and far surpassed BDET's own previous forecasts and the Bank's ex-
pectations. BDET's project financing has shown a healthy diversity in its
characteristics, and the economic impact has been demonstrable. Although
the quality of projects financed by BDET in the manufacturing sector has
been good, this has sometimes not been the case in tourism where sectoral
problems have hampered operations and compounded BDET's deficiencies in
handling hotel projects. BDET has played a significant role in the capital
market through a variety of activities.
4.06      In institutional matters BDET's performance since the previous
Bank loan has been mixed. BDET has proceeded to systematize its promotional
efforts in less developed regions of Tunisia, with good results. It has re-
cruited and trained qualified personnel for appraisal work and also improved
the economic and technical aspects of appraisals. However, there have been
serious deficiencies in supervision, particularly weaknesses in collection of
loan arrears and reluctance to put legal pressure on customers when necessary.
Performance has also not measured up in observing the 15% single exposure
limit or the statutory obligations which pertain to dealings with directors.
Finally, during the previous loan negotiations the Government and BDET expressed
two intentions, requiring joint effort, which have not been translated into
tangible results as yet: validation of mortgages and improvements in the finan-
cial reporting practices of Tunisian companies.
4.07      In managing its finances, BDET's record over the past three years
has also been mixed. The most significant success has been in mobilizing
domestic and foreign resources, within the constraints imposed by authorities.
Faced with booming demand for industrial credit during 1973 and 1974, BDET
tried to satisfy as many requests as possible by greatly increasing its loan
approvals. This was done, however, without firmly securing the resources
needed to finance the new business; as a result, BDET was forced to delay loan
contract signature and disbursements at certain times, to the detriment of its
customers' operations. To avoid this problem, BDET should have slowed down the
pace of its approvals. Furthermore, because of its portfolio difficulties,
BDET should have made much larger provisions in 1972, 1973 and 1974 than it in
fact made; it should also have written off certain loans as losses. This was
not done in order to permit payment of the usual 6% dividend to shareholders
without having to draw on capital and reserves; in effect, from the point of
view of generally accepted accounting principles, BDET's financial statements
in 1972, 1973, and 1974 did not accurately reflect its position. Based on the
auditors' figures, which the Bank has accepted, BDET was in default of the
4:1 debt/equity requirement during the latter part of 1974, though this was
corrected with the capital increase which became effective at the end of the
year. Underlying BDET's financial problems was one significant and very
favorable development: the boom in Tunisia's industrial sector. BDET was
nevertheless too generous in responding to the demand for credit without having
first undertaken the necessary planning of financial resources and making ade-
quate provisions for portfolio risks. Remedies for BDET's institutional and
financial problems have now been agreed upon (paras 8.01-8.02).



- 16 -
V. BDET's FINANCIAL SITUATION
Resource Position
5.01      BDET's equity and term borrowings as of December 31, 1974 are sum-
marized in Annex 8, and conditions for mobilizing resources are described in
paras 2.13-2.16. Equity, including capital subscribed but not paid in,
amounted to 21% of total long term resources. The outstanding amount on the
five Bank loans to BDET as of December 31, 1974 was D 13.4 million and repre-
sented 38% of BDET's total resources and 48% of term borrowings (two years
earlier the Bank's share was 56% and 78%, respectively). BDET's success in
tapping new sources of funds, such as Dinar bonds sold to the Tunisian public
and foreign exchange loans on concessional terms from Qatar, Germany (KfW)
and France (CCCE), is a welcome development. Because of Tunisia's monetary
policy and controls, BDET has not been able to raise domestic resources
through time deposits and re-discounts. Loans from foreign lenders continue
to be restricted to import financing, except for SIDA (Sweden) and Qatar which
permit up to 50% of loan proceeds to be used for local currency requirements,
and CCCE which permits up to 5%. Dinar resources, however, are no longer
restricted to local use, and BDET's borrowers can obtain foreign exchange for
authorized imports using the proceeds of BDET's Dinar loans. Given Tunisia's
healthy balance of payments situation, the distinction between Dinar and
foreign exchange resources is thus no longer significant for BDET's operations.
Current efforts to raise more resources are described in paras 6.04 and 6.05.
Auditors' Reports on BDET
5.02      Since the last Bank loan, BDET has been audited three times, twice
by Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Company and most recently by Arthur Anderson &
Co.  On all three occasions these auditors were assisted by a Tunisian firm,
Cabinet Finor, since Tunisian authorities want to promote the development of
local experience in the accounting profession. During negotiations, the
Government confirmed that it intends to institute regulations which will
foster auditing principles and methods so that, eventually, Tunisian firms
will be qualified to replace foreign firms in performing audits which meet
international standards; the Bank supports this objective.
5.03      After careful examination, the Bank accepted the findings and
recommendations of Peat, Marwick on BDET's 1972 and 1973 accounts and Arthur
Anderson on 1974 accounts. The results of these audits are summarized as
follows:



- 17 -
(D '000)
1972      1973     1974
Total BDET Portfolio Outstanding                      16,411    22.703   35,389
Amount of Portfolio on which auditors
lacked data to form an opinion                       3,010     3,731    7,713
- % of portfolio outstanding                              18%        16%      22%
BDET's total provisions against losses                   100       220       519
Provisions Recommended by Auditors                       534     1 ,268    1X537
- against loans                                     300       885    1,200
- against investments                               134       163       337
- against general risks                             100       220       -
Peat, Marwick's opinion on BDET's 1972 balance sheet was qualified; the state-
ments of earnings, retained earnings and changes in financial position were
not considered to represent fairly the results of operations and changes in
financial position of BDET, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles. The latter observation was made in 1973 and included the balance
sheet as well. Arthur Andersen's audit report on 1974 accounts declined to
give an opinion because of the lack of information on 22% of the portfolio
and because of disagreement with BDET's treatment of deferred taxes, provi-
sions on specific and general risks, and presentation of profits. The dif-
ference between the auditors' findings and the accounts as presented by BDET
for 1972, 1973 and 1974 can be partially explained by the different approach
to accounting matters in the Tunisian environment. 1/ In response to the
Bank's urging, BDET agreed during negotiations that henceforth its Board
members would be given copies of audit reports and that they would be furnished
when available.
5.04      The reason why the auditors were not able to check D 7.7 million of
the loans and investments in BDET's 1974 portfolio is that 96% of this amount
was involved in financing new companies. In Tunisia, corporations are not
required by law to publish financial statements until one full year of opera-
tions has been completed. Since 1972, BDET's loan contracts have nevertheless
required customers to submit provisional financial statements by March 31 and
final statements by June 30; satisfaction of this requirement by all borrowers
will only come about through improvement in BDET's supervision activities
(para 3.12).
1/   For example, provisions are not deductible as an expense under Tunisian
tax law until the material loss on the loan or investment has actually
been taken.



- 18 -
Quality of BDET's Portfolio
5.05      Loan Arrears.  A comparison of the arrears in loan repayments (prin-
cipal + interest) at the end of each of the past three years is shown below
(D '000):
1972    1973   1974
Arrears of over 3 months
Hotels                                       260      560    966
Industry                                      54       90    195
Totals                                  314      650  1,161
Outstanding Principal due on above
Hotels                                     1,643   3,170  5,373
Industry                                     277      325  1,362
Totals                                1,920   3,495  6,735
% of loans outstanding                        13%      18%    21%
The deterioration in loan arrears is due primarily to the difficulties
experienced in Tunisia's tourism sector during 1973 and 1974 (para 2.10) and
to the problems of a number of BDET's hotel customers in particular: 83% of
the arrears over three months past due are from 35 hotel and tourism operators.
The situation was actually somewhat worse than the above figures indicate
since, in 1974, the maturities of 33 loans totalling D 3.5 million were re-
scheduled and affected additional overdue repayments of D 184,000. The effect
of two bad years in a row is now being reversed by the strong resurgence of
tourism in 1975, and it is expected that the better-managed hotels will be
able to liquidate all or a significant portion of their arrears. Furthermore,
BDET is decreasing its exposure in the tourism sector--its hotel loan approvals
declined from 61% of all loan approvals in 1972 to 24% in 1974. As for arrears
from industrial borrowers, they can be considered normal in the Tunisian con-
text and are not cause for any particular concern.
5.06      Loan Security.  BDET's loans to industrial customers are backed by
chattel mortgages which are generally valid and sufficient to cover risks;
only six out of 377 industrial sector loans are to companies in difficulty
against which BDET has collateral of an uncertain value. It is with hotel
borrowers that BDET has a serious security problem. Although chattel mort-
gages are taken, in most cases they do not cover the amount of the loan.
BDET therefore requires, in addition, mortgages on land and buildings; the
majority of these mortgages are not yet valid. Of particular concern in this
category are 33 hotel borrowers who lost money in 1974 and who, with one
exception, are all in arrears. The major reasons why BDET's mortgages on
hotel land and buildings are not valid are: (i) purchase of the land by
hotel investors was not consummated properly; (ii) land in key areas of



- 19 -
tourism development has not been surveyed, so registration of ownership ac-
cording to routine procedures cannot be done; (iii) procedures for obtaining
a mortgage on unregistered land are complicated and can take two years or
more to execute; (iv) if claims are filed by third parties, registration of
mortgages on unregistered land are further delayed by time-consuming adjudica-
tion; (v) when land has been registered, the owner and BDET have not taken
the proper actions prescribed by the land registry in order to validate the
mortgage; and (vi) there are administrative delays in various Government
services.
5.07      During negotiations, BDET agreed that in the future all its loans
in the tourism sector, regardless of size or source of funding, would be
secured either by a valid mortgage or by such other adequate security as
shall be approved by its Board. BDET intends to obtain authorization from
its tourism borrowers to register property for them, if need be; also, it will
only disburse loan funds after evidence has been submitted attesting to a
valid contract of sale between the former owner of land and BDET's customer.
As for its existing tourism loan portfolio, BDET has agreed to take all
measures necessary to validate mortgages on all its outstanding loans to
hotels, vacation villages and other touristic enterprises in accordance with
a timetable and a plan of action acceptable to the Bank; submission of this
timetable and plan is a condition for effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan.
BDET has also confirmed that at least one staff member will be employed full
time on mortgage validation problems; in fact, in early 1974 BDET recruited two
lawyers for this purpose. BDET will submit quarterly reports to the Bank on
the status of its validation efforts. As for the Government's role in solving
mortgage validation problems, some progress in surveying the tourism areas of
Hammamet and Sousse has been made and work will start soon on Djerba; also,
the Topographical Office was recently established to accelerate the process
of land registration. During negotiations the Government confirmed it would
continue its efforts to straighten out the situation with regard to the sur-
vey and registration of land in tourist areas.
5.08      Equity Portfolio.  BDET's equity portfolio as of end 1974 (Annex 7)
had an acquisition cost of D 3.9 million, a book value of D 4.5 million and
an estimated market value of D 5.0 million. As in the past, investments are
about equally divided between the industrial and tourism sectors. Of the 61
companies in which BDET held shares at year end, 15 were quoted on the Tunis
Stock Exchange while the rest were either new undertakings or closely held
companies. The final results of these 61 companies in 1974 were as follows:
26 operated profitably, 14 were in the starting up phase, and 21 lost money
or had other difficulties. Cash dividends on 1974 operations were declared
by 22 of the companies and amounted to D 113,516, producing a yield to BDET
of 3.9% on equity investments; this was somewhat lower than the yield in 1972
and 1973 and was due to the larger proportion of new companies in which BDET
had invested. Capital gains on sales of shares held in 17 companies amounted



- 20 -
to D 149,415. The overall yield on average 1974 equity portfolio, after in-
cluding capital gains, was 7.7%. 1/ This is an adequate return and reflects
a portfolio which is generally sound and has already appreciated substantially
in value over its cost of acquisition.
5.09      Provisions.  The auditors' report on end 1974 accounts pointed out
that about 60% of BDET's outstanding loans are not repaid in accordance with
the customers' contracts. The auditors indicated that losses were likely to
be incurred on loans to 24 customers, with total outstandings of D 4.8 mil-
lion, and that provisions of D 1.2 million should be made. This estimate by
the auditors was made after a detailed examination of the borrowers' financial
condition and included consideration of recovery through liquidation of valid
collateral. In the equity portfolio, the auditors found that 13 investments
had declined D 337,000 below their acquisition cost to BDET and recommended
that provisions be made accordingly. After carefully considering the quality
of BDET's loan and equity portfolio as of end 1974, the Bank endorsed the
auditors' recommendation that BDET should have total provisions of D 1,537,000
against probable losses and that such provisions should be separate from re-
serves and surplus.
5.10      During negotiations, an informal understanding was reached with BDET
that provisions would be defined as "an amount equal to the estimated sum of
probable losses from the non-payment of principal and interest due on loans
or the decline in value of equity investments"--this estimate to be made on
the basis of both specific cases and general risks inherent in the normal
course of operations. During negotiations an informal understanding was
reached about the method for making the estimate of probable losses and for
managing the provisions account. BDET agreed to maintain provisions at an
adequate level, as so determined, and not to declare or pay any dividends
unless adequate provisions have first been set aside. To meet the need for
provisions of D 1,537,000 recommended by the Bank against end 1974 accounts,
the following actions were taken in June, 1975: (i) BDET's shareholders
approved a provisions account of D 538,380; (ii) BDET's Board passed a resolu-
tion that D 431,000 in extraordinary reserves are not distributable and the
Annual Shareholders' Meeting was so informed; and (iii) the Board also resolved
that the blocked reserve of deferred taxes totalling D 538,854 would not be
jeopardized so that, as the funds become eligible for allocation as profits,
they could be transferred to provisions as needed. 2/ The total provisions
1/   Besides equity investments, BDET is active in the capital market where
it earned D 21,000 in interest and capital gains during 1974 through
trading stocks and bonds on a short-term basis.
2/   As of end 1974 BDET had tax-exempt income of D 538,854 which is a non-
distributable reserve accumulated through tax credits derived from in-
vestments in sectors specified under Law 62-75 of December 31, 1962.
The related equity investments must be held for five years before the
offsetting amount in the non-distributable reserve can be released for
allocation as ordinary profit; if sold beforehand the tax exemption is
lost unless the proceeds of the sale are reinvested in other tax-
exempt securities.



- 21 -
thus made (D 1,508,234) are satisfactory to the Bank and are not considered as
being part of BDET's equity. Since BDET only had D 519,000 in provisions on
its books at end 1974, the actions described above resulted in a reduction of
equity by approximately D 1.0 million. Total reserves and provisions on end
1974 accounts amounted to 8.3% of portfolio; this is a safe margin of protection.
Financial Performance and Position
5.11      BDET's audited income statements and balance sheets for 1971-74
are shown in Annexes 9 and 10, and relevant ratios are presented in Annex 11.
Net profit yielded a return on average net worth of 8.6% in 1972, 8.2% in
1973, and 7.4% in 1974. This is rather low: it is primarily due to the
interest rate ceiling imposed on BDET's loans (8-9%), and partially due to
the modest degree of leverage exercised on operations. In 1974, when BDET's
portfolio increased by 56%, net operational income nevertheless declined in
relation to assets because (i) the average cost of borrowed resources went
up; (ii) the effective lending rate went down; (iii) administrative expenses
to handle the greatly increased volume of business were incurred before the
resulting increase in earnings could be realized; and (iv) dividend and capi-
tal gain income declined relative to previous levels. Taxes do not have a
significant impact on BDET's earnings, amounting to only 11% of net profits
in 1974. As an investment company under Tunisian law, BDET's capital gains
and dividends received are exempt from taxes, and taxes are deferred on a
substantial portion of other income. BDET's dividends of 6% on par value
per share (D 0.300 on D 5.000) constitute an adequate return, though below
what some commercial banks in Tunisia pay. Earnings per average share out-
standing in 1974 were D 0.677.
5.12      BDET's profitability as discussed above and shown in the Annexes
does not take into account the auditors' recommendations with regard to pro-
visions against probable losses on loans and equity investments. If BDET
had made provisions in accordance with the auditors' recommendations, it
would have incurred losses in 1973 and 1974 instead of showing profits.
During negotiations an understanding was reached, which BDET subsequently
acted upon, to set aside provisions of approximately D 1.5 million (para
5.10). After deducting from equity (i) the incremental amount needed for
provisions, (ii) the distribution of 1974 profits, and (iii) the subscribed
but not paid-in capital which does not strictly qualify as equity under Bank
Loan Agreements, BDET's end-1974 net worth then declines from the D 8.8 mil-
lion shown in the audited balance sheet to D 6.2 million. The result is that
BDET's term debt/equity ratio, as defined by the Bank, was 4.4 on 1974 ac-
counts and therefore exceeded the 4.0 limit required under the last Bank
loan agreement. However, the Bank agreed to consider the subscribed but
not paid-in capital of D 1.5 million as part of 1974 equity, thus improving
the ratio from 4.4 to 3.5. With these adjustments, provisions amounted to
4.3% of portfolio outstanding at end 1974.



- 22 -
VI. PROSPECTS
Economic Environment
6.01      One of the main objectives of Tunisia's economic development strate-
gy, set forth in the Fourth Plan (1973-76), is to attain an average growth rate
of 7%. For 1975, the projected growth rate for the overall economy is about
10%.  The present momentum of growth is expected to continue into the initial
period of the next 5-year plan (1977-81); however, it is too early in the
preparation stage of the Fifth Plan to make meaningful long-term projections
of macro-economic and sector performance. In the period 1975/76, the princi-
pal cause of growth will be the high level of new investments which are
expected to increase by 18% p.a. in real terms, representing 25% of GDP.
About 82% of investments are projected to be financed out of domestic savings;
about 41% of gross fixed capital formation will come from private enterprises
and households (compared to 33% in the Third Plan period). Increased exports
will also contribute to growth though to a lesser degree than in the past,
partly due to the expected erosion of recent gains in the terms of trade.
For the same reason, the balance of payments' current account will probably
deteriorate, with the consequence that, on the overall balance basis, foreign
exchange reserves will not increase significantly. The debt service burden,
however, should continue to diminish, from 10% of exports in 1974 to less
than 8% in 1976.
6.02      Industry and Mining.  Industrial output, especially in phosphates,
oil, non-food manufacturing, and construction should grow at a faster pace
than originally projected. The volume of industrial output is now estimated
to increase by 14% in 1975. In the manufacturing sector, textiles and chemi-
cals should grow at an exceptionally fast rate in 1975/76 (about 22% p.a.)
due in part to the healthy prospects for foreign investment. Total gross
investment in industry, including mining and petroleum, is projected at D 383
million (32% of total gross fixed capital formation) during the Fourth Plan
period, of which D 160 million (over 13% of total) will be made in manufac-
turing.
6.03      Tourism.  As mentioned in para 2.11, the poor performance of tourism
in 1973 and early 1974 induced the Tunisian authorities to adopt a cautious
attitude toward the expansion of Tunisia's tourist accormmodation capacity.
Accordingly, few new projects, aside from expansions of successful existing
outfits, are likely to obtain official approval in the near future. New
accommodation capacity, which had been originally foreseen to grow from
50,000 to 85,000 beds during the Fourth Plan period, is now expected not to
exceed 66,000 beds by end 1976. In 1977 the rate of hotel investment will
probably pick up again if results in 1976 confirm the resurgence of Tunisia's
tourism industry that has recently occurred. Besides hotels, new investments
in the sector will likely include villas and apartments for rent, or for
sale as condominiums, for which there seems to be growing demand.



- 23 -
Projected Operations and Resources
6.04      BDET's assumptions and projected operations are given in Annexes 12
and 13. The key feature in the projections is the restraint on business
growth over the 1975-1977 period when approvals are to be held down to a
constant of D 30 million each year (cf D 36.6 million in approva's in 1974).
This restraint reflects recognition of the fact that BDET's very rapid growth
of the past three years now needs to be followed by a period of consolidation.
Priority will be given to solving certain portfolio problems (particularly
collecting arrears and validating mortgages), reducing tourism exposure,
making adequate provisions, writing off losses as necessary, increasing pro-
fitability, and establishing closer relations with the many new clients
acquired. Also, BDET is going to have to work hard at raising new resources
sufficient to meet the demand created by the large volume of recent approvals
and commitments. Therefore, increasing business beyond the current level
would not be prudent until late 1977 or 1978, at which time BDET expects it
can once again let its business grow at a normal rate. This prudence and
consolidation are the hallmarks of BDET's medium-term operational strategy.
6.05      Annex 14 shows that BDET has to mobilize D 85.5 million (about
$215 million) over the 1975-77 period, or an average of D 28.5 million per
year 1/. For 1975, 45% of the resources needed have already been obtained
with the remainder expected from the proposed Bank loan and borrowings from
two Arab countries. About half of the funds to be raised in 1976 are fairly
certain, as are about one-third of the 1977 total. BDET should be able to
continue its past success in obtaining funds from the Central Bank and from
bond issues and capital increases; however, rediscount facilities and raising
funds through time deposits will remain only marginal sources of funds. BDET
is also counting on a continuation of assistance from French aid, KfW, and
those Arab countries which have recently made loans to BDET (Qatar, Kuwait,
and Abu Dhabi). In addition, BDET has already under discussion its first
loans from the African Development Bank, Libya, the Saudi Fund, and the Arab
Fund for Economic and Social Development; these sources, plus others, will be
relied upon for D 30 - D 35 million in funding. The proposed Bank loan of
D 8.6 million equivalent ($20 million) would only be about 10% of total
resources raised in the 1975-77 period, a sharp decline from the Bank's
contribution of 38% of total resources employed by BDET at end 1974. This
reduced reliance on the Bank is appropriate in view of BDET's increased
maturity as a DFC and the financing available on more attractive terms from
other sources, particularly the capital surplus Arab countries.
Financial Projections
6.06      During negotiations, an informal understanding was reached on the
procedure BDET will follow to increase its capital between now and 1977. The
1/   In raising fresh resources, the distinction between Dinars and foreign
exchange is no longer of particular significance in the Tunisian environ-
ment (para 5.01).



24
Government accorded BDET an advance of D 2 million in June, t975 whlch is to
be followed by a second advance of D 2 million in 1976. By June 1976, BDET
expects to obtain approval from its shareholders to raise paid--ln capital from
D 6 million to at least D 10 million by end 1977 (subscription. will be in 1976
and the new capital will be called in equal installments in 19T76 and '4977).
This increase in BDET's equity base is needed in order to help msr..  .he debt/
equity ratio as defined by the Bank, which in turn is based on a j:.<m@2t
about what would be a sound capital structure for BDET to maikntin. TLhe Bank
has agreed to consider the two Government advances as equity when calculating
the debt/equity ratio on end 1975 and 1976 accounts. To the ea2tent BDET's
existing shareholders do not exercise their rights during the pra7$sed capital
increase, the two Government advances will be converted into shares to be held
by the public sector shareholders of BDET--thus, in effect, the Gove-z=uent is
acting as subscriber of last resort in bringing about this D 4 million capital
increase. The contractual agreement between the Government and BDET covering
the advances and their conversion has been reviewed by the Bank and is satis-
factory. Hypothetically, if none of the private sector shareholders were to
exercise their rights, the entire D 4 million in advances would be converted
into capital and the public sector's holdings would rise from 30% of BDET's
capital (when D 6 million) to 58% of capital (when D 10 millicn). This is
considered highly unlikely and is, in any case, a matter for the sharaholders
to decide.  Furthermore, the Government and the Bank reached an iforea     l nmder-
standing during negotiations that in the event public sector hlacdingo in BDET
are proportionally increased by end 1977, when subsequent capn tn i2cTrnses
occur, i.e. after 1977, the Government will favor greater oubocription by the
private sector in order to reduce the public sector's holdizge. The effect
which changes in the proportion of public versus private scctor owaership might
have on BDET will be followed clozely by the Bank in the couroS Of on2afVwiion
activities.
6.07      Projected financial statements are shown in Annexes 15, 16, and 17.
Because BDET has agreed to meet the Bank's requirements on provisions and to
take various steps to improve its loan portfolio, an increase in the debt/
equity ratio, as defined by the Bank, from 4:1 to 5:1 is justified and has
been agreed to. This ratio is projected at 4.2:1 on end 1975 accounts when
including the Government's recent advance of D 2 million in the equity base;
at end 1976 the ratio would reach the new limit of 5:1; in 1977 and thereafter
the ratio would exceed the 5:1 limit.  An informal understandiag was reached
during negotiations that the Bank would consider increasing the 5:1 limit on
the basis of progress realized in (i) reducing loan arrears from t'urism
borrowers, (ii) bringing total tourism exposure down to 25% of portfolio out-
standing, (iii) validating hotel mortgages, and (iv) acquiring adequate secur-
ity on new loans.  Reserves and provisions would remain above 5' of average
portfolio during the 1975-79 period, and this should be adequate. Net pro-
fits after taxes are projected to rise from D 869,000 in 1975 to D 1,985,000
in 1979, an increase from 8.9% of average net worth to 11.3%; this will 'D@
a welcome improvement over the 7.4% figure of 1974. Interest coverage would
remain at a constant of 1.4 from 1975 to 1979, which is adequat?. Adminis-
trative expenses, even though increasing 10% per year over the period, are
projected to decline from 1.1% of average total assets to 0.7%.



- 25 -
VII. THE LOAN--ITS OBJECTIVES AND PRINCIPAL FEATURES
7.01      The proposed loan will support BDET's operational strategy in a num-
ber of ways. There is a large resource gap which needs to be filled. Although
a sixth Bank loan of $20 million would only supply about 10% of resources
required over the 1975-77 period, on the basis of recent experience it is
clear that continued association with the Bank Group will facilitate BDET's
efforts to raise new resources on favorable terms from European lenders and
capital surplus Arab countries. Also, IFC membership on BDET's Board is
useful, particularly when there are opportunities to act in concert with
the other foreign shareholders in promoting BDET's interests. BDET is a
maturing DFC, yet there is considerable scope for institution building assist-
ance in appraisal, supervision, and financial practices. Since BDET has made
adequate provisions and is taking steps to cure problem loans and consolidate
its portfolio, it is creditworthy for a sixth Bank loan. The Bank Group will
thus be able to continue exerting influence on BDET's performance and helping
improve operational standards.
7.02      Loan proceeds will be utilized to meet (i) the foreign exchange
cost of directly imported goods and services, and (ii) the equivalent of 70%
of amounts expended for goods previously imported into Tunisia or goods pro-
duced in Tunisia to a substantial extent from components or raw materials so
imported. The loan cannot be used for financing tourism sub-projects. The
foreign exchange risk on BDET's sub-loans will continue to be borne by the
Central Bank, in accordance with current practices in Tunisia. BDET will
re-lend the proceeds of the loan at the rate of 9% and for a period no longer
than fifteen years. In view of the additional provisions taken and efforts
to consolidate the portfolio, it is recommended that BDET's debt/equity limit
as defined by the Bank be raised from 4:1 to 5:1. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, BDET's total exposure to any sub-project will not exceed 20%
of BDET's equity as defined by the Bank. The free limit will be increased
from $400,000 to D 200,000 (equivalent to $467,000) in order to be in
harmony with the limit of BDET's Executive Committee and in recognition of
the effects of inflation since the previous Bank loan. The aggregate free
limit will be $5 million. Both the free limit and the aggregate free limit
are subject to change by the Bank from time to time in accord with BDET's
performance. The estimated disbursement schedule of the loan is shown in
Annex 18. As usual with Bank loans to DFCs, the proposed loan will have a
flexible amortization schedule, to conform substantially with the aggregate
of sub-loan repayments to BDET. Other terms of the loan are those normally
applied to DFC borrowers, including the standard commitment charge.



- 26 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following princi-
pal issues:
(a) exposure limit of 20% on sub-projects (para 3.01);
(b) dealings with directors (para 3.02);
(c) submission of auditors' reports to directors (para 5.03);
(d) adequate security on future loans as well as timetable
and plan of action for validating mortgages on existing
loans (para 5.07);
(e) adequacy and maintenance of provisions and relationship
to dividends paid out (para 5.10);
(f) debt/equity ratio of 5:1 (para 6.07);
(g) use of Bank loan to finance imports, excluding tourism
sub-projects (para 7.02).
8.02      During negotiations, informal understandings were reached on the
following:
(a) exposure limit of 20% to any one company (para 3.01);
(b) timing of submission of projects to Board members (para 3.01);
(c) raising interest rate to 9% (para 3.08) and study of foreign
exchange risk and interest rate structure (para 3.09);
(d) unavailability of standby arrangement on minimum operating
margin (para 3.08);
(e) personnel for tourism appraisal and supervision work (paras
3.10 and 3.12);
(f) applicability of ERR calculation to projects of over D 200,000
(para 3.11);
(g) regulations to foster auditing principles and methods (para
5.02);
(h) employment of staff on mortgage problems, submission of pro-
gress reports, and Government's continuation of efforts re-
garding land registration (para 5.07);



- 27 -
(M) method for estimating and maintaining provisions and amount
to be set aside on 1974 accounts (para 5.10);
(j) procedure for capital increases and treatment of Government
advances (paras 6.06 and 6.07);
(k) conditions pertaining to re-examination of debt/equity
ratio (para 6.07).
8.03      Subject to the condition of effectiveness described in para 5.07,
the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$20 million to Banque de
Developpement Economique de Tunisie, with the guarantee of the Republic
of Tunisia, to be relent to qualified enterprises.






TUNISIA
BANQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT ECONOMIQUE DE TUNISIE
BASIC DATA
(as of December 31, 1974)
Year of Establishment:   1959
Year of Reorganization: 1965
Ownership (as of December 31, 1974)                  Dinars           Percent
Tunisian public institutions                    1,231,235            27.35
Tunisian private banks                            402,188             8.94
Tunisian individuals                            1,052,352            23-39
Total Tunisian                              2,685,775            59.68
Foreign financial institutions                  1,214,225            26.99
IFC                                               600,000            13.33
Total                                       4,500,000           100.00
Resource Position (as of Decemher 31, 197h)      (D '000)
Equity at year end                               8,770
Subordinated Government loan                       615
Other Borrowings                                27,224
Total Resources                             36,609
Loans outstanding                               31,464
Equity investments                               3,925
Total Portfolio                             35,389
Resources Available for Disbursement             1,220
Operations (D'OOO)                                  1972      1973      1974
Approvals
Industry                                         4,289    15,948    27,697
Tourism                                          6,790     2 144      8 994
Totals                                         11,079    1         3
Commitments5
Industry                                         2,868     8,120    13,449
Tourism                                          2,459     3,952      2 283
Totals                                          5,327    12,072
Disbursements
Industry                                         2,008     2,945      5,972
Tourism                                          2,691     2 604      2,502
Totals



Earnings Roeord (percentages)                     1972      1973      1974
Earnings before tax as % of avg. net worth        9.9      8.2       8-.3
Net profit as % of avg. net worth                8.6       8.2       7.4
Cash dividends as % of net profit               44.9      44.8      35.4
Cash dividends as % of par value                  6         6        6
Financial Position (as of December 31, 1974)
Total debt/year end net worth                             4.1:1
Debt/equity (defined in Bank Agreements)                  4.4:1
Reserves and provisions to loan and
investment portfolio                                     8.3%
Interest Rates and Charges
Interest rate on loans., currently charged                   8%
Interest rate on loans as of January, 1976                  9%
Colmitment fee                                               1%
Appraisal fee                                              0.5%
Foreign exchange fee                                       0.5%
BASIC DATA 0 BANK a0OUP LA&1S AND INSTMENTS
A. (Aftus of Bank Loans ($ '000) as-of October 6, 1975
Date of         Rate of   Amorti-   Amount    Commit-   Disburse- Out-
Effectiveness   Interest  zation    of Loan   w"ents       ments      standing
449-TUIN      7/11/66       variable    Std.       5,000     4,722     4,722      1,278
512-TUN.     4/6/68        variable   Std.       10,000      9,292     9,292      4,639
648-TUN       3/31/70       7%         Std.      10,000      9,297     9,297      5,903
798-TUN      4/13/72        7.25%      Std.      10,000      9,664     8,711      7,697
881-TUN      5/24/73       7.25%       Std.      14,000     13,622    11,832     11,158
B. Status of IFC Investments                            (US dollars)      No. of
Equity       Shares
No. 106 TUN Approved 5/10/66                                632,305       60,000
No. 177 TUN Approved 6/2/70                                 575,926       60,000
Total Commitments                                 1,208,231     120,000
Net IFC Co mitments                                       1,208,231      120,000
Less:  Repayments                                             -            -
Held by IFC at 9/15/75                                    1,208,231      120,000
Avg. annual return on IFC equity investment to 9/15/75:         4.40%



TUNISIA: BANQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT ECONOMIQUE DE TUNISIE
Development of the Tunisian Tourism Industry, 1968-75
1968      1969       1970      197        1972      1973       197h       1975 (est.)
Annual investment in the tourism sector        17.0      1h.9       15.?      20.4       23.7       26.0      15.7        9.6
(million of dinars)
Tourism investments as percent of total        12.2      10.1       10.2      11.9       12.0       11.0-      4.9        2.4
gross fixed capital formation
1/
Total bed capacity (beds)                     21009     31691      37185     42996      47824      5[627     56164      58000
Average number of beds per hotel               1)4o       158        170       184        198       215        217
Euploymen t                                    9883     12676      14874     17175      19120     21842      22500      23100
Foreign visitor arrivals (thousands)            330       373        411       608        780        722       716        ...
Foreign visitor Bednights (thousands)          3082      3406       3819      5821       6778      5883       5636
Resident Bednights (thousands)                  262       280        296       297        327        371       408
Foreign visitors average length of stay         9.3       9.2        9.3       9.6        8.7        8.1       7.9
(days)
Occupancy rate (%)                             37.6      32.3       30.7      39.5       41.3      31.8       29.8
3/
Tourism Foreign Exchange Receipts              22.2      26.1       31.6      53.8       67.4       72.1      80.9
(millions of dinars)
Receipts per bed (dinars)                       898       824        849      1251       1409      1320       1440       1465
Tourism Receipts as % of Total                 14.9      15.1i      16.1!     21.2       21.5       20.4      15.b       15.0
Current Receipts
17  Available during the year.                                                                                                    I
2/  Calculated on a 360 days basis, and on total number of beds available during the year.
3/ of which D 2 million relate to 1972.
Source: Office National du Tourisme et du Thermalisme and Ministry of Planning
EMNA/IC&DFC
July 1975



ANNEX 2
TUNISIA: BANQUE DE DEVILOPPEPUNT ECONCUIQUE DE TUNISIE
Selected Interest Rates in Financial Coummity (%)
RESOURCE MOBILIZATION
1/                                          (1967-73)
Domestic Bank Deposits (Max.)                 Cost of Foreign Borrowings (Averages)
Sight Deposits:                     0.5       Suppliers Credits                5.33
Savings Deposits- up to 12 mos:    3.0        Private Banks                    5.04
- 12 to 18 mos:    5.0
- 18 to 24 mos:    6.25      Int'l Organizations               5.82
- over 24 moo:    6.5
Governments                      1 .81
Time Deposits   - up to 6 mos:    1.5
- 6 to 12 os:   3.0
- 12 to 18 moo:   4.5        Domestic Bonds
- 18 to 24 mos:    6.0
- over 24 moo:     7.o         With Govt. Guarantee           5.50
Postal Savings (tax exempt):        4.0         Without Govt. Guarantee        5.75
1/
RESOURCE ALLOCATION
Central Bank Rediscount Rates:                               4.0 - 5.5
(vary according to type of credit)
Non-
Cost of Bank Credit (max.)                              Rediscountable   rediscountable
Overdrafts                                                  7.25              8.0
trade bills - domestic                                  5.75 - 6.50       6.25 - 7.50
- foreign                                   4.75 - 5.75      5.25 - 6.50
Short term                                              5.75 - 6.50       6.50 - 7.50
2/
Medium term - conistrucotion                                 5.5    3/        n.a.
- favored activities                        6.25 - 7.25      7.25 - 8.o
- other                                     7.25 - 8.0       7.75 - 8.0
Long term (over 7 years)                                    n.a.              8.o
1/ Effective since March 21, 1974.
O Only residential construction guaranteed by the Government is eligible at this
rate.
/ Large industrial complexes, agricultural equipment, tourism, investments in
undeveloped regions, and exporting industries are eligible. In addition, tourism
investments are eligible for an interest rate rebate of up to 3% from ONfT.
Source: Central Bank and Ministry of Finance
EMENA/IC&FC
July 1975



ANNIX 3
TUNISIAz BANWE D15 INVIPPEPNKT Nc0NGIIaU    DL TUNISIR
Owner5hip Structure
Situation before
capital increase          Paid in capital            Subscribed capital
of Dscember 1974          at Feb. 21. 1975           at Feb. 71. 1975  l/
Par value   % of          Par value   % of           Par value   % of
of shares capital         of shares capital          of shares capital
Tunisian Governusnt                     50,o50     1.67           388,550     8.63           727,050    12.12
Central Bank                           180,000    6.oo            270,000    6.oo           360,000     6.oo
Government-Controlled Institutions
Banque Nationale de Tmnisie          111,355     3.71           167,023     3.71          222,690     3.71
Societe Tunisienne de Banque          91,150     3.04           136,750     3.04          182,350     3.o4
S.T.A.R.                              83,000     2.77            83,000    1.84            83,000     1.38
Societe Tanisienne de Sucre           59,905    2.00             59,905    1.33            59,905     1.00
Societe Financiere et de Gestion      30,205     1.00           45,282     1.01            60,360     1.00
Societe Nationale du Liege            l8,h20     0.61           27,630     0.62            36,8o0   0.61
S.T.E.G.                              10,000     0.34            10,000    0.22            10,000     0.17
Societe El Bouniane                   10,000     0.34            10,000    0.22            l0,00o     0.17
Raffinerie Tunisienne de Soufre        9,100    0.30              9,100    0.20             9,100     0.15
Lloyd Tunisien                         8,000    0.26              8,ooo    0.18             8,000     0.13
Societe de Transport du Sahel          6,000    0.20             6,o00     0.13             6,ooo     0.10
SIAPE                                  9 995    0.33             .9995    0.22              9.sss     0.17
TOTAL PUBLIC SECTOR          677,180   22.57          1,231,235    27.35        1,785,290    29.75
Tunisian Private Shareholders
U.B.C.I.                             112,520     3.75           168,780     3.75          225,0bO     3.75
Banque de Tanisie                    104,755    3.50            157,133     3.50          209,510     3.50
Union   Internationale de Banques     54,990    1.84             5L,990     1.22          S,990      0.92
C.F.C.T.                               9,360    0.31             9,360     0.21             9,360     0.26
Banque do Sod                          7,950    0.26             11,925    0.26            15,900    0.26
Other private Tunisians, including
bearers'shares                     976.755    32.56         1.052.352    23.39        1.127.950    18.80
TOTAL PRIVATE TUNISIAN     1,266,330    b2.22         1,b5h,5bo    32.33        1,6b2,750    27.39
Foreign Shareholders
Banca Commerciale Italiana Holding    60,000     2.00            60,000    1.33            60,000     1.00
Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken         30,000     l.O0            30,000    o.67            30,000     0.50
Bank for Gemeinwirtschaft             30,000     1.00            30,000    o.67            30,000     0.50
Worms & Compagnie                     11,680     0.38            11,680    0.26            11,680     0.19
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique                         180,000    6.00            270,000    6.oo           360,000     6.oo
FRAB-BANK                             b5,000    1.50             67,500    1.50            90,000     1.5o
Banque Nlationale de Paris            36,360    1.22             h8,160     1.07           59,960     1.00
B.A.I.I.                               --         --             37,500     0.83           75,000    1.25
Caisse de Depots at Consignations     30,000    1.00             45,000    1.00            60,000     1.00
Kuwait Investment ComPany              --         --            180,000    4.00           360,000     6.oo
Libyan Arab Foreigm Bank               --         --           210,000     4.67           420,000     7.00
Dantecbe Itwicklu6gi se3lh2ft          --         --            180,000    b.00           360,000     6.oo
Other foreign private shareholders    33.b5o     1.11           b44.385    0.99            55.320     0.92
TOTAL FOREIGN OTHER THAN IFC       [56,h90    15.21         1,21L,225    26.99        1,971,960    32.86
International Finance  Corporation     600000   20.00            600.000    13.33           600,000    10.00
TOTAL                      3,000,000   100.00         4,500,000   100.00         6,000,000   100.00
3/ Subscribed and not paid-in shares, amounting to D 1.5 million, are expected to be caUled within 1975.
ElA/ICiFC
July 1975



ANNEX 4
TUNISIA: BANQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT ECONOMIQUE DE TUNISIE
Board of Directors and Executive Committee.
(as of September, 1975)
Habib Bourguiba, Jr. *               President General Manager of Banque de Developpe-
ment Economique de Tunisie
Mokhtar Fakhfakh *                   General Manager of Banque de Developpement
Economique de Tunisie
Fawzi Habib *                        International Finance Corporation
Moncef Belkhodja *                   President General Manager of
Banque Nationale de Tunisie
Habib Ghenim *                       President General Manager of Societe Tunisienne
de Banque
Abdesselam Ben Ayed *                Group of Banque Nationale de paris
Hassen Zghal *                       Central Bank
Taoufik El Karoui *                  Ministry of Finance
Yves Roland Billecart                Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
Christof Rotberg                     Deutsche Entwicklungsgesellschaft
Fouad El Bahr                        Kuwait Investment Company
Abdallah Ammar Saoudi                Libyan Arab Foreign Bank
Rachid Ben Yedder *                  Shareholder
Ezzedine Ben Achour *                Shareholder
Ali 4'Heni *                         Shareholder
* Also a member of BDET's Executive Committee
1/ Salem Fathallah (Ministry of Finance) attends Board and Executive Committee
meetings as an observer.
EhENA/IC&DFC
September 1975



TUNISIA: BANQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT ECONOMIQUE DE TUNISIE
PRESIDENT AND GENERAL MANAGER
PRESIDEMr. Habib Bourguiba, Jr.
MANAGEMENT ADVISER                                  GENERAL MANAGER                                   SECRETARY AND
Mr.AGEMENT CrViSfR _ _ _ _ -                        GENERAL MANAGER                 * _ _ _ _  MANAGEMENT ADVISER
Mr. Crifo                     .                        _ Mr. Mokhtar Fakhfakh           .              Mr. Farhat
rmm= m - mm m q
I~___                                                _    __            _         I                                       _    _   _    _    _
PROJECTS                          INVESTMENTS                       TREASURER'S                          Personnel
PROMOTION                      DEPARTMENT                        DEPARTMENT                        DEPARTMENT                           and Supply
Mr. Brigui                        M  E Goulli                       Mr. Belkhodja
Promotion                        Appraisal                          Security                        Treasury and                        Internal
1   Department   )     m         Division          l     m          Analysis         l     7        Bookkeeping                         Auditors
Division___________Division
J   Statistics  l     j        Supervision       l     2          Stock             l     2       Disbursements                 Secretariat
Division            l               Division          l     mExchange                   l              Division            l      lto Board and Committees|
_   Technical          _       Representation                    Legal & Collection                  Operational
_Division                    _       Division                  _      Division                    _Reports 
Total Staff
Management         2
Professionals     51
Non-professionals  90                                                                                                                World Bank-9009(2R)
143



ANNEX 6
TUNISIA:  BAN2UE DE DEVELOPPEMENT ECONOMIQUE DE TUNISIE
Characteristics of Operations and Economic Impact
1972          1973           1974
Number of Operations Approved                     80            129           190
Amount of Approvals (D'OOO):                  11,079         18,092        36,691
Dinars                                           48%            27%           33%
Foreign Exchange                                 52%            73%           67%
Loans                                            93%            94%           93%
Equity Participations                             7%             6%             7%
Industry                                         39%            88%           75%
Tourism                                          61%            12%           25%
New Projects                                     44%           40%            39%
Extension Projects                               56%            51%           61%
Cost of Projects Approved (D'OOO):            36,935        38,426         97,179
Portion Financed by BDET                         30%           47%            38%
Number of Jobs Created                        4,388         5,226         11,980
Average Cost per Job                         D8,417        D7,353        D 8,111
Gross Value Added  1/ (D'0OO)                13,350        15,821         49,605
Capital Output Ratio  2/                      2.8:1         2.4:1          2.0:1I
Amount of Approvals by Region (%)
Tunis                                            33             58            50
Sousse                                           34            11             24
Sfax                                              4             14             9
Cap Bon                                          20              1             6
Gabes                                             3              8             2
Other                                             6              8             9
100%          100%           100
1/ In first year of full operation.
2/ Total project cost divided by gross value added in first year of full operation.
EMENA/IC&DFC
July 1975



TUNISIA: BANQUE DE DEVELOPPEHNT ECONOMIQUE DE TUNISIE
Outstanding Loans and Eauity Investments
December 31 1974
(Dinars)
LOANS
Equity                     TOTAlS
Medium term         Long term         Investments
Number   Amount    Number   Amount    Number    Amount           Number        Amount
Industry
Mechanical, Electrical         7      50,800        28    1,602,941    5        185,511        40 (7%)    1,839,252 (5%)
and Metal Working
Construction and               25     777,700       46    2,825,624    5         351,272        76 (13%)   3,954,596 (11%)
construction materials
Chemical                        3      35,200       18    1,349,725   10         918,800        31 (6%)    2,303,725 (6%)
Food and Beverage              25     126,514       63    3,402,941    4        277,745         92 (16%)   3,807,200 (10%)
Textiles and Apparel            8     1144,512      57    2,477,769    3         91,161         68 (12%)   2,713,442 (8%)
Wood and Cork                   1      11,259       12    1,415,703    6        173,219         19 (3%)    1,600,181 (5%)
Plastic, Leather                2     149,145       10       545,393    5       232,412         17 (3%)       926,950 (3%)
and Rubber
Transport                       7     342,154        2    1,018,606    2         48,122         11 (2%)    1,408,882 (4%)
Other                         14      362,072       49    1,768,547    7        250,769         70 (12%)   2,381,388 (7%)
Tourism                       28   1,034,672       106   12,022,888   14      1,395,567        148 (26"0)  14,453,127 (41%)
Totals            120   3,034,028       391   28,430,137   61      3,924,578        572 (100%) 35,388,743 (100%)
Undisbursed Balance of
Loans Committed                                                                                        22,321,900
EMENA/IC&DFC
July; 1975



ANNEX 8
TUNISIA:  BANQUE de DEVELOPPEMENT ECONOMIQUE de TUNISIE
Long-Term Resources as of December 31, 1974
(D '000)
Year           Repaymant
Net Amount     Interest      Contracted          Period
Borrowings
Government                    615            Nil          1965            1980-1.995
Central Bank                  110             5%          1967             1970-1981
Bond Loans  (public)        1,801            5-3/4%       1973             1973-1983
Bond Loans (Central Bank)   2,100            5-1/2%       1974             1975-1984
CNSS (Caisse Nationale
de Securite Sociale)         181            4%           1964            1967-1979
IBRD  - 449J-TUN              776          Variable       1966             1967-1984
512-TUN            2,716         Variable        1967            1969-1984
648-TUN            3,193            7%           1969            1971-1987
798-TUN            2,677            7-1/4%       1972            1973-1986
881-TUN            4,013           7-1/4%        1973            1974-1988
SIDA First Loan             1,291            4%           1967             1972-1987
Second Loan            2,797            3%           1970            1975-1990
Third Loan               720            3%           1973            1978-1993
Qatar Loan                  4,226            3%           1974             1979-1988
KFW                            236           5%           1974             1984-2003
French Aid                    387         3 & 6-1/2%      1974            1980-2000
Sub-total                27A839
Equity
Share capital paid in       4,500                     1966 - 1975
Share capital sub-
scribed                    1,500                         1975
General reserve &
surplus  1/                   76
Legal reserve                   96
Premium on capital
subscriptions                750                     1971 and 1974
Government grant              500                         1964
Sub-total                72422
Total long-term
resources                35,261
1/ Reserves and surplus remaining after deducting employes' social fund,
deferred taxes, and extraordinary reserves of D 431,000 which are blocked
as provisions.
EMENA IC&DFC
July 1975



ANNEX 9
TUNISIA: BANQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT ECQNOMIQUE DE TUNISIE
Audited Income Statements,1970-1974
(D '000)
1970      1971      1972      1973      1974
INCOME
Interest on loans and advances          612.9      834.0  1,092.0   1,372.5   2,039.3
Interest on deposits                     57.7     123.2      109.4     113.5      80.6
Dividend income                          52.8       58.8     117.2    U12.9      120.4
Capital gains                              -        15.7     100.6    1i48.6    154.7
Other Income                            118.5    100.5       159.9     153.2     209.3
Total                              t41.9   1,132.2   1,579.1  1,900.7  -264.'3
EXPENSES
Interest on deposits                     27.0      18.9       12.6       7.6       7.1
Interest on borrowings                  391.3    562.4-   714.3        894.o  1,166.5
Administrative expenses                 235.0     187.9      304.7    437.4    626.4
Depreciation                              8.6      20.2       28.9      39.5      32.9
Total                              61.9      789.74   1,060.5   I,37 .5   1,832.9
Net operational income                   180.0     342.8 -   518.6      522.2     771.4
Plus:  Government subsidy                 -         -          -         -         -
Less: Provisions for doubtful loans       -         -         (60.0)   (120.0)  ( 200)
Profit before tax                       180.0     342.8     458.6    402.2    571.4
Current taxes                            46.3       71.5      64.0      39.0      63.4
Other tax adjustments                     -        13.7      (6.6)    (39.0)       -
NET PROFIT  1/                          133.7     257.6    400.6    402.2    508.0
Allocation of profits
Dividends                                90.0    180.0    180.0        180.0    180.0
Reserves and surplus 1/                  30.8      64.7    178.2       177.7    254.1
Social Fund                              12.5      12.5      42.o      42.0       70.0
Carried forward                           0.4       0.4       0.4        2.5       3.9
1/ Deferred taxes are included in net profit and are allocated to reserves (see footnote
on page 21 ).
EMENA/IC&DFC
August 1975



ANNEX 10
TUNISIA: BANWUE DE D VELOPPENENI ECOhOMIQUE DE TUNISIE
Audited Balance Sheets, 1970-1974
(D '000)
As of Deceber 31:         1970      1971       1972      1973      1974
ASSETS
Cash and bank deposits             2,445     3,408     3,215     1,994     6,143
Accounts receivable                  923       266       534       408       441
Accrued income from loans            445       219       619       699     1,237
Short-term investments                30        26        51        92         72
Capital subscribed, not paid-in                                      -    1.500
Current Asaets                  3.84       4.319     4.)19     3.19      2,9
Nedium- and long-term loans        9,068    11,588    14,398    19,794    31,464
Equity Investments                 1,907     2,005     2,013     2,908     3,925
Total Portfolio                10,975    13,593    16,411    22,702    35,389
Less: Provisions for losses       (4o        (40)     (100)     (220)     (519
Not Portfolio                  10935    13553    16,311    22,482    34,870
Goverment aecurities                  25        23        19        18        16
Fixed Assets (net)                   66         96       120       145       199
Established Costs (net)               11        17         2         _         _
Total Assets                    14,880    18,008    20,878    25,838    44, 478
LIABILITIES
Deposits                          1,983      2,531     2,700     4,150     5,969
Accounts payable                  1,563        720       891     1,370     1,899
Current Liabilities             3,546      3,251     3,592     5,520     7,868
Long-tenm borrowings:
Bond loans                          -        -          -      1,000     3,900
IBRD                            6,497      8,191     9,710    10,271    13,375
CNSS                              337        300       263       223       182
BCT                               155        155       1140      125       110
SIDA                              942        953     1,794     3,097     4,808
Subordinated Gov't Loan           615        615       615       615       615
Qatar                                          -        -         -       4,226
CCCE                                _                             -        387
KFW_ -                                         -        -         -        236
Long term liabilities          8,546    10,214    12,522    15,332    27,839
Share capital                     1,500      3,000     3,000     3,000     4,500
Governeent grant                    500        500       500       500       500
Reserves and surplus                 788     1,043     1,264     1,486     2,271   3/
Capital sub'd, not paid-in           -          _         _                1.50
Equity                                     7.76 4  
Total Liabilities               14,880    18,008    20,878    25,838    44,478
1/  Includes capital which was paid in as of February 21, 1975.
2/ After accounting for actions taken in June, 1975 to allocate profits and to set aside
adequate provisions and after deducting the employes' social fund, actual reserves
and surplus were D 922,000 and were composed of premium on capital subscriptions
(D 750,000), legal reeorYse (D 96,000) and general reserves and surplus (D 76,000).
As of June, 1975 the provisions therefore amounted to D 1,508,234.
EMENA IC&DFV
August 1975



ANNEX 11
TUNISIA: BANRUE DE DEVELOPPDEINT ECONOMIDUE DE TUNISIA
Performance Indicators, 1971-1974
1971     1972     1973     1974
Profitabil      1/
Net profit as % of avg. net worth                       7.0      8.6      8.2      7.4
Earnings before tax as % of avg. net worth              9.4      9.9       8.2      8.3
Cash dividends as % of net profit                      69.9    44.9    44.8    35.4
Cash dividends as % of par value share                  6        6        6        6
Book value share as % of par value                      151      159      166      162
Earnings per avg. share outstanding {D)                .572     .668     .670      .677
Operations
Gross income as % of avg. total assets                  6.9      8.1      8.1      7.4
Admin. expenses as % of avg. total assets               1.1      1.6      1.9      1.8
Financial expenses as % of avg. total assets            3.5      3.7      3.9      3.3
Admin. expenses per professional staff (D'OOO)          5.2      8-5      9.9     12.3
Dividends and capital gains as % of avg.
equity portfolio  2/                                  3.8    10.6      10.3      7.9
Loan income as % of avg. loan portfolio                 8.1      8.4      8.0      7.9
Volume of approvals per professional
staff (D'OOO)                                        140       308      411      719
Cost of term debt as % of avg. term debt                6.o      6.3      6.4      5.4
Year-end professional staff                              36       36       44       51
Financial Structure 1/
Total debt/year end net worth                           3.0      3.4      4.2       4.1
Long term debt/year end net worth                       2.2      2.6      3.1      3.2
Debt/oquity  _Wefined in Bank Agreements)               2.1      2.7      3.8      4.4
Provisions as % of total portfolio                      0.3      o.6      1.0      1.5
Interest coverage                                       1.6      1.7      1.6      1.8
Year-end total assets (D'000)                        18,008   20,878   25,838   44,478
Year-end share capital and reserves                   4,510    4,718    4,699    7,140
1/  Profitability and financial structure ratios are based on share capital of
D 6.0 million and 1.2 million shares, except for calculation of debt/equity
as defined in Bank Agreements since D 1.5 million in capital (300,000 shares)
were subscribed but not paid in as of end 1974.
2/ A small portion of dividends and capital gains are derived irom short-term
dealings in the stock market and bond trading; they are included in calculation
of yield on investments.
EMENA/IC&DFC
August 1975



ANNEX 12
TUNISIA: BANQUE DE DEVELOPPEENT ECONOMIQUE DE TUNISIE
Assumptions Underlying Projected Operations, 1975-1979
1.  Operations will be voluntarily held back to a more or less constant level
of D 30 million in approvals during 1975, 1976, and 1977 (compared to
D 36.7 million in approvals in 1974). The reason for this Relf-restraint
is the need to mobilize sufficient resources to meet the current and
future demand for financing.  The normal rhythm of growth will Se restored
in 1978 and 1979.
2. New tourism loans and investments will be held down to about 15% of
approvals during 1975-77 because of the need to resolve current problems
in BDET's tourism portfolio, and because the Government has in any case
decided to restrict the creation of new hotel capacity until existing
capacity is effectively exploited. BDET's goal is to reduce tourism to
25% of its total financing portfolio.
3.  The 25% overall limit on exposure to public sector enterprises will be
retained.
4. Projections are in constant 1974 Dinars and do not account for inflation.
5. BDET's lending rate for borrowers will be increased from 8% to 9% as of
January, 1976; other charges will remain the same.
6. Adequate provisions will be made in accord with agreements concluded
with the Bank and will not be considered part of equity.
7. Administrative expenses will increase approximately 10% per year and will
result in strengthening of staff, since operations will not increase
in the same proportion.
8. The conversion of loan approvals into commitments will be according to
the recent pattern: 10% of approvals are canceled, 30% result in commit-
ments the year approved, 50% in the following year, and 10% in the second
year after the year of approval. Loan commitments will be disbursed as
follows: 55% in the year of commitment, 35% the following year, 10% in
the second year after the year of commitment.
9. Equity investment approvals will be subscribed as follows: 50% in the
year of approval, 40% in the following year, and 10% in the second year
after approval. Disbursements will be 80% during the year of subscrip-
tion and 20% the following year.
10. The gross operating margin on borrowed funds is projected at 21.
11. Dividends will continue to oe paid at 6, of par value.
EVENA/IC&I)FC
September 1975



ANNEX 1 3
TUNISIA: BANQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT ECONOMIQUE DE TUNISIE
Projected Operations, 1975 - 1979
(D '000)
1974        1975       1976      1977      1978      1979
(actual)
APPROVALS
Loans
Industry            26,316       25,200     25,200    25,200    28,700    32,300
Tourism              7,700        3,300      3,300    3,300    3,800    4,200
Sub-total   34,016       28,500     28,500    28,500    32,500   36,500
Investyments
Industry             1,382        1,000      1,000    1,000      1,700     2,300
Tourism              1,293          500        500       500       800    1,200
Sub-total    2,675        1,500      1,500     1,500     2,500    3,500
Overall Financing
Industry            27,698       26,200    26,200    26,200   30,400   34,600
Tourism              8,993         MOO    _3,800    3,800    44,600    5 5,400
TOTAL       36,691       30,000    30,000   30,000    35,000   40,000
COMTETS
On all operations    15,732      28,350     28,500    28,650    26,850   30,050
DISBURSEMENTS
On all operations    8,474       23,294    29,097    27,417    26,594   28,496
EMENA/IC&DFC
September 1975



ANNEX 14
TUNISIA: BANQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT ECONOMIQUE DE TUNISIE
Projected Resource Needs, 1975-77
(D'O00)
1974
A. Balance of uncommitted resources as of Dec. 31, 1974                           1,250
1975
B. Total Commitments during 1975:                   28,350
C. Resources being mobilized
Central Bank                                                   3,000
Bond Issue                                                    2,000
Kuwait Fund                                                   3,675
Abu Dhabi I                                                   1,323
Capital increase, p id in                                     1,500
Government advance_                                           2,000
IBRD VI                                                       8,600
Saudi Fund                                                    3,175
Abu Dhabi II                                                  6,350
Self-generated                                                  300
Sub-total                                               31,923
D.  Resource Balance:  A + C - B                                                  4,823
1976
E.  Total Commitments during 1976:                  28,500
F. Projected Resources
Central Bank                                                  3,000
Bond Issue                                                    2,000
Government advance!/                                          2,000
African Development Bank                                      2,700
French aid                                                    3,500
Kfw II                                                        1,600
Qatar,  Libya and others                                      6,200
Self-generated                                                  350
Sub-total                                               21,350
G. Resource Balance (gap):  D + F - E                                            (2,327)
1977
H.  Total Commitments during 1977:                  28,650
I. Projected Resources
Central Bank                                                  3,000
Bond tssue                                                    2,000
Kuwait Fund                                                   4,ooo
African Development Bank                                      2,700
Other sources                                                19,500
Self-generated                                                  500
Sub-total                                               31,700
.T. R-pource Balance:  G + I - H
1/ This will be ccnverted into capital (see para 6.06 of text)
EVENA/IC&DFC
September 1975



ANNEX 15
TUNISIA:  BANQUE de DEVELOPPEMENT ECONOMIQUE de TUNISIE
Projected Income Statements, 1975-1979
(D '000)
1975      1976       1977       1978      1979
INC OME
Interest on loans and advances    3,578        5,317     7,113      8,569     9,796
Interest on deposits                   95        100       105        110        115
Dividend income                       157        217        268       311        367
Capital gains                          99        112        124       137        149
Other Income                           15         15        15         15         15
Total                          3,944     7,761      7,625      9,142    10,442
EXPENSES
Interest on deposits                   10         11        12         13         14
Interest on borrowings              2,249     3,521      4,740      5,678     6,532
Administrative expenses               600        660       730        800        880
Depreciation                           40         40        4O         40         40
Other                                  11         12        13         14         15
Total                          2,910     4,2443 ,35                      7,hSl
Net Operational Income              1,034     1,517      2,090      2,597     2,961
Less Provisions                       126       155        232        256        320
Profit before tax                     90o        3 788              2,341      2,6
Tax                                    39        256       518        601        656
NET PROFIT                            869     1,106                 1,740  01985
Allocation of Profits
Dividends (at 6%)                     27G        360       480        600        720
Reserves and surplus                  502        746        800     1,140      1,235
Other                                  97         -         60        -           30
RATIOS
Net Profit as % of
avg. net worth                      8.7        8.7       9.3       11.3      11.3
Interest Coverage                     1.4        1.4       1.4        1.4        1.4
Adm.in. Expenses as %
avg. total assets                   1.1        0.8       0.7        0.7        0.7
EVENA/IC&DFC
Septeimber 1975



ANNEX 16
TUNISIA: BANQUE de DEVELOPPEMENT ECONOMIQUE de TUNISIE
Projected Cash Flow, 1975-1979
1975       1976        1977       1978        1979
SOURCES
Net profit before taxes and
provisions                           1,034      1,517       2,090      2,597       2,961
Depreciation                             140         40          40         40          40
Cash Generated                   1,0714 1557             2,130      2,637       3,001
Share Capital increase, paid-in        1,500        -           -          -         3,000
Government Advanced/                   2,000      2,000         -          -           -
Term Borrowings                       20,800     26,700      23,000     20,000      17,000
Loan collection                        3,779      5,279       8,482     11,836      14,448
Sales from equity portfolio              350        400         420        500         550
Other                                      2          2           2          2           2
Total                           29,505      35,938     34,o64      34,975      38,001
APPLICATIONS
Loan Disbursements                   23,294      29,097      27,417     26,544      28,496
Purchase of Equity                     1,851      1,684       1,524      1,900       2,720
Repayment of Borrowings                3,173      3,961       4,139      <14,987     4,963
Dividends Paid                           270        360         480        600         720
Income tax                                39        256         518        601         656
Increase in fixed assets                 -           20          30         40          40
Other                                      5          5           5          5           5
Increase (decrease) in Cash Flow         873        555         (49)       298        401
Total                           29,505      35_938     34,064      34,975     38,001
1/  Share capital is to be increased by an amount equivalent to the two
Government advances--to be carried out by conversion and/or additional
subscriptions, in two equal tranches to be paid in during the course of
1976 and 1977.
EMENA/IC&DFC
September 1975



ANNEX 17
TUNISIA: BANJJE DE DEVELOPPfEMNT ECONOMIJJE DE TUNISIE
Projected Balance Sheets, 1975-1979
(D '000)
1975       1976      1977         1978       1979
ASSETS
Current Assets                     8,804      9,359       9,310       9,608      10,009
Medium- and long-term loans       51,530     75,348      94,283     109,051     123,099
Equity Investments                 5,431      6,720       7,799       9,204      11,379
Total Portfolio                 56,961     82,068     102,082     118,255     134,478
Less:  Provisions for losses      (736)      (891)    (1,123)      (1,379)     (1,699)
Net Portfolio                   56,225     81,177     100,959     116,876     132,779
Government securities                 14         12          10           8           6
Fixed Assets (net)                   159        139         129         129         129
Total Assets                    65,202    90,687      110,408    126,621      142,923
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities                8,614      8,614       8,61.4      8,614       8,614
Long-term borrowings \OiY         45,315     68,054      86,975     102,048     115,085
share.capital                      6,ooo      8,000      10,000      10,000      12,000
Government grant                     500        500         500         500         500
Reserves and surplus               2,773      3,519       4,319       5,459       6,694
Government advance                 2,000      2,000         -           -           _
Equity                          11,273     14,019      14,819      15,959      19,194
Total Liabilities               65,202     90,687     110,408     126,621     142,923
RATIOS
Term Debt/Equity                  4.0        4.8        5.9         6.4         6.0
Term Debt/Equity as defined
by Bank                 7      4.2         5.0       5.8         6.3         5.9
Reserves and Provisions as
% of average portfolio          5.4        6.3       5.9          6.2        6.6
MTENA/I5C&D FC
Septe-ther 1975



ANNEX 18
TUNISIA: BANQUE de DEVELOPPEMENT ECONOMIQUE de TUNISIE
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements 1/
Cumulative Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter                       at end of Quarter (US$'000)
1976
March 31, 1976                                                  500
June 30, 1976                                                2,000
1977
59eptember 30, 1976                                          4,000
December 31, 1976                                            6,ooo
March 31, 1977                                               8,000
June 30, 1977                                                9,000
1978
September 30, 1977                                          10,000
December 31, 1977                                           11,000
March 31, 1978                                              12,000
June 30, 1978                                               13,000
1979
September 30, 1978                                           14,000
December 31, 1978                                           15,000
March 31, 1979                                              16,000
June 30, 1979                                               17,000
1980
September 30, 1979                                          18,000
December 31, 1979                                           19,000
March 31, 1980                                              19,500
June 30, 1980                                               20,000
1/ Estimated date of effectiveness is February 1, 1976; final date
for sub-project commitments is June 30, 1977 and closing date
of loan is June 30, 1980.
Source: 1'ission Estimates
EMENA/IC&DFC
September 1975



