CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1189 TUN
Loan Agreement
(Sixth Development Finance Company Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
BANQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
ECONOMIQUE DE TUNISIE
DATED JANUARY 26, 1976


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1189 TUN
Loan Agreement
(Sixth Development Finance Company Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
BANQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
ECONOMIQUE DE TUNISIE
DATED JANUARY 26, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 26, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and BANQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT ECONOMIQUE DE TUNISIE (hereinafter
called the Borrower), a SocietM Anonyme established and operating under the laws
of Republic of Tunisia.
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule
2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in the Loan Agreement, unless the context
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:
(a)   "sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be mac by
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment Enterprise for
an Investment Project and "free-limit sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as so defined,
which qualifies as a free-limit sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02(b)
of this Agreement.
(b)   "investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan made or
proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan in an
Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project.
(c)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which the Borrower
proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which it proposes to make or
has made an investment.
(d)   "Private Investment Enterprise" means an Investment Enterprise which
is controlled by private investors.


﻿4
(e)   "Investment Project" means a specific industrial development project
(excluding, but without limitation, investments in hotels, vacation villages or other
tourism or rezreational facilities) to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise
utilizing the proceeds of a sub-loan or investment.
(f)   "Dinars" and "D" mean the currency of the Guarantor.
(g)   "foreign currency" means any currency other than the currency of
the Guarantor.
(h)   "Statuts" means the Articles of Incorporation of the Borrower as the
same may be amended from time to time with the approval of the Bank.
(i)   "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending and investment
policy of the Borrower approved by the Directors of the Borrower on July 4,
1966, as the same may be amended from time to time with the approval of the
Bank.
(j)   "Prior Loan Agreement" means any outstanding loan agreement
between the Bank and the Borrower dated before the date of this Agreement and
"Prior Loan" means any loan provided for therein.
(k)   "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the
outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively
controlled by the Borrower or by any one or more subsidiaries of the Borrower
or by the Borrower and one or more of its subsidiaries.
(1)   "Government   Agreement"   means, collectively  and  separately,
Convention No. I and No. 2 dated November 16, 1965, and No. 3 dated
March 23, 1966, between the Guarantor and the Borrower as the same may be
amended from time to time.
(m)   "Special Procedure Transaction" means a transaction to obtain a loan
or an investment whether such loan or investment is made or is to be made by
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan or not, between on the one hand
the Borrower and on the other hand (i) a Director of the Borrower, either directly
or indirectly through a third person or entity, or (ii) an enterprise owned by a
Director of the Borrower or in which such Director is a partner, a manager, a
Director or a Managing Director.
(n)   "An enterprise owned by a Director" means an enterprise in which
a Director of the Borrower owns or controls, directly or indirectly one third or
more of the capital.


﻿5
(o)   "Commissaire aux Comptes" means the person referred to under Title
V, Article 30 of the Statuts.
(p)   "Director" means a member of the Board of Directors of the Borrower
referred to under Title III of the Statuts.
(q)   "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of the Borrower
referred to under Title III of the Statuts.
(r)   "Commercial Code" means the Guarantor's Code de Commerce as
promulgated by the Guarantor's Law No. 59-129 of October 5, 1959, as the same
may be amended from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to. an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower may withdraw from the Loan Account:
(i)        amounts expended (or if the Bank shall so agree, required to
meet expenditures to be made) by the Borrower under a sub-loan
or investment to finance the reasonable cost of goods (other
than of goods referred to in clause (ii) of this paragraph) and
services required for the Investment Project in respect of which
the withdrawal is requested; and
(ii)       the equivalent of seventy per cent (70%) of amounts expended
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, required to meet expenditures
to be made) by the Borrower under a sub-loan or investment
to finance the reasonable cost of goods purchased as set forth
in paragraph (c) of this Section;
provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be made in respect of a sub-loan or
investment unless; (A) the sub-loan or investment shall have been approved by
the Bank; or (B) the sub-loan shall be a free-limit sub-loan for which the Bank
shall have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account.
(b)   A  free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan to a Private Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the


﻿6
proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of (i) D200,000 equivalent,
when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan or of any Prior Loan for such Investment Project
or (ii) $5,000,000 equivalent, when added to all other free-limit sub-loans financed
or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the foregoing amounts
being subject to change from time to time as determined by the Bank.
(c)   It is hereby agreed, pursuant to Section 5.01 of the General Conditions,
that withdrawals from the Loan Account may be made on account of expenditures
in the currency of the Guarantor, but only for goods previously imported into
Tunisia through normal trade channels, or goods produced in Tunisia to a substantial
extent from components or raw materials so imported, and purchased by an
Investment Enterprise to carry out an Investment Project.
(d)   Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures made in respect of a sub-loan
subject to the Bank's approval, or in respect of an investment, if such expenditures
shall have been made (i) by an Investment Enterprise before the date of this
Agreement or more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall
have received in respect of such sub-loan or investment the application and
information required by Section 2.03(a) of this Agreement or, (ii) by a Private
Investment Enterprise under a free-limit sub-loan, before the date of this Agreement
or more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received
in respect of such free-limit sub-loan the request and information required by
Section 2.03(b).
Section 2.03. (a) When submitting a sub-loan (other than a free-limit sub-loan)
or an investment to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with a description of
the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project (including
a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan) and the proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan or investment,
including the schedule of amortization of the sub-loan or of repayment to the
Bank of the amount of the Loan to be used for the investment, and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit sub-loan shall contain a summary
description of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan) and the terms and conditions of such free-limit sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization therefor.


﻿7
(c)   Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, applications
and requests made pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section shall be submitted to the Bank on or before June 30, 1977.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such later date
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the
Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and on-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
May I and November I in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule I to this
Agreement as such Schedule shall be amended from time to time by the Bank
to the extent required to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to sub-loans and the schedules of
repayment to the Bank in respect of investments, which have been approved or
authorized for withdrawals from the Loan Account under Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and; (ii) take into account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of
the General Conditions and any repayments made by the Borrower under Section
2.09 of this Agreement; provided that repayments due hereunder shall be made
on May I and November 1 in each year. Such amendments of said Schedule I
shall include amendments to the table of premiums on prepayments and
redemption, if necessary.
(b)   The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan and the schedule
of repayment to the Bank in respect of each investment (A) shall provide for
an appropriate period of grace, and (B) unless the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree (i) shall not extend beyond fifteen years in respect of any sub-loan
or investment from the date of approval by the Bank of such sub-loan or investment
or in the case of a free-limit sub-loan, of authorization by the Bank to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect thereof, and (ii) shall provide for
approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate payments of principal
and interest or approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of
principal.


﻿8
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree:
(a)   If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to the Borrower in
advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or an investment or any part thereof shall
be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed of for value by the Borrower,
the Borrower shall promptly notify the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the
next following interest payment date, together with the premiums specified in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any amendment thereof under Section 2.08(a)
of this Agreement, the amount withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of
such sub-loan or investment or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to the Bank.
(b)   Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied by the Bank
as follows: (i) in the case of a sub-loan, to the maturity or maturities of the Loan
in amounts corresponding to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or maturities
of the sub-loan so repaid or disposed of, and (ii) in the case of an investment,
pro rata to the maturity or maturities of the Loan reflecting amounts to be repaid
on account of such investment.
(c)   Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions shall not apply
to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of this Section.
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
financing such productive facilities and resources in Tunisia as will contribute to
the economic and social development of the country. The Project consists in the
financing of specific development projects through loans to and investments in
enterprises in Tunisia, in accordance with the Statuts and the Statement of Policy
of the Borrower and in furtherance of the corporate purposes of the Borrower
as therein set forth.
(b)   The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct its operations
and affairs (i) in accordance with sound financial standards and practices, with
qualified management and personnel, and (ii) in accordance with (A) the Statuts
and (B) the Statement of Policy.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will be made on terms whereby the
Borrower shall obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by


﻿9
other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank
and the Borrower, including, in the case of any sub-loan and to the extent that
it shall be appropriate in the case of any investment, the right of the Borrower
to: (i) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require
that (1) the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of
services, of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them and
(2) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the
Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and
construction included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Investment Enterprise
shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice;
and (2) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover
marine, transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use
or installaion, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely
usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain
all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably request relating
to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial condition of
the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Investment
Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
(b)   The Borrower (i) shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment
Project in such manner as to: (A) protect the interests of the Bank and the
Borrower, (B) comply with its obligations under this Agreement, and (C) achieve
the purposes of the Project, and (ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not abrogate or waive any of its rights with respect to a sub-loan
or investment.
(c)   The Borrower shall submit to the Bank, for its prior approval, any
substantial changes proposed to be made by the Borrower in respect of the
repayment provisions of any sub-loan.
Section 3.03. Without limitation or restriction on the generality of the
provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower undertakes that, unless


﻿10
the Bank shall otherwise agree: (a) any sub-loan or investment (which terms shall,
for the purpose of this Section also include sub-loans or investment which are
not made out of the proceeds of the Loan) will be made on terms whereby the
Borrower shall obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by
other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to: (i) require the Investment
Enterprise (including, but without limitation, a newly established Investment
Enterprise) to furnish the Borrower as soon as available but in any case no later
than March 31 in each year, copies of its provisional financial statements to be
prepared in accordance with sound accounting principles consistently applied, and
to be in such detail as the Borrower shall have reasonably requested; and (ii) require
the Investment Enterprise (including but without limitation a newly established
Investment Enterprise) to furnish the Borrower as soon as available but in any
case no later than June 30 in each year, copies of its financial statements as certified
in accordance with the provisions of the Commercial Code; and
(b)   it shall not abrogate or waive any of its rights with respect to a sub-loan
or investment referred to under paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan, the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, and
the sub-loans and investments.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Government Agreement and under agreements under which funds have been lent
or otherwise put at the disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor or its agencies
or others for relending, investment or management. The Borrower shall promptly
inform the Bank of any action which would have the effect of assigning, or of
amending, abrogating or waiving any material provision of, any such agreement.
Section 3.06. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any subsidiary, the
Borrower shall cause such subsidiary to observe and perform the obligations of
the Borrower hereunder to the extent to which such obligations shall or can be
applicable thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon such subsidiary.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes that it shall not make a sub-loan
(which term shall, for the purpose of this Section, also include sub-loans which
are not made out of the proceeds of the Loan) unless the Borrower has obtained
adequate security to secure such sub-loan.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction on the generality of the provisions
of the foregoing paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower undertakes that:


﻿11
(i)         it shall not make a sub-loan for hotels, vacation villages or other
tourism or recr(-ational facilities unless such sub-loan has been
secured by a valid mortgage, or, by such other adequate security
as shall be approved by the Board of Directors; and
(ii)        it shall take all such action as may be necessary to validate
mortgages on all its outstanding sub-loans for hotels, vacation
villages or other tourism or recreational facilities, in accordance
with a timetable and a plan of action all to be acceptable to
the Bank.
Section 3.08. Without limitation or restriction on the generality of the
provisions of Section 3.01(b)(ii)B of this Agreement the Borrower specifically
undertakes:
(a)   that a Special Procedure Transaction shall only be made (i) after
unanimous approval of such transaction by the members of the Board of Directors,
present or represented, at a meeting at which not less than a majority of all Directors
are present, and (ii) after the Commissaire aux Comptes has been notified of such
transaction.
(b)   that all transactions referred to under paragraph (a) of this Section
shall be reported by the Commissaire aux Compres each fiscal year to the Borrower's
stockholders at their annual meeting.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project and of each Investment Project (including the cost thereof)
and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish
to the Bank and to all members of the Board of Directors, as soon as available
but in any case not later than five months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as


﻿12
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of this Agreement
no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any debt, except as otherwise
currently reported or disclosed in writing by the Borrower to the Bank.
(b)   The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or any subsidiary
as security for any debt, such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on the Loan and that in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that effect at no cost
to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any assets of the
Borrower or of any subsidiary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant,
at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on the Loan; provided,
however, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (B) any lien arising
in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(i) conduct its operations and affairs in such manner as shall be necessary to
maintain, at all times, its debt/equity ratio within the limit provided in Section
4.06 of this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond the
Borrower's control, be temporarily exceeded, promptly take all such reasonable
action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring such ratio within such limit.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in advance of
maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of the Borrower which, in the judgment
of the Bank, would materially affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial
obligations.
Section 4.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between the Bank and
the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur or permit any subsidiary to incur any
debt if, after the incurring of such debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower
and all subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than five times
the consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and all subsidiaries. For the
purposes of this Section:


﻿13
(a)   "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or any subsidiary
maturing more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(b)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan contract or
agreement (including the Loan Agreement) on the date and to the extent the
amount of the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan or
agreement, and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent that
the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(c)   Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary to value
in terms of Dinars debt payable in foreign currency, such valuation shall be made
at the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at
the time of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes of servicing
such debt.
(d)   "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all subsidiaries" means the
total amount of debt of the Borrower and the subsidiaries, excluding: (i) any debt
owed by the Borrower to any subsidiary or by any subsidiary to the Borrower
or to any other subsidiary, and (ii) the amounts referred to in paragraph (e)(iv)
of this Section.
(e)   "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and all subsidiaries"
means the aggregate of: (i) the unimpaired paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves
(excluding the funds referred to under Section 4.10 of this Agreement) of the
Borrower and subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall represent
equity interests of the Borrower in any subsidiary or of any subsidiary in the
Borrower or any other subsidiary, (ii) the amount of the grant made by the
Guarantor pursuant to the Government Agreement, (iii) the amount of the advances
made and to be made to the Borrower by the Guarantor in 1975 and 1976,
respectively, on account of payments due to the Borrower by the Guarantor on
account of subscriptions by the Guarantor to the capital of the Borrower, and
(iv) such amounts of the loan from the Guarantor made pursuant to the Government
Agreement as shall be repayable after the latest of the dates of all outstanding
maturities of the sub-loans, of the schedules of repayment to the Bank in respect
of the investments and of any sub-loans or investments made by the Borrower
out of the proceeds of any Prior Loan.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory to the Bank
as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes


﻿14
in the rates of exchange between the currencies (including Dinars) used in its
operations.
Section 4.08. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time, at the
request of either party, exchange views through their representatives with regard
to the administration, operations and financial condition of the Borrower and the
subsidiaries, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Borrower and the subsidiaries, and the progress of the
Project.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to inspect
the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement and any relevant
documents.
Section 4. 10. (a) The Borrower shall make adequate provision to cover fully
its possible losses on account of any of its operations (including, but without
limitation, sub-loans and investments), and shall maintain at all times its provisions
for such possible losses at levels sufficient to meet any such loss, all in accordance
with sound financial practices.
(b)   The Borrower shall not declare or pay any dividends or make any
other distribution with respect to its capital shares unless the Borrower has met
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 4.11. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
undertakes that it shall not make a sub-loan or investment for an Investment
Enterprise (which terms shall for the purpose of this paragraph (b) of this Section
also include sub-loans or investments which are not made out of the proceeds
of the Loan) if the aggregate amount of any such sub-loan or investment for such
Investment Project shall exceed 20% of the consolidated capital and surplus (as
those terms are defined in paragraph (e) of Section 4.06 of this Agreement) of
the Borrower and all the subsidiaries.
Section 4.12. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
undertakes that the annual rate of interest to be charged by the Borrower on
its lending operations (including without limitation sub-loans) shall be set by the
Borrower (A) at a level sufficient to provide the Borrower with revenues (i) ensuring
the Borrower a reasonable profit and (ii) enabling the Borrower to build adequate
reserves and, as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 4.10 of this Agreement,
adequate provisions, and to distribute, subject to the provisions of paragraph (b)


﻿15
of Section 4.10 of this Agreement a reasonable dividend, and (B) with due regard
to the risks involved in each individual operation.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any part of the principal amount of any loan to the Borrower having
an original maturity of- one year or more shall, in accordance with its terms, have
become due and payable in advance of maturity as provided in the relative
contractual instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b)   a change shall have been made in the Statuts or in the Statement
of Policy without the Bank's consent;
(c)   a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution or liquidation
of the Borrower; and
(d)   a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired
or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would
adversely affect the conduct of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial
situation or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel or the
carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 shall occur and
shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)   the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) or paragraph (c)
of Section 5.01 shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)


﻿16
of the General Conditions, namely that, the Borrower has submitted to the Bank
the timetable and the plan of action, all to be acceptable to the Bank as provided
under subparagraph (ii) of paragraph (b) of Section 3.07 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date April 26, 1976 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Amendments of Prior Loan Agreements
Section 7.01. The parties to this Agreement hereby agree that the provisions
of Sections 3.03, 3.07, 3.08, 4.10, 4.11 and 4.12 of this Agreement shall be
applicable to any Prior Loan Agreement, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth therein.
ARTICLE VIII
Miscellaneous
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INTBAFRAD                             440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                      248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Banque de D6veloppement
Economique de Tunisie
68, Avenue Habib Bourguiba
Tunis, Tunisia


﻿17
Cable address:
SNITUN
Tunis
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By   /s /  Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
BANQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
ECONOMIQUE DE TUNISIE
By   /s I  Habib Bourguiba, Jr.
Authorized Representative


﻿18
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                (expressed in dollars)**
May 1, 1977                                              385,000
November 1, 1977                                         400,000
May 1, 1978                                              420,000
November 1, 1978                                         435,000
May 1, 1979                                              455,000
November 1, 1979                                         475,000
May 1, 1980                                              495,000
November 1, 1980                                         515,000
May 1, 1981                                              535,000
November 1, 1981                                         560,000
May 1, 1982                                              585,000
November 1, 1982                                         610,000
May 1, 1983                                              635,000
November 1, 1983                                         660,000
May 1, 1984                                              690,000
November 1, 1984                                         720,000
May 1, 1985                                              750,000
November 1, 1985                                         780,000
May 1, 1986                                              815,000
November 1, 1986                                         850,000
May 1, 1987                                              885,000
November 1, 1987                                         925,000
May 1, 1988                                              960,000
November 1, 1988                                        1,005,000
May 1, 1989                                             1,045,000
November 1, 1989                                        1,090,000
May 1, 1990                                             1,135,000
November 1, 1990                                        1,185,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant to the
provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
**   To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency
other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this
column represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿19
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions or to Section 2.09(a)
of the Loan Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
Not more than three years                            1-1/2%
before maturity
More than three years but not                        2-3/4%
more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                          5-3/4%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                           7%
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years                             8-1/2%
before maturity


﻿20
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows:
(1)   The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section 3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time agree upon
arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and the application of such
prepayment in addition to, or in substitution for, those set forth in paragraph
(b) of Section 3.05."
(2)   The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the words "the
Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3)   Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been
suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period
of thirty days or (b) by the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03
of the Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under paragraph
(a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have been received by the Bank
in respect of any portion of the Loan, or having been so received, shall
have been denied, (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall
remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank shall have
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect
to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may by notice to the Borrower and
the Guarantor terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with
respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice such amount of
the Loan shall be cancelled."


