Document of
The World Bank
FR OMCIaAL USE ONLY
Reprt No. 4987
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO: LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (LNDC)
AND
BASOTHO ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (BEDCO)
(CREDIT 702-LSO)
March 14, 1984
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Industrial Development and Finance Division
r This docu_ent hb  a restricted distnbutio and may be ued by recipients only in the perfonmamce of
their official dutie  Its contents nmy not othrwise be diased witbout World Dank aoriion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            = Maloti (N)
February 1977  US$1.0    =  RO.87
R 1.0    =  US$1.15
January 1980   US$1.0    = MO.83 = RO.83
M 1.0    =  US$1.20 - R1.0
June 1983      USS1l0    = M1.08 - R1.08
H 1.0    =  US$0.93 = R1.0
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADB:       African Development Bank
BEDCO:    Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation
CDC:       Commonwealth Development Corporation
CIDA:      Canadian International Development Agency
DEG:       Deutsche Gesellschaft Fuir Wirtschaftliche Zusamuenarbeit
Entwicklungsgesellschaft (Gbh)
EDESA:    Economic Development for Equatorial and Southern Africa
EDF:       European Development Fund
EIB:       European Investment Bank
FMO:       Nederlandse Financierings - Maatschappij Voor
Ontwikkelingslanden N.V.
FRIDA:     Fund for Research and Investment for the Development of Africa
KFW:       Kreditanstalt far Wiederaufbau
LBFC:      Lesotho Building Finance Corporation
LHF:       Lesotho Housing Finance
LIH:       Lesotho Investment Holdings
LNDC:      Lesotho National Development Corporation
LNIC:      Lesotho National Insurance Company
RMA:       Rand Monetary Area
RSA:       Republic of South Africa
SACU:      Southern Africa Customs Union
SSE:       Small Scale Enterprise
STIC:      Sebaboleng Trade and Industrial Center
UNDP:      United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
BEDCO:     April 1 - March 31
LNDC :    April 1 - March 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO: LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (LNDC)
AND
BASOTHO ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (BEDCO)
(CREDIT 702-LSO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface                                                                   i
Basic Data Sheet
Highlights                                                              iii
I.   Introduction                                                         1
II.  Hacroeconomic, Industrial and Financial Sector Objectives            2
III. LNDC:  The Institution                                               6
IV. LNDC:  Allocation of the Credit                                      13
V.   LNDC:  Operational and Financial Performance                        14
VI.  LNDC:  Conclusions                                                  18
VII. BEDCO: The Institution                                              20
VIII.BEDCO: Allocation of the Credit                                     22
IX.  BEDCO: Operational and Financial Performance       -                23
X.   BEDCO: Conclusions                                                  25
Annexes
LNDC
A-1 List of Subprojects Financed under Credit 702-LSO
A-2 Financial Characteristics of Subprojects Financed under Credit 702-LSO
A-3 Economic Characteristics of Subprojects Financed under Credit 702-LSO
A-4 Sum-ary Description and Present Status of Subprojects
Financed under Credit 702-LSO
A-5 A Comparison of Forecast and Actual Operations (1977-1983)
A-6 Portfolio as of March 31, 1983
A-7 A Comparison of Forecast and Actual Income Statements (1977-1983)
A-8 A Comparison of Forecast and Actual Balance Sheets (1977-1982)
A-9 Consolidated Income Statements (1977-1982)
A-10 Summarized Consolidated Balance Sheets (1977-1982)
A-11 A Comparison of Forecast and Actual Financial Ratios (1977-1983)
BEDCO
B-1 List of Subprojects Financed under Credit 702-LSO
B-2 Characteristics of Projects Financed under Credit 702-LSO
B-3 Summary Description and Present Status of Selected Subprojects
Financed under Credit 702-LSO
B-4 Summary of Operations (1977-1982)
B-5 Analysis of Equity Portfolio as of June 30, 1982
B-6  Forecast ana Actual Income Statements (1977-1982)
B-7 Forecast and Actual Balance Sheets (1977-1982)
COMMENTS
C    Coumments Received from Borrower
This document has a rstied distribution and may be used by repients only in the pofonnance ofl
their offidc duties. Its contents may not othdwise be dislosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO: LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
AND
BASOTHO ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
(CREDIT 702-LSO)
PREFACE
This is a completion report on Credit 702-LSO to the Lesotho
National Development Corporation (LNDC) and the Basotho Enterprises
Development Corporation (BEDCO). The credit of US$2.5 million was approved
in April 1977, signed in May 1977 and fully disbursed in December 1982.
The Association's Eastern Africa Regional Office has prepared
this report on the basis of information gathered during missions in July
1982 and March 1983. The report presents a factual review of LNDC's and
BEDCO's institutional development and their utilization of the proceeds of
the credit.
BEDCO has offered some specific comments and clarifications;
these have been taken into account in finalizing the report and are
reproduced as Annex C.
This project has not been audited by the Operations Evaluation
Department.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
AND
BASOTHO ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
(CREDIT 702-LSO)
BASIC DATA SHEET
(Amounts in US$ millions)
As of 6/30/83
Original   Disbursed    Cancelled    Repaid  Outstanding
Credit No. 702-LS0                    2.5         2.29         0.21        -          2.29
Cumulative Loan Disbursement
1978     1979     1980     1931     1982
(i)   Estimated                      1.0      1.6      2.2      2.5      -
(ii)  Actual                         0.1      0.6      1.2      2.1        2.3
(iii) (ii) as Z of (i)              10.0     38.0    55.0      84.0       92.0
PROJECT DATA.
Original Credit Dates      Actual or Re-Estimated
Board Approval                          4121/77
Credit Agreement                        5/20/77
Effectiveness                           8/23/77
Credit Closing                         12/31/81                   12/10/82
Physical Completion                    12/31/79                   12/31/80
MISSION DATA
No. of   No. of                    Date of
Month/Year     Weeks     Persons     Manweeks     Report
Identification                     3/73           0.43         2         0.86      4/23/73
Preparation                        8/75           0.43         2         0.86
Preappraisal                       2/76           0.36         1         0.36
Appraisal                          3/76           3.00         4         8.43      5/5/76
Technical Assistance               6/76           1.00         1         1.00
Post Appraisal                     8/76           1.00         3         3.00      .9/10/76
Supervision I                      8/77           1.00         1         1.00     10/12/77
Supervision II                     1/78           1.43         2         3.00      4/11/78
Supervision III                    4/79           2.00         3         6.00      6/11/79
Supervision IV                     8/80           1.90         2         3.80     10/14/81
Supervision V                      8/81           1.90         2         3.80     10/14/81
Completion                         7/82           2.00         2         4.00      9/13/82
FOLLOW-UP PROJECTS
Second Lesotho National Development Corporation Project, Credit 985-LSO, approved on
January 15, 1980 in the amount of US$4.0 million.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO: LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
AND
BASOTHO ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
(CREDIT 702-LSO)
HIGHLIGHTS
The Association's involvement with the Lesotho National
Development Corporation (LNDC) began in 1973. Between 1973 and 1976 the
Association provided LNDC with technical assistance and advice to assist it
to overcome a significant deterioration resulting from a period of
management instability. In 1976, the Lesotho Government requested the
Association to provide LNDC and its subsidiary, the Basotho Enterprises
Development Corporation (BEDCO), with financial assistance. The credit
under review aimed at both institution building of the two corporations and
providing financial support to Lesotho's industrialization effort, which
faces numerous. inherent constraints, thereby creating much needed
employment. The credit provided US$ 2.2 million to LNDC for medium and
large scale investments and US$ 0.3 million to BEDCO, which was separated
from LNDC in 1978, for small scale indigenous enterprises.
At the time of credit appraisal, LNDC had numerous serious
weaknesses. Almost all of its subsidiaries and associated companies were
experiencing severe problems, ranging from poor management to
unsatisfactory financial performance and condition. LNDC had an inadequate
organizational structure, poor procedures, especially financial control,
inadequate staffing, and weak project identification and preparation
capabilities and relied significantly on expatriate staff. During the
period of credit implementation, LNDC made important progress in overcoming
many of these weaknesses, with specific achievements including
strengthening and improving control of subsidiaries, significantly
improving financial control, recruiting and training Basotho staff and
localising some managerial positions, implementing a quite successful
divestiture program and introducing an active investment promotion
program. However, LNDC has a number of weaknesses yet to overcome
regarding procedures, staffing, portfolio quality and financial
performance, which has consistently been poor, with losses in all years.
Since 1978, three experts, provided under the auspices of Irish Aid, have
occupied key positions in LNDC and made important contributions towards
strengthening the institution. LNDC will need to rely on expatriate staff
in key areas for some years to come, in view of the extreme shortage in
Lesotho of qualified professionals. Although, the appraisal did not set
specific employment targets, the slower than forecast growth in LNDC's
portfolio suggests that achievements in the appraisal projection period
(1977-81) fell short of expectations. Nevertheless, the limited statistics



- iv -
show that LNDC's role in employment generation was significant.  Moreover
LNDC's performance in creating jobs has been improving markedly as a result
of the investment promotion program. In addition, LNDC has made a
significant contribution to policy and planning in the sectors in which it
operates. LNDC utilized the IDA credit for fourteen projects, of which
eight are now operating profitably.
BEDCO, only recently established at the time of credit appraisal,
has benefitted from a comprehensive financial and technical assistance
program from the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA),
and thus the role of the Association in assisting BEDCO's development has
been minor. BEDCO has succeeded in establishing fairly sound systems and
procedures, having made substantial progress in overcoming weaknesses
during credit implementation, particularly regarding supervision and
financial control. In addition, it has launched a satisfactory program for
training its client entrepreneurs, and has made good progress in
streamlining its organizational structure and recruiting Basotho staff. On
the other hand, the bulk of BEDCO's portfolio, including the thirty-one
projects financed under the IDA credit, is of poor quality, and
BEDCO'sfinancial performance has been much poorer than anticipated. Like
other institutions in Lesotho, it continues to rely on expatriate staff in
key areas. Overall, given the difficulties of launching successful small
enterprises, particularly in Lesotho with its numerous constraints
BEDCO has performed reasonably well in exposing Basotho nationals to small
scale industrial and commercial activities.
Other points of interest are:
- Special characteristics of Lesotho's economy (Section II)
- Features of LNDC's operations (paras. 5.01-5.04)
- The evolution and status of LNDC's portfolio (para. 5.05)
- LNDC's weak financial performance (para. 5.06)
- BEDCO's subsidiary status (para. 7.02)
- BEDCO's portfolio and causes of poor quality (paras. 9.05 and
9.06)



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO: LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BASOTHO ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT CORP0RATION
(CREDIT 702-LSO)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01         The Lesotho National Development Corporation (LNDC) was
established under the Lesotho National Development Corporation Act in 1967
as a statutory corporation to promote and finance modern non-agricultural
projects in Lesotho. LNDC got off to a good start under its first Managing
Director, a South African industrialist, who was successful in establishing
about 15 projects and setting up good internal operational procedures.
After his departure in 1973, a suitable replacement could not be found for
some time. Instead, the General Manager of the Lesotho Bank, a wholly
government-owned commercial bank, was assigned responsibility for managing
LNDC, while also continuing to serve as head of the Lesotho Bank. A
separate Managing Director for LNDC was appointed only in 1975, although on
a temporary basis, under a UNDP project for which IBRD was the executing
agency. In mid-1976, a full-time Managing Director was provided by the
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA).
1.02         The uncertainty concerning management which prevailed between
1973 and 1976 had considerable negative effects on LNDC and offset the
progress which had been made in the early years. Good staff could not be
recruited and retained; the organization structure became ineffective and
internal procedures deteriorated; there was inadequate follow-up on the
investments which had been made, leading to a rapid deterioration in their
performance; and the very few new projects which were started were not
adequately evaluated.
1.03         The Association's involvement with LNDC began in March 1973,
with a very brief fact finding mission at about the time of departure of
the first Managing Director. Although the Association subsequently fielded
four brief technical assistance and updating missions, continued to provide
LNDC advice on policies and procedures, and assisted Government in
recruiting the temporary Managing Director in 1975, it was not until
February 1976, that Government requested the Association to provide
financial assistance to LNDC, as well as to its recently acquired
subsidiary, the Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation (BEDCO), which
had been established in 1975 as a government company to promote the
development of small-scale indigenous enterprises. An appraisal mission
visited Lesotho in March 1976, and a post-appraisal mission followed in
August 1976. The post appraisal mission recommended a credit of US$2.5
million, of which US$2.2 million for LNDC and US$0.3 million for BEDCO.
1.04         The credit under review, Credit 702-LS0, based on Appraisal
Report No. 1332a-LSO dated March 17, 1977, was approved on April 21, 1977,
signed on May 20, 1977 and declared effective, as scheduled, on August 23,
1977. The credit was fully disbursed on December 10, 1982, about one and
one-half years behind schedule.



1.05         The credit was to be passed on by Government  at 8.5Z per
annum and 7X per annum to LNDC and BEDCO respectively. The credit
conditions for LNDC included a free limit of US$100,000 and an aggregate
free limit of US$700,000. BEDCO would submit for prior approval the first
ten projects for which it sought IDA financing; after these, it would
submit, on a quarterly basis, a summary list of projects for IDA
reimbursement. A debt to equity ratio of three to one was specified for
both corporations. On loans made by LNDC out of its portion of the credit,
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk for a one percent fee to be
passed on to subborrowers; Government would bear the risk on loans made by
BEDCO out of its portion of the credit for no fee. LNDC would repay its
portion of the credit according to the standard composite amortization
schedule applicable for development finance companies; BEDCO would amortize
its portion of the credit through LNDC according to a fixed schedule over
10 years including four years of grace. Finally, both LNDC and BEDCO were
to onlend the proceeds of the credit at a minimum 12% per annum.
1.06         The project had two objectives, namely to (i) facilitate the
development of non-agricultural enterprises in Lesotho through the
provision of foreign exchange resources for extending term financing to
small, medium and large scale projects in Lesotho, thereby creating
employment opportunities locally for the expanding labor force; and (ii)
further the development of LNDC and BEDCO as effective development
institutions and financial intermediaries. The one project risk
noted in the appraisal report related to lending to small-scale enterprises
(SSEs). This risk was deemed worth incurring because development and
training of new Basotho entrepreneurs were key to future expansion of the
industrial sector, and employment effects of BEDCO's lending were expected
to be high. In order to minimize the risk of SSE failures, BEDCO would
provide training and technical assistance to its subborrovers.
1.07         Credit 702-LSO was followed in 1980 by a second credit for
LNDC of US$4 million (Credit 985-LSO), which is only partially committed.
BEDCO was projected to have sufficient resources at least through 1982, and
thus the second credit did not provide it with additional IDA assistance.
II. MACRO-ECONOMIC, INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTOR OBJECTIVES
2.01         Lesotho is one of the UN designated (1976) least developed
countries. The country is small, with a 1980 population of 1.3 million,
growing at 2.3% per annum, occupies 30,350 sq. km., and is completely
surrounded by the Republic of South Africa (RSA). Although Lesotho is
mountainous, soil erosion is extensive and only 13% of its land area is
suitable for crop farming, subsistence agriculture and livestock farming
remain the leading sectors of the economy, providing livelihood for some
90% of the resident population. Given the constraints to agricultural
development, Government has looked to the sectors of industry, tourism and
commerce to play a crucial role in employment generation. LNDC and BEDCO
were created in order to promote these sectors, through the provision of
various types of financial assistance (loan, equity, buildings/sites for
lease on industrial estates and guarantees) to medium/large local and
foreign enterprises (LNDC) and small indigenous enterprises (BEDCO).
Lesotho faces formidable constraints in its efforts to develop in
manufacturing. These include: the scarcity of natural resources other than



- 3 -
water and small diamond deposits; the small size of che domestic market;
the dearth of local entrepreneurs; the shortage of Basotho managerial staff
and skilled workers; and, as a result of its membership in the Southern
Africa Customs Union (SACU), which provides for the free movement of all
goods in the area, competition from more experienced manufacturers in the
RSA, which makes it difficult for local establishments to meet their market
expectations.
2.02         The most significant characteristic of Lesotho's economy is
its critical dependence on the RSA, from where more than 95Z of its imports
originate, as do all of its electricity and most of its foreign investment
and tourism. Its exports either end up in the RSA or transit through the
RSA's ports to the rest of the world. More than 23% of its labor force and
about one-half of its male labor force depend upon employment in the RSA,
mainly in mining, and over 70% of the Government's income comes from
receipts from SACU.
2.03         Despite the country's handicaps, Lesotho's econony grew
rapidly in the 1970's, with real GNP and GDP increasing at annual rates of
9.3% and 7.7% respectively. This growth was primarily due to four factors:
(i) a substantial rise in external assistance; (ii) increases in miners'
remittances; (iii) increased customs revenues from SACU; and (iv) the
expanded output from the diamond mine which opened in 1977, but closed in
1982. Despite the growth, the structure of the economy changed little, and
real per capita GNP remained at a low M 135.8 in 1980/81.
2.04         Unfortunately, the impressive growth achieved in the 1970s is
unlikely to be maintained in the 1980s. The increase in resource
availability was used to fuel consumption and consequently imports, while
public expenditure grew to levels unmatched by public revenues. Over the
past three years, customs revenue has stagnated as have the number of
migrant workers and hence miners' remittances, as a result of the growing
use in the RSA mines of local labor and increased mechanization of the
mines. These factors, coupled with a dramatic drop in external assistance,
have translated into serious budgetary and balance of payments deficits.
Government's first priority will have to be to restore the country's
financial health. Nevertheless, Government's longer term challenge remains
how to provide non-agricultural employment opportunities for the growing
population.
2.05         The industrial sector - mining, building and construction.
and manufacturing -, while still small and at an early stage of
development, has been one of the fastest growing sectors of the economy,
although growth slowed down significantly after 1977/78. Industrial value
added as a percentage of GDP grew from about 3 in 1970/71 to 19.1 in
1977/78 and an estimated 20.1 in 1979/80. The mining and construction
subsectors have been the growth areas; the value added from manufacturing
and handicrafts grew only sluggishly over the decade, and their
contribution to domestic product in fact declined from 5.7% in 1974/75 to
an estimated 4.8% in 1979/80. The poor performance of the manufacturing
sector is largely due to Lesotho's significant development constraints
(para. 2.01) which have led to low production and in some cases failure.
During most of this period, LNDC concentrated more on strengthening its
existing portfolio than promoting new investment, while BEDCO could count



- 4 -
few successes among the small projects established with its assistance.
The mining and quarrying sector fared better because of the opening of the
Letseng diamond mine, and because of buoyant demand from the construction
industry. The upsurge in construction, in turn, resulted from the increase
in infrastructural projects and housing.
2.06         Employment in industrial activities remains small.  It is
estimated that in 1980, total modern sector employment was 41,307, of which
890 were employed in mining, 4593 in construction and 3906 in manufacturing
and handicrafts. In terms of employment generation, the performance of
manufacturing has been disappointing: while during the period of the First
National Development Plan (1970/71-74/75), some 2000 jobs were created,
during the first three years of the Second National Development Plan
(1975/76-1979/80), only an estimated 630 of the targeted 4500 jobs were
created.
2.07         In 1982, there were about 80 firms involved in medium ard
large scale manufacturing activities, which still have a subsectoral
structure typical of early industrial development. In terms of employment,
the largest subsectors are textiles and furniture/joinery, with others
including building materials, chemicals and metal based products. Most
medium and large scale enterprises have been sponsored by foreign,
particularly South African, investors who have established in Lesotho
specifically to take advantage of Lesotho's preferential access to the EEC
and access to other African countries. As a result, a high 50% of output
is exported. Nevertheless, manufactured exports represent only a small
fraction of manufacturing imports, and the trade gap in manufacturing is
sizeable. Comprehensive data on small scale industries is not available.
However, informal handicraft and service activities may be substantial,
employing as much as 23,000, although the number of modern small scale
industries, about 30 in 1978, are still few.
2.08         The tourist sector experienced rapid growth following the
construction and subsequent expansion of the 470-bed Holiday Inn with
casino facilities, and the number of tourists increased from less than 5000
a year in 1969 to an estimated 175,000 in 1977. In 1979, employment in
tourism was estimated at about 1500, up from 500 in 1975. The performance
of the commercial sector has been influenced by a substantial increase in
catering, in response to the needs of the tourist population, while
wholesale and retail trade, dominated by a few large operations belonging
to chains in the RSA, grew little or not at all in real terms between
1974/75 and 1977/78. Together, the contribution of tourism and trade as a
percentage of GDP declined from a peak of 19.5 in 1975/76 to 12.1 in
1979/80.
2.09         The capabilities of the Ministry of Trade, Industry and
Tourism to formulate policies and plan for industrial development are
relatively weak, and the institutional framework for industry rudimentary.
Government 's strategy emphasizes industrial development through private
enterprise, although it has been prepared to take the initiative in
starting enterprises itself, if necessary. Since approval of the credit
under review, some new initiatives have been taken to strengthen the
industrial development effort. While the primary policy instrument remains
a set of fiscal incentives, including tax holidays or a series of



deductions from taxable income, LNDC has begun offering workers' training
grants on an experimental basis to selected industries. A Trade Promotion
Unit and Trade Promotion Council have been established to encourage
exports, the former to provide assistance to exporters, the latter to
advise Government on policies. However, the Trade Promotion Council has
rarely convened; in addition, there are still no specific incentives for
small scale enterprises. Moreover, a recent study of Lesotho's incentive
system vis-&-vis other countries in Southern Africa concludes that while
Lesotho's investment incentives are superior to those offered in Zimbabwe
and Swaziland, they are significantly less competitive than those offered
in Bostwana and the South African "homelands. The study further concludes
that Lesotho does not have the resources to match these incentives, and,
therefore, it should concentrate on improving the administration and
delivery of its incentive package.
2.10         The Third National Development Plan (1980/81-1984/85)
anticipates the creation of 1500 and 750 jobs per annum respectively in
manufacturing and commerce. It goes further than the Second National
Development Planning in setting out specific objectives for industry, and
these include the promotion of foreign investment from diversifled sources,
the development of small scale local entrepreneurs, the promotion of import
substitution, export and agro industries, the diversification of export
markets and the maximization of local raw material use.
2.11         LNDC and BEDCO are part of a financial system which includes
three commercial banks, the Lesotho Building Finance Corporation, the
Lesotho National Insurance Company, the Lesotho Agricultural Development
Bank and the Central Bank of Lesotho. The latter four institutions were
created in the last five years, with the Central Bank of Lesotho replaclng
the Lesotho Monetary Authority (LMA), itself established in 1978. The
commercial banks, of which the Lesotho Bank Is the largest, perform the
traditional commercial banking functions, lending mostly short term and now
heavily to Government. While the commercial banks do engage in some term
lending, LNDC and BEDCO remain the principal industrial sector term
financiers. The banks traditionally have had substantial surplus liquldity
which used to be invested in the RSA, but Is now, by requlrement, invented
in the LMA. While bank liquidity tightened In 1982, It began to ease near
the end of the year, as government borrowing declined.
2.12         Lesotho is part of the Rand Monetary Area (RHA), and lts local
currency, the Maloti, first issued in 1980, is fully backed by and freely
convertible at par into the Rand.  Lesotho's membership in the RH& makes
it largely dependent upon monetary and credit pollcies set by the South
African Reserve Bank. Interest and inflation rates generally follow trends
in the RSA, with interest rates somewhat lower, due to the smaller demand
for credit, and inflation rates somewhat higher. In 1975, interest rates
charged to borrowers ranged from 8.5% to 14Z, with long term rates ranging
from 8.5% to 12x; inflation, which was about 19S in 1975, was forecast by
the Association to decline to an average 9% between 1976 and 1980.
Actually, the level of interest rates declined at the end of 1978 and.
remained more or less stable until the end of 1980. after which it began to
increase sharply, reaching as high as 222 in mid-1982. Inflation was about
162 in 1977, 12.5% in 1978, 15.9% in 1979, 15.72 in 1980 and 14.9Z in 1981.



- 6 -
III. LNDC: THE INSTITUTION
3.01         The following issues and recommendations were discussed and
agreed at the time of credit appraisal (March 1976), post appraisal (August
1976) and negotiations (February 1977) or raised during the period of
credit implementation. Those issues which arose during the period of
implementation regarding LNDC's operational and financial performance
are discussed in Section V.
(a)     Audit
(i)   The audits of LNDC for both FY1974 and FY1975 were
qualified with respect to LNDC subsidiaries (companies
in which LNDC's shareholding is at least 51%) and
associated companies (in which LNDC's shareholding is
50% or less), as the extent of their equity erosion had
never been properly assessed, and their fiuancial
performance and position were not consolidated into
LNDC's accounts. The appraisal mission recommended
that LNDC be required to submit by October 1976, an
unqualified audit for FY1976, which would include a
consolidated balance sheet for the LNDC group. The
draft FY1976 audit was submitted November 17, 1976, and
judged satisfactory, and the finalized audit was
presented at negotiations.
(ii)  Starting in 1980, the fourth year of credit
implementation, LNDC became subject to the state audit
system, according to which LNDC's auditors are
appointed by and responsible to the Auditor General,
and the audit remains a draft until after it has been
reviewed by the Auditor general and approved by
Parliament. Since this time, LNDC has been able to
submit to the Association only draft audits, without
normal audit opinions or management letters; moreover,
these have not been completed within their deadline of
four months after the end of LNDC's fiscal year. In
April 1983, the Auditor General agreed with an IDA
mission to allow arrangements enabling LNDC to meet the
Association's requirements for a full and comprehensive
audit.
(b)      Policies
(i)   In 1975, LNDC adopted a Policy Statement. Although the
Statement was largely based upon the Association's
suggestions, a few new clauses, (e.g. regarding foreign
exchange risk exposure), still needed to be added and a
number of existing ones amended. At the time of post-
appraisal, IDA and LNDC agreed upon a suitably revised
Statement, which was subsequently adopted by LNDC's
Board.
(ii) LNDC's Policy Statement limits the Corporation's
equity and total exposure per project to 10X and 20%



- 7 -
respectively of LNDC's net worth . Two of LNDC's
FY1981 approvals - a brewery/soft drinks plant and a
shopping center - violated these limitations. 1/
Particularly given LNDC's history of problems with
subsidiaries, the Association strongly recommended that
LNDC undertake responsibility for the shopping center
only on a managed fund basis, and that it reconsider
its approval of the brewery/soft drinks plant or reduce
its exposure. Government and LNDC agreed that the
shopping center would be administered by LNDC on a
managed fund basis, although the agreement has yet to
be legally formalized. However, without decreasing its
exposure as suggested, LNDC proceeded with the
brewery/soft drinks plant, which it considered
important for LNDC, as the project's expected high
returns would contribute to improving LNDC's financial
performance and reducing its dependence on government
resources. Unfortunately, the project incurred a large
loss in FY1983, its first year of operations.
(iii) In July 1982, and April 1983, LNDC proposed changes in
various provisions of its Policy Statement specifying
maximum permissible exposure limits. Among the
proposed changes was that leased premises be excluded
from the definition of financial commitment in the
provision limiting total financial commitment in any
given project to 60X of the project's total capital
cost. This was considered necessary by LNDC in view of
the need, under existing circumstances (para. 5.03),
for investors to lease from LNDC, rather than own their
premises. The Association advised LNDC that it could
not agree to the various amendments proposed, but that
with respect to the provision cited above, it would
accept an increase in the percentage specified from 60
to 75. LNDC has accepted the Association's position on
the proposed changes.
(c)      LNDC's Board.  The LNDC Act specifies that the
Corporation's Board of Directors shall consist of not
less than four and not more than nine directors. At
the time of appraisal, LNDC's Board had four directors,
including the Prime Minister as Chairman, the Ministers
of Finance and Industry, and LNDC's Managing Director.
The appraisal mission noted that the Board had not been
providing LNDC with sufficient direction, in part due
to inadequate preparation and also because of its
political composition. Accordingly, the mission
recommended that the Association urge Government to
1/ LNDC requested financing under Credit 985-LSO for the soft drinks
plant. The project was rejected primarily because of the policy
violations it entailed.



- 8 -
enlarge and strengthen the Board by appointing
non-government Directors with technical expertise.
Three additional Directors from business circles were
appointed prior to negotiations. While at the time,
Government planned shortly to fill the two remaining
positions, as of April 1983, the Board had not yet been
further enlarged. However, there have been changes in
the Board's composition: inter alia, the Minister
responsible for both planning and foreign affairs has
become a Director, the Minister of Trade, Industry and
Tourism has replaced the Prime Minister as Chairman,
and Cabinet has approved a proposal that the Prime
Minister become LNDC's President. LNDC has requested
several external institutions, including DEG, FMO and
IFC to become LNDC shareholders, and is proposing that
the remaining two Board vacancies be reserved for
representatives of these institutions.
While its quality has improved since the appraisal of
Credit 702-LSO, the Board is still weak in providing
LNDC guidance; it remains subject to political
influence; and both ministerial members and their
permanent secretaries, who serve as advisors to the
Board, apparently are unable to devote enough time to
review LNDC's projects and programs.
Cd)      Organization:  The appraisal mission noted that
although LNDC's organizational structure at the time of
appraisal represented a noticeable improvement over the
past, it still suffered from a number of weaknesses.
In particular,responsibility for project implementation
and supervision, and'  ntrol of subsidiaries was not
well defined, and there as no entity in charge of
finance, accounting and      nistration, which were
being handled on an ad hoc    is.  During
post-appraisal, LNDC proposed   new organizational
structure, which, although diff ent from the one
recommended by the appraisal miss an, the Association
found satisfactory.  This new struc ire was adopted by
LNDC in 1976.  During subsequent yearK LNDC
successively streamlined its organizati al structure,
which now comprises four departments and a. office of
internal audit. The four departments are e
Industries, responsible for project promotion,
appraisal and implementation as well as administrtion
of LNDC's property portfolio; Operations, responsiN,e
for LNDC subsidiaries and associated companies and \
after care of all projects; Finance; and Administration
responsible for personnel, administration, training,
and legal issues. LNDC's current organizational
structure is generally satisfactory.
(e)      Staffing:  The appraisal and post appraisal missions
noted that LNDC remained understaffed at headquarters,
particularly in the areas of accounting, technical



- 9 -
aspects of project processing and finance, that some
managerial positions in subsidiaries were vacant, and
that LNDC was still heavily reliant on expatriates.
Certain key staff, in particular, a Financial
Controller and a Director of Operations, needed to be
recruited as soon as possible.   While by negotiations
the position of Financial Controller remained vacant,
the appointment of a candidate had been finalized.  As
it transpired, the candidate changed his mind, and a
Financial Controller was not recruited until 1978. At
negotiations, it was agreed that LNDC would recruit a
Director of Operations, satisfactory to the
Association, by November 30, 1977, and this condition
was met. LNDC and the Association also agreed at
negotiations on a five-year training program for
Basotho staff, which LNDC had prepared, and that LNDC
would start to implement it right away. LNDC launched
an active recruitment and staff training program and
also created a special management training unit.
(f)      Share Capital.   Although LNDC's Act authorizes the
Board to determine LNDC's share capital, the appraisal
mission noted that it had not yet done so. At
negotiations,Government and LNDC agreed that the share
capital of the Corporation would be determined, and the
Government's share defined, at the latest by May 31,
1978, unless The Association agreed to an   alternative
date. LNDC's Act was amended and the Corporation's
authorized share capital set at M10 million prior to
the deadline.   However, it was not until 1979, after
it had been made a condition of negotiations for the
second LNDC credit, that Government's share was fixed
at M4 million, and that existing Government grants and
loans to LNDC were converted into paid-in capital.
(g)      Corporate Stra*egy: The appraisal mission noted that
LNDC had no clear cut strategy and recommended that as
soon as possible LNDC adopt (i) a short term corporate
strategy emphasizing analysis and consolidation of
existing subsidiaries to place them on a financially
sound footing, and, where necessary and feasible, sell
them off; and (ii) a medium to long term strategy to be
outlined by LNDC's new management. A satisfactory
short term strategy was adopted in 1976. At
negotiations, LNDC submitted its proposed long term
strategy, which was discussed and agreed upon by LNDC
and the Association.  This strategy emphasizes the
promotion of new economically viable investments that
would create added employment for Basotho.  In
addition, it enunciates LNDC's intention to concentrate
on providing loans and factories for lease, in
preference to making equity investments.
(h)      Operations Manual. LNDC had been operating without any
documented guidelines, with the result that projects



- 10 -
were not being thoroughly evaluated, supervision was
undertaken on an ad hoc and unsystematic basis, and
financial reporting and accounting records were weak.
At the time of appraisal, LNDC was in the process of
drafting a comprehensive Operations Manual and was
requested to submit the completed draft for discussion
and agreement at negotiations. However, LNDC was not
able to finish the draft in time and promised to
complete and submit the draft for the Association's
review by June 30, 1977. Although an initial draft was
completed within the year, it was not until 1979, as a
condition for the second LNDC credit, that a final
draft was submitted and agreed upon.
(i)      Legal Agreements.  Following suggestions from previous
Association missions, by the time of appraisal LNDC had
made progress in formalizing relations between it and
its subsidiaries, and had entered into legal form much
of the financial assistance it had previously granted
them without formalised agreements. Nevertheless,
much legal work remained to be done. As a condition of
negotiations, LNDC was requested to finalize all
outstanding legal agreements, in some cases
retroactively, and ensure that proper documentation was
available for all its commitments. This condition was
noted as fulfilled. However, LNDC's legal procedures
remained weak during the period of credit
implementation, and legal agreements are lacking now
for a number of loans and a significant number of
leases, mainly site. In addition, LNDC apparently has
no share certificates for a number of investments. The
Association has requested LNDC to finalize all legal
agreements by October 31, 1983.
(j)      Divestiture.  Majority ownership of companies entailed
significant administrative and financial burdens to
LNDC. In order to reduce these burdens, at
negotiations, it was agreed that LNDC would annually
review each of its subsidiaries to determine their
suitability for divestiture on the basis of criteria
(e.g. the profitability of the subsidiary concerned),
which had been agreed with IDA at negotiations. LNDC
has made very good progress in its divestiture program,
and by April 1983, had sold or completed negotiations
to sell all or part of its holdings in 21 companies.
For most companies, in view of their traditionally poor
performance, LNDC realized little on their sale. In
divesting, LNDC has taken particular care to sell only
to buyers having the expertise and resources required
to turn the companies around. While LNDC has attempted
to sell its shareholdings locally, the lack of
competent Basotho technical partners has required it to
divest in most cases to foreign entities. It is
apparent that LNDC's care in selecting buyers is
generally having positive results as measured by



- 11 -
improvements in the turnover, employment and financial
performance of companies following divestiture.
(k)      Financial Reporting.   At the time of appraisal, LNDC
lacked a systematic internal financial reporting system
and, as a result, financial control was very weak,
especially with regard to the subsidiaries and
associated companies. Accordingly, the appraisal
mission recommended that LNDC should develop a
financial reporting system acceptable to the
Association. By negotiations, LNDC had engaged an
international management consulting firm to develop and
implement a new management information system, and by
the end of 1977, a uniform reporting
system had already been installed in most subsidiairies
and associated companies.
(l)      Interest Rate.  The draft Project Agreement provided
for a minimum interest rate of 13% per annum to be
charged on subloans. At negotiations, the Lesotho
delegation maintained that a rate of 13% per annum
would be too high in comparison with rates charged by
other financial institutions in Lesotho and in
neighbouring countries, and that the rate would
discourage foreign investors from coming to Lesotho.
It was tnerefore agreed to reduce the lending rate to
12% per annum, which was expected to be positive in
real terms (para. 2.12). LNDC's other charges - 152
per annum on development costs for buildings, with
annual escalation of 5%, and 1% per annum on guarantees
- were considered satisfactory. LNDC maintained a 12X
per annum interest rate on all of its loans until the
second IDA credit, when it reduced the rate to 11% per
annum. LNDC is now charging up to 2% per annum on
guarantees, but has not changed its charge on leased
buildings.
Development during Credit Implementation and Present Status
3.02         Management.  In August 1977, Mr. Montsi took over as Managing
Director of LNDC, following a government decision to localise the
position. Mr. Montsi provided LNDC with strong leadership, helped to
correct many of the deficiencies of the past, and broblened LNDC's role
into the main actor in the industrial development field. LNDC took
important initiatives during Mr. Montsi's tenure, including the
introduction of an investment promotion program (para. 3.03), the creation
of a unit trust - the Lesotho Investment Holdings (LIH) - as the first
attempt to develop the rudiments of a capital market, and the establishment
of the workers' training grant scheme. Mr. Montsi resigned at the end of
September 1982, and was replaced by Mr. Mofolo, a lawyer and previously
head of LNDC's Administration Department, as Acting Managing Director.
Although Government was aware substantially in advance of Mr. Montsi's
planned resignation, it has still not officially appointed a new Managing
Director. The appointment of a replacement for Mr. Montsi is long overdue,



- 12 -
and the Association has stressed to Government the importance of resolving
the situation as soon as possible.
3.03         Subsidiaries.  During the period of credit implementation,
LNDC succeeded in streamlining and strengthening control of its
subsidiaries and associated companies. Initially, LNDC was involved in
day-to-day management of those companies in which it was a major
shareholder, and in most cases, even had to prepare their accounts.
Progressively, however, LNDC moved into an advisory, rather than managerial
role, and encouraged the subsidiaries for the first time to take on
responsibility for their own performance. Through the years, LNDC exerted
considerable efforts to strengthen its companies. Nevertheless, LNDC was
not able to improve the financial performance of many of its companies, and
consequently the need for an active divestiture program (para. 3.01 (j) was
reinforced.
3.04         Project Identification, Promotion and Development.
Supervision missions to LNDC during the early years of credit
implementation noted that the Corporation's project identification and
preparation capabilities were weak, and urged LNDC to concentrate on
developing bankable projects. LNDC's approach to investment promotion
emphasizes identifiying target companies which may be persuaded to locate
in Lesotho because of its advantages and relying mostly on projects
prepared by investors, rather than generating projects from within.
Consequently, while the investment promotion program has begun to yield
positive results, LNDC's own project identification and development
capabilities remain weak. However, at the request of Government, LNDC has
begun to research what possibilities remain for import substitution, and,
where potential exists, plans to prepare project profiles for attracting
promoters.
3.05         Staffing.  LNDC's total and Basotho professional staff have
grown respectively from 19 to 34 and 12 to 29 between negotiations of
Credit 702-LSO and April 1983. Since 1978, LNDC management has been
assisted by a team of three (initially four) experts under the auspices of
Irish Aid. The experts have occupied the key positions of Financial
Controller, Director of Operations and Director of New Industries and bave
played a crucial role in assisting LNDC to improve its performance. LNDC
has exerted considerable efforts in training the local staff, both in
Lesotho, particularly in accounting, and abroad. In addition, it has
localised several middle level managerial positions. Although LNDC has
made progress in developing its manpower, it has failed to place sufficient
emphasis on training of staff on-the-job. LNDC has also experienced
problems of turnover of competent staff. As a result of these problems,
LNDC will need to continue to rely on expatriate staff for some time to
come.
3.06         Despite LNDC's recent efforts to review and improve its
overall staffing situation, a number of divisions have vacancies which LNDC
intends to fill as soon as possible. The Operations Department has
traditionally been understaffed, which, until now, has precluded it from
extending its monitoring and control functions beyond LNDC subsidiaries and
associated companies where LNDC is the major shareholder. As the division
responsible for project appraisal/implementation needs considerable



- 13 -
strengthening, LNDC needs to recruit a division manager. LNDC has no
technical expertise and, in view of the importance of factories among its
operations, urgently needs to recruit a building engineer, and eventually
also an industrial engineer. Recruitment of additional staff is also a
priority for LNDC's legal and real estate and internal audit sections.
While LNDC has strengthened the staffing of the traditionally weak Finance
Department, it needs to consider whether recruitment of an additional and
experienced accountant is necessary.
3.07         Procedures.  LNDC has been least successful in strengthening
its procedures. Despite the Association's repeated recommendations, it has
only recently taken steps to efficiently operate internal management
information and central filing and recording systems. The quality of
project appraisals remains weak, particularly regarding the market,
financial and economic analysis.   As explained above (para. 3.06)
supervision has been neglected for companies in which LNDC is not the major
shareholder. However, the Operations Department is now developing a
systematic monitoring system, and once adequately staffed, plans to
regularly supervise all projects in LNDC's portfolio. Regarding legal
procedures, the failure to formalize many financing operations in legal
form has been discussed above (para. 3.01 (i)); another weakness has been
the tendency of the legal section to become involved in operations at too
late a stage. While financial control has improved significantly since
Credit 702-LSO was approved, there remain weaknesses to overcome, e.g. in
the areas of debt collection and medium term planning. Finally, LNDC
urgently needs to improve control of its property portfolio and thus
strengthen and define the responsibilities of its real estate section.
3,08         Project Implementation.  By the original completion date of
December 31, 1979, LNDC had committed only US$1.4 million, or 65Z, of its
component of the credit, for the following reasons: (i) LNDC received more
funds from Government than had been anticipated at appraisal; (ii) some
projects were approved by LNDC at too early a stage and required further
preparation before complete appraisals could be submitted to the
Association, or were submitted but subsequently withdrawn, or were altered
after submission; (iii) LNDC responded to questions raised by the
Association on some subprojects only after substantial delays. As a
result, the final date for subproject submission had to be extended by one
year to December 31, 1980. The slower than originally anticipated rate of
disbursement (see Basic Data) was clearly a result of the longer commitment
period, as well as LNDC's delays in submitting disbursement requests when
it did not urgently need reimbursement for expenditures incurred. While
all disbursement requests were submitted by the revised closing date of
June 30, 1982, clarifications required delayed the last disbursement to
December 1982.
IV. LNDC: ALLOCATION OF THE CREDIT
4.01         As shown in Annex A-1, the proceeds of Credit 702-LSO were
used to finance ten subprojects above the free limit for a total of US$1.7
million and four free limit subprojects for a total of US$0.3 million.
Thirty-eight percent of amounts approved were for subloans, and 62Z were
for construction of factory buildings for lease. While no subprojects were
rejected by the Association, one subproject was cancelled when the sponsors
abandoned it. The Association's review of and comments on the subproject



- 14 -
applications were instrumental in leading to changes in the design of or
financing arrangements for several of the subprojects. Six of the
subprojects required LNDC financing only in the form of leased factory
buildings, and for these, as agreed with the Association, LNDC submitted
simplified appraisals, which limited the scope of the Association's
review. Given the importance of factory buildings in LNDC's operations, in
mid-1982, LNDC and the Association agreed that in the future LNDC would
prepare comprehensive appre sals for all projects, including those
involving only factory buildings. LNDC itself bears the foreign exchange
risk on its investment in factory buildings.
4.02         The economic characteristics of the subprojects financed are
summarized in Annex A-2. Six of the projects were new and eight were
expansions, mostly of projects in which LNDC was already involved. They
include two textile projects, three projects in the food sector (a maize
mill, a bakery, and a wholesale fruit distributor), two furniture projects,
a shoe project, one wholesale operation (with three outlets), a tannery, an
umbrella assembly project, a hotel laundry, a candle project, and a
transport project. Seven of the projects export one hundred percent of
their output, but only three make any signficant use of domestic
resources. All of the projects are located in either Maseru, the capital,
or Maputsoe, the only other significant industrial center, although one
branch of the wholesale operation is located in the interior. Ten of the
projects are from 50% to 100l foreign-owned. About 1000 jobs have been
created at an average cost of about US$3,478 per job.
4.03         Annex A-3 summarizes financial aspects of the subprojects in
so far as information was available from LNDC. It shows that LNDC
financing accounted for an average 71% of total project costs, as a result
of the large number of projects which were expansions and which entailed
only the construction of new premises for lease.   As a general rule, LNDC
overestimated project costs in its appraisals, and compared project cost
estimates in the final versions of appraisal reports (para. 3.08 (ii)),
only one project had cost overruns of any magnitude. Eight of the projects
are now operating profitably, including one which was liquidated, two are
operating unprofitably, one is under liquidation, and three consistently
unprofitable projects have been divested. In March 1983, one project was
an LNDC subsidiary and four were LNDC associated companies. As of March
31, 1983, three of the subprojects were in arrears of more than 24 months
on loan repayments; these included the subproject under liquidation and one
for which the loan will be rescheduled once the divestiture is legally
finalized. The loans for an additional three subprojects previously in
arrears have been rescheduled. As of the same date, three projects were in
arrears of more than three months on rental payments.
4.04         Summary descriptions of the fourteen projects financed under
Credit 702-LSO, their historical performance and present status are
provided in Annex A-4.
V. LNDC: OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL PERFORKMANCE
5.01         Operations.  Since its inception, as of March 31, 1983, LNDC
had approved (net of cancellations) a total of M 33.4 million for about 115



- 15 -
projects, including 50 leasing only sites. 2/ Amounts approved were
distributed as follows:  M9.1 million in loans, M6.7 million in equity
investments; M12.5 million in factories and sites; and M5.1 million in
guarantees. As LNDC only recently began to keep comparable records of
commitments and disbursements, data on commitments is available only since
1980, although LNDC has been able to reconstruct historical disbursements
by year back to 1977.
5.02         Annex A-5 provides a summary of LNDC's actual operations in
the period 1977-83, and comparative data as forecast at the time of
appraisal for 1977-81. As shown in Annex A-5, the pattern of LNDC's
operations has been somewhat erratic, with approvals in the period 1977-83
fluctuating between M2.2 and M8.4 million.  Approvals increased between
1977 and 1979 from 12.2 million to M4.8 million, and thereafter decreased
each year to a low M2.5 million in 1982, before increasing to a peak of
M8.4 million in 1983. Similarly, the volume of approvals by category also
fluctuated. In contrast, following 1977, for which projected approvals
were based upon LNDC's pipeline, appraisal forecasts assumed annual
percentage increases in the various types of approvals and, accordingly, in
total approvals. Cumulatively, and by year, however, over the 1977-81
appraisal projection period, actual total approvals of M18.2 million
exceeded appraisal forecasts of M10.5 million, although this was not always
the case for individual types of approvals. Over the period on the whole,
equity approvals, amounting to M4.9 million, and factory approvals,
amounting to M5.6 milion, were substantially higher than appraisal
forecasts of M.2.6 million and M4.1 million respectively. On the other
hand, loan approvals, M3.5 million, were slightly less than forecasts of
M13.8 million. During the projection period, LNDC also approved 13.2
million in guarantees, which were not incorporated in appraisal forecasts,
mainly to support borrowing by LNDC subsidiaries and associated companies.
LNDC's operations also included the development, with grant financing, of
industrial estate infrastructure in Maseru and Maputsoe; a third estate, at
Thetsane on the outskirts of Maseru, was completed in February 1983.
Available commitment and disbursement data indicate that the rate of
project implementation was substantially slower than forecast at
appraisal. While it is valid that there often have been significant delays
between approval, commitment and disbursement of projects, it should be
noted that the appraisal forecasts, in assuming that all projects would be
committed in the year approved, appear over-optimistic as compared to the
performance of most development finance institutions.
5.03         The significantly higher than forecast level of equity
approvals was largely due to one project, the brewery/soft drinks plant,
which accounted for more than 40% of total equity approvals. The higher
than forecast level of factory approvals was in response to a greater than
anticipated demand from investors as a result of (i) their desires to
minimize their risks in Lesotho by renting, rather than owning buildings;
and (ii) the difficulties in acquiring land under the land tenure system,
and, since its passage, under the 1979 Land Act which precludes majority
foreign-owned enterprises from leasing land directly and implicitly also
2/ LNDC has not yet been able to provide a complete breakdown of its site
portfolio, and the number of projects leasing sites is an estimation.



- 16 -
from owning buildings on land leased from LNDC. In addition, the provision
of factory buildings is a facility offered by other countries in Southern
Africa and the "homelands" as an incentive to attract investors,
and LNDC needs to provide them if Lesotho is to remain competitive. With
regard to loans, during the appraisal projection period there was little
advantage for foreign investors in borrowing from LNDC, and they tended to
bring in capital from the RSA; it was not until the surge in commercial
interest rates in the RMA starting in 1981 that LNDC's comparatively low
rate of 12Z per annum became attractive.
5.04         The pattern and nature of LNDC's approvals reflect its
character as a holding company, as well as its need to be flexible in the
type of assistance it offers, given its position as the only significant
source of investment financing for medium/large scale enterprises in
Lesotho. For many projects, LNDC provided more than one source of
financing. LNDC's approvals included projects in various activities 
commerce, construction, manufacturing and tourism, and project sizes also
varied considerably, ranging from as low as MO.1 to 110.5 million for the
brewery.
Portfolio
5.05         In March 1976, about 72% each of LNDC's equity and loan
portfolios, and 19 of the 28 projects included in the portfolios, related
to projects with financial difficulties. Almost all of the loans
outstanding were to companies in which LNDC was already exposed through
equity investments. As of March 31, 1983, a still high 55% of LNDC's total
portfolio (equity, loans, factories, and guarantees, but not including
sites for which complete and accurate data is unavailable), 70% of the
equity portfolio, 58% of the loan portfolio and 74% of the guarantee
portfolio were outstanding in non-profitable companies (Annex A-6). The
quality of the factory portfolio, on the other hand, was significantly
better, with only 31% in problem projects. The quality of the portfolio as
a whole was significantly influenced by the poor performance of two of the
larger projects included; 28 of the 42 projects in the total portfolio were
operating profitably. The total portfolio included ten subsidiaries, and
twelve associated companies and was distributed as follows: equity, 22%;
loans, 19%; factories, 40%; guarantees, 15%; and sites, 4%. While the
level of arrears in 1976 was not ascertainable, they were estimated to be
substantial. As of March 31, 1983, 28% of the loan portfolio was affected
by arrears of more than three months, with arrears amounting to M240,000,
or 7% of the portfolio. Factory rental arrears of over three months
amounted to about N243,000, affecting about 30% of the factory portfolio.
Financial Performance and Condition
5.06         Annexes A7-8 and 11 provide actual and forecasted income
statements, balance sheets and financial ratios for LNDC in the period
1977-81, as well as actual and estimated results for 1982 and 1983
respectively. LNDC's financial performance since 1977 has been below the
Association's expectations when Credit 702-LSO was appraised. The
Corporation has operated at a loss in all years since 1976, when it stopped
receiving non-operational income from sugar levies and mining royalties.
As anticipated, rental income has been LNDC's primary source of revenue,



- 17 -
accounting, however for only 44Z of gross operating revenue in 1977-81 as
compared to appraisal forecasts of 582. Dividend income in absolute terms
has been at about the same level or more than forecast, and has represented
a substantially higher return on equity investment than anticipated. While
the appraisal projected net profits of between 4.7Z and 6.2% of average
total assets in 1977-1981, the Corporation made net losses in this period
which successively amounted to 38.1%, 3.2Z, 9.5Z, 1.4% and 4.5Zof average
total assets.  LNDC's net loss increased to 7.9Z of average total assets in
1982 and is likely to represent some 6% of average total assets in 1983.
In 1980 and 1981, LNDC received government subvention(s) totalling 1
619,000 to cover expenses for the investment promotion program and in
1979-81,government subventions totalling M514,000 in lieu of dividends from
the Holiday Inn3/. LNDC did not receive either of these subventions in
1982 or 1983; their loss was an important factor in LNDC's particularly
poor performance in 1982, when it made a large operating loss, although a
less important factor in 1983, for which LNDC's estimated large loss
results mainly from excessively high provisions. Three main factors have
caused LNDC's poorer than expected performance. First, a slower than
expected growth in the portfolio, particularly through 1980, when the total
gross portfolio amounted to M10 million as compared to the forecast M13
million. Second, LNDC's portfolio did not improve as fast as expected,
leading to substantially higher provisions than forecast in all years.
Third, administrative expenses, ranging from between a low 6.8Z (1980) and
15.2% (1977) of average total assets, have been higher than forecast, as a
result, inter alia, of costs of the manpower development program and
inadequate financial control. In 1983, LNDC was able to markedly reduce
its administrative expenses, which contributed to a significant improvement
in its performance before provisions. LNDC's prospects for becoming
profitable will depend upon its success on divesting or turning around
remaining unprofitable projects in its portfolio, selecting new projects
which realize appraisal profitability expectations and containing
administrative expenses.
5.07         Despite losses, LNDC's long term debt/equity ratio has
throughout remained low, never exceeding 1.411, and below expectations.
This has been a result of significantly lower than anticipated borrowings
and higher than anticipated government capital expenditure grants.
However, LNDC has intermittently experienced a precarious cash flow
situation, and its net working capital position has throughout been worse
than forecast. The consolidated financial performance and condition
(Annexes A-9-10) of the LNDC group have followed more or less similar
trends to those of the Corporation.
5.08         Resource Mobilization.  LNDC has been relatively successful in
mobilizing resources from foreign multilateral institutions other than the
Association, including the European Investment Bank (EIB), the African
Development Bank (ADB), the European Development Fund (EDF), and the
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW). It has also been successful in
mobilizing resources from the domestic banking system for projects, in most
cases by guaranteeing commercial bank loans. While the Corporation has had
3/ In 1980, 1981 and 1983, LNDC also received additional operating
subventions  (M9,000, M470,000 and M187,000 respectively) which have
not been incorporated as income in the analysis of LNDC's performance.



- 18 -
little success in mobilizing equity from local sources for projects, as a
result of a lack of an equicy investment tradition among savers in Lesotho,
it has made an important first step towards establishing a capital market
through the creation of LIi.
Reporting
5.09         Despite repeated reminders, LNDC has yet to begin submitting                  _
quarterly reports to the Association, which consequently has relied almost
entirely upon supervision missions for information on developments. LNDC
seems to have considered preparation of the quarterly reports low on its
list of priorities, given the number of problems it has had to tackle over
the years.
7I. LNDC: CONCLUSIONS
6.01         LNDC's performance in achieving the objectives of the first
line of Credit has been mixed. One main objective of the Association's
assistance to LNDC was to generate local employment opportunities by
supporting the creation of medium and large scale enterprises. While the
appraisal did not set specific employment targets, the disappointing
performance of the manufacturing sector in creating jobs d'iring 1975(76 -
1979/80 (para. 2.06) and the slower than expected growth in LNDC's
portfolio suggests that achievements fell short of appraisal expectations.
This failing results from LNDC's particularly weak project identification
and preparation skills in the early years of credit implementation and
substantial delays between initial project approvalsand implementation; in
addition, LNDC's limited staff resources were burdened with the difficult
task of strengthening the performance of the large number of LNDC managed
companies. Now that many companies have been divested, remaining
subsidiaries and associated companies are far less reliant on LNDC than ln
the past for day to day guidance, and the investment promotion program has
begun to show results, LNDC should perform, and indeed already has begun to
perform better in creating new jobs. However, LNDC's performance under the
credit cannot be evaluated in isolation; it should be stressed again that
LNDC operates in an extremely difficult environment where Industrial
development efforts face numerous constraints. Even lf LNDC did not
achieve appraisal expectations, the limited statistics availaole indicate
that LNDC's role in employment generation was, nevertheless, significant.
A survey conducted by LNDC in June 1978 of its subsidiaries and associated
companies shows that in 1978 LNDC companies already contributed 57Z of
estimated modern manufacturing employment in 1980. Moreover, LNDC's impact
on the Lesotho economy goes beyond what can be demonstrated by statistics
on job creation and the operational results of companies it has assisted.
In the absence of a strong parent ministry, it has contributed
significantly to planning and policy formulation in industry, commerce and
tourism. It has actively promoted Lesotho as a tourist and investment
area. Finally, it has succeeded in developing a modern handicrafts
industry.
6.02          Regarding institutional developments, while LNDC has made
significant progress in correcting many of the numerous problems noted at
the time of appraisal, it still needs to achieve much to develop into a
strong institution. The limited availability of trained and experienced



- 19 -
staff in Lesotho has made achievement of credit objectives a difficult
task, and LNDC will need to exert considerable effort to overcoae the
problems it still has. Provided it is willing to exert such efforts, and
it receives the full support of Government, it has encouraging prospects.
Role of the Association, Beneficiary, and Borrower
6.03         LNDC and the Association pursued a constructive dialogue
throughout credit Implementation, and LNDC was generally receptive and in
agreement with suggestions made by successive supervision missions.
Probably because of other views on priorities, staff weaknesses and
overstretched management, LNDC was not always successful In implemnting
measures agreed upon. The Association's role In advising LNDC, rather
important during the early years of credit implementation, declined with
the beginning of the Irish assistance program; nevertheless, LNDC seemed to
value the Association's contribution in providing an outside, and thus more
objective, assessment of performance. Government officials were
cooperative in receiving missions and openly discussing their conclusions
and concerns. As for the Association's role, it probably would have been
useful if it had fielded more frequent supervision missions and exerted
more efforts to assist LNDC in such areas as strengthening project
appraisal.



- 20 -
BASOTHO ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
VII. BEDCO: THE INSTITUTION
7.01      Despite its recent establishment, by the time of appraisal, BEDCO
had made reasonably good progress in recruiting staff and developing basic
operational procedures. In view of its anbitious plans - establishment of
an SSE credit scheme, development of industrial estates and establishment
of a number of enterprises which would eventually be sold to Basotho
entrepreneurs, it was agreed that BEDCO would need to implement a number of
measures before approval of the IDA credit. These included: recruitment of
essential expatriate staff, preparation of a training program for Basotho
staff and an operations manual and adoption of a revised policy statement.
During the course of appraisal, loan negotiations and supervision of the
project, the issues outlined in the following paragraphs were discussed:
7.02      BEDCO's Subsidiary Status: At the time of appraisal in May 1976,
BEDCO was a wholly-owned subsidiary of LNDC. Due to the poor relationship
between the Managing Directors of LNDC and BEDCO, the latter was in the
process of breaking away from LNDC by seeking a separate corporate status.
As LNDC's management was expected to change, and in order to avoid the
wasteful duplication of staff and efforts that a separate BEDCO would
entail, the mission recommended that BEDCO should retain its subsidiary
status. BEDCO was nevertheless separated from LNDC in 1978, and
established as a separate public corporation under the Ministry of Trade,
Industry and Tourism.
7.03      Subsidiary Loan Agreement:  The Association had proposed that the
US$300,000 portion of the credit earmarked for BEDCO should be channelled
through LNDC, and that BEDCO would pay a fee of 1% per annum of the
principal amount outstanding for administrative service rendered by LNDC.
During negotiations, however, the Lesotho delegation argued that there was
no need to channel the BEDCO component of the credit through LNDC. It was
agreed, therefore, that the US$300,000 would be passed on by Government
directly to BEDCO.
7.04      Policy Statement:  During negotiations, the Association reviewed
and commented on BEDCO's proposed revised Statement of Folicy. The
statement specified that BEDCO could finance projects with capital costs of
up to M 50,000.  This was agreed, but in order to formally delineate the
lines of responsibility of LNDC and BEDCO, the Statement was amended by
adding a provision limiting BEDCO's maximum investment in a single project
to M 30,000. In 1979, BEDCO revised its Statement of Policy without prior
consultation with the Association, including changes in two major lending
policies which had been agreed with the Association, namely:
(a) Interest rate: The new statement provided that BEDCO's interest
rate would generally be the minimum commercial bank lending rate, regularly
adjusted on a monthly or quarterly basis; this suggested a floating rate
over the term of its loans. The minimum rate which had been agreed with
the Association for BEDCO loans was 12Z per annum. It had further been
agreed that BEDCO would not lower this rate without the concurrance of both
Governmeat and the Association. BEDCO ultimately decided to maintain its
lending rate at 12%.



- 21 -
(b)  BEDCO Exposure:  In the revised policy statement, BEDCO's maximum
loan financing per project was raised to M 50,000 with no explicit limit on
the size of projects. While the Association agreed that, because of
inflation, increases in the limits originally specified might be necessary,
in order to ensure that the delineation of roles between LNDC and BEDCO was
maintained, it suggested to BEDCO that a limit be put on the size of
projects it would finance. Initially, BEDCO management argued that such a
limit would be too restrictive. Subsequently however, BEDCO amended the
Statement once again, limiting its assistance to projects with capital
costs not exceeding M200,000 and its maximum investment per project to
M100,000 and/or 80Z of the project's capital costs, whichever was less.
BEDCO maintained that the higher cost projects would be the exception
rather than the norm , and that it fully intended to continue to assist the
small scale entrepreneur. Accordingly, the Association accepted the
changes BEDCO had made.
7.05      Recruitment and Training of BEDCO Staff: During negotiations, the
Association reviewed BEDCO's five year program for training Basotho staff
and found it to be satisfactory. It was agreed that BEDCO would begin to
implement the program immediately. It was also agreed that BEDCO would
recruit a senior Projects Officer by November 30, 1977; this condition was
met.
7.06      Board of Directors:  When BEDCO was still an LNDC subsidiary,
LNDC's Managing Director was a member of BEDCO's Board. Following the
incorporation of BEDCO as a separate public corporation, however, the Board
was reconstituted, and LNDC's representation was terminated. IDA
supervision missions which visited BEDCO in 1979 and 1980, recommended to
Government and BEDCO management that LNDC be reappointed to BEDCO's Board,
because of LNDC's greater experience in promoting industry, and also in
order to facilitate coordination of the activities of the two
institutions. In 1982, LNDC was reappointed to the Board and is currently
represented by a Senior Project Officer.
Developments and Present Status
7.07      Management, Organisation, Staffing and Procedures:  Until 1980,
BEDCO had been headed by three successive Managing Directors provided by
the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), the main entity
providing technical and financial assistance to BEDCO. In July 1980, Mr.
Sebatane, who had been Deputy Managing Director, was appointed BEDCO's
first Mosotho Managing Director. Mr. Romatete, a Mosotho with BEDCO for
two years, was appointed Deputy Managing Director in September 1981. Over
the past year, BEDCO has had a CIDA funded expatriate advisor to the
Managing Director. Overall, BEDCO's current top management is committed
and has been fairly effective in redressing the Corporation's weaknesses.
7.08      BEDCO has made good progress in developing and streamlining its
organizational set up and improving its institutional capabilities in the
past five years. BEDCO now comprises five departments (Projects and
Investments, Management Services, Marketing, Secretariat, and Finance),
each with faily well defined responsibilities. The existing organization
structure is suitable for BEDCO's operations. BEDCO's professional staff
has rapidly increased from 11 professional of whom 6 were Basotho, at the



- 22 -
time of appraisal, to 24 professionals, of whom 18 are Basotho. The
expatriate staff include the Advisor to the Managing Director, the
Financial Controllei, and the Manager of the Technical Services Division,
all of whom are provided by CIDA, two advisors to the Projects and
Management Services Departments and a woodwork expert. Most of the 18
Basotho professional staff are recent graduates of the National University
of Lesotho and are still relatively inexperienced. BEDCO will need
expatriate support in the finance department and key technical areas for at
least the next three to four years.
7.09      The major weaknesses noted by IDA supervision missions relate to
project supervision, financial control, and debt collection. BEDCO has
been exerting efforts to strengthen its procedures, and has made
considerable progress redressing the problems it has had in these areas.
7.10      Project Implementation - The US$300,000 BEDCO component was
committed at a slower pace than anticipated at appraisal. Although it had
been expected that the amount would be fully committed by December 31,
1979, only US$57,000 had been committed by this time.  The slow commitment
rate was due partly to a low level of lending operations and to the
availability of resources for lending from other sources - mainly CIDA.
The slow commitment rate was also caused by BEDCO cancelling commitments
which the Association had already approved; altogether a total of [ 100,060
committed for some 13 subprojects was cancelled and subsequently
reallocated to alternative projects. Consequently, BEDCO, like
LNDC, required an extension of the deadline for submission of subloan
applications. As a result of the slow commitment rate, disbursements in
the first two years also lagged begind appraisal estimates. However the
disbursement rate picked up in the subsequent two years, and the the
component was fully disbursed on schedule by the original closing date of
December 31, 1981.
VIII_ BEDCO: ALLOCATION OF THE CREDIT
8.01      The US $300,000 BEDCO component was utilized to finance 31 small
scale enterprise projects (Annex B-1). IDA reviewed in detail the first 10
SSE projects submitted for financing, and thereafter approved the rest on
the basis of summary project profiles submitted by BEDCO. Twcnty of the 31
subloans (65%), representing about 30% of the amount of the component, were
less than US$8,000 each. The largest subloan approved amounted to
US$57,000, or about 20% of the component.  About one-half of the subloans
were for a period of three years and the other half for more than three to
five years; all subloan maturities included a six-month grace period. The
status of the 31 subprojects financed under the component is summarized in                 a
Annex B-2 4/. As of June 30, 1982, only six subprojects, accounting for
40% of the total amount disbursed under the component, were operating
profitably, while nine, accounting for 22% of amounts disbursed, were
classified as marginal projects (i.e. those breaking even and some expected
to make a small profit by the end of 1982). The majority of the
4/   As only a few enterprises regularly prepare and submit to BEDCO
financial statements, there are no data on the financial
characteristics of the subprojects financed by the Association.



- 23 -
subprojecrs, representing 38% of the total amount disbursed, were
unprofitable. Poor manarement was cited by BEDCO as the major cause of the
poor performance of most of :he projects it has assisted (para. 9.06).
8.02      The main characteristics of IDA financed projects are summarized
in Annex B-2. Twelve of the 31 subprojects are concentrated in the
production of garments and account for 30% of the total amount disbursed by
the Association; the other principal economic activities are metalworking
(11%), leather processing (9%), food processing (8%), furniture and wood
working (6%) retail trade (6%) construction materials (3%) and
miscellaneous services (27%). Except for four projects - two garment
manufacturers, a leather processing enterprise and a producer of wood and
stone carvings - which export part of their production, all of the
projects produce for the local market, and 55% depend entirely on imported
raw matrials. About 75% of the subprojects and 86% of the subloan amounts
are concentrated in Maseru, mostly on BEDCO's industrial estate. All of
the projects were new concerns. The 31 projects financed created 304
permanent jobs at an average investment cost per job of M 2300 - about the
level estimated at appraisal. Brief descriptions of some of the
subprojects are provided in Annex B-3.
IX.  BEDCO:  OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL PERFORMAINCE
OPERATIONS
9.01      Industrial Estate Construction Program:  At appraisal, BEDCO had
completed the first of three phases of the construction of the Sebaboleng
Trade and Industrial Center (STIC) in Maseru. In addition to completing
the final two STIC phases, BEDCO planned to build three mini-industrial
estates at Maputsoe, Thaba Tseka and Mohales Hoek by the end of 1981.
Although the industrial center in Maseru was completed as planned, the
construction of the mini-industrial estates have not progressed due to lack
of funds. Recently, the British Government agreed to finance the
construction of the Mohales Hoek estate, which is expected to be completed
by March 1983.   Neither the Association nor CIDA consider the construction
of the mini estates a priority at the moment, given the need for BEDCO to
focus on strengthening the performance of enterprises at STIC, and CIDA
does not plan to provide financing for that purpose.
9.02      SSE Credit Scheme and Equity Investments:  The evolution of
BEDCO's operations from 1977-1982 and a summary analysis of its loan and
equity investments approved up to March 31, 1982 are presented in Annex
B-4. The volume of loan operations over the six year period ended March
1981, was lower than projected at appraisal largely due to two factors:
BEDCO did not construct the mini-industrial estates as expected at
appraisal, and the number of Basotho nationals attracted by the assistance
BEDCO could provide, and who were considered likely to succeed in running
small businesses, turned out to be much smaller than previously expected.
As of March 31, 1982, BEDCO had approved 104 loans totalling M 1.1 million
of which about 80% had been disbursed. Loan approvals stagnated in the
first three years, grew sharply in 1980 and 1981 but declined rapidly in
the last fiscal year following BEDCO's decision to consolidate its existing
portfolio. Annual loan approvals averaged M 213,000 for 17 projects as
compared to M 263,000 for 80 projects forecast at appraisal. During the
six year period (1977-82), BEDCO approved 12 equity investments (for which



- 24 -
no forecasts were made at appraisal) for a total of M 138,220. Two
investments in companies facing severe operational problems were sold off
in 1981, and BEDCO is in the process of selling two more unprofitable
companies (Annex B-5).
9.03      BEDCO's loans have ranged from M 1000 to M 57,000; the majority
have been less than M 5000. However, larger loans in the M 10,000-50,000
range accounted for about 72% of the total amounts approved; overall, the
average loan size was about M 10,000, about two and a half times the size
estimated at appraisal. In number, production of garments was the dominant
activity for which loans were approved, although the retail trade sector
accounted for the bulk of the value of approvals, followed by garments and
production of construction materials. Nearly 97% of both the number and
amount of loans were for new projects. Ninety percent of the amounts
approved were for fixed capital investments and the rest for working
capital purposes. Equity investments approved (Annex B-5) ranged from M 8
to N 27,000 with BEDCO's shareholding varying from 27% to 100l. All
companies in which BEDCO holds equity investments were also recipients of
loans from BEDCO.
9.04      Entrepreneur Training:  BEDCO launched an entrepreneur training
development program in 1979. In addition to giving induction courses to
new BEDCO clients, the training department has conducted several seminars
in basic management principles, bookkeeping, tailoring, dressmaking,
salesmanship etc. for groups of entrepreneurs. The majority of BEDCO-
assisted entrepreneurs have attended at least one course each. The
training department also sends entrepreneurs to courses conducted by other
institutions such as the Lesotho Opportunities Industrialization Center.
9.05      Portfolio.  As of June 30, 1982, BEDCO's total portfolio amounted
to M 3.6 million, consisting of M 2.1 million in real estate holdings
(mainly in the industrial estate in Maseru), M 1.0 million in loans and M
0.9 million in equity investments. Overall, BEDCO's loan and equity
portfolios are of poor quality, which has necessitated provisions of M 0.6
million. As of June 30, 1982, out of 96 projects in BEDCO's loan
portfolio, 77 projects accounting for about 72% of the outstanding loan
portfolio were unprofitable, and seven out of the 10 companies in which
BEDCO had equity investments were operating at a loss. Loan arrears of
over three months amounted to M 163,000 at the end of June 1982,
representing a high 48% of the outstanding loan portfolio; 52% of the loan
portfolio was affected by arrears. Rental arrears of more than three
months amounted to H 23,000, representing about 35Z of the annual rental
income from the arrears affected factory buildings.
9.06      The poor performance of BEDCO assisted enterprises is attributed
to a number of factors of which the most important are: (i) Poor
Management: At the time BEDCO was created, it had been expected that the
credit facilities and other promotional services it would offer would
attract from South Africa Basotho nationals who had acquired commercial and
some industrial skills to set up their own small businesses with BEDCO
assistance. To date, however, Basotho nationals who have returned from the
RSA represent a small number of BEDCO's clientel. The majority of BEDCO
clients are former civil servants and rural artisans, who had had very
little experience in running modern commercial enterprises and much less in



- 25 -
industrial activities.  While a number of them have gradually ixuroved the
performance of their small businesses as they have acquired e7perience, the
majority still lack basic management capabilities. For example, no more
than about 25% of BEDCO-asissted enterprises keep books of account on a
regular basis; (ii) Lack of Skilled Workers: Inadequate management
capabilities on the part of project sponsors is exercabated by lack of
skilled workers. This problem is particularly prevalent in enterprises
engaged in manufacturing activities. In addition to tne poor quality of
their products, most of these enterprises are not able to maintain
consistent levels of production because of frequent machinery breakdowns
due to poor maintenance. As a result of these constraints, Basotho owned
small enterprises are not able to compete with nearby South African
enterprises of similar size which have ready access to the Lesotho market;
(ili) Working Capital: The majority of BEDCO assisted entrepreneurs cite
lack of adequate working capital resources as a major constraint. Because
of poor management and financial performance and lack of collateral, BEDCO
clients have no access to short term commercial bank credit to finance
their working capital needs. To address this problem, BEDCO started
financing working capital loans in 1979 and set up a subsidiary company
(BEDCO Trading) which purchased raw materials in bulk for sale to BEDCO
clients at prices marginally above cost.
9.07      At the time of appraisal, it had been expected that some of BEDCO
assisted entrepreneurs on the industrial estate would graduate and move off
the estate to make room for new entreprises. To date, however, none of the
entrepreneurs have "graduated; the few that have left, have done so
following the collapse of their bussinesses.
Financial Performance and Condition
9.08      Due to the high cost of providing training and extension services
to SSEs, rather poor financial prospects were forecast for BEDCO at
appraisal, and it was expected that it would make losses up to 1981.
BEDCO's actual performance has been much poorer than projected (Annex
B-6). Due to the poor performance of enterprises in its portfolio, over
the period 1978-82 factory rental, loan and dividend income was lower than
forecast, While promotional and technical assistance expenses have exceeded
estimates by about 40% in each year. (BEDCO's performanace in 1977 was
better than forecast). BEDCO's losses have averaged a high 34% of total
assets compared to only 12% forecast at appraisal. To finance its
operations, BEDCO has relied on grants from bilateral agencies, notably
CIDA, and on Government subventions to meet its operating expenses; BEDCO
has not incurred any major long-term debts. As of June 30, 1982, BEDCO had
a debt equity ratio of only 0.4:1, well below the 3:1 limit agreed with the
Association.
X. BEDCO: CONCLUSIONS
10.01     The general objectives of IDA's assistance to BEDCO, i.e.
providing foreign exchange resources for financing small-scale enterprise
projects, thereby creating employment opportunities, and contributing to
the building of BEDCO into an effective institution have partially been



- 26 -
met. BEDCO's performance over the past five years has been satisfactory in
certain respects and below expectations in othera. On one hand, BEDCO has,
over this period, established fairly sound systems and procedures,
mobilized resources to support a modest volume of lending operations and to
implement part of its industrial estates construction program; it has also
developed a satisfactory program for training its client small scale
enterpreneurs. On the other hand, the bulk of BEDCO's portfolio is of poor
quality, and its financial performance has been much poorer than
anticipated. In addition, BEDCO continues to rely extensively on
expatriate support at middle management levels and for its key technical
and professional staff needs - a common problem in Lesotho due to a
general shortage of qualified and skilled nationals. Overall, despite
various constraints such as a shortage of adequately qualified Basotho
staff, lack of special incentives for SSE development, and a dearth of
skilled Basotho entrepreneurs, BEDCO has played an important role in the
difficult task of promoting and assisting the development of small-scale
entrepreneurs in Lesotho. Prospects for BEDCO becoming a more effective
institution will largely depend on continued support from both external
agencies and Government.



- 27 -                              An  A-1
LISUIH) NATMNXL LEELN     CORPOATMN (LNOC)
list of S     ects   rized tinex Credit 702-4M
Total
DaIte       AmoUt        &igxmt      Amalt
Nme of &ftmject                  Number   Audwrized   astforizd    Cfld   Dfs Lzred
Internatinal Txtila  (Pty) Ltd.  AL-i      03/08/78       316.2         130.4      185.8
Selkol Joinery Ltd.              AL-2       10/04/78       127.2          -         127.2
lesotbo Milling Co.               AL-3      12/13/78       150.1          19.1      131.0
Iesotbo Sboes Ltd.               AL4        1Z/19/78       126.5          -         126.5
Dto Iesotio ltd.                  AL-5       12/5/79       495.9          65.6      430.3
Mbluti SkiDn                      AL-6       1/10/80       200.0           -        200.0
kbputaoe Bakery Ltd.              AL-7       6/26/80        151.2          8.5      142.7
Iesotbo IheellUa FAhifacturexs
(Pty) Ltd.                    AL-8        8/27/80       112.4          30.7       81.7
Juripe Fruits                    ALr9        2/10/81       244.7         43.2       201.5
Iesotho CLothing                  AL-10      2/10/81       113.2          -         113.2
Hote1 Victoria Landry            iL-1       12/13/77        33.4          -          33.4
lolonyam Cardl"e                  L,-2       6/27/78        92.8          -          92.8
Mblu]ti Furniture T3dustries Ltd.   BL-3     10/278         45.3          -          45.3
Frniture lndistri  ILtd.(canoel3d)EL-4      11129/79        48.0          48.0        -
Freigitpdck Internaticnal        BL-5        12/1/80        83.6 2/       -          83.6
1/ Aa additional US$107.9 tbxusand mm astborzed tier the next INC credit: Credit 985-LEM.
2/ ha additiomal US$76.6 thcusand sa authorized inder the next LNDC Credit: 985-L90.
EAPI
JLme 1983



som
IpSOn  NTAnAL DEVELir PaQACIN (LbW)
Ecxndc Characteristics of pUbprojects Finarncd Vnder Credit 702-LSO
(M'Q(Xb)
% Raw
Pennanent    Materials               Rates of Retum
Economic                 NW or        X Basotho   EAloyuent   ltic          Z Sales    per Appraisal
Nae of Sebproject                Sector        location   ETpansion   (Omership       Created 1/  Sources      Irted    ERR          FLR
Internatlonal Textiles           Textiles      MHeru    tw                 50            130      noe            100      27.0        23.5
Selkol Joinery                   Wbod Products  Maaeru     Eaion          100             35*     none          now       28.0        28.0
leslth, !Ilulirg                 Maize Millirg   Mapwtae  ESqseion         33.3            -      50              10      not sppilcable 2/
lesotho Shoes                    Footar         Maputee  Nw              none            W50t     67             100      not applicable 7/
Metro lEsothD                     fIlesale      Maseru    Expaion          50             8)      noe           noe       not applicable 7/
Retail         Maputace
Trade          Mtahes-
Hok
Maluti Sldr                      Tannery        Maseru    EKpansion        50              5      none           100       72.0       68.0
Maputsoe Bakery                  Bakery         Maputwce  N              now              60k     98            none      not applicable 2/
Lesotho ULbrella Mainufacturers    Umbrellas    Maput,e  EKpansion       none            270      noe            100      not applicable 7/
Smripe Fruits                    Vegetable/Fnit Maseru   NMw               50             46      5             none      21.4        23.2     9
Distribution
lesotho Caothirg                 Textiles      HMputooe   ow             none            110*     none           100      not applicable 2/
Hotel Victoria lanry             Service        Meseru    Naw              100          nca       10             100       n.a.      134.0
iblonyam  Cugle                  Cardle         Maseru    ExUISion         50           none      none            30      128.0      103.0
Maluti Furniture LIndustrie      Frniture       Maputsoe  EKpansion        100            50      none           100      132.0      131.0
Freightpak Intemational          Transport      Masetu    Rehabiltation nome              10      n.a.            n.a.    not applicable 2/
Distribution
I/ Appraisal data  less marked with asterisk (*), in  dch  mse latest actual data.
7/ For factory buildirzs, the siaplfied apraisal format required from INC did not provide for calcilatixi of ERR and FIRR
Note: n.a. - not available
EAPID
March 1983



LMo  NCW& WMKme  OWATIM (110C)
Fimrial Qcractarimati  of    Nrojects Financed under  tedt 7M-LEO
Profit bBfoze Tai/
lypc LlD    Total          latest Year for                            Total Project
Tbtal Prolect Cost       Fll ns           Lhidl actual DIta    Profit Mefore  mc   cost (X)
Non of &bgwoject                Appr         Actulal   Oerrmn  Lj,EFIG       3      !     la AvaLable          Apra    Actual  kap           l   An                ts
lnternatiaial Textlke              877.0  le t   sau0p 2/ L,e                 273.8                            308.0 5/       n.a.       35.1       n.a.      in lqddatha
formst 2/
Selkol Jointy                       189.0    180.7 -    (8.3)    L             9n.6            1982              58.0       (43.9)        30.7    (24.2)      sodd - profitable in 1983
Iesotlho Milling (silos)            148.5   150.5         2.0      F          150.5            1982              54,5 6/7/  215.3 617/  36.2        n.a.11/  profitable
Lwotho  ioms                        530.5   523.6        (6.9)    F           160.4            1981             126.9 #/V/  220.0Or   23.9 8/  4.?oT    proitable
Mbtro Lesotto (3 proJects)         1575.8   1377.0 2/ (198.8) 2/ E,F          677.2 2/         1981             137.2 Tr    636.77         S 8.7     n.:.  pI ofitable
Ialuti Sdns (  reappraised)         161.0   167.5         6.5      L          167.5            1961             225.9=/      (58.4)71     n.a.11/  n.e./   sold
Hrztes  bbery                       407.0   394.8       (12.2)    F           163.0            1983              59.8         91.0        14.7      23.1       profitble
Lesotlo Uehlla        fscacwn       153.1   151.1        (2.0)    F           150.1            1981             9OO.0 IO/    301D0I10/    n.a.II/  n.a.       profitable
Snarips Frnits (as reappraised)     4B.0   365.1        (72.9)    F,E,G       270.0            1982             48.7        (90.7F        11.1       (24.8)  utprofitable
Lesotho C1othfin.g                  360.6   359.8 2/    (0.8) 2/ F            229.8           nom               474.2 /       n.a.,    131.5        n.m.      profitabla
Ibtel Victoria Ladry                 32.5   29.1 -       (3,4) -   1           29.1            1982              56.3 /9/   170.1 7/9,  173.2       n..         mot1o Hotsls for  ia ted -
profitable for
flast tin ln 1962
Iblpm Cdlla                         84.0   8D.7         (3.3)    L            80.7            1981             101.7 9/    (18.7) 9/    n../  n                   facto mold
Hluti Funidtue  nD tris              78.4   75.3         (3.1) 2/ L            36.3            1983 (e)          77.2S/    (83.0) I/    n.a.w    n. l. aver baim  =*t -
taVrofiftable
Fuijghtpok Intanrtknal !/            89.5   W8.5         69.0      P          158.5          nIm                171.5 5/      n.s.       191.6      n.a.      pwfitable
t/_Part af thb   project    finanhed under Credit 702{90 ald prt under Crit 9W-11
Miain estista baed   an m t acbally disbused am mzbrojeot a data not available fzde L2                                                                                                             N
/ L:loan  Elequdty; FMfactory; C:g.ate                                                                                                                                                              '
U %UIh     otherwim indioated, apprial figre is for sar Smar of opezutis  a actual.
p/ pfuial flgurea third yer of qnr tior whil acbmal for dLffeznt yer of opestiou, or Mt available.
Apprial firew        firet yer of oaratima tilu acul for differet ywr of oprations or not avilable.
3f Jpa l  re for pr~ject. ctual fl     for .get  ,.
</ OUiuapprol eal  dact.l fijure for IB3T
wrh d     y ,  not jut prqject.
Ib/DOdh appraisal aid Actual fi.ws a   hfor  uDIr Tid for iftle c W  ruter thn tde project.
/CalaIation  rut possibLe -profitf          Is for  ulea eq  = ile total ant is for poject.
Am
i 1983



- 30 -
Annex A-4
Page I-of5
LNDC
Summary Description and Status of Subprojects Financed under Credit 702-LSO
(i)      International Textiles (ITPL).  ITPL "-.s created in 1976 as a
joint venture, owned 75 percent by Taiwanese investors experienced in the
business and 25 percent by LNDC, to manufacture kritted outer garments with
imp rted materials. According to the original project design, ITPL
would subcontract the manufacture of about 50% of each garment as piecework
to some 500 Basotho housewives, who would use knitting iachines purchased
from ITPL on hire purchase. ITPL would manufacture the balance of each
garment and assemble the component pieces in its plant. However, while
ITPL purchased the knitting machines intended for the housewives,
subcontracting never started, and the machines are being held in storage.
LNDC left management of the company to the Taiwanese investors, who
performed unsatisfactorily. LNDC has been unsuccessful in soliciting any
information from the -company regarding its performance, and ITPL has built
up substantial arrears on its LNDC loan, for which the loan agreement was
never finalized. ITPL was finally put into liquidation in mid-1982.
(ii)     Selkol Joinery.  Selkol Joinery, an indirectly owned
LNDC subsidiary, was created in 1976 to manufacture a variety of wooden
products out of imported wood. In 1978, Selkol undertook an
expansion/modernization which was financed in part by an LNDC loan under
Credit 702-LSO. While the expansion was expected to enable a 30Z increase
in production and sales, turnover at first stagnated, subsequently
declined, and in 1982 amounted to only 75% of that prior to the expansion.
The company has throughout been operating at a loss. Principal reasons for
Selkol's poor performance include (a) increases in the cost of raw
materials; (b) a lack of competent technical management; and (c) a too
diverse product range. After an unsuccessful attempt to sell Selkol to a
group of BEDCO clients, in the latter part of 1982, LNDC sold the company
to a South African firm involved in furniture manufacture and
distribution. As agreed at the time of the sale, the acquiring firm first
streamlined the range of Selkol's products to include mainly beds and
wardrobes sold both domestically and in the RSA, and is now expanding
operations by introducing the manufacture of mattresses. LNDC has approved
a loan of M200,000 for the expansion, which it has submitted for approval
under Credit 985-LSO.   Selkol's employment has increased fro. 35 in August
1982 to 60, and the expansion will create an additional 40 jobs. As in the
case of other companies which have been divested, the new owners have
assumed the LNDC loan granted under Credit 702-LSO.
(iii)    Lesotho Milling Company (LMC).  Lesotho Milling Co. was
established in Maputsoe in 1973/74 and Is a joint venture (50/50) between
Tiger Oats of South Africa and Lesotho Food Industries, which in turn is
jointly owned by a small South African Milling company (60.3Z) and LNDC



- 31 -
Annex A-4
Page 2 of 5
(39.7%). LMC produces maize meal for domestic consumption out of maize
primarily imported from the RSA. Although the mill is a protected
industry, initially its financial performance was weak because of
competition from illegal imports of subsidized maize products from the
RSA. However, performance improved starting in 1979 when Tiger Oats, which
is closely involved with millers in the Republic, acquired the shares
previously owned by two other South African companies. Since then, LMC has
been increasingly profitable and a source of dividends for LNDC, even
though, for a short period in 1982, Government temporarily liberalized the
import of maize/maize products into Lesotho. The IDA loan was used to
finance the construction of two storage silos for lease to LMC.
(iv)     Lesotho Shoes.  Lesotho Shoes was established in
Maputsoe in 1979 by Braun Holdings of the Netherlands (76Z) and Jaguar
Shoes of South Africa (24Z) and operates out of premises leased from LNDC
and constructed with proceeds of the IDA credit. Initially manufacturing
only ordinary footwear for export to the RSA, Lesotho Shoes subsequently
acquired a franchise to manufacture athletic footwear. The company has
recently undertaken a small expansion, for which LNDC approved a loan of
M150,000. Since the second year of operations, the company has been
increasingly profitable, and its employment has grown from the initial 30
to 150 in 1982.
(v)      Metro Lesotho.  Metro Lesotho was until recently owned
50% by LNDC and 50% by Metro of RSA, which is one of the larger
wholesale/retail chains operating in Southern Africa. Metro Lesotho was
incorporated in 1974 and began as a wholesaler distributor of consumer
goods in Lesotho, with outlets in Maseru (1976), Maputsoe (1978) and
Qacha's Nek (1979). In 1980, it expanded by opening a wholesale outlet for
various types of building materials in Maputsoe and a wholesale/retail
outlet for consumer goods in Mohales' Hoek to serve Southwestern Lesotho.
The buildings for this expansion were financed under Credit 702-LSO and
leased to Metro. According to the project appraisal submitted to the
Association, the expansion was also expected to include a second building
materials outlet in Maseru; however, this outlet was apparently
subsequently dropped. In mid-1982, LNDC and subsequently IDA, under Credit
985-LSO, approved a further Metro expansion, involving establishmentof
wholesale warehouses in Butha-Buthe and Mafeting; after substantial delay
resulting from difficulties relating to land titles, LNDC exepcts
construction of the new buildings to begin shortly. Metro Lesotho is
highly profitable and a source of dividends for LNDC. In 1981, LNDC
transferred its shares in the company to its newly formed subsidiary,
Lesotho Investment Holdings (LIH).
(vi)     Maluti Skin Products (MSP). Maluti Skins was
incorporated in Maseru in 1978 as a joint venture between LNDC and the Fund
for Research and Investment for the Development of Africa (FRIDA) to take
over the business of the liquidated Lesotho Sheepskins Products (LSP),
which had been an LNDC associate company. As much of the equipment



- 32 -
Annex A-4
Page 3 of 5
inherited from LSP was obsolete, LNDC extended MSP a loan, under Credit
702-LSO, in order to purchase replacement equipment as well as a drying
unit. While LSP had manufactured a variety of sheepskin products, MSP
consolidated production to include primarily car seat covers as well as
slippers and coats, all of which for export. While initial expectations
for MSP were high, the company has throughout operated at a loss as a
result of (a) poor management: (b) production inefficiencies and inadequate
cost controls; (c) quality inconsistencies and excessive waste; (d) more
recently, obsolete equipment; (e) insufficient working capital; and (f)
inadequate technical expertise. By early 1980, it became apparent that !SP
would require a substantial injection of new funds to continue. In April
1982, LNDC and FRIDA sold MSP to a consortium of American, holding majority
control, Zimbabwean and South African interests, which together have the
required technical expertise, market and funds to turn the company around.
As conditions of the sale, the consortium Agreed to (a) repay the IDA
sub-loan according to an agreed schedule; (b) increase MSP's equity by
M150,000; and (c) reserve a seat for LNDC on MSP's Board. With M285,000 in
financing from LNDC, the consortium is currently expanding NSP's capacity
as well as modernizing its tanning equipment. While MSP Is not yet
profitable, it operated at break-even in the six months ending March 31,
1983. The consortium plans to establish a separate handbag operation in
Lesotho with financing from LNDC. The MSP expansion and the handbag
concern are expected to create 70 and 160 new jobs respectively.
(vii)    Maputsoe Bakery.  Maputsoe Bakery was established in
1980 by the proprietor of Border Bakery in Ficksburg, South Africa, with
LNDC providing leased premises financed under Credit 702-LSO. The bakery,
which opened in early 1981, initially produced only bread loaves, using
locally produced flour; it is now, in addition, producing confectionery.
The bakery produces entirely for domestic consumption, particularly in the
northern part of Lesotho, and has been granted protection against imports
of bread from the RSA. The bakery has been operating profitably.
(viii)   Lesotho Umbrella.  Lesotho Umbrella, incorporated in
Lesotho in 1972, is owned by German and South African investors, and
operates in a factory leased from LNDC at the Maputsoe Industrial Estate.
The company imports components for umbrella frames from its main parent
company in West Germany, and uses the components to produce both completed
umbrellas and assembled umbrella frames. Most of its output Is exported
to Europe, mainly (75%) to West Germany, from where the umbrella frames are
exported to umbrella manufacturers in other European countries. To meet
rising demand in Europe, in 1980 Lesotho Umbrella undertook an expansion,
for which LNDC financed an extension of the leased factory under Credit
702-LSO. Lesotho Umbrella has been very profitable, and its employment has
expanded from the initial 45 to 300.
(ix)     Sunripe Fruit and Vegetable Wholesale Cold Stoe  (Lesotho).
Sunripe Fruits (Lesotho) started operations in 1980 as a 50/50 joint
venture between LNDC and Sunripe Fruits (Pty) Ltd. of the RSA to take over



- 33 -
Annex A-4
Page 4 of 5
the Lesotho operations of Sunripe's (RSA) Ficksburg branch. Sunrips
(Lesotho) distributes In Lesotho fresh fruits and vegetables produced in
South Africa. LNDC financed part of the project costs under Credit 702-LSO
In the form of a loan for equipment and construction of a factory/warehouse
for lease. As a result of management problems, high wastage, overuanning
and high overheads, Sunripe (Lesotho) operated at a loss in both 1981 and
1982. LNDC is confident that Sunripe's (Lesotho) performance can be turned
around with proper management and tightened controls, and, in 1982, assumd
full ownership of the company and installed new management. However, the
company continued to have serious financial problems, and LNDC decided to
transfer 50% of its holding In Sunripe to a new partner with expertise In
the business. Sunripe's turnover has since increased, and improved
purchasing practices have resulted in better prices for fruits and
vegetables Imported from the RSA. LNDC is in the process of developing a
program of backward integration for Sunripe (Lesotho) in conjunction with
another LNDC project, Basotho Canners, by developping nucleus farms to
supply the two companies with produce which could be exported in various
forms to Europe. LNDC envlsages that Sunripe's shares would eventually be
sold to the local farmers supplying the company.
(x)      Lesotho Clothing Industries.  Lesotho Clothing
Industries was Incorporated In Lesotho in 1980 as a joint venture between
Phoenix Clothing of South Africa (52X) and an Ainrican Investor (48X), who
subsequently assumed full ownership of the company. Lesotho Clothing
operates in Maputsoe out of premises financed under Credits 702-LSO and
985-LSO and leased from LNDC. The company has been producing malnly
women's and men's shorts for export, primarily to the USA and South
Africa. Lesotho Clothing undertook a first expansion to produce jeans for
export, and recently completed a second expansion involving an increase in
capacity for existing operations, diversificatlon of markets to Include
inter alia the EEC, and addition of wetsuits to its existlg product
lines .=tE will manufacture the wetsults under franchise from an American
firm and will export them to the RSA and the USA. Lesotho Clothlg has
been profitable since its first year of operations.
(xi)     Hotel Victoria Laundry.  The project in question was a
laundry for the Victoria Hotel, which at the time was one of several hotels
operated by Lesotho Hotels (Pty) Ltd., Itself a wholly-owned subsldiary of
LNDC. After successive bad managements and a h'story of losses, the
Lesotho Hotels was put into liquidation in 1981,82.  Paradoxically, the
liquidator brought in Its own managernnt team, end, for the first time, the
Victoria and Lesotho Hotels made a profit In the year endlng March 31,
1982. The various hotels in the group have been split up and the Victoria,
with two others, sold to an Italian concern, which assumed the IDA
sub-loan.
(xli)    KolonyaUa Candle Company (KCC). KCC started operations in
1968 as an LNDC subsidiary (about 512) to mnufacture fluted candles for
the local market. An lnitlal expansion was undertaken In 1971, wben XCC
ioved to the Maseru Industrial Estate, occupying preimies leased from



- 34 -
Annex A-4
Page 5 of 5
LNDC. A second major expansion was undertaken in 1978 with financing from
LNDC out of the proceeds of Credit 702-LSO. At the time of the 1978
expansion, KCC had a history of losses, primarily due to low output
resulting from the lack of sufficient machinery, a problem which the
expansion was expected to resolve. LNDC's new joint venture partner in
KCC, a South African company experienced in the industry, and which had
been KCC's source of imported wax, was also expected to assist in improving
KCC's performance. Despite substantial increases in turnover, KCC
conzinued to operate at a loss after the expansion, as a result of
competition from he RSA, where candle makers were receiving transport
rebates for which KCC was not eligible. In September 1981, LNDC divested
its interest in KCC to its co-shareholders, which would be able to benefit
from the rebates. Conditions of the sale included (i) that KCC's products
would be diversified according to an agreed timetable by the addition    of
soap and plastic masterbatch; (ii) that the production machinery of KCC
would be modernised; and (iii) that the IDA loan would be repaid according
to an agreed schedule. The program, to be implemented over one year, would
require additional investment of M 0.75 million and create 70 new jobs.
KCC has started manufacturing plastic masterbatch and plans to begin
producing soap shortly. The company as a whole is operating at about
break-even.
(xiii)   Maluti Furniture Industries.  Haluti furniture began
operations in 1973 as a family owned business which manufactured an
increasingly diverse range of pine wood products, mainly household
furniture, for export to the RSA and Europe. The company ran into
financial problems, which were corrected in part by LNDC's injection of
capital in 1978. As a result, LNDC became the majority owner, holding 51%
of the enlarged share capital, with the original owners maintaining
responsibility for management. In 1978, Maluti Furniture undertook an
expansion which was financed by LNDC under Credit 702-LSO. Weak
management, obsolete machinery and an inadequate marketing strategy have
since plagued the company, which operated at a loss. As a result, the
company ended up requiring a large capital injection, which LNDC was not
prepared to invest, to remain viable. In mid-1982 LNDC came to an
agreement with a South African furniture company, a major exporter of pine
products, to buy out LNDC's interest in Maluti Furniture. Unfortunately,
the minority shareholder would not agree to work with the new partner, and,
consequently, the rescue package was never implemented. LNDC is once again
searching for a suitable partner.
(xiv)    Freightpak International.  Freightpak International was
established in 1978 by an international freight services company to
undertake the following activities: international shipping, road transport
services, local furniture removals, warehousing and export packing of
industrial, commercial and household goods, and distribution. In 1980, it
requested assistance from LNDC in the form of leased premises (warehouse
and office), as its business was expanding and existing premises would no
longer be available. Construction of these premises was financed by LNDC
under Credits 702-LSO and 985-LSO.   Freightpak is operating profitably.



u onD
uEsonD ONTIONML IWDRgN GMPCRATION (WX)
A ovrison of Atual arni Forecasted Operatium (FY 1977-82)
(H mflions)
1977              1978               1979                 1980               1981        1982     1983
Year endig Harch 31           Foreast /Actuwl   Foreat  Actual   Forecast   Actual   Forecast   Actud!  Forecst  Actual  Ptail   Acttnl
APPJRVA1S (net carollatfois)
loan                           0.5      0.3        0.6     1.2       0.7       0.8      0.9       0.6       1.1      0.6     0.3      3.5
Equity bwtrnzt                 0.       0.8        0.5     0.4       0.5       1.1      0.6       2.0       0.6      0.6     0.2      0.9
Sites and Factory adldirgs     0.7      0.8        0.7     1.0       0.8       2.6      0.9       0.3       1.0      1.9     1.9      2.7
wrantees 2/                    -        0.3       -        0.3      -         0.3       -         1.8       -        0.5     0.1      1.3
Total                       1.6     2.2        1.8     2.9       2i.       ti        T.        4.7       2.7      3.6     2.5      8.4
Cmitmzts.
loas                        Om                  sm                ama                  aeM        0.7                0.2     -        1.9
Equity Iviestmnts           as                  as                as                  as          2.0   as           0.5     0.2      0.8
Sites and Factory BLIhdirge    approvals   n.a.    appwals  n.a    appvals    na.    apprmas   0.4    apprvals   1.0    0.5           1.7
Qaraztee 2/                                                                                       -                  -       0.3      0.5
Tbtal                                                                                                            T7      T.         i
Dishrnst
loam                           0.8 3/   0.1        0.6     -         0.7       0.5      0.8       1.3       1.0      0.5     -        1.2 6/
Equity Dwtes                   0.8      0.2        0.5     -         0.5       0.5      0.6       -         0.6      1.5     2.4      -
Sites ad Factory Izwutum t     0.5 1   0.5         0.7     0.5       0.7       0.9      0.8       0.6       0.9      1.0    1.1       0.2 /
iDtal                      2.1      0.7        1.8     05T       1.9       T;        I2        1.9       2.5      3.0    3.5      T7Y'
LiquUatioiu 6/
loaM                           -        -          _       -         _         _        _         0.1       -        0.5     0.2      -  6/
Equity lwestomtB               -        -          -       0.1       -        -         -         0.2       -        0.3     0.1      -  W/
Sites art Factory  lurtS       -        -          -       0.1       -        -         -         -         -        -       -        -
Tbtal                                -                 0.2       -                             0.       -                 0.3
Pymat of Omratees                                            -                  -                   0.1                0.1     0.1      _  6
no w rnt i.i  Llustrial estate infrastructure of MI.7 milUin for ditch disbur_mas wre to be mad w    1977-79
4Apraisal forasts did mt ir&1ds forwAst of gamrhtem.
1nwludeH 0.4 miUlon appvsd, ad outstazdtzg at 3/31/76
TnoAule H 0.4 allion ap rwd sd oitstadie at 3/31/76
b Euks H 0.2 milit  sppIved ard outsteiti  at 3/31ln6
As of 1rbr 30, 1982
/ AISAL FWS DID NZ DUIE FEWr3AMs tF  I M                       NMR (F PAMUIS ON G MnS.
EAPID
June 1983



- 36 -                                   Annex A-6
IESUD NATBiAL muEW           caRNAn  (I})
Suu7 &Aly_ds of LZ's Ebrtfo]io as of NIrh 31, 1983
(W00O(b)
51_eidiarias    Aobiated Ciowdes        Others           Total
ig. am--l b.             Ami       b.  himm    lb.   Amun
A. Profitabe Projerts
Eqity lIestets          4       924       6             369      -        -       10    1293
TaoS                    3       242       1             175      4      558       8      975
Factory EJlldis  I/    2        320       4            2858     12    2222        18    541X
Qiarantees              1        75       3             610      -        -       4      685
Sub-total            10      Ml6    -               W        IT w
B. lkn-Pbofitable ProJets
Eqpity Inuectaeats      6      2851       5             218      -        -      11    3069
loanrs                  5      1410       2              68      3      6D4      10    2C82
Factory Buildfnp g I    1       565       2             306      2      570       5    1441
- QmN-nnrmir            1      18is       3             298      1       75       5    2175
Sub-total           TIf   -(T 62B1T  
C. Projects in liqziddatim
Eqqty Invesbxets        -         -       1              15      -        -       1       15
Loens                   -         -       1             259      -        -       1      259
Factory, UildiM  s1/    _         _       _              _       1      185       1      185
Sub-total                                                     T      185  
D. Otbers
Loans 3/                -         -       -              -       2      290       2      290
Factorj Bildrgs 4J      -         -       -               -      7      765       7      765
Qarwantees5                                                      4       75       4       75
Sib-Wt                    -       -              -     -        - 
-9ubrtotal   ~ ~ ~ ~           ~          ~~  ~ 13    1130     zy     13
E. Total
Euuity Iiuevstmenta 2/   10    3775      12             602      -        -      22    4377
Loans                   8      1652       4             502      9    1452       21    3606
Factory Bbldi.n  1/     3       885       6            3164     22    3742       31    7791
Qn^2rntees              2      1877       6             908      5      150      23    2935
Sub-total           23      8189       28           5176     36     5344      87   18709
Sites 61/-                     -        -              -             771       -      771
Total.              23      8189       28           5176     36 7/ 6115       87 7/ 19480
/ Factory building and site amDmnts axe as revalued on the Ltsis of r1aweenEt cost less
depreLatim
2/ FairxlJes con profitble mAsbsidiary In ibdih UIDC's hAlding Is not direct but tbrough a adsidiary
interediate buoldLg cmpany.
3/ Tnc-loe coe lomn to am indiildual for purposes otber tban a project aod one loan to a coany hibth
has just stated operatin.
4/ Tneclbxe three factorier leased to osopanier for hdich LNDC we not able to proede Information cn
ourrent perfornene, coe nmket area, c_e h AldLng ocoiied by a gnuexnment service entity, one
builting which is unocrupied but will sbDrtly be leased tD handicraft companies as sales ctlet, and
ome brlding leased to a coqpy, ubidh has just started operatins8.
5/ TnIclxks a guarantee tD a divested company for icdh lNDC does not haue informatimi an performanee,
and guarantees for thdee sets of staff loans.
6  LNDC has not yet been able to oo pile an acozzate and cowplete lrekd&ur  of its site portfolio.
/ Farludlng mater of sites.
EAm
Juxe 1983



A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n .
uWo   WIONAL m aRr  ONV11-XI  (M):
A Mqparim of Forecest NWd ktul Incooe Statements CFY1977-M)
(H millins)
1977                 1978                 1979                  1980                  1981         1982    1983  (P)
Year eu llng March 31             F                    Forecsao t  ktual   Forecast   ktual.   Forecast  Aktual   Forecast  Actuil                  77 _   s
INE
hitreat                            152      104        212       98         258         165      406          145      456        303      218       278
Divdernds 1/                       200       190        200      197         200        205       200         284       238        260      161       583
PRetal LInEci                      412       216        539      236         777        340       965         432      1151        563      818       944
kcamting wId  mapent Fees            -         7          -       16           -          4         -           -         -        188      117         -
Ilnytxant Prxtion 9ubyentim          -         -          -        -           -         -         -         310         -         309       -         -
Otler                               30         4         30       12          30          -        30          48        30        114       92       196
Gross Ino                      794       521       g91       559       1,265        764     1,601       1,219     1,875      1,737    1,406      2001
Interest                            45        51        124      ,74        2Ms         105      298          123       377        171      340       416
Wag   ard Salares                  360       140        432      234         518        522       622         213 3/   746         266 3/  471        512
dministrative                                380                 278                                          274                  635      970       652
Iepreciati,m                        12        19         14       23          16         26        17          27        18        160      199       224
lwestn  t Prmticn 2/                -          -         -        19          -          16        -          310        -        309        78        73
Tbtal  pEnses                 71        3M         37M       M          737-M                            '        ITIRW      1,541    2,058     T77
Project (Lose) Extnerdinary Item
Ad Proviulca                        377       (69)       411      (69)        523         45       664         272       734        196    (652)       124
Provsions                          (75)   (1289)       (53)   (117)          (60)      (430)     (70)       (376)       (83)     (644)   (519)   (1299)
Otler (net)                          -         3          -       55           -       (146)       -            -         -        (3)       53         -
Not Profit (I1s)               302   (1,355)                            Mr        TWIT g            (1      4      -65T      (478) (1,118)   T175)
Additial Gmnert Iubwticn                         -                   -                      -                     9                  470        -       187
tbt Profit (Loss) to Fetained
ramLnm302                             (1355)       358     (131)        463       (531)      594        (95)      651         (8)   (1118)      (988)
a-                        a                                                   -   -                            -~s=
/ In Acktul Statemnts 1n i yemant subwenticn in  ieu of Ibliday  In dividan  of M 157,000 in FY1979, H 157,000 in FY1980 aMl H 200,000 in FYl9BI.
In F& 1977 u-d 78, dividenis weare reived frmn the Ibliday In.
2 hn MY1980 and 1981, LNZ) allocated to tle actqpry "Isnentamnt prowticW" varying parcinteps of the dLf ferent types of othr expensm. In otlhr yea,
W0 asUocated to "Investnt prowtion"  aly those eua    directly attrihbtabl  to prortion activities. Mdis dhnge in acaunting e32lais tIe
aimificant drop in investment promotion esesm in FY1982.
3/ An additional M 81,000 in 1Y1980 and M119,000 in FY1981 of salaries + wag ame included In intesteint proDtii expqrnse



u   A-8
IESED N      NLEEnQLM"N  CaVTN (tUDm
A         ia i of tat ad AcuI Q l             urn (FT1977-2)
1977                 1978                 1979                    iD                    19811        l9       1903
To"r edng  hdi 31                 Foit    Aci    Fi               Acit sl    tAcablt Mii    Fomat    Jf                    htcwt  AM 1  Aetii  AC
A59u$
tbt Ga-met Am_"                    (12)    (133)        (90)   (115)          3D          31       355         228       579        532       119      (176)1/
Isv                               1894      1633       2350     2381        2813        1967      3363        3081      404        3525      30
Equfty                            1360       734       1861      769        2371-       1089      2S33   -    1094      333m       2283      4417       591
__i 3,5                                2,3S         91    3,150        5,14 1                ij          4175      7,372       5,7 4207    ID,ao
* l    Paowlslm                    (8%)    (2108)        (967)  (2179)       (1007)     (616)    (lam         (1779)    (1160      (207    (2322)   (3212)
*t noufo               2,360 - 259 3,244i 4,177  -171   5,119    IS   UI3Y751   s  -pr
FMS
b ling ad    tranuwm 4/    3594             3217       5180     3747        6434        4871      7026        5863      7673       803 2/ 9197 2/
OtImr(net)                         111       144        127      123          141        129       154         133       166         144      141
t1                           3,705     3,361      5,307    3,87        6,575       ,C000     7,180       5.996     7,839      8.547    9,3        948
21L ASSEIS                   6,053     3,487      8,461    4,726       11,052      6,451    12,654       8,620    14,635     12,830   15,342    165061
MUM= AND armM
10 bobtlites
A                                    -         -        169        -         766         181     1Z4          540      1866        981     154A         -
CDC                                149       183        13D      179          111        175        92         170        73        165       160        -
1                                  1340        -       1100        -         160D          -      1547           -      1494          -        -         -
EL                                   -         -          -        -         20D          -        600           -      140D          -       76         -
meodBlat                           150 1W                 0      150          150        ISO       142         425       134        4Z1      536         -
-mernment                          850         -       1950     100         280D         530      3000         250      30DD       13C       1332        -
Ostr                                 -       136          -      135           -         106         -         20D         -        227      759      5690
1449      469        3499     146(4       5627       1140      6635        158       795          141     407       5O
Lem Curst Ihntla                 -       (33)         -      (30)          -         (31)        -        (110)                (152)   (371)         na
Sue Capital                          -         -          -        -           -        4D00         -        mm           -       400    4M0         40
_twiqat GMa                       2743      253        2743    2633         V43         1133      2743        26C8      2743       3706     5693      5693
SHw 1U                wc                   7     w   WU
hitahat Emznlm  (lonea)           1113      (545)      1471    (676)        1934       (1207)    3528        (13M2)     3179      (3MO)   (22        (3363)
W1-rT mri7                                4677     3936        11591       5                     1a,2W    liF    -iM-
Cigdta  uRr*s                      748      1063        748     1335          748       1416       748        1763       748       365      4041      401
w                            TU4,6     3,051      4,962    a,m22       5,425       5,362     6,019       7.145     6,67 0             11,306    10.371
SDML IusAnX        AMs Es          6,053     3,687      8,461    4,726      11,052       6,451    12,654       8,6M     14,635     12,830   15,342    16,061
Quraas  Assadtln                       -      15            -      650           -         888         -         857         -        457      1968     2930 3/
I/ M of at         31. 192 l1 had abont W600,080 nested In suldiries In ft  fo       biddging lms.  lMo    Imseve shmle lud;atal, - the
wIeldiaresl hd ovedlrt fdUls 'dlh dutw    o              e use ets!. Mim. inp ince, *I       s netC' t    ting spitalL  pitlcn   peitive.
2/  VIe fixt tgn dprecatirg lad ad bLddLp In Ffl981 with tte edffectiv s of te taId Act.
Mhm, tde ant dsn  hl    Is nat of deacatim.
4/ F     wts did not bpa opn  rxwalstla of property, dle In sal  atttmus property Is a  evlmd.
* APm
1901



- 39 -                         kc A-9
IFSCII NATIONAL DAMMW C(XRKATM  (ISC
_u_unzized Cwsolidatd ma    StatSents 1977-1982
Year ended March 31                     1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
Sales                                   5155    5003   8636   9582  10163  13490
oup Operatinqg Lo                       (873     ) (529)  (291)    26   T223)  (1051)
TMx                                      (10)      (9)   (34)  (153)       3    (74)
Subtotal                              (883)   (538)  (325)  (127)  (220) ({1125)
(Prcofits) Lsses Attributable tD
Oatside Shareboldeza                   102       66       9       2    (14)    14
Tbtal                                 (781) - (472)  (316)  (125)  T          (1111)
AlD Dividenis frm An odated Clmnaies   149        210      48    117       16    217
Profit (loss) Before 
Iten                                  (632)   (262)  (268)    (8)  (218)  (894)
Provisions                              (426)   (267)  (117)   (96)  (269)  (251)
Other: Profit (Loss)                       -       54       -      -       9      27
Project leelopmernt Ependitnre             -        -    (146)      -
Profit (loss) fron CGntimhig OpertiO    (1058)   (475)  (531)  (104)  (478) (1118)
Covbenment Subvention 1/                   -        -       -       9    470
Tose                                   (236)      -       -       -      -       -
Pewrsal on Disposal of Cbmpay            -      282       -       -      -       -
LsOthnD lkxsing ioporatim
lTsses                                 (61)    (38)       -       -      -       -
-----It Grant                            -       99       -       -      -       -
N1t Grwp Profit (LOSS) to iettnmed
Earnings                              (1355)   (132)  (531)   (95)    (8)  (1118)
1/ Otber tn in lieu of Holiday Ina DLvIdend, and to ceer inves t pralnion
e2lpandita , both of bic  1bihL ave b      x nrporated iu arriving at Group operating
loss.
EAPMD
June 1983



- 40 -                           Akh   A-10
Smumidze     2oldtd  Balance Sbeets 1977-1982
As of Mch 31                              1977      1978    1979    198D    1981    1982
OirEslt Assets
Stodc                                    599       374     804    1484    1461    1781
Debtors                                  512       564     824    1435    1753   2053
Bank  al      & Cash                     493       694     379     722    1704   2501
Total                                   1604     1632    2001    341   49718    6425
Pbrtfolio
intel st in As   datedCapyares           424       532    8;73   1043      921     672
T                                         176      174       -     600     457     676
6 706   843    1643    1378   T348
Otler Assets                                 -       439       6       6       6       6
Tihxed Assets (net) & Deferred Expendituxe 5201     5299    6187   7856   12255   20835
TMASL SETS                              71d      8076    6996    94C93  15
LIABWS- AD) EAN
Omunclt Liabilities
loB and Overdrafts                       767      1383     717     950     911    1526
Cxeditoxs and Provdsicxs                1193       963    1265    2353    3070    4850
Taxatten                                  29       33       65     350     162     160
Total                                   1989    2379    2047    3653    4143    6536
Other
Ixig tern  I                             1172     2255    1431    1947    3055    7887
Deferred TamiaL                           22        20      16      12       9       -
Attributable tD Oatsie  Sbrhldels          79       40     196     266     931    2332
Total                                   1273    2315    1643    2225      95T   10219
E]r
Share Capital                              -        -    4000    4000   4000    4000
AcamlatEed Firxs                        3614     2685    1133    2684    3725    5968
Total                                  3614      2685    5133    6684    7725   9968
Retaind Faxnings (Loe)                     (545)   (676)  (1207)  (1302)  (1310)  (2428)
Total                                   3061     2010    3ga6    5382    6I45    7544
Capital Reserve                            1073     1372    1427    1886   4096    4425
Total FquLty                           4142      3382    5353    7268   10511   11965
1U0AL LIABTI-E  AlD  EY                    7404    8076    6996    9493   14506   22184
Oitstanding  Girantees                     635       187     564     522     367     135
EAFD
..me 1983



- 41 -
A~  Af-il
*orn                     mL  (UB:)
A Orai   oft Fbm     . ct md Acual FnuMl   tIon (rm1n-)
1977              1978              1979                 1910D              131         1i2    19U
Towr aidi  twh 31               tt3 m J           mi bt    1       tIbt    41a        Ibuct   ktl   Ibnt                1   ii
1.   1   Stant In -
*              tornm  Ins                   16.4   14.7        LI.5    13.6       3.      12.        13.5    16.2       13.9    16.2   10.0    G.6
(izerdI   asit ia
kw. ka. Fr     )           -       -         -       -          -        -         -       (4-1)       -      (2.9)    -      -
1yr: Fudatu                   0.9    1.4        1.7     1.8       2.1      1.9        2.5      1.6       2.      1.6    2.4      1.9
aMinarlw ELVuaa/  7.7    15.2              6.1    13.0       5.5      9.6        5.4      6.8       5.6   1L00    IL6       7.4
* hen t1at
ISq_us                 -      -          -       0.5       -        0.3        -        4.1       -       2.9    0.6    0.4
Qea ftoR (ls)                16.4   (1.9)       5.7   (1.7)        5.4     0.8        5.6      3.6       5.5    1.8   (4.6)   (1.2)
Ims: twAnlara for [ME
ad   1ean              1.6    36.3       0.7     LB        0.6      7.7        0.6      5.0       0.6    6.0   (3.7)   (5.7)
Itt prolt (ama) fr  qradu 6.2  (38.1)           4.9   (3.2)       4.7    (9.5)        5.0    (1.4)       4.8   (4.5)   (7.9)   (6.9)
Eat Pof it( (I) to IElatai
lann                        6.2  (38.1)       4.9   (3.2)        4.7    (9.5)       5.0    (1-3)       4.8    0.1   (7.9)   (6.0)
2. Selectad   -an Go t It
BAsa lues - 2 of Aheap
gdJAI  Pbgtfello           13.0    7.2       32.3    6.8        13.4      7.9      14.3      80        1L56    7.9    9.3      7.3 5J
nwl-hmd      - 2 of Amap
rpz1d  POrtfalD            20.3    24.3      12.5   2L2          9.5    2L1         7.7    26.0        7.7    15.4    4.8    n.a.
lateist Jrmw -0 2 of hApo
lowtrfolio Z10.0    7.5                      10.0    4.9        10.0     7.6       13.1      5.7      I.3    9.2    6.0  n_a
Get of Det -sCof bein
Ig Tame Dabt 3/             5.1    3.5        5.0    7.9         4.6      8.3       4.9      9.5        5.2    7.7    9.7    6.3
3. Pin     Sutnarn
A.
*amursao                     -       0.6        -       0.9       -        Ll         -        1.4       -       L4      LI      0.9
LaThrnflabc/E 4/ity'     0.4    0.2        0.8    0.7         1.2      0.3       1.3      0.3        1.3    0.5    0.6    0.9
aIg Tam  has_QannajEq4td/--          L2         -       l.I       -        0.5        -       0.5        -       0.6    0.8      L4
PmvMa  - 2 of  asqutt
ftol Zo                     0.3    9.1        0.2   69.2         0.2    53.2        0.2    42.6        0.2    35.4    a.3    33.8
law  _d Prndph Cc ump  6.7           -          4.7     -         4.2      -         4.2      -          4.1     -      -        -
La
OAgnnatdo                    -       0.8        -       07        -        L0         -        1.0       -       1.2    l.0        m.
lg Tarl D!bus/ iqty 4/      -       0.4        -       1.1       -        0.4        -        0.4       -       0.5    1.0        n.
log Tea Dat + Oats
Equfly4/                    -       0.6       -       1.2       -        0.5        -        0.5       -       0.5    1.1        ma.
4. Itt Pofit
Met Prhft (las) fro O4enti   -
- Z of lowr ad aqity         6.6  (44.4)       7.2   (4.0)       8.5    (9.9)        9.8    (1.5)       9.8   (4.9)   (9.9)    (10.4)
Eat Prdit (lo) to lealed
Earnn  as Z of yaS ad equity 6.6  (44.4)       7.2   (4.0)       8.5    (9.9)        9.8    (1.3)       9.8   (0.1)   (9.9)       (9.0)
Eat rEfit (lea) to Eata1z,
Eranln  - Z of A fw   Y
End Spdy                     7.6  (42.7)       7.5   (4.2)       8.9   (12.3)       10.4    (1.5)      10.3   (0.1)  (10.6)      (66)
Ws ad aalaris. other anisttw  epes ad &d decia_
2, Interut inn lndz   inc    ct        t te  &yaita.
1, Eludhw Onus Gt dtis.
I      r e d  captal          e.
a5/ A wdz
FAPX9
Jun 1933



- 42 -
Annex B-1
LESOTHO
BASOTHO ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (BFDCO)
List of Subprojects Financed Under BEDCO Component of Credit 702-LSO
(US$)
Date         Amount           Amount             Amount
Name of Prolect                  Number   Authorised    Auchorised         Cancelled           Disbursed
E.M. Lephaila                     AS-1         12/77      4,685.00            616.25           4,068.75
J. Rhoabane (Planet Rest.)        AS-2         12/77      5.750.00          1,099.30           4.650.66/L
Mohalalitoe Pty. Ltd              AS-3         12/77      5,750.00          5,750.00             --
Mphata Cane Furniture             AS-4         12/77      8,449.70                             8.449.7213.
A. M. Noruthoane                  AS-5         12/77      4,25.00           1,395.30           2,629.69
M. M. Steel                       AS-6          6/79      6,900.00          6,900.00             --
M. Pereko                         AS-7          6/79      3.394.00          3.395.00             --
City Dressmakers                  AS-8         6179       1,419.60                             1.419.56
Leribe Steel                      AS-9         6/79      11,500.00         11,500.00             --
M. Noshoeshoe                     AS-10        6/79       6,900.00          6.900.00             --
M. Mahomed                        AS-1l         1180      5,683.40            105.60           5.683.51
D. Cenraus                        AS-12        1/80       7,592.40                             7,592.36
T. Mahaletele                     AS-13        1/80       2,015.30                             2.015.37
N. Mothomang                      AS-14        1/80       3,663.30                             3,663.42
Mohalatibe Arum Lily              AS-15        1/80      16,745.00                            16,745.02
F. Moleko                         AS-16        1/80       4,556.90                             4,556.97
J. T. Tsolo                       AS-17        1/80       5,524.70                             5.524.59
Supersol                          AS-18        1/80      17,416.90                            17.416.85/3.
A. Massa                          AS-19        1/80       5.399.10                             5,399.10
Mekhabiso Ltd.                    AS-20        1/80       8,231.50                             8,231.48
Kabi Leather Works                AS-Z1        1/80      24,201.25                            24.201.23
B. Mothibe                        AS-22        1/80       3,963.50                             3.963.64
Kane Food Products                AS-23        1/80      20,769.00                            20,770.28
B. Mahlatia                       AS-24        1/80       5,610.80                             5,610.78
D. Makhubu                        AS-25        1/80      13.200.00         13,200.00             ---
T. C. Mokorosi-Imota              AS-26        1/80       9.420.00                             9.420.00/I
M. Shale                          AS-27        1/80       6.000.00          6,000.00
L. Ramapepe                       AS-28        1/80       7,200.00          7,200.00
C. R. Mashape                     AS-29        1/80      36,000.00         36,000. 00            ---
M. Ntlatlapa                      AS-30        1/80       4,364.00                             4,364.00
T. Beukes                         AS-31        1/HO      13,200.00                            12,521.00
E. S. Tumo                        AS-32        1/80      13,200.00                            13,200.00
L. Motemekoane                    AS-33        1/80      6,000.00                              2,781.02
T. Holm                           AS-34        1/80       6,367.30                             6,367.32
L. Sekhauana                      AS-35        8/80       2.630.00                             1,896.91
Maluti Pony Trekking              AS-36        8/80     18,960.00                             14,264.58
N.E. Ntsere                       AS-37        8/80      4,875.00                              4,875.00
Sello Hlapo                       AS-38        8/80       5,435.00                             5,435.00
M. C. Hanese                      AS-39        8/80       5,850.00                             4,907.00
Lesotho Photo Labs                AS-40        8/80      57,105.70                            57,105.70 /I
399,953.35       100,061.45          289,730.51
1/ Subloan has been repaid in full.
2/ Company has been placed under liquidation and subloan has been written off.
EAPID
February 1984



LESOTHO
BkSOTRO ENTEUYRISEB DEVEWP!ENT CORPORATION (BEDCO)
Economic Characteristics of Subprojects Financed Under BEDCO Component of Credit 702-LSO
Product or                                                                         Permanent
Main Economic                          New or      Materials troea        Sales    Employment
Name of Project                    Number         Activity                Location    Expansion   Domestic Sources   Exported    Created
E.H. Lephaila                      AS-1         Electric Accessories      STIC G         New             --               _             5
J. Khoabane                        AS-2         Restaurant/Groceries      STIC            "              40                            12
Mphata Cane Furniture              AS-4         Furniture making          STIC                            0 Z 2                        11
A.M. Moruthoane                    AS-5         Garments                  Qeme            "              --                              7
City Dressmakera                   AS-8         Garments                  STIC            "                               -            11
M. Mahomed                         AS-ll        Garments                  Maseru"                        --               --             9
D. Genrams                         AS-12        Carmeqts                  Maseru          "              __               _            12
T. Hahaletele                      AS-13        Bee Keeping               Hafeteng                      100               __             5
N. Mothomang                       AS-14        Furniture                 STIC                           10               -              7
Mohalatibe Arum Lily               AS-15        Unifcrms                  Leribe                         --               --            17
F. Moleko                          AS-16        Garments                  Haseru                         --
J.T. Taolo                         AS-17        Coffins                    STIC                          20                              7
Supersol                           AS-18        Solar appliances          STIC                           -                -_             8
A. Massa                           AS-19        Garments                   STIC                                           10            12
Hekhabiso Ltd.                     AS-20        Garmencs                   STIC                          --               -              6
Kabi Leather Works                 AS-21        Leather processing         STIC                          40               75            16                b'
B. Hothibe                         AS-22        Art design                 STIC                          70               80            37
Kane Food Products                 AS-23        Food processing            STIC                          80                              8
B. Kahlatia                        AS-24        Garments                   STIC                                   --                     5
T.C. Mokorosi-Imota                 AS-26       Sawing Machines Agency   STIC                            --               --             6
M. Ntlatlapa                        AS-30       Garments                   Hafeteng                      --                             10
T. Beukes                           AS-31       Metal Work                 STIC                           5               --            16
E.S. Tumo                           AS-32       Garments                   STIC                          --               10             4
L. Motemekoane                      AS-33       Blockmaking                Qeme                          90               9-             9
T. Holm                             AS-34       Water Drilling             STIC                          -- _                           13
L. Sekhamana                        AS-35       Leather processing         Thabatseka      "             75               4-             4
Maluti Pony Trekking                AS-36       Pony trekking              Maseru                       100                              8
M.E. Ntsere                         AS-37       Garments                   Maseru                         --              --             9
Sello Hlapo                         AS-38       Garment Knitting           Semonkong                     --                              8
MNG.  Hanese                        AS-39       Blockmaking                Buthabothe      "             90                             13
Lesotho Photo Labs                  AS-40       Photo processing           Kaseru                         -- _                          16
_                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~304
1/ STIC a Sebaboleng Trades and Industrial Centre
is BEDCO's industrial estate In Maseru.
EAPID
JuMt 1983



- 44 -
Annex B-3
Page 1 of 2
LESOTHO
Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation (BEDCO)
Summary Description and Present Status of Selected Subprojects
Financed Under Credit 702-LSO
(i) Kane Food Products: Subloan US$20,770. The subloan was approved in
January 1980 to finance the cost of a cold room, machinery and the initial
stock of packaging materials. Initially, the company started with the
bottling of guava and orange juices processed from concentrates. In 1982,
the company expanded into bottling milk for home deliveries around the
Maseru area and also packaging a variety of food products, beans, pasta,
salt, etc. The concentrates from which the juices are pressed and all the
packaging materials are imported. The company employs eight workers.
Despite competition form large South Africa food processing firms which
supply most of Lesotho's needs, the company is moderatly profitable. Its
success is largely attributed to the sponsor's management capabilities and
previous experience working for a large food processing company in South
Africa. The company is expected to move off the estate into its own
premises in the next two to three years.
(ii) J. Khoabane - Planet Restaurant: Subloan US$4,651 - The project
consists of a restaurant and a small grocery store in the Sebaboleng
industrial estate. It was started in 1977, by Mr. and Mrs. Khoabane, both
retired school teachers, and caters for low income people at the industrial
center and neighboring residential clusters. The sponsors, who had
previously owned a small cafg and a couple of taxis, contributed one-half
of the initial US$10,000 total project cost. The US$5000 loan from BEDCO
has been paid off. The company has a staff of 14, including the
two owners, and has made a profit each year since it was started. Its
profits have, however, declined since the opening of a large South African
based supermarket on the inlustrial estate. The sponsors plan to expand
and improve the quality of the restaurant.
(iii) Lesotho Photo Labs Ltd. (LPL): Subloan US$57,105. The
company was established in 1979, and is the only photographic film
processing establishment in Lesotho. It also distributes cameras,
projectors and related accessories. The IDA subloan - the largest
approved under the component - financed about one half of the total
project cost of US$118,000. LPL is one of the few profitable BEDCO
assisted enterprises and plans to expand its film processing facilities to
meet growing demand. LPL currently employs 15 workers of whom six are
skilled. The company is managed by a qualified photo processing technician
with several years of experience in the industry. The subloan has been
repaid in full.



- 45 -
Annex B-3
Page 2 of 2
(iv) Kabi Leather Worns Ltd: Subloan US$24,201. The project
was started in 1979, by a former senior civil servant and manufactures
sheepskin slipper and leather sandals. Due to the poor quality of locally
available sheepskin and leather, the company imports these materials from
the RSA. The company has expanded rapidly in the past three years with
sales growing from US$96,000 in 1979 to US$194,000 in 1981. About 75Z of
its output is exported, mainly to the RSA. The company made a loss in the
first year of operations, but has subsequently become profitable.  Its
labor force of 37 is gradually becoming experienced and skilled. The
company plans to build its own factory, expand its product lines and
diversify into the production of sheepskin coats. The company has good
export market prospects in EEC member countries, if it can sufficiently
upgrade the quality of its products.
(v) J. T. Tsolo: Subloan US$5525. This small project
upholsters furniture and produces coffins. The sponsor had received
training in carpentry and upholstering at a local technical school and had
worked for a large furniture and hardware store for 10 years before
starting the project In 1979. The IDA subloan financed 802 of the initial
investment - mostly for the purchase of tools and machinery. The sponsor
has attended a series of bookkeeping courses arranged by BEDCO and uses the
wood workshop common facility at the industrial estate. The project
appears destined to fail; after the sponsor was crippled in a road
accident, the quality of the work has deteriorated, leading to a rapid
decline in sales. The BEDCO loan is in serious arrears.
(vi)  Mahalalitoe Aurum Lily Ltd.:  Subloan US$16,745. The
company, owned by 36 Basotho businessien, started operating in 1970, and
received the IDA subloan in 1980 to expand its uniform manufacturing
operation. Until 1980, it had been efficiently run by a General Manager
and a Production Manager, who both had long experience in the clothing
manufacturing industry. Following the resignation of these managers at the
end of 1980, the company made a loss due to a rapid decline in sales.
Since then the company's performance has continued to deteriorate, and in
1981, sales amounted to N 18,000 (less than 302 of annual sales three years
earlier), and the company made a loss of N 10,000. The company has 16
workers, including a Manager who has had llttle training In the clothing
industry. With no working capital, the company faces financial collapse;
its loan from BEDCO is in serious arrears. BEDCO has recently agreed to
reschedule the loan, and to provide technical advisors to assist the
company revitallze its operations, so as to improve its performance.



Saotbo Katerurises Devolopmat Corporatleo. (30CO)
Sar, of 0Oeratlaas (1917-1952)
Ueoqtr ie Nalotli
VI ?71                                         1971                      160    _191                                      1962
Approvalh          lmI_er      Ao,t        Pe:        Ammout    ImFer         Aet                        _=t       lA-er        tl mir AEt
Lo&ns                9         21,140       I       109,429        It       134.963        I9        339,00        22       417,249         7        S4037
tquly                _           --           4      207,720         2           000         2         2                         -    -                 -
tOtAL        9         21,1U4       20       217,139       13        140,965                  305,550        22       417,249         7        S4,017
Dlebugsemsts
Loans                                        17      10.223        12        47,775        36        290,654        43        446.423        I       44,671
tquity                                        4       93.000         2        20,000          2        23.100        -          -             I         1.400
TOtAL                                21      201,253       14         67,775        30       313,754         43       4U1.133         9       46,03S
For.ecat Loan
Approvalas                         30,000                 250,000               320,000                  320,000                  320.000                320,000
Analsi of lo AL prod e    of tarse 31, 1962
(Naloti)
A. Rise                                      lumbor                          Am t           x
p to   1,000                                 S              52          3,346         O0
1,001 - 2,500                                7             7           22,436          22
2.S01 - 3.000                               40             371        132,273        12
S.001 - 7,3S0                               11             1O0         70,380          it
7,501 -10,000                               10             102         62,359          71
Over   10.000                               33             312        824,872          731
Total                           1T            jT         1,IwS1 lus        TM
*.   nor tconmic Aetivitr
Retail trade                                                11       394,897          352
Leather Procssin g                                          92         62,471           72
Care teo                                    35             342        205.39 1n2
Building rAterialo/Construetim              12             112        163,601          142
Natal Vertr                                  6              62         44,635           4t
Wmod-rkbJVrmlture                           12             III         77,412           72
Aaricaltutu                                  3              St         60,942           32
Ni$CelGlaau  $GeviCes                        7              72        102  94           n
total                          TM            151        1.1336           TM
C. Ten of Lem
up to I year                                14            1Us          45,491           42
I - 2 years                                 10             1Ot         94,697          as
2 - 5 years                                 39             372        270,09S          142
3 - * years                                  *              62        147,044          132
4 -  Jears                                  30            a29         S02O615          44
o"rysyear.                                   5              52         77 726           n
Total                            IN             UM       TT3.1K            TM
v. tMo of Retentet
1w                                        .,100            us       l,10,321         96
laMOSIeM                                     A              A2         16 44            2
Total                         n                                113T5            TM
Fixed Capital                                                       1,013,751          an
Ua1^^ Capital                               -              -          112 117          11t
Total                                                                           T '   I3l E5  U
lu'ndk 1983-



3SO*O KNIfUs DItYLNMl CDUCIIUtZ
Analy  of Us       rflec  fJ 1    
Aitlyity          areholdiAl           t,             Kane tios of Value       Itmt  atlemat                   terfeterac
0Omtating Ptofitabillty
1. Kabi Leather Works (ity) Ltd.    Ieather Products         36            23,230                  5.000               lU210            Al        ?refits growng steadily
2. Superatates (tty) Ltd.             Croeery store          20            10,000                   -                  10.W0            53         rofltauble. compay pays
diwideada
3. Lesotho Pthto LbW                  Photo ?reeaaalsg       10             2,000                   -                   2,000           17        UIIC0   beat equity heUd
Operating at a lose
1, LUbepe Cty) Ltd.                   Coal orehhasta        100             31000                                       3.000           -         Obpa0  be-ng sold
2.  Nerag KAltVmr (Itc)              bitted gata           100 o                                   -                       a           15        Expected tn beake         d *of
YrI
3. Ithobanc Clay Productie(ty)Ltd.   ticrh mkiig             713           21.711                  21.614                 -             33        aclng racoitreted
4. Supernol (Pty) Ltd.                slar beeting ejets" 60              10,000                  10000                  -             -         Dormant
S. m   Drillins (tty) Ltd.            Noeable drilli         48             4.000                    -                  4 000                       ees beis steadily reduced
6. Maseru Broom City) Ltd.            Crec  broom            39             7.5C0                    -                  7.500           -           oay bein  sold
7. Sebabelang Auto Center(Ity)Lt4.   sto Costae              27             4.000                    -                  4.00            to        sale  "c_sercted
TO0ML                                                                     91,552                  42,814              48,733           113
June 1983
Ib



; 8~~~ASOTHO ENTERPRISES DEVELOPHZN CORPORATION (BEDCO)
Forecast and Actual Income Statements    (1977-82)
(Amounte Haloti '000)
Year Ending March 31                                 1977                                 1978                     1979                    1980                    1951              1982
Projected          Actual           Prolected  Actual        Projected  Actual    Projectd  Actual    Frobeated  Actual               Actual
Income
iftereat on Loans                         2                 19                 19         18             SO        18          73         16           62          56          106
DLvLdena Income                          --                 -                   7         --              9        --            7         4            6           2
Factory Rental Income                    16                 -                  59         25            189        71         261         96          320         119          150
7ndoo from machine
shop and other sources              33                  47               117          39           141        81          146        35          150          54            66
Total Income                             51                 56                202         82            389       170         487        151          558         231          322
Expenses
Administrative expensea                 214                195                510        580            619       474         664       503           714         733          785
(of which depreciation)                  (12)               (24)             (112)        (73)          (182)      (48)       (182)      (54)         (182)      (li8)         (128)
Financial charges                        --                  3                  5         20             15         3          20          2           i1         27            57
Other                                    -                  _                   2          8              3        28           3         13            3 
Total Expenses                          214                198               517         608            637       505         687       515           735        760           842                   1
Profit (loss) before
Provisions and Tax                    (163)              (132)               (315)       526            245       335        (200)      368          (177)      (529)         (520)
ProvLSions and write-offe                     (9)                (4)               (25)       (144)          (S2)    (203)          (32)     (298)          (32)      (564)         (208)
Income Tax                                    -                  --                --         _
Net Profit (Loss)                           (172)              (136)              (340)       (670)         (280)     (538)        (232)     (666)         (209)    (1.093)         (728)
EAPID
June 1983
to
J  r                                                                               C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



J          t                                                                                                ,.*
LUOTHO
BASOTIP ENTERPRIS3  DEELOPHENT  OPOPATION (35CC)
Projected and Actual Balence SheetU (1977 - 1982)
A. at Karch ~~~~~~~~~~                1~977                           1978                            1979190                          1981                :1952
gihP  tdted     Actuc1 projected  Actual    Project.d  Act.,,    Projccted  Actu nProject     Actua1
Asset.
Not Current Assets                     92             141               50       (114)          50      BS           50         5)          50       (87)          471
Portfolio
Loans                                  50             110             283         36          503      173          617       347          639       516          611
Equity Investa  nts147                                                 93        397            78     599           63       643           48       312          377
Lose Provisions             (16)           (106)             (41)      (198)         (73)   (378)         (15       54(17                  368         '56U
Net Portfolio                        Ty                                                                i "3  ' ST .9  573     '.6          550         0392
Net Fixed Assets                           355             335            1,680      1,220        2;508- 1,607          2,876    1.845        3,194    2.070         2,070
Total Assets                               584             627            2,065      1,341        3,066   2,0S9         3,01    2,266         3.794    2,443         2,933
Liabilities
Long Term Debt                         --              --             125         31          260       40          260       169          260       422          805
LoengTomebuty
Grantr/Equtty                         107             214             191        360          392      879          484   ,-1,236          986    1,633         2,138
Government of Canada              695              6 5           1,757      1.902        2,702   2,652        3,277    3,009          3,277    3,547        3,894
Oth4r                  -              ~~~~~~~--       550                     550        9.         550        11          550        17            8
Total Orante/Equity  -Fdr           -ow2,498                  YI&I6-       3,644   3. 540        4,3S11   -4.1256       4.8-13    5.197       T6 I.
Lota Arunts/equits                   (218)           (282)           (538)      (952)        (838)((1,491)       (1.070)  (2 160)       (1,279)  (3,177)        3,912
Ntam  rantsuguiatedLs                 584             627           1,940      1.310        2,806   2,049         3,241    2,096         3,534    2,020         2,128
Total Liabilities & Equity            54              627        -  2.065      1.341        3.066   2.089         3.501    2,266         3.794    2,443         2,933
EAPID
June 1983
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 50 -                   Annex C
Page 1 of 2
6       E_          BASOTHO   ENTERPRISES  DEVELOPMENT  CORPORATION
P.O. BOX 1216. MASERU ICC LESOTH. CDLESB "EDCOC. TELEPHONE 204. TEIEX 370DO
COHMENTS RECEIVED FROM THEI BORROWER
BDC/AID/4                                    5 December, 1983
BNS/gm
Mr. Shiv S. Kapur
Director - Operations Evaluation Department
The World Bank (IDA)
1818 H Street N.W_
Washington DC 20433
USA
Dear Mr. Kapur:
RE: PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT ON LESOTHO-BEDCO CREDIT 702-LSO
Thank you for your letter of November 2, 1983 and the enclosed
draft Project Completion Report on the above IDA Credit.
We have read the above draft Report and make the following
comments thereon -
1.  Present Status of Sub-Projects Financed.Under Credit 702-LSO
(i) E.M. LEPHAILA AS-1
The borrower has gone bankrupt and the whole loan
amount has been provided for or written off.
However, small amounts are being collected from
the principal through the courts.
See Anex B-3 para. (jj) (ii)  J. KHOABANE AS-2
and Annex B-1 foot-
note 1/                     The whole loan has now been paid up in full.
Text amended Annex    (iii)  MOHALALITOE AS-3
9-3 para. (vi)
Due to the poor financial performance of the
company and lack of technical production expertise,
BEDCO has agreed to reschedule the loan to
January, 1984 and to provide technical advisors
to assist the company to improve its performance.
Anex B-3 para. (iii)   (iv)  LESOTHO PHOTO LABS (PTY) LTD. AS-40
Anne B-1 footnote
1/                          Loan has been fully paid up.
Annex B-1 footnote 2/   (v)  MPHATA CANE WORKS AS-4
1he borrower's business was liquidated and less
thank M1 ,000 received from the sale of the business.
The unrecovered loan of M8,OOO has been written off.
Annex B-1 footnote 2/   (vi)  SUPERSOL AS-18
The company has been put into liquidation and
balance of loan written off.



-51 -                 Annex C
-age 2 of 2
BEDCO
Mr. Kapur                                   5 December, 1983
Annex B-1 footnote 1/  (vii)  T.L. MOKOROSI-I MOTA AS-26
Loan fully repaid.
Annex X-; footnote I/ (viii)  G.R. MASHAPE AS-29
Loan fully repaid.
Annex B-1 footnote 2/   (ix)  MALUTI PONY TREKKING AS-36
Business has gone bankrupt and the loan is now
fully provided for as unrecoverable.
2.  General Performance of BEDCO
I enclose herewith some of the recent analytical data
on the Corporation's financial and operational performance
since inception which we trust you might find appropriate
to incorporate in the final Report.
Text amended para.    We wish to correct one reference to BEDCO Trading on
9.06                  page 25 of the draft.  This company still exists, but
its operations have been streamlined so as to
concentrate on the supplying raw materials to BEDCO's
clients at prices sufficient to enable it to make
a small profit. Marketing assistance to BEDCO clients
is provided by the Marketing Department of the Corporation.
We shall appreciate to receive copies of the final Report
as soon as it has been cleared for publication.
Yours faithfully,
.
B. N. Sebatane
Managing Director
BEDCO
0S



