Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE   COPY                        Report No. P-3008-LSO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
FOR A
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
May 1, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           =         Maloti (M)
1 Maloti                =         US$1.2908
1 US$                             M M 0.7747
1 US$ Million           =         M 774,700
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APTC     Advanced Primary Teacher Certificate
CIDA     Canadian International Development Agency
COSC     Cambridge Overseas School Certificate
CTI      Commercial Training Institute
DANIDA   Danish International Development Agency
EEC      European Economic Community
FTC      Farmer Training Center
TEMS     Institute of Extra-Mural Studies
IMRC     Instructional Materials Resource Center
JC       Junior Certificate
LAC      Lesotho Agricultural ColLege
LDTC     Lesotho Distance Teaching Center
LEC      Lesotho Evangelical Church
LIPA     Lesotho Institute of Pub:Lic Administration
LOIC     Lesotho Opportunities Industrialization Center
LTI      Lesotholi Technical Institute
LYS      Lesotho Youth Service
MOA      Ministry of Agriculture
MOE      Ministry of Education, Sports and Culture
MOH      Ministry of Health
MOW      Ministry of Works
NCDC     National Curriculum Development Center
NDP      National Development Plan
NMDS     National Manpower Development Secretariat
NTTC     National Teacher Training College
NUL      National University of Lesotho
ODA      Overseas Development Agency (United Kingdom)
OICI     Opportunity Industrialization Center International
PTC      Primary Teacher Certificate
RSA      Republic of South Africa
STC      (Junior) Secondary Teachetr Certificate
TRDP     Thaba Tseka Regional Development Program
TSL      Technical School in Leribe
TSRP     Training for Self Reliance Project (Project Implementation Unit)
TSU      Teacher Service Unit
TVTC     Thaba Tseka Vocational Training Center
UNDP     United Nations Developmen.t Program
USAID    United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LESOTHO
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Kingdom of Lesotho
Amount:             SDR 8.2 million (US$10.0 Million Equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA
Project             The Project would help improve the quality, effi-
Description:      ciency and equity of primary education in Lesotho and
increase the capacity of the Ministry of Education to
plan, design and carry out education programs. It would
also help to alleviate the critical shortage of skilled
and semi-skilled workers, paticularly in rural areas of
the country. To accomplish these objectives, the Project
provides for: (a) construction and furnishing of about
150 primary school classrooms; (b) provision of about
1,900,000 primary school level textbooks and workbooks in
the three core subjects (Sesotho, English and mathematics);
(c) provision of permanent facilities for about 110
trainees at the Thaba-Tseka Vocational Training Center;
(d) provision of permanent facilities for about 125
trainees at the Lesotho Opportunities Industrialization
Center (Maseru); (e) provision of about 13 man-years of
specialists services consisting of an architect, a con-
struction supervisor, a procurement officer and a textbook
specialist; and (f) assistance to the Ministry of Education
to improve and strengthen its Planning Division and Sta-
tistics Unit and preinvestment funds for the preparation of
future education projects.
No major risks are envisaged. However, should book usage
fees not be collected and transferred to the revolving fund
in a timely manner, the fund might not be fully replenished,
placing an additional burden on the Government's budget.
To minimize this risk the establishment of appropriate
administrative arrangements has been made a condition of
disbursement against the textbook component.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Project                                  ----------US$ Million ----…
Cost:                                            Local         Foreign        Total
Civil Works                  1.34          2.02           3.36
Furniture and Equipment    0.09            0.29           0.38
Textbooks                    0.25          2.38           2.63
Technical Assistance         0.22          0.87           1.09
Professional Services        0.21          0.14           0.35
Evaluation and Pre--
Investment Studies        0.16           0.23           0.39
Project Administration       0.94          0.40           1.34
Base Cost                  3.21          6.33           9.54
Contingencies:
Physical                   0.18          0.34           0.52
Price                      0.98          2.06           3.04
Sub-Total              1.16          2.40           3.56
Total Project Cost           4.37          8.73          13.10
of which Taxes and
Duties                     0.50             0           0.50
Total Net Project Cost       3.87          8.73          12.60
Financing
Plan:               IDA                          1.27          8.73          10.00
Government of Lesotho        3.10             0           3.10
Total (including Taxes
and Duties)                4.37          8.73          13.10
Estimated
Disbursements:                       --------------US$ Million-----------…
FY           1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Annual           0.20   4.40   2.50   1.80   1.00    0.10
Cumulative       0.20   4.60   7.10   8.90   9.90   10.00
Appraisal
Report:             Report No. 3347-LSO
Rate of
Return:             Not Applicable



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
FOR A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Kingdom of Lesotho of SDR 8.2 million (US$10.0
million equivalent) on standard terms for a Third Education Project.
Part I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent Economic Memorandum on Lesotho (No. 2251-LSO) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in February 1979 and transport and
education sector memoranda were issued in January and March 1979, respec-
tively. An agricultural sector report was circulated in March 1981. Country
data are presented in Annex I.
3.        Lesotho is a small, landlocked nation surrounded by the Republic
of South Africa. It is mountainous, and other than abundant water and small
diamond deposits, it possesses few natural resources. About 13 percent of
its 30,400 sq. km. is suitable for crop farming, but only 0.4 percent is
considered as having high potential. Productivity in crop farming is low due
to poor land quality and inappropriate technological packages. Livestock
raising is the country's principal agricultural activity, but overstocking
and inadequate herd management has led to overgrazing, widespread soil
erosion and limited production. Agriculture is still the leading sector of
the economy, however, providing employment and livelihood for nearly 85 per-
cent of the resident population. Development of a modern industrial sector
is limited by the smallness of the domestic market, by the proximity of the
highly industrialized South African economy, which supplies Lesotho with most
of the goods and services it requires, by a shortage of skilled entrepre-
neurial, managerial and technical manpower, and by the necessity of importing
nearly all raw materials and intermediate goods. Consequently, manufacturing
is a small sector of the economy, employing only about 3,000 people in 1979.
4.        The most significant characteristic of Lesotho's economy is its
heavy dependence on South Africa where more than 90 percent of its imports
originate, as does all of its electricity and most of its foreign investment
and tourism. Its only outlets to the sea are via South Africa's transport
facilities and ports. In excess of one-third of the labor force, one-half of
the male labor force depends upon employment in South Africa, (mainly in
mining) and the public sector in Lesotho relies heavily on receipts from the
Southern Africa Customs Union under which South Africa levies, collects and
redistributes customs duties and taxes on behalf of the member countries.
These receipts have accounted for between 50 percent and 75 percent of Lesotho's
recurrent revenues over the past several years. Lesotho is also part of the
Rand monetary area, although it established a national currency (the Maloti)
in 1979.



-2-
5.        Despite the constraints on development, the economy has grown
rapidly in the past few years. Real GDP has risen by about 7 percent per
annum since the mid-1970s, and as a result of increasing employment and wages
for Basotho 1/ in South Africa, real GNP has expanded by more than 10 percent
per annum. The gains in domestic output were the result primarily of large
increases in public investment and in the provision of government services.
Tourism and mining have also contributed significantly to economic growth,
the former owing to an increasing number of visitors from South Africa and
the latter resulting from the opening of a new diamond mine. The industrial
and agricultural sectors, on the other hand, have expanded only modestly
since the mid-1970s. Despite this growth GNP per capita had reached only
US$340 2/ by 1979 and Lesotho is still classified as one of the "least
developed" nations of the world.
6.        The strong growth in public expenditure in recent years was
made possible by increased external assistance, and by a large rise in
receipts from the customs union. These revenues enabled the authorities to
maintain investment at 25 percent of GDP during the period without relying
excessively on domestic or foreign borrowing. The receipt of external
grants, customs union transfers and workers remittances permitted a level of
imports sufficient for the needs of the domestic economy, and Lesotho's
balance of payments registered a small yearly surplus throughout the late
1970s.
7.        Lesotho's economic prospects for the early 1980s are at best un-
certain. Receipts from the Customs Union are expected to decline which
may require a cutback in public investment. No significant surge in private
investment is forseen, given the resource constraints in agriculture, indus-
try and mining. At the same time, the outlook for Basotho employment in
South Africa is bleak. That country is itself a labor surplus economy and
the pressure to replace expatriates with domestic labor has intensified.
Moreover, South Africa's mines have become increasingly mnechanized in the
past few years, lowering the demand for unskilled labor.
8.        The Government faces the difficult task in this decade of pro-
viding domestic employment and income opportunities for the rapidly growing
labor force. An estimated 18,000 persons will enter the labor force each
year in the 1980s, most with little in the way of education or skills. The
limited ability of the domestic economy to absorb these people is illustrated
by the fact that probably less than 4,000 modern sector jobs were created
during the Second Development Plan period (1975-79). Most of these jobs
required skilled or highly trained wc,rkers and many had to be filled with
expatriates. With the modern sector expected to provide jobs for less than
one-quarter of the new entrants to the labor force during this decade, the
agricultural sector will have to absorb the balance.
1/   Lesotho nationals are referred to Basotho (singular, Mosotho).
2/   Calculated by the World Bank Atlas method.



- 3 -
9.         The Third National Development Plan (1980-85) emphasizes labor
intensive industrial investments; programs to expand and diversify crop
production both for the domestic and export markets; measures to control
livestock grazing and improve range and herd management; and investments to
improve the quality of the education system at all levels (including vocational
training) to overcome the existing manpower constraints to growth. Its major
objectives are expanded employment and income opportunities, accelerated
economic growth and increased levels of well-being for all Basotho. The
Plan's strategy includes decentralization of development efforts to the local
level to make maximum use of local manpower and material resources. In
addition to the rural development programs, the well-being of the rural
population is to be enhanced through programs to improve basic health care,
expand water supplies and rural sanitation and through the provision of food
aid. The Government is studying various options for using the country's
considerable water resources, including the possibility of exporting water to
South Africa.
10.        The Plan proposes a US$617 million (1980 prices) public investment
program, more than double the capital expenditures which had been projected in
the Second Plan. It envisages another US$242 million in food aid, expatriate
personnel and fellowships, bringing the total to about US$859 million.
Considerable external resources would have to be mobilized to carry out this
program, and for some time to come, Lesotho will continue to rely heavily on
external capital and technical assistance. Until 1975 the United Kingdom was
the major aid source, but during the last few years funds have come from a
growing number of bilateral and multilateral sources, most as grants or on
highly concessional terms. Lesotho's total public external debt (outstanding
and disbursed) amounted to US$52.7 million at the end of 1979; debt service
payments of US$2.6 million were 5.6% of exports, but only 2.3% of Government
current receipts.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
11.        The Bank Group began its operations in Lesotho with an IDA credit
for a highway project in 1966 to what was then Basutoland. Since then, there
have been 10 projects financed by IDA for a total of US$60.2 million, and one
IFC investment of US$330,000 in a quarrying operation. The credits have
financed two projects to improve agricultural productivity; two to expand
vocational, technical and commercial education; two further roads projects to
upgrade major roads, improve maintenance and establish a Labor Intensive
Construction Unit; two lines of credit to the Lesotho National Development
Corporation; a project to supply water to seven provincial towns; and an urban
sites and services project in Maseru. As of December 1979, IDA disbursements
of US$20.3 million constituted about 39 percent of Lesotho's disbursed and
outstanding external debt; servicing of IDA credits is estimated at about 7.6
percent of external debt service in 1979. Annex II includes a summary of IDA
credits and the IFC investment and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.



- 4 -
12.       In addition to its own projects, the Bank Group agreed in 1979 to
act as executing agent for a US$1.4 million UNDP technical assistance project
that focuses on strengthening the Government's planning capability. Also, the
Bank Group has agreed to act as cooperating institution for a US$6.6 million
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) project to improve
agricultural marketing and credit in Lesotho.
13.      Despite continuing manpower shortages at all levels and difficulties
in recruiting expatriates to fill these gaps, the Government's project imple-
mentation capacity has improved considerably in the past few years. While
disbursement has been slower than expected in some cases, most projects have
been effectively carried out. Future Bank Group Operations will continue to
support the Government's development objectives (para. 9), and are expected
to include projects in the roads, wood-energy and DFC sectors. Consideration
is also being given to a population, health and nutrition project.
Part III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Background
14.       Prior to independence in 1966, formal education in Lesotho was
provided almost entirely by church mission societies. While these societies
provided broad geographical and grade-level coverage, few Basotho completed
junior secondary school and a small percentage went on to senior secondary
school or university. Curricula emphasize.d literary subjects as opposed to
vocational training, thus providing little of immediate practical use to most
school leavers. The education and skills provided failed to meet the evolving
manpower needs of the economy, and at independence the country was relying
heavily on expatriate administrative, managerial and technical expertise.
15.       Following independence, the Lesctho Government identified educa-
tion as a national priority and adopted measures to expand and improve
education and to extend its control over the system. While the ownership and
operation of the schools has remained largely with the churches (at present
they operate all but 18 of the country-s 1,080 primary schools and all but 13
of its 96 secondary schools), administrative, financial and academic control
of the system resides largely with the Government, through the Ministry of
Education, Sports and Culture.
Structure and Administration
16.       Formal education in Lesotho consists of seven years of primary
school, five years of secondary and four to six years of higher education
at the National University of Lesotho. Vocational training in industrial
arts and home economics is offered in eleven junior secondary level schools
and technical education in five senior secondary level institutes. Addi-
tional vocational and technical training, along with on-the-job experience,
work counselling and placement assistance, is provided by the Lesotho Oppor-
tunities Industrialization Center (LOIC). Agricultural training is offered



at six Farmer Training Centers and the Lesotho Agricultural College. The
Lesotho Distance Teaching Center provides secondary level correspondence
courses, sponsors educational radio programs, operates a literacy-numeracy
program for out-of-school youth (in particular for herd boys) and provides
support services and educational materials for training unqualified teachers.
Primary and secondary teacher training are provided by the National Teacher
Training College and the National University. A wide variety of non-formal
education courses are provided by the Government and church and voluntary
organizations.
17.       The National University, once part of the University of Botswana,
Lesotho and Swaziland, became independent in 1975. Offering courses in
education, the humanities, natural and social sciences, agriculture, theology
and law, it enrolled 560 men and 488 women in 1979 and had a teaching staff
of 115 (69 Basotho and 46 expatriates). An expansion plan, which has attracted
substantial external assistance, is underway and should be completed by 1982.
18.       At the primary and secondary school levels, the Ministry of Education
trains and appoints teachers, administers examinations, reviews and authorizes
curricula, authorizes the opening and closing of schools, inspects the opera-
tion of all schools, and pays teachers salaries. It also provides the bulk
of the universities recurrent budget and administers vocational schools, two
of the technical schools, the National Teacher Training College and the
Distance Teaching Center. In addition to general policy guidance, control is
effected through periodic school visits by the Inspectorate Division, which is
responsible for monitoring all aspects of school cperations to ensure the
maintenance of appropriate standards. Educational planning and policymaking
are the responsibility of the Ministry's Planning Division. The achievements
of the Curriculum Development Division, which was created in 1975, have been
limited thus far to the establishment of subject review panels and to syllabi
content reviews.
19.       Lesotho provides universal access to primary education.  Total
enrollment was about 235,600 in 1979, with that of females equivalent to 122
percent of the age-group cohort 1/ and that of males 82 percent of the cohort.
The lower enrollment ratio for males is accounted for primarily by the
employment of boys in herding. About 20 percent of primary school students
in 1979 were repeaters, and only about 32 percent complete the full-primary
cycle. Primary school enrollment rose by five percent per year on average
during the 1970s, but grew by only two percent per year during the second
half of that decade. The percentage of male enrollment is increasing, and
because there are fewer overaged students remaining to be enrolled, the
average entry age is dropping rapidly.
20.       The primary school teaching force of 4,782 in 1979, all Basotho,
provided a pupil-teacher ratio of 49:1. Based on Lesotho Government stan-
dards, about 35 percent (1675) of these teachers were regarded as unqualified,
of which about 360 (21 percent) were enrolled in teacher upgrading programs.
The curriculum in primary school includes Sesotho (the national language),
English, mathematics, social studies, health/science and agricultural studies.
Only about 30 percent of the students have textbooks, which seriously hinders
1/   The enrollment of females exceeds 100% of the age group cohort (6-12
years) due to the large number of overage students.



- 6 -
teacher effectiveness. Moreover, a mapping exercise, completed in September
1980, indicated that only 72 percent of primary classrooms have adequate
facilities. Many classrooms are severely overcrowded, often with well over
100 students in rooms designed to hold no more than 50. Many classes have to
meet in the open air or in church halls. The mapping exercise also showed
that fully two-thirds of the primary school students are inadequately seated,
and that only 40 percent of Lesotho's primary schools have the facilities to
offer the full seven-year primary cycle.
21.       Enrollment in general secondary education (grades 8-12) reached
21,400 in 1979, 86 percent in junior secondary courses and 14 percent in
upper secondary. About 15 percent of males and 19 percent of females aged
13-17 1/ were enrolled in secondary school that year. Although the curriculum
is still overly literary, sixteen secondary schools offer pre-vocational
subjects, twenty-seven schools include bookkeeping and commerce courses and
50 teach agriculture courses. In 1979 there were 940 secondary school
teachers, for a pupil-teacher ratio of 23:1. About 28 percent of these
teachers were expatriates, and of the 675 national teachers, only 372 or 55
percent were fully qualified to teach at the secondary level. As in primary
education, an in-service program is underway to improve teacher qualifications
and skills.
22.       In 1979 enrollments in vocational and technical courses totalled
about 1,650. More than one-third of this enrollment was in home economics,
one-quarter in the construction trades and lesser numbers in motor mechanics,
engineering and secretarial and administrative skills. About 400 students
were enrolled in agricultural courses that year, and a substantial, number
were taking nonformal training.
Education Strategy and Policy
23.       In 1978 the Government undertook a thorough review of its education
system, with public meetings at the village level followed by a four-day
national seminar in the capital (Maseru). The main recommendations of this
"dialogue", which were later incorporated into the Third National Development
Plan, were: (a) to improve the quality and efficiency of primary
education; (b) to place greater emphasis on math, science and practical
studies; (c) to develop vocational, technical and higher education with
the view to meeting national manpower needs; (d) to achieve better coordina-
tion among non-formal education programs; and (e) to strengt:hen government
control over education.
24.       The Government's objectives in education include:  (a) universal
primary education; (b) the development of a curriculum relevant to Lesotho's
needs and the provision of instructional materials to all primary level
1/   About 38 percent of boys and 53 percent of girls from this age group
were enrolled in primary school in 1979.



- 7 -
students; (c) improvements in the teaching of Sesotho; (d) broader offerings
of practical subjects at the secondary and vocational levels; (e) the pro-
vision of additional training facilities at technical schools to serve
out-of-school youths and adults; (f) an all-Basotho teaching force at the
secondary level by year 2000; (g) increased practical training in agriculture;
and (h) improved and expanded basic health and literacy programs.
25.       Education policy in the Plan period is expected to focus on extend-
ing and improving the quality of primary and vocational education, to provide
all Basotho with the basic skills required to participate in the job market.
Growth of secondary school and university enrollments are to be accorded
lower priority. While Government will increase its investments in the
sector, school ownership and operation (including responsibility for mainte-
nance and repairs, but excluding the payment of teachers) are to remain in the
hands of churches and local communities. The purposes of this policy are to
limit the recurrent cost to Government and to promote community and parental
involvement. The existing policy of prescribing syllabi and examinations is
being extended to include textbooks, and school managers salaries will hence-
forth be paid by the Government.
Education Finance
26.       Education and training activities in Lesotho are financed from tax
revenues, foreign assistance, the churches and contributions from parents
in the form of "fees" channelled through the church societies. Although data
on expenditures from private sources are not readily available, estimates for
FY1979/80 place such expenditures at US$13.9 million or about 2.3 percent of
estimated GNP for that fiscal year. Some US$4.1 million of these expenditures,
or 30 percent, were financed from student fees, the
remainder from other funds obtained by the churches. A large proportion of
these funds was spent on maintenance, repairs and operating expenses, although
the churches did construct some classrooms and other facilities during the
year. A detailed breakdown of these expenditures is not available.
27.       Public sector spending on education and training in FY79/80 amounted
to US$24.8 million, about 4.1 percent of GNP. Of this amount, about 77 per-
cent constituted recurrent expenditure, mostly teachers' salaries, and the
balance capital expenditures. Over the period 1969/70 to 1979/80, recurrent
expenditures of the MOE grew at an average rate of roughly 9 percent in real
terms, remaining at around 4.5 percent of GDP and varying from 17 percent to
26 percent of the Government's total recurrent expenditures. Capital expendi-
tures of the Ministry of Education, which have depended heavily on foreign
assistance, have grown somewhat less rapidly and more erratically. Their
growth is estimated at about 3 percent p.a. in real terms since FY75/76.
Although the Government's total recurrent expenditures are expected to
stagnate in real terms over the next few years due to constraints on the
amount of resources available, recurrent spending on education and training
is expected to rise by about 4 percent p.a. in real terms. These expenditures
would rise to 25 percent of total government recurrent expenditure by 1985/86
from about 18 percent in 1979/80. Capital expenditures on education and
/1



- 8 -
training by the public sector are budgeted to remain virtually unchanged in
real terms during the third plan period. Capital expenditures will, to a
large extent, depend upon the availability of external financial assistance.
Previous Bank Group Lending for Education in Lesotho
28.       The Bank Group has assisted in the development of Lesotho's educa-
tion and training sector with two credits totalling US$11.5 million.
29.       The First IDA Education Project (Credit No. 497-LSO), approved in
July 1974 for an amount of US$4.0 million, was designed to: (a) expand
technical and commercial education at the upper secondary level; (b) establish
an extension college for adult and non--formal education; and (c) provide
facilities and equipment to support the introduction of a more practically
oriented curriculum in six general secondary schools. Technical assistance and
administrative funds were also provided for in the Credit. The Project was
completed on schedule. The 1980 OED Audit Report (No. 2999) found that apart
from lower than expected enrollment in the distance teaching program, the
Project's educational objectives and targets were almost fully achieved. The
Audit Report noted, however, that the Project did not address adequately the
question of access of poorer students to fee-charging secondary schools.
30.       The Second IDA Education Project (Credit No. 748-LSO), approved in
November 1977 for an amount of US$7.5 million, was designed to: (a) expand
two additional upper-secondary schools; (b) establish a trades testing system;
(c) establish a National Curriculum Development Center to encourage and unify
curriculum development efforts; (d) provide facilities at a number of secondary
schools to support introduction of the more-practically oriented curriculum;
and (e) encourage a community outreach program and the use of project facili-
ties in off-hours by adults and out-of--school youths. Funds were also pro-
vided for technical assistance, project: administration and pre-investment
studies. Although the Project has encountered delays due to weak administra-
tion, the appointment of a new management team in January 1980 has improved
the situation and it is likely that the Project will be completed by the
original Closing Date of December 31, 1L981.
31.       Lessons learned from the first two projects are being addressed
in the proposed Third Education Project. These include giving more careful
attention to improving the quality of primary education; providing training
for youths and adults in vocational skills; strengthening the sector's
policy-planning and policy-implementing capacity; raising the effectiveness
of the Project Implementation Unit; and giving consideration in the design
of projects to the limits on capacity of the local construction industry.
Improved access of students to the primary schools is specifically provided
for in the location of classrooms and in the provision of textbooks, and the
evaluation studies will review the difficulties of access of poorer students
to the fee-charging secondary schools.
Lending Strategy
32.       Bank Group strategy for the education and training sectors will be
to assist Government efforts to improve the quality, efficiency and equity of



- 9 -
basic education and to provide the people of Lesotho with skills to enhance
their employment prospects. In both primary and vocational education this
translates into the provision of badly needed physical infrastructure and
textbooks, and the strengthening of education sector institutions. In future
lending consideration should be given to continued improvement in primary
education and to vocational, technical and managerial education as a means of
providing skilled manpower to meet the growing needs of the economy. The
Bank Group's role in secondary and higher education should be based on the
results of the evaluation planned by the MOE.
Part IV - THE PROJECT
Background
33.       This Project was appraised in September/October 1980, and negotia-
tions took place in Washington in April 1981. The Lesotho delegation was
headed by Her Excellency, Ambassador M. Tau. A Credit and Project Summary
appears at the beginning of this Report and a Summary Project Data sheet is
included as Annex III. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3347-LSO, dated
April 22, 1981) is being distributed separately.
34.       The proposed Third Education Project is designed to assist the
Government in improving the quality and efficiency of primary and vocational
education. It would alleviate overcrowding of classrooms by providing
additional physical facilities, and would supply furniture and textbooks. It
would provide permanent facilities for the Lesotho Opportunities Industrial-
ization Center, thereby substantially increasing the effectiveness of that
institution in providing vocational training and would contribute signifi-
cantly to the Thaba-Tseka regional development program by providing a source
of skill training in that region. The Project would improve the capacity of
the Project Implementation Unit and strengthen the Planning Division and
Statistics Unit of the Ministry of Education. It would also provide funds
for the identification and preparation of future education projects in
Lesotho.
Project Components
35.       Primary-School Classrooms - This component would provide classroom
facilities and furniture in some of the most disadvantaged areas of the
country. A minimum of 150 classrooms would be built under the Project.
Satisfactory sites have been selected on the basis of the school mapping
exercise. Priority will be given to areas where students meet in the
open air or where there are more than 100 pupils per classroom. Present
plans call for 600 classrooms to be built during the Third National Develop-
ment Plan period. Ongoing classroom construction projects sponsored by the
Lesotho Evangelical Church, the European Economic Community and the Overseas
Development Agency, together with the proposed Project, would provide over
one-half of the primary school classrooms the Government hopes to build
during the Third Plan period.



- 10 --
36.       The classrooms built under the Project would be simple in design,
accommodate 50 pupils each and would be furnished modestly with chalk-
boards, seats and writing surfaces for the students, lockable cupboards for
book storage and desks and chairs for the teachers. Maximum use would be
made of local materials and labor, and :Low cost construction methods would be
applied. Ancillary facilities would nol: be provided, since the classrooms
would be built at existing schools. The classes to be housed in the new
classrooms are already being taught, thus only a limited number of additional
teachers would be required.
37.       Maintenance of the classrooms to be constructed under the Project
would be the responsibility of the church societies that own the schools,
although ownership of these particular classrooms would be retained by the
Government. The existing maintenance system, which permits the churches to
collect a fee from the students for maintaining the schools, iis closely
monitored by the Government and has worked reasonably well in the past.
Nevertheless, it needs to be reviewed in order to ensure that it is still
appropriate for Lesotho's needs. The Government would undertake to review the
school maintenance policies and procedures and would make recommendations as
appropriate to ensure proper maintenance. Semi-annual reports on the findings
and recommendations of this review would be provided to the Association and
would be the subject of consultation with the Government during the course of
project supervision. (Sections 4.04 and 3.05(b), draft Development Credit
Agreement.)
Textbooks
38.       The Project would provide all primary school students with textbooks
and workbooks in three core subjects (Sesotho, English and mathematics) and
teachers would be provided with Teachers Guides. A Book Supply Unit would be
established in the Education Ministry to administer this component and an
annual per student book usage fee would be charged to provide for replenish-
ment when the books wear out. This fee would be modest and affordable by the
vast majority of families. Children from families that cannot afford the fee
would also be provided with textbooks. Book selection would be made by the
Curriculum Development Division of the M1OE.   In all, about 1,900,000 books
would be purchased and distributed. Th:is would include an initial supply,
plus one full replenishment, and would meet the country's needs through 1986.
By that time, the revolving fund generat:ed by the annual book usage fee should
be sufficient to provide for further replenishments. A pilot distribution
would be carried-out in the Thaba-Tseka district in 1982 to test the distribu-
tion mechanism, to be followed by country-wide distribution in 1983.
39.       The Book Supply Unit would be headed by a textbook specialist
financed under the Project. (Section 3.02(b), draft Development Credit
Agreement.) He would be assisted by a Mosotho counterpart who would be
trained to take over the Unit when the Project terminates. A bookkeeping
assistant and secretary would also be required. To ensure early implementa-
tion of the component, a textbook specialist would be hired for three months
with funds available from the Second IDA Education Project to assist in the
establishment of the Unit and the pre-selection of textbooks. The books
procured under the Project would be distributed with the assistance of the
existing local distributors.
40.       The book-usage fee would be collected with the assistance of the
Ministry of Finance sub-accountancy off:ices and deposited in an earmarked
interest-bearing account which would eventually become a self-sustaining



- 11 -
revolving fund. The initial usage fees would be M 2.00 per student in grade
one, M 3.00 per student in grades two through five and M 5.00 per student in
grades six and seven. The fees would be adjusted upwards as required to
enable the system to remain self-financing. (Section 4.05, draft Development
Credit Agreement.)
41.       As conditions of disbursement against the textbook component, the
Ministry of Education would, in a manner satisfactory to the Association:
(a) establish and staff the Book Supply Unit; (b) establish the revolving
fund; (c) establish the textbook usage fee policy; (d) redefine the responsi-
bilities and reorganize accordingly, if necessary, the Instructional Materials
Resource Center (which provides teaching materials to primary school students)
and NCDC to ensure their effective coordination; and (e) establish a policy
providing for standardization of textbooks in the three core subjects (Sesotho,
English, and mathematics). (Schedule 1, paragraph 4(b), draft Development
Credit Agreement.) Also, the Government would guarantee sufficient funds for
book replenishment should the book usage fees not prove adequate. (Section
4.05 (c), draft Development Credit Agreement.)
Vocational Training
42.       The proposed Project would provide permanent facilities for the
Thaba-Tseka Vocational Training Center (TVTC) and the Lesotho Opportunities
Industrialization Center (LOIC) with the objective of expanding the capa-
cities of these Centers to provide skilled workers to meet the critical
manpower needs of the economy. At the TTVC, which is located in the moun-
tains, the Project would provide academic and communal facilities for about
110 trainees, boarding facilities for 70 men and 30 women and six staff
houses. The required land has been designated and the Government would
employ the necessary teaching staff by April 1, 1982. The main objective of
the Center is to train local people who would likely remain in the Thaba-Tseka
area to assist in the regional development program. Courses would include
construction and carpentry, mechanics and maintenance, leather-working,
sewing and knitting, and upon completing the courses, trainees would be
encouraged to establish small businesses in the area. The Government would
provide assurances that it would employ the required staff (Section 4.07,
draft Development Credit Agreement) and that the curricula would be submitted
to the Association for review not later than January 31, 1982 (Section 4.06,
draft Development Credit Agreement).
43.       At LOIC, the proposed Project would provide academic and communal
facilities. These facilities would be used for courses in building construc-
tion, carpentry, plumbing, sheet-metal working, management and entrepreneurial
skills, and other practical subjects. At present, the center is operating in
borrowed facilities, with borrowed equipment, and its administrative offices
are located about 1.5 kilometers from its training facilities. Consequently,
effective communication and coordination between administration and training
are difficult and the sharing of equipment presents problems in scheduling
and administering courses. From 200 to 250 students per year would receive
training at the new facilities, and detailed curricula and syllabi, which are
currently being tested, would be reviewed by the Association (Section 4.06,
draft Development Credit Agreement). The training programs at LOIC, which are



- 12 -
open to school dropouts, are supported by c:ounselling, job placement and
follow-up services. To date, all trainees from the Center have found employ-
ment and about 80 percent have passed the official tests for certification in
their respective trades.
Evaluation and Pre-Investment Studies
44.       The evaluation component is designed to strengthen the Education
Ministry's Planning Division and Statistics Unit, to improve their evaluation,
planning and implementing capacities. The studies carried out under this
component would assist in evaluating the cost, quality and equity of the
education system and in reviewing the difficulties of access of poorer
students to the fee-charging secondary schools. Pre-investment funds would
be included for detailed preparation of future projects. Terms of reference
for evaluation and pre-investment studies Einanced by the Project would be
satisfactory to the Association. (Section 3.03, draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Technical Assistance
45.       Twenty-two man-years of technical assistance would be required
for successful project implementation, of which about thirteen would be
financed under the proposed Project. The assistance required would include
an architect/coordinator; an architect; a construction supervisor; a procure-
ment specialist; and a textbook specialist. The qualificaticins, experience
and terms and conditions of employment of these specialists a,nd consultants
would be satisfactory to the Association. (Section 3.02, draft Development
Credit Agreement.) The Government of Ireland is providing five man-years of
the services of an architect/coordinator and will provide two man-years of the
architect's services. The procurement officer is presently being financed
under the Second Education Project. Financing is included in the proposed
Project to extend the contracts of the architect and procurement officer and
to provide the services of a construction supervisor for five man-years and a
textbook specialist for three man-years.
Project Cost and Financing
46.       Total project cost is estimated at US$13.1 million equivalent,
(US$12.6 million equivalent net of taxes), with a foreign exchange component
of about US$8.7 million, or 69 percent of the total project cost net of taxes.
The proposed IDA credit of SDR 8.2 million (US$10.0 million equivalent) would
finance the entire foreign component and approximately 34 percent of the
local costs excluding customs duties and taxes. Financing of local costs is
justified by the constraints on resource mobilization in Lesotho and the high
priority attached to this Project. The Government would finance the balance
of the local costs and meet the added recurrent costs, which are not expected
to exceed two percent of the Ministry of Education's recurrent expenditure
when the project is in full operation.
47.       Cost estimates for the civil works, furniture and equipment were
derived from a review by Bank staff of data provided by: (a) the Ministry of
Works, from its broad experience in the building sector; (b) the Project
Unit, based on its experience in implementing the First and Second IDA



- 13 -
Education Projects, including recently awarded contracts; and (c) the private
sector, including firms of architects and quantity surveyors and contractors.
The estimated average unit base cost (Sepiember 1981 prices) of construction
for primary-scyool classro2ms is US$183/m equivalent, with the cost varying
(from US$178/m to US$192m ) because of the difference in location. Although
cross-country comparison of costs is difficult since all classrooms would be
extensions to existing schools, the cost per pupil place of US$255 in Lesotho,
a mountainous and more isolated country, compares with US$235 in Malawi (1979)
and US$256 in Swaziland (1979). The average base cost of academic and com-
munal facilities at the TUTC and the LOIC of US$5,069 and US$3,497 respec-
tively, compares with a median cost of US$4,571 (1980 prices) for Bank Group-
financed projects in FY78 to FY80. The estimated costs of the textbook
component were prepared by a consultant textbook specialist in consultation
with the Education Ministry and private publishing firms.  Specialist services
under the technical assistance component are estimated at an average cost per
man-month, including salary, housing, travel and allowances, of US$7,000.
Professional architectural/engineering services are estimated at an average
rate of US$7,000 per man-month, including salary, overhead and fees. The
price and physical contingency allowances are based, respectively, on the
Bank's projections of inflation rates in Lesotho and on experience in similar
projects. For physical contingencies, 10% has been added to the base costs of
civil works and professional services and 5% to the base costs of furniture,
equipment and textbooks. Price contingencies totalling 30% have been applied
to the base cost.
Project Implementation
48.       The Project would be implemented over a period of about five years.
The Project Unit, established to implement the First IDA Education Project and
continued under the Second, would perform the administrative functions
for the proposed Project. The unit is functioning well, and its key staff
have the necessary experience and capacity. Technical assistance funds are
provided to continue the services of key unit personnel. Operational expenses
for project administration are included in the Project.
49.       The architectural team established in the Ministry of Works under
the Second Education Project would administer construction of the physical
facilities in coordination with the Project Unit. This team is operating well
and should have no problem in carrying out the tasks assigned to it. However,
to strengthen the team a building-construction supervisor, who would be a
qualified architect or engineer, an additional architectural technician and a
construction supervisor are required, together with additional supporting
staff. These personnel are provided for partly under the Project and
partly by other agencies. Pre-investment funds under the Second Education
Project are being used to determine the most economic and efficient construc-
tion methods given the location of the sites and to provide initial achitec-
tural services for the vocational schools. The architectural team would
assist in determining the most appropriate standards and methods for repli-
cation of primary school classrooms nationwide. It would also review existing
maintenance policies and procedures.
Reporting
50.       Semi-annual reports on implementation progress would be submitted by
the Project Unit to the Association within one month after the close of each



- 14 -
period (Section 3.05 (b) (iii), draft Development Credit Agreement). Within
five months after the Credit Closing Date, this Unit with the assistance of
all Ministries involved, would provide the Association with an evaluation
report covering all aspects of Project execution, including lessons learned
during implementation (Section 3.05 (d), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Sites
51.       The primary school classrooms to be built are all additions to
existing schools for which the land has previously been allocated to the
communities. Satisfactory sites have been designated for the primary class-
rooms and vocational training facilities.
Procurement
52.       Contracts for civil works, furnit:ure, equipment and textbooks would
be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accord-
ance with the Bank Group's guidelines, except as follows: (a) civil works to
cost less than the equivalent of US$200,000 and primary-school classrooms; and
(b) furniture, equipment, and textbook contracts, including contracts for
local distribution of textbooks, costing less than US$50,000 equivalent
each.  It is estimated that contracts valued at US$5.8 million equivalent
would be awarded through international competitive bidding. Due to their
small sizes and remote and scattered locations, construction of the primary-
school facilities would be awarded on the basis of: (i) competitive bidding
advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the
Association (estimated at US$1.2 million equivalent); or (ii) negotiations
with the individual mission schools (estimated at US$1.0 million equivalent).
It is expected that the construction of a few classrooms would not attract
interested local bidders nor would the missions be able to build the facili-
ties, in which case the Project Unit would arrange to carry out the work
through use of departmental force account. It is estimated that about 20
percent (US$0.5 million equivalent) of the classrooms would be constructed
utilizing this method. Civil works under (a) above and furniture equipment
and textbook contracts under (b) above would be awarded by competitive bidding
advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the
Association. (Schedule 4 draft Development Credit Agreement.)
53.       Architectural sketch designs, draft tender documents, and master
lists of furniture, equipment, vehicles, and textbooks indicating proposed
groupings would be reviewed by the Association.  Items would be grouped to the
extent practicable to permit bulk procurement. Review of tender-evaluation
documents by the Association prior to award would not be required for civil-
works contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of less than US$200,000 and
for furniture, equipment, and textbook contracts, each costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent. Where international competitive bidding procedures are
used: (a) domestic manufacturers would be given a preference of 15 percent or
the existing applicable rate of import duties, whichever is lower, over the
c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers; and (b) qualified domestic
civil-works contractors would be allowed a preferential margin of 7-1/2
percent over the bid prices of competing foreign contractors.



- 15 -
Disbursements
54.       Disbursements would be on the basis of:  (a) 80 percent of expendi-
tures for civil works, locally procured furniture, equipment, and textbooks,
professional services, and local expenditures for equipment and vehicles for
project administration; (b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for directly
imported construction materials, furniture, equipment, textbooks, technical
assistance, evaluation, and pre-investment studies; (c) 50 percent of local
expenditures for technical assistance and operating costs, including salaries
for project administration (Schedule 1, draft Development Credit Agreement.
Disbursements for project administration and any construction work utilizing
force-account methods would be made against certificates of expenditures,
documentation for which would not be submitted for review but which would be
retained by the Borrower and would be available for inspection by the Associa-
tion during the course of project supervision. (Section 4.01, draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.) Based upon experience in previous education projects,
the Project Unit has satisfactory institutional capacity to use the certificate-
of-expenditures procedure.
Auditing
55.       Annual auditing would be required for all expenditures financed
under the Project, by auditors acceptable to the Association. Audit reports
would be submitted to the Association within six months following the
end of the Borrower's fiscal year. (Section 4.02, draft Development Credit
Agreement.)
Benefits and Risks
56.       Benefits.  The project would assist the Government improve the
quality and efficiency of primary and vocational education in Lesotho. It
would improve equity in educational opportunities by providing classroom
facilities and furniture at schools where the need is greatest, and by pro-
viding training opportunities to disadvantaged groups in rural and urban
areas. The benefits of the project's primary-classroom component would
include the provision of about 7,500 student places and the strengthening
of institutions in the education sector. The TTVC component would contribute
significantly to regional development. The construction program is highly
labor-intensive, and is expected to generate considerable employment. The
local furniture industry is expected to share in the manufacture and supply
of school furniture. In addition, the Project would establish a permanent
textbook-supply infrastructure which would ensure the provision of textbooks
for the foreseeable future and provide the funds needed to replenish the
supply.
57.       Women would particularly benefit from the proposed Project.  Since
they predominate in school enrollments, they would gain substantially from
the primary school component of the Project and a significant proportion of
the vocational training would be directed towards activities in which they
participate heavily, e.g., agriculture, home economics, sewing, etc.



- 16 -
58.       Risks.  No major risks are foreseen.  Close coordination of the
various agencies involved in the textbook component will be necessary to
ensure that the system functions well. Should the contributions to the
revolving fund not be expeditiously collected, the fund might not be fully
replenished, thus an additional burden would be placed on the MOE's budget.
To minimize this risk, the establishment of appropriate administrative arrange-
ments has been made a condition of disbursement against the textbook component.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of
Lesotho and the Association and the recommendations of the committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Art:icles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
60.       Special conditions of the credilt are listed in Section III of
Annex III of the report.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit will comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOIMENDATIONS
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 1, 1981



-17 -                                       AMEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
LESOTHO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LESOTHO                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE%ACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                         - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             30.4
AGRICULTURAL      28. 6                                 MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOMF
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUT" OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   50.0         90.0     340.0                 260.0                    868. 0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         ..          ..         ..                  80.0                    699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       0.9         1. 1       1.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  1.5          2.6        4. 1                 17.3                     28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         2.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           5.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2155
ff                                  FPPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                        30.0        36.0       43.0                  27.4                     61. 7
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      32.0        38.0       45.0                  82.6                    126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          38.6        37.6       40.7                 44.9                      45.5
15-64 YRS.                          57.0        57.3       55.1                 52.2                     51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.4         5.1        4.2                   2.8                     2. 8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.5         2.0        2.3                   2. 7                    2.7
URBAN                               6.0          7.5       8.4                   6.8                      4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      40.0        40. 0      40. 0                 47. 4                    46.8
CRRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     23.0         19.0      16.0                  19.6                     16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..          2.5       2.7                   3.2                      3. 2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..            ..
POOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          104.0        95.0       99.0                 91.8                     94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    91.0        91.0       99.0                 90.2                     92.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           63.0        63.0       66.0                 53.0                     53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        15.0        13.0       15.0                 18.4                     15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      34.0        27.0       21.0                  27.7                     21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    42.0         47.0       50.0                 45. 3                    50. 1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..       133.0
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         3.0       17.0                 23.2                     31.0
URBAN                                ..       100.0       65.0                  58.0                    66.8
RURAL                                ..          1.0      14.0                  16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        11.0       13.0                 28.9
URBAN                                ..        44.0       51.0                  67.0
RURAL                                ..        10.0       12.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          22525.0     28579.0   18642.0               30910.4                  14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..      3732.0    4335.0                5793.2                   3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                ..       566.0      487.0               1198.9                   1141.5
URBAN                                ..        60.0
RURAL                                ..       732.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OP HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..          ..        3.9
URBAN                                ..          ..        4.2
RURAL                                ..          ..        3.9
AVERAGE NLMBER OP PERSONS PER ROCO
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..         ..
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..



- 18 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                              Page  2  of  5
LESOTHO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LESOTHO                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECEN T          LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 83.0        95.0     103.0/c                57.7                     61.7
MALE                  63.0        77.0      85. 0/c               74.2                     69.2
FEMALE              102.0        113.0     122.0/c                54.1                     51.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  3.0         7.0      17.0/c                10.0                     20.6
MALE                  3. 0         7.0      13. 0/c               13. 7                    29.2
FEMALE                4.0          8.0      20.0/c                 7. 1                    14.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY) 23.0           8.0       5.4                   6. 8                     7. 0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            54.0        46.0      49. 0/c               45.0                     36.6
SECONDARY                          20.0        22.0      23.0/c                25.2                     24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          ..          ..      55. 0/c               25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3. 0/d      2.0       3.9                   3.6                     38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          5.0         5.0      20.0                  31.5                     83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          ..        ..                   1.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..           ..        1. 2                 4.6                     24.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           ..        ..                    ..                      0. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       487.6       569.9     663. 8/l
FIMALE (PERCENT)                   33. 7       44.6      44.0                  33.5                     38.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              93.4        89.7      87.0                  80.7                     54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  2.2         3.2       4.0                   8.1                     17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                56.5        55.8       54.3                 42.2                     38.8
MALE                                 62.4        62.7       61.2                 55.1                     48.4
FEMALE                               50.9        49. 1     47.6                  29.5                     29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.8         0.8        0. 9                 1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USC PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..     262.0                 138.2
RURAL                               ..           ..     220.0                  86. 1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..      93.0                 107.0
RURAL                                ..          ..      93.0                  65.0                       ..
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..           ..      50.0
RURAL                                ..          ..      55.0                  66.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betwen 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1979;  /d 1965;  /e Including migrant labor in South Africa.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 19 -                                                         ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
ttPlSINITOtS OFt -SCIAL INDICATORS
Ntlete:  Although the data are deco  fro  souce  generalIly judged the motathoritative end reliable, it should also he  otad that they say net be inter-
natioaly.:1..... comparale becaus  Ithe I,lako  standardizel,d detililoos,1  anloolsur   y dlilo ...an  conrIsis             etn   the data.  The dAtast.ee
thls,  afltc d _orbe c-es  fmantue   tticr  tras  and chrnleearel  maorditffna  besnestic
The toeenctrouIpe Yer  (I). the sane       . cutry grPouuf the -ub)- en ..c.uey and (2) A nteutr  greup elb loeahat higb.. averge tun., lbse tha  auntry greap
of tha  ujarontyfoy  for 'Capita  su-plue Oillhytes  gros..  eher  'Middle moNs  etb Afia an.d Middle tact' te oh-se  b-ce  atstane
aoi-ulua   fflities).  C  h   eeet   rn   aateseaa  ara".11  o,puletius aegad  rtetl   en  fee eeh isdi-a- sad ebea  emly eb- ar
leas  bul I  th  coortes Iagnup  as  ataferthis  oiosor   Si.ce the I netege of coetie  aea  the iediestete depsde or the aslability e
data and is  e  usfo',cuiueet ha a Incee  torltn    vrg of uo Indi-st- to anether.  Theme  -reegee ae only  sata1 Ja                                        thpais  abs   e.a
of O-ttidicator- attn   ans  tha conryad raer -o gops.
LAND1 AREA )thouaas,d a-a)Po1iingtPieam     Ppdro  dirida  by mamnat   prorti.tag phy-
-osa  _ Tota  sufara         - nPtlaleg land  -rra ed inland eaes                          lie    sliffed tre. a         .a.Ia  shea  at ui-sesitylaa
dricoltu..aI - Etetnae ot agriul-Intl ara  aecnp-tily ur pe-nsetl1y                     Perulaias   - oar.tistn  Paee-  eplaie   divided by  ..tst if pratiin.g
for cops,pat, P       market and kitoh.. gardoe or to lie fallen;1977 dana.             mal  -d feasl  gadnase             P are..pratina  mras  sa   - tisAnt sarses
Pa Naia   a   E Wia  Bed- ssa. sba, ad eIs  - P           tplat     (rar).,
GM? PER CAPItA (lip)                                t 1   e   aptaecmnaa  -o-rtot anoht plins ...al -  see,ad  dso l)iided by thtarapriv    tat ofepita.1 beds
onlated by sae      .anrio  mthod Ie World Sank Atlas (1917-79 baein): 1960,              -vedlbi  is d  poblic end private geoetl1 and ap-1einsd baspical 
1911,-nd tO7S data.                                                                       bahilisatancetes   Da-pitsle a-  aetaliat-sta peeeetly staffed
A I                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~by at lae en  phycietan   Detshlislsen     pr-idtssg prioaipally esrdda
fERAGY CONlSUMPTION PtE CAPITA -.as.c.upso   fccnris   ers   ca                              Ire are met iladed.  Rntel haspintls, besave, i-ads health -d  ada
andigie  petr-leu, uz-ur1 gas and hyro.  nuclear andgetherml   ec                         centers met P.e  mnly staffed by A phsysfina (hst by a nedita  ne9etet,
trInity) in hilogram   of loos  equvalar pt  na p.ita ; lqht  197, IAed 1918              more      d idfte  ete.) whle  etfer is-petient  -redata           end preide a
dea.                                                                                      baittd rasga of tedira  fagihitien   Yet etatietlel pnepaa  tsban hepi-
ptptLnlIog dIll P11.01. tEAtISTICt                                   tale isolade 5196  primipal g-na.1 sd  panisliasd batyitals,'  venal
TocelPopsatius  Midtear(ailliene).  Ac of Jtly 1; 1960. 1970, ned 1970             fsertl  ea   rrre   optl   n   eia  d   matern.Ity dtse..
d                                                               "7MV111:1~~~~~~~~~~~~~rn  a  I  divde  by the stbec of bes
diP aren  dainitrnaof ob a  arsaey effect tnpar-bility of det.            BDUStIG
anen  comirza;196, 1970, od 1978 dana.                                           Sveaai.. of H-acheld (erss                                       b amead  -ttl.shs se-d l
*                      Porulentan in~~~~1 rear 2000 - Current ypulnp-ojactiesc ar  ha...d en l98t              and thtr mete nest.  A beds- er ledger any er sy  et ha innlistd In
totalp1 ultinby age aod eon aed nhcir mnraliny md fertility rates.                    nthe heosehn   f i   attiatical pr-poss
Projection parunne. for.. actulity  -ae   oprius ef three lottie aaeo-              Ovrae se ofrers...se rt eae- unatal. tse . td rsea  - Average  t
tog life reernya   tlicesa    tb  oor'   e   aiaicm                                    e  of pesa-e oe  aal   ra,edraa   nrapied omsrsa
--ra, mod femal  lcfe  toenea         .ibilia iuu  - 77.1 feere .  Th. para-          drallig., re-peatir-ly.  Dwelling. maclade  a-srast etr               e  and
senoos for fertility  -tsa ala  have three Is...ls eeeeisg dantie  iaueopidpre
fe ,lnyondi- toI or  tndad pas  fanily plaaing yarforac.                    A.ae.. to tlet'ict, (anecet of deelisa) - cara  nbsa. an   aa.1 -
thnatyIs  ha  unigedIn  c  thame nina nombinatinse aS  -eteity                 Covnieldalnswt                   erra   in  iugqnnte-pretg
nd fertIlity treeda Eon  ra tea pupee                                                or totu1, arba'  and rsem1 d-lisg   rnpa-iv-ly.
tnaniuoar renalanie - is a Itairy :lPeplna  there isde  gruseth  is.e
the birth ruta is equal ta the death rate, and also she age esotsre r- -          mopAIrON
matee.. tossatr  Thio is achieve.d uly after fertility ratas dacllse t0             AdSted Es-oImnet gang
the roplac.-n  lero  of -imt let rprdo-tioa rate. when each generation                Pmeysral-rnl   aeadtesl      rs   oe    aead9sl
of a-e  repl_ree itself ..euctly.  ThIetaey  uoainsiesaerllmnto  al~l age  atth  erer    leve.e traesases  et. esapf er
oTtleatd on the basset.  the Projentad ouatrtIcof the pepa1atior                        presay sobeol-aS ,popolatiee; mortally inalada   hLsdlde  aged 6-i1
Is the year 20thadsers   f dClise,o  frility rate to repbage                            years bst adjaate  Per diff.eret langthe ef priary edmotieg fat
m tcio= lend.             lM-d-I.   - h                 .t..    .plt.                  conttee withaierl edeatiet   -.1slmat emy ened 100 parsem
fpuruLsela Isn                                                                                dore   euie   tlatPs pa                   fa approved primacy  -ttnsscism;
P.. so. he. - Mid-year  .poplation par aq-r  hiloete  (100 hronares) of                    pre-tdee g-mrL,vcatenal, or tenehe  treinteg lasnt tiem    fne psgs
t.'.1 Z...                                                        ..-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~aeely of 12 to 17 year   of ege;  -ovspond-au  esr-nae  g 1eal
Per so. ha. earlaultarl.lad - Caspasd an shov  tar  1giuna        -ad               orlded,
Vacaninsa eaollmn (eteaat   .enavl-Vsnimldaitntgnm
Poeslsti.. Ag  -nntau (remant  - Childlos  (0-14 years). working-age (10-                   imlde nerheleal , dsare   tabrper  ed seaaidpn
hA yer,),mad  etird (65 ysae and  ove)f uttgeo  end-year 5t5P-                       dearly o  as deateens  at esndaey sntmittion-
lances; 1900, 1970, and 1978 data.                                                      Psel-sMo erama-eae.an    omae  - Tatel etdetem  enrld in
Poonlanios Oreeth Dae (rercest) - natal -   e _growt  retee of teas). mi-        ptMyadsreeylvl  diie   ym.asa  eeasO  h
year papalaniona fee 1900"60, 1960-pt, sd 1970-7g.                              en-epeadei lves
Peenloton Areeh gets rernean -tanha  - A--Ie grh oare-f- uba  peI        -          dlit-hsre  asCaaaI-Lrem    dle(bet  edn                               Om
lat.too   foI9I6.          907,sd  907.a  a peroentege of  tese  adlt poplartam agd 15 year as  mte
Cs-dIeDit D a(r t thusn    - 4-tsn  line binhm  per thosamod of mid-yea
C,populati; 19g  1 , sad lO78 date.,                                                  OS(T
C_ds Death Date leer thosead) - hAoeaI deathe Pee abussd of mi-er                       Pasegr-      r  feet tisesad asecslats   - PameSege        - ma.Vwiss mate
pePslatan; 190. 197, sad 1978 data,                                                nesIa=       gls   hneih   eem;aaaenaaas   ere   a
bar mars) rap-de-ive prind if she amperlan-   presest ng-apettfl  fer-                Ddis assver fertesmdeaeltir       llspe  tromvttned
nlltryr.tsa;aesally ftv-ysao avergas ending to 1960, 1970, and 1975.                    breedesan  to ge-ra  pebllt Pee theesd ot papn.a-tiam; macldma  .l-
Pamlr paneie -.tacruoe, gsan fehradde  A- -Iaaa  esthe  of saelt.r.          -eed  -saire.. in entois  end in ysae  thee ragiseati- of wedge sea
of hethnearal  evior  rderaneios  oP  anioalPa"iy__a" i   prf ren          we  in afeo; data tar teete  year  may eat he aIarble ee  mat
seeneat nlld-bargn  age(15-0  yeas) ab  assbiet-nontot dvuce  to    TV RD.esivr. (ear thesan Oeeliti-  - TVreess tee breaost ta
all maried  -es  in aeAge gtOtp.                                                        ge-re  peblir per rtemead pepeatino; eneete  saltoeted TV te-iva
1111 ADM  NMTITt.ON                                                                          is -omtlies ad in  sa-  mhe  eag ..iarasa   of TV -nn  -e Da aftn.
Indn o Pad redrtis et  apis 19h-71lgg   -Inde  of pot aapit. a--Ie         Neerese  Cietleti"mCs thsen   mesatint  - fleetmba avraeetget
mien ef mdaily geass) inerantpap.e, deiWat -     p.s'LIeds   pakl-
grudetir ofallfoodcemdinie.   todntie  en 4ne  sand sad f.ad -A             licatin devtad pelmeily te t-re 1ge  ge-ea   am.It i. e tatitte
ie on cAload- year basis.  C-ndiccee covn       -esar  gends (eg.  caes                  ob   diyt  tegama  es   eete      mk
stead ofanger) abioh ar  edible an  gensaia soniorte (e.g.affe .I:!.                  Ciem  'dsacs     if itedae eso ieta wet Tea ti- Jde  h    tra
te _rWenned) .  Aggegate Pr-dntior, of  -ah eoantr  ie bened emnrhn  sA-Id Atdatngth  yer  Onlet. ong-                                D e&i,is C   deiv-i  sof
eatiom_  averge prodnoe  price seighte; 1961-65. 1970, esd 1978 data.t    I   -~t.y-,t  ti i   1
Percenre urey o osutne (etratof smeremnte  -  uepeadtra           sd mebile nite..
po,t.day.  Aalable  snpiaoeniadmsi  peedeotien, putd le                            Tate Labor F-ra  (thesend) -  loemie1.1y sating p.t-t, Da.dnltg
onpers, an  nbeass issnoc.  Metsapples salede tagme fed-eds              ed Daes sa-d ansplsed bum enlein  bmewtt, endeng..eo
qeanitte med      for  prnoesng,sad  oen   is  istibure.Dsar"           Definitiem   dn  -eioa re Amen  net euahlg1960, i97D  -d
inon  wreemmtsd by PAR beend on physielagical nada to -eea  set-                1978 dn..
riry ae  heslth Iconsidering  -antesenr1 tempa-ane, bdodywighte,  gt.                 sl  ntr)-Pel  ao   snsn   ecneen   aa  aa'Oem
ned.se  distributio  of poplanien, sad al1eelg 10 percet for nate At                Fa   (lt asistr    -nrt 7-1 Labor  ferre in tpsmng,fermofy ttst1  sbat
bu Iaud level; 1961-ho, 1970, ead 1977 data.                                       tnis  as1It   pecemetg  ef L ota  labor taaf ;1960, f 197Dy ant  pg  -da.
Par o pis nerly  t potei turs re day   -  eotes aotensof pr cpita.  stse (asreent  - inbor feor  in minig, aetaetinn, .sentwnleg
not mpplysf Pnd po  day  lin  suppy oftsodin doine.  ma ben5.  e'     sad7 elriety, watat med S.ga       .. enpaetag   of lote  ab-t tara; 196,
qui=-mrefur all1 ne-tior eanabliehd bY 0000 provide tet  dni- tat                                     "'
alloanc  of S0 ga   of natal peeaPer day sad 20 gr-m  of esa                          1970 end 197  daa
pua  proei, of ahiah 10 gren   h-Iad he Aon-s protein.  Thee ea-                    Ptltioimntien gen (ftam             a.ml.sa    ae-Pehielme
=tmae lee  than thoee of 75 gras  of total protein and 23 gonef                  pr-j..       ofniviry tarn  ar   nageads  renal, mat,an  ta   lbo  levee an
nednal poena   neeaefrte  rl,peae   yP0i   h  Thrd                                    pteentegesy        ea.sl   a  fetlepaelttee-  -at leseeap                   l;
-nrl  Pond ha,rvy;  96-ho, 19- and 1977 data...  dbFAJ.t    Tj                        1960, 197De  An  1975 data.  Theseer  fOe -p iaon ti-aee   Ise  et       saa
a            Pet narita oroein eneoly free niMal and ealee -tPenin sepply of feed de-                 ag-e    trese   at the papelatie, sad  etg ite te-.  A ten stn-
tired free saele aed pulses in eos Pet dey; 1961-65, 1970 sad 1977 dar,m. eeaetemmnaalsrts
Chid ese -A  Mrtliy  at Coe hoezd)-  esaldeth  pr aonndin       geaeioDt=eavgain -RDtin of popaltien ad- 15 and 65 end o.
crime date derived free lite tabise; 1960. 1970 mad 1977 data..                     INCOME DISTRIBUtTION
_____                                                                                      Ieaaaae    iastae(ah in mah and h1nd) - ga-nl"e  by etchet
S  snn,eet' 2T pao .  otn  D   aat, sad psatet 4D petmem
life toeonasv at Brth (rars) -Average saber ot yeat of life reniniag             et0hspabetde
oft an Pornlln Dane(oa trhcsd   - Annualdentha of infmots under one                       R T0ppn  AMI.IP
ofl age pt  S h. Wau  live  irths                                                      Dattiad Aelete P          tvena ines  L,naI (UDO ta  esibt: -eba and esea  -
Haber of PeoPle )tcrsl, arbm. and ruted) winh  -e -bsle e             tec  as f sgsaicnayadsqmte diet pleaaeern  mi-ftain  -eqaileents L.ac
esraPply(itde  rr.eted erfaoo vetre  -t untreted b.t oreotsn-te d                   aftedabla.
saner anh as tan toemproatefl borehole,, epe,ng, sad esatery wells) ..                 MMine  g laiva PevtrnygsaLvl(O   n  aia     en   .   ". 
pe-ntocage  of the in r-pe-ti-r     P pouaions.t  en urban area a blio                  rrrlrltvepreyieatlvli   nstide   vtasprcpt
reasnabl It es  nonld. 1.Ipty cha- tsh        20e0feo   emeao ttl  f-Ahe hetbl           sslws   dctsty fdto gs   as   tlmn  i   ens
Danfah .P..ltin l    t Abela Povert l-e   . Level. fast thna - .aba
-Octal.-tbro  peopl  (tonl, urban  asd rural)f sered byate             h...e hol
oflae  esrea1ndeanewaerbyeaerboneefnes  r heas  o
hetoher 1980



- 20 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATOIS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978/791/                         ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (Z, CONSTANT PRICES)
US$ Million    %                   1974/75-1977/78           1978/79
GNP at Market Prices             449.3      100.0                       11.3                   5.1
Gross Domestic Investment         69.0       15.4                       27.0                -17.0
Gross National Savings            46.9       10.4                       65.0                -21.0
Current Account Balance          -22.1        4.9                                             29.0
Exports of Goods, NFS             41.5        9.2                       18.2                   7.6
Imports of Goods, NFS            240.5       55.3                       13.6                   0.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976/77
2/
Value Added            Labor Force-            V.A. Per Worker
US$ Million    %            Mln.    %               US$          %
Agriculture                       59.6       36.4         .343   85.6              174       43.0
Industry                          23.8       14.6         .008    2.0             2975      729.0
Services                          80.2       49.0         .049   12.3             1637      401.0
Unallocated                      __08_ _____
Total/Average                163.6     100.0          .400  100.0            4081       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
Million)    % of GDP        (Maloti Million)        % of GDP
197       197  196 -7           1979/80       1978-79  1975/76-78/79
Current Receipts                                                      115.5          46.8
Current Expenditure                                                    68.8          27.9
Current Surplus                                                        46.7          18.9
Capital Expenditure                                                    61.5          24.9
External Assistance (net)                                              11.5           4.6
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES
1972     1973      1974      1975     1976      1977      1978      1979
(Million Maloti outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                  ..       ..        ..       ..        ..        ..
Bank Credit to Public Sector          4.6       3.2       2.6     -0.8       1.5       6.3       6.8      6.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector         4.8       5.7       8.6       9.8     13.9      17.9      21.0     27.9
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP   ..          ..        ..       ..        ..        ..
General Price Index (1972-100) 3/  100.0    112.8    122.8    140.8    155.6    1L83.2    207.0    237.3
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                   ..        12.8       8.5     15.0      10.5      17.7      13.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector         100.0      23.0    -18.7                         420.0       7.9    -11.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector         11.6      18.8      50.9     13.9      41.8      28.8      17.3     32.9
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the
period covered.
1/   Provisional.
2/   Domestic labor force.
3/   Retail price index for low and middle income urban households.
Not available.
Not applicable.
3/16/81



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1977-79)
1976    1977    1978    1979                      US$ Millions
Exports of Goods, NFS             22.2    17.8    40.6    46.3    Diamonds              16.2         54.9
Imports of Goods, NFS            204.1   207.2   240.9   344.0    Cattle & Food          0.8          2.7
Resource Gap (deficit = -)    -182.0   189.4   200.3  -297.7    Wool                      3.1        10.5
Mohair               4.3         14.6
Workers' Remittances             130.1   167.0   166.8   182.9    Other                   5.1        17.3
Other Factor Payments (net)        0.7    -1.5    -1.5    -1.4
Net Transfers                     14.6    18.2    26.1    36.4
Balance on Current Account       -36.6    -5.7    -9.0   -79.8         Total            29.5        100.0
EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1979
Direct Foreign Investmenti/       25.6     3.1      3.3    16.6
Net MLT Borrowing                                                                                           US$ Million
Disbursements                   2.6     8.0      9.0    19.3
Amortization                    0.3     0.2      0.6     0.8    Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               52.7
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Subtotal                        2.3     7.8      8.4    18.5    Total Outstanding & Disbursed
Capital Grants                    14.1    15.8    28.1    57.9    DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1979  2/
Other Capital (net)               -1.6   -16.5   -11.8   -13.0
Other Items (n.e.i.)               ..       ..      ..              Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               5.6
Change in Reserves (increase)   -3.8   -4.5        -5.4    -0.2    Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding & Disbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)
Net Reserves (end year)            ..       ..      ..              IBRD/IDA Lending as of Jan. 31, 1981 (Million US$)
Fuel and Related Materials         ..      ..       ..       ..                                      IBRD    IDA
Imports
of which:  Petroleum       16.9    22.6       ..      ..     Outstanding and Disbursed           .     24.0
Exports                                                          Undisbursed                        .-    36.2
of which:  Petroleum                                         Outstanding incl. Undisbursed    .        60.2
RATE OF EXCHANGE
1974      1975       1976       1977      1978       1979
US$1.00 = $         0.679      0.732     0.870      0.870      0.870     0.842
M1.00 = US$       1.472      1.367      1.150     1.150      1.150      1.187
1/ Includes net errors and omissions
2/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
Not available
Not applicable
3/16/81



- 22 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LESOTHO
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
(as at March 31, 1981)
Amount (less cancella-
tions, reimbursed,
terminations)
(US$ Million
Credit       Year       Borrower       Purpose                IDA         Undisbursed
Three credits are fully disbursed                             13.7            -
619-LSO      1976       Lesotho        Second Highway          5.5           1.1
702-LS0      1977       Lesotho        DFC                     2.5           0.9
748-LSO      1977       Lesotho        Second Education        7.5           4.0
795-LSO      1978       Lesotho        Basic Agricultural
Services Project       6.0           3.8
884-LSO      1979       Lesotho        Third Highway           9.0           9.0
887-LSO      1979       Lesotho        Second Water Supply    6.0            6.0
985-LSO      1980       Lesotho        Second LNDC             4.0           4.0
1036-LSO     1980       Lesotho        Urban Development      _6.0           6.0
Total                               60.2         34.8
of which has been repaid             0.2
Total now held by IDA 1/            60.0
Total undisbursed                   34.8
Note: Lesotho has received no Bank Loans.
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments
3/16/81



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1981)
Investment                                                     (US$ Million)
No.          Year    Type of Business               Loan       Equity      Total
405-LSO          1978    Lesotho Quality
Aggregate (PTY) Ltd.         299,000    31,000    330,000
Total Gross Commitments    299,000    31,000    330,000
Less:  Cancellations,
terminations,
repayments and
sales                   -
Total now held by IFCA       299,000    31,000    330,000
Total Undisbursed



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
C. BANK PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Credit No. 619-LSO        Second Highway Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of
July 25, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 25, 1975;
Closing Date: December 1981
The project has been successfully completed with the construction of
the St. Michaels-Mantsonyane-Thaba Tseka Road. The Labor Intensive Construc-
tion Unit (LCU) has successfully completed improvement of a 31 km long gravel
road and improvement of airstrips at costs comparable to equipment-intensive
operations; it is also constructing a 34 km long gravel road with financing by
SIDA. The project closing date has been extended to allow disbursements to be
completed.                                                                                   4
Credit No. 702-LSO        Development Finance Company Project (DFC); US$2.5
Million Credit of May 20, 1977; Effectiveness Date:
August 23, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Lesotho National Development Corporation has submitted applica-
tions which will fully commit its portion of this line of credit; the Basotho
Enterprises Development Corporation portion is already fully disbursed.
Credit No. 748-LSO        Second Education Project; US$7.5 Million Credit
of November 30. 1977; Effectiveness Date: February
28, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project encountered initial delays in implementation due to weak
administration, an incomplete architectural team, and the loss of the procure-
ment specialist. However, with the appointment in January :1980 of a new
Project Director, the employment of a new architect and procurement officer,
the implementation has greatly improved, and it is likely that the project
will be completed by the original closing date of December :31, 1981.
Credit No. 795-LSO        Basic Agricultural Services Project; US$6.0 Million
Credit of May 25, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
August 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This is a follow-up project to the Thaba Bosiu Project designed to
increase manpower and institutional capability of the Ministry of Agriculture
and to provide basic agricultural services for increasing production of five
major crops. The Project covers about 75 percent of the country's arable land
containing 66 percent of the country-s population. The $26 million project is
also being assisted by the European Development Fund, the Federal Republic of
Germany, the United Kingdom, and the United Nations Development Program.
Early problems in meeting staffing requirements have been overcome by raising
extension salaries, but farmer participation is still low. Assistance for the
Produce Marketing Board and cooperatives is being provided by IFAD. The
Donors have scheduled a mid-term review for late April.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Credit No. 884-LSO        Third Highway Project; US$9.0 Million (plus $2.2
Million EEC Special Action Credit) Credit of
December 21, 1978; Effectiveness Date: December 11,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The Project is designed to improve Lesotho's road network and
maintenance capability. It involves the paving of 24 km of the St. Michaels-
Molimo Nthuse road, a feasibility study of the 120 km Oxbow-Mokhotlong road,
technical assistance and consultant services for improving road maintenance
and supervising construction, and fellowships for ex-country training in civil
and mechanical engineering and highway maintenance and equipment repair.
r      Although credit effectivenss was delayed, Project implementation is now
proceeding satisfactorily.
Credit No. 887-LSO        Water Supply Project; US$6.0 Million Credit of
March 20, 1979; Effectiveness Date: January 7, 1980;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
The Project provides for the extension of water supply systems in
provincial towns and technical assistance and engineering consulting services
to improve the reliability and quality of service. The Water and Sewerage
Branch of the Ministry of Works would also be strengthened under the project
and through a comprehensive training program financed by German bilateral aid.
Slowness in recruiting personnel and consultants delayed effectiveness for 19
months, and the Project faces serious cost overruns that are being discussed
with Government.
Credit No. 985-LSO        Second Lesotho National Development Corporation
Project: US$4.0 Million Credit of February 26, 1980;
Effectiveness Date:. November 7, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The Project continues the support given LNDC under the 1977 First
LNDC Project and provides $300,000 for training LNDC staff and skilled and
semi-skilled workers in new projects assisted by the Corporation.
Credit No. 1036-LSO       Lesotho Urban Development Project; US$6 Million
Credit of June 3, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
November 7, 1980; Closing Date: June 6, 1985
The Project is designed to establish a framework for managing urban
growth in Lesotho and expand institutional capacity to plan and execute urban
projects while providing affordable shelter for low income families in the
Maseru area. Physical and design work on the sites and services and upgrading
components has begun and is proceeding well. While the Project is adequately
staffed, a shortage of local technical staff has slowed the hiring of counter-
parts.



- 26 -
ANNEX III
LESOTHO
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
IN Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare:                18 months
(b)  Prepared by:                          Government and Bank Staff
(c) Initial discussions and
identification mission:             April 1979/January 1980
(d)  Appraisal mission departure:          September 1980
(e)  Negotiations:                         April 1981
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:        September 1981
IIs Special Association Implementation Ac:tions
None
III. Special Conditions
(a)  The Gov-rrnment will assure that terms of reference for
evaluation programs and other studies to be financed under
evaluation/pre-investment studies are satisfactory to the
Association (paragraph 44).
(b)  The Government will submit semi-annual reports on
progress in monitoring, evaluating and the development of
designs, etc., for the primary classroom facilities,
including furniture, and this progress will be subject to
consultation between the Association and the Government in
the course of Project supervision (paragraph 50).
(c) The following are conditions of disbursement for the textbook
component of the project, namely that the Government will, in
a manner satisfactory to the Association: (i) establish and
staff a Book Supply Unit in the Ministry of Education.; (ii)
establish an interest-bearing revolving fund; (iii) establish
a textbook fee policy; (iv) redefine the responsibilities and
reorganize accordingly the Instructional Materials Resource
Center and the National Curriculum Development Center; and
(v) establish a policy on the standardization of textbooks
in these core subjects (Sesotho, English and mathematics)
(paragraph 41).



't    U                     /                                   U
734                              1
/                                       0
4-'
A''                                                                       Iz
/                       H                                       A                OF-                          F-
'act
A                                                          £j4U7
-S               ,AyA  <'                                                                                            '8      F                F
F                    ji         I
4'
7                         M\
S
-/                                                              t-L
A-                                                                       4-'
3?                                                                   3
p41                                   ½           '-'
-SI                                                                                    V
(I
K                                 r
-St-f                                          8
A                                                                   "-Ct
Fti.                                                                                  $49      K
'3>
      '-4-2' 8
N.                                                                        I
/                         <-                                    Ž    As-       '
N.                                  -N                     F N.                         '7-'-'r'A
-t
4,4             "'                                                           F
C                 -                                      5-,                                                              ½
8
A                                                 'N
'-t
-                                                                I-                          N                  I



r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BOl41



