FILE copy
Report No. 1332a-LSO
Appraisal of the Lesotho National Development
Corporation (LNDC) and Its Subsidiary the Basotho
Enterprises Development Corporation (BEDCO)
March 17, 1977
Industrial Development and Finance Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Rand (R) 1 = US$1.15
ABBREVIATIONS
BEDCO     Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency
EDF       European Development Fund
EIB       European Investment Bank
KfW       Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LNDC      Lesotho National Development Corporation
RSA       Republic of South Africa
SSE       Small Scale Enterprise
FISCAL YEAR
BEDCO     April 1 - March 31
LNDC      April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF THE
LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
AND ITS SUBSIDIARY
THE BASOTHO ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY ........ .......................................     i
I.    INTRODUCTIOiN ......1*.........................1
II.   THE ENVIRONMENT .......................................
The Economy ........                      ..................................
Industry and Tourism.                                          2
Government's Industr:ial Policies.                             3
Financial Environment .4
The Role of LNDC and BEDCO.                                    5
III. THE LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION.                   5
The LNDC Act . .                                               5
Policy Statement          ..                                   6
Board and Management         ..                                6
Organization and Staffing        ..                            7
Operating Procedures.                                          7
Accounts and Audit          ..                                 8
Interest Rates and Other Charges      ..                       8
IV. LNDC'S OPERATIONS AND FINANCE.                                   9
Investment Approvals         ..                                9
Equity Investments.                                       9
Loans ...........................................        10
Factory Buildings ...............................        10
Portfolio    ............................................     10
Profitability        ........................................  11
Financial Situation .................. ................       12
V.    THE BASOTHO ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION   ......     13
Establishment and Articles of Association ............        13
Share Capital and Resources ............ .. ............      13
Operations ............................................       13
Board of Directors and Management           .      .          14
Organization and Staffing    ..14
Policies and Procedures    ..15
Financial Performance and Situation    .        .16
This document hs a rtrited 4distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. It contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Sank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
VI.   PROSPECTS    ..........................................   16
Industry and Tourism ................................    16
LNDC's Strategy and Projected Operations .............    17
BEDCO's Projected Operations ................             17
Resource Requirements .............. .................    18
LNDC's Financial Prospects .....    .....................    18
BEDCO's Financial Prospects        .........................    19
VIIo THE CREDIT - ITS JUSTIFICATION, RISKS AND FEATURES ...    19
VIII. RECOMNENDATIONS ......................                    21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission con-
sisting of Messrs. Nouvel, Tsui, West (Consultant) and Ms. Kanga which visited
Lesotho in March/April 1976 and a follow-up mission consisting of Messrs. Tsui,
Mante and Barham which visited Lesotho in August 1976.



LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex
LNDC's Policy Statement                                                   1
LNDC's Board of Directors                                                 2
LNDC's Organization Chart                                                 3
LNDC's Equity & Loan Portiolio as of June 30, 1976                        4
LNDC's Income Statements:  1973-1974-1975-1976                            5
LNDC's Consolidated Income Statements:  1975 & 1976                       6
LNDC's Balance Sheets:  1973-1974-1975-1976                               7
LNDC's Consolidated Balance Sheets:  1975 & 1976                          8
LNDC's Project Possibilities                                              9
Assumptions for LNDC's Financial Projections:  1977-1981                 10
LNDC's Projected Operations:  1977-1981                                  11
LNDC's Projected Income Statements:  1977-1981                           12
LNDC's Projected Balance Sheets:  1977-1981                              13
LNDC's Projected Resources and uses:  1977-1981                          14
LNDC's Financial Ratios:  1973-1981                                      15
BEDCO's Proposed Policy Statement                                        16
BEDCO's Board of Directors                                               17
BEDCO's Proposed Organization Chart                                      18
BEDCO's Investment Portfolio as of August 20, 1976                       19
BEDCO's Projected Investments and Assumptions for
Financial Projections:  1977-1981                                  20
BEDCO's Actual and Projected Income Statements:  1976-1981               21
BEDCO's Actual and Projected Balance Sheets:  1976-1981                  22
BEDCO's Actual and Projected Cash Flow Statements:
1976-1981                                                          23
Estimated Disbursement Schedule of IDA Credit                            24



!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



APPRAISAL OF THE
LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
AND ITS SUBSIDIARY
THE BASOTHO ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
SUMMARY
i.        The Lesotho National Development Corporation (LNDC), a Government
owned company, was established in 1967 to promote and finance industrial, com-
mercial, tourism and mining enterprises in Lesotho. In 1976 it acquired as a
subsidiary, the Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation (BEDCO) established
by the Government in 1975 to promote the development of Basotho owned small
scale enterprises. LNDC has developed to be the principal institution for
promotion and long term financing of large and medium scale non-agricultural
enterprises in Lesotho.
ii.       Lesotho, a small country surrounded by the RSA, is one of the 29
countries classified as least developed by the United Nations. Lesotho has
few natural resources, and less than 15% of its land area is suitable for
crop cultivation. The economy is characterized by the dominance of sub-
sistence agriculture and by migration for employment in the mines of the
RSA. The recent growth performance of the economy has been satisfactory,
(average annual growth of 5% in real terms between 1969/70 and 1974/75)
mainly because of a recovery in agricultural production. The contribution
of the industrial sector has been increasing steadily (from 1% of GDP in
1969/70 to 3% in 1974/75), although the small size of the local market and
the unavailability of local raw materials makes industrial development a
difficult task. Tourism has also developed as an important new sector,
depending largely on the vast South African market. Lesotho uses the South
African rand, and has no central bank of its own; it relies on monetary
policies controlled by the South African Reserve Bank. Lesotho's financial
markets are not well developed; there are three commercial banks but they are
not very active in long term lending for industrial development.
iii.      LNDC has promoted and provided financial assistance to enterprises
in a variety of sectors, including handicrafts manufacturing, food proces-
sing, construction, hotels, and commerce. It has provided financial assist-
ance in the form of loans, equity participations, leasing of factory buildings
and guarantees. Because of a shortage of Basotho with the skills to promote
and manage large enterprises, LNDC holds a majority shareholding in most of
the enterprises it has assisted, and therefore directly manages these enter-
prises. As of June 30, 1976 LNDC had approved investments amounting to R4.7
million for 38 projects, of which R1.1 million represented investments in
subsidiary companies in which it had a majority shareholding. One of these
subsidiaries, BEDCO, provides financial assistance, technical assistance,
factory shells and leased equipment to small Basotho enterprises. It is
estimated that LNDC assist:ed enterprises account for about 90 percent of
industrial output and employ about 2000 persons. The economic impact of its
operations has therefore been significant.



- ii -
iv.       Although most of the projects LNDC has assisted are well conceived,
their financial performance has fallen short of expections because of manage-
ment problems. As a result they have not provided much income to LNDC.
Instead, until 1976, LNDC's income came mainly from sugar royalties which the
Government transferred to it. These royalties enabled LNDC to make profits.
Although LNDC no longer receives income from royalties, and did in fact make
a loss in FY 1976 as a result of substantial provisions against possible
losses of investments, its financial situation is good because it has con-
sistently received significant Government support through equity contribu-
tions. Its subsidiary BEDCO made a loss in FY 1976 (its first year in opera-
tion) but also remains in a good financial situation because of adequate
grants it has received from the Lesotho and Canadian Governments.
v.        LNDC has recently acquired a new management which is dynamic; it is
recruiting suitable staff and improving its organization and procedures. It
forecasts an active operational program in the next five years with expected
investment approvals of R3.3 million in FY 1977 (including R1.7 million for
industrial infrastructure), R1.8 million in FY 1978 and R2.0 million in FY 1979.
Its strategy is to concentrate investments in FY 1977 on restructuring its exist-
ing investments so as to improve their financial performance, and to actively
promote and finance new enterprises, especially in the industrial and tourism
sectors, beginning in FY 1978. BEDCO plans to invest R5.5 million over the
next five years, of which R1.3 million will be SSE loans, R2.2 million in
industrial estates to provide factory shells for Basotho enterprises, and R2.0
million for training, technical assistance, and equipment rental schemes for
Basotho entrepreneurs. Financial projections for LNDC show that it will be
profitable and creditworthy during the next five years. BEDCO is projected to
run operating losses mainly because of its planned extensive training and
technical assistance activities. It will however receive grants from the
Government to finance these deficits.
vi.       LNDC's planned commitments for FY 1978 and FY 1979 are R3.8 million
of which an estimated R2.9 million would be in foreign currency and for which
it will require new resources. BEDCO's planned investments for the same period
amount to R3.3 million out of which RO.6 million would be for its SSE credit
scheme. The foreign exchange component of the scheme is estimated at RO.5
million. LNDC is an important institution in Lesotho, and its subsidiary
BEDCO also has potential for developing into an important and effective insti-
tution. To help meet their foreign resource needs from mid-1977 through
mid-1979, an IDA credit of US$2.5 million is proposed for the Lesotho Govern-
ment, US$2.2 million to be on lent to LNDC at 8.5 percent and US$0.3 million
to be lent to BEDCO at 7.0% to finance its small scale credit scheme. An
individual free limit of US$100,000 and an aggregate free limit of $700,000
are recommended for LNDC, whilst for BEDCO it is recommended that its first
ten SSE subloans to be financed out of the credit require prior approval by
IDA.
vii.      Agreement having been reached on the principal issues, the project
is suitable for an IDA credit of US$2.5 million to be utilized as outlined
above.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Lesotho National Development Corporation (LNDC), was established
under the Lesotho National Development Corporation Act (1967) as a 100 percent
Government-owned statutory corporation to promote industrial, tourism, mining
and commercial projects. LNDC got off to a good start under its first Managing
Director, a South African industrialist who was successful in developing
its operations along sound commercial lines and in implementing about fifteen
projects. After his departure in early 1973, however, LNDC's operations
and situation gradually deteriorated as a result of a number of problems.
First there was management instability and second, LNDC could not recruit
sufficient numbers of qualified staff, both expatriate and Basotho for its
expanding operations; thiese staffing problems prevented LNDC from developing
an effective organization and procedures, and resulted in inadequate follow
up on the progress of its investments. More recently, LNDC has acquired
new management which is effecting important changes that should enable the
corporation to fulfil muich of its potential as the leading development finance
institution in Lesotho.
1.02      IDA involvement with LNDC commenced in March, 1973 with a brief
fact-finding mission. Although IDA continued to provide advice on policies
and procedures to LNDC, and even assisted the Government in recruiting a
temporary Managing Director in 1975 it was not until February 1976 that the
Government requested IDA to provide financial assistance to LNDC. An IDA
appraisal mission visited LNDC in March/April 1976 and reviewed its policies,
procedures, organization and portfolio. The mission also reviewed the organi-
zation, policies and procedures of the Basotho Enterprises Development Corpo-
ration (BEDCO), an LNDC subsidiary engaged in the development of small Basotho
owned enterprises. This report reviews the performance and prospects of the
two institutions and recommends on IDA credit of US$2.5 million to the Govern-
ment of Lesotho. Of this, $2.2 million would be onlent to LNDC at 8.5 percent
for LNDC's investment in industrial and tourism projects whilst $0.3 million
would be onlent to BEDCO at seven percent for on-lending for its small-scale
enterprise credit scheme. LNDC will undertake a part of the administration
work related to BEDCO's portion of the credit.
II. ENVIRONMENT
The Economy I/
2.01      Lesotho is a small country (11,716 square miles) entirely sur-
rounded by the Republic of South Africa (RSA). With a population of around
1.2 million and a per capita GNP of around US$180 in 1975, Lesotho is among
the 29 countries designated as least developed by the United Nations. Lesotho
has few natural resources, and less than 15% of its land area is suitable for
crop cultivation. The economy is characterized by the dominance of subsistence
agriculture and by migration for employment in the mines of the Republic of
1/   For detailed informiation on the economy of Lesotho refer to "Economy of
Lesotho" (Report Nc. 331a-LSO; June 25, 1974) and "Economic Memorandum
on Lesotho" (Report No. 1083a-LSO; July 8, 1976).



- 2 -
South Africa. Subsistence agriculture (mainly production of maize, sorghum
and wheat) and livestock rearing provide the main economic activity of about
85% of the population and account for about 45% of the domestic product.
2.02      Lesotho has developed close economic ties with the Republic of
South Africa. Together with the RSA, Botswana and Swaziland, it belongs
to the Southern Africa Customs Union which provides for free circulation
of goods between the member countries. It belongs to the South African
Rand Currency Area, and uses the South African Rand as its currency.
In addition, about 200,000 Basotho (including half the country's male
labor force) are estimated to be employed as migrant workers in the RSA,
mainly in mining and agriculture. Lesotho does derive economic advantages
from the customs and currency ties. Its industries have full access to
the large South African market, its agricultural exports benefit from the
high support price paid to South African producers, and it can draw upon
the foreign exchange reserves of South Africa. The main disadvantage
lies in the resulting unavailability of the set of policy instruments that
an independent country can use to control its economy. Lesotho has also
benefitted from the migration through substantial remittances which have
become critical to improving the living standards of a large segment of
the population. Nevertheless, it remains a major economic problem for the
Government since its continued existence depends very much on political
and economic developments in the RSA.
2.03      Because of these close economic ties with the RSA, inflation rates
in Lesotho closely reflect the rates there. The South African wholesale
price index increased by 8% in 1972, 13% in 1973, 17.9% in 1974 and 17.2%
in 1975, and wholesale prices in Lesotho are estimated to have increased
at roughly the same rates. For the future, Lesotho's economic planners
expect the rate of inflation to decline, as economic conditions in South
Africa become normalized. They therefore project an average annual infla-
tion rate of about 9% between 1976 and 1980.
2.04      Between 1969/70 and 1974/75, the growth performance of Lesotho's
economy was satisfactory, with GDP growing at an average annual rate of 5%
in real terms. This was due mainly to a recovery in agricultural production
from a low level in 1969/70, and to expansion in the Government and tourism
sectors. During the same period, GNP grew at almost 10% a year, mainly as
a result of substantial migrant remittances. The prospects for future satis-
factory growth of the economy will depend mainly on the performance of the
agricultural sector, and to a lesser extent on industry and tourism. Illus-
trative projections indicate that, with favorable weather conditions and
continued satisfactory execution of rural develoment projects, the agricul-
tural sector could propel the economy to an average annual growth in GDP
of 6% in real terms between 1976 and 1981.
Industry and Tourism
2.05      Lesotho's industrial sector is in a rudimentary stage of develop-
ment. In 1969/70 the sector accounted for slightly over one percent of GDP
and employed fewer than 600 persons.  By 1974/75 its share of GDP had



-3-
increased to about three percent and it provided employment to about 3,000
people, thus accounting for an estimated 12 percent of total cash employ-
ment in Lesotho. The sector is also estimated to have accounted for just
under 20 percent of total recorded merchandise exports in 1974/75. There
is incomplete information oil the structure of the sector and hence the
relative contribution of subsectors to total value added in industry is
unknown. However, there appears to have been considerable diversification
in the products manufactured during the first five year plan period (1969/70 -
1974/75). New units established included factories for manufacture of
pottery, umbrellas, sheepskin products, candles, electric lamps, furniture
and hand loomed rugs. Processing units for diamond cutting and tyre re-
capping were also started.
2.06      The constraints to the development of industry are many and varied.
Given the scarcity of raw material resources in Lesotho, the bulk of inputs
for industrial development has to be imported. The size of the local market
is small, necessitating an export oriented industrial development, and there
is a shortage of entrepreneurs and skilled manpower. To aggravate these
problems the Republic of South Africa is already industrially advanced and
therefore tends to attract the new enterprises. Because of these problems,
the development of industry will be a long and difficult task. Success will
derive mainly from Lesotho's ability to exploit its limited advantages which
include its access to the vast Southern African markets and other African
and European markets respectively through its membership of the South African
Customs Union and its associLate membership of the European Economic Community.
2.07      Next to manufacturing, tourism is the other sector which has potential
for diversification of Lesotho's economy. Until 1969, tourism played a minor
role in the domestic economy; the number of tourists was less than 5,000 per
annum. By 1974, however, largely as a result of construction and subsequent
expansion of a 470-bed Holiday Inn Hotel with casino facilities in the capital
city of Maseru, tourist traffic had increased to about 80,000.  About 90 percent
of all tourists come from the Republic of South Africa, and the average length
of stay is estimated at 2.5 days. Although these casino facilities in Maseru
are a major tourist attract:ion, the future of the sector will depend largely
on successful diversification of tourist attractions to broaden the base of
the sector.
Government's Industrial Policies
2.08      Because of the importance of direct private foreign investment in
providing the capital and knowhow for the industrial development of Lesotho,
the primary objective of government's industrial policy is to promote such
investment. The Government will, however, not hesitate to take the initiative
in starting new enterprises itself, if the private sector does not. The
second objective of industrial policy is to promote the development of
indigenous small manufactur;ing enterprises, and the government therefore
provides free training and t:echnical assistance to such enterprises.
2.09      Lesotho offers generous incentives to industrial enterprises.  A
"Pioneer Industries Encouragement Act" (1969), provides generous tax incen-
tives to "pioneer industries." These include a choice between a six-year



- 4 -
tax holiday, or depreciation allowances of up to 150% of the initial
inivestmne:        the first year of operation; a citizen training allow-
ance eqa'l to 10/ of the cost to the manufacturer; and a citizen wage
allowance equal to 10% of the wages paid to Basotho. The incentives
related to    ltrainlng and employment of Basotho are particularly
innovative and useful in Lesotho's context.
F iann -     _,_E-_vt
2.10      Lesotho has no central bank of its own and is largely dependent
on monetary and credit policies set by the South African Reserve Bank.
'The operations of commercial banks are nevertheless subject to some local
regulation ir, accordance with a Financial Institutions Act of 1973. This
legislation set-s minimum levels of capital and liquid assets, prescribes
the levels of ifvestment to be maintained, influences the direction of
lendirg operations, and provides for the periodic inspection of accounts.
Tn additio-  i  has established a comprehensive system of statistical
reporting and inspection of accounts for financial institutions.
2.11      Th^Cue 2a- three commercial banks in Lesotho.  The largest of
these 1s  Ls Lesothc Bank, a fully government owned commercial bank which
started operations in 1972. It was set up to mobilize savings and to
improve the channelling of credit to local businesses, and it took over
the assets and liabilities of the then Post Office Savings Bank. Although
the Lesotho Bank has so far been successful in attracting local savings,
it has done little in providing credit facilities to local businessmen.
The bulk of its resources have been either loaned to public agencies,
used to acquire fi^xed property or deposited temporarily with other com-
mercial banks, because staffing problems have prevented it from developing
an aggressi-ve lendig posture.  The two other commercial banks are the
Starndar& E- ' f_'    Led and Barclays International Ltd. both of which belong
to the lag   .ternational commercial banking groups headquartered in the
Unit-ed Kinar5-mI -but were incorporated in Lesotho recently. These banks
attraCt considerable local savings but invest most of their funds abroad
because of l mited opportunities for short term investment in Lesotho.
They have not been very active in term lending for industrial development
in Lesotho. T-hus at the end of 1975, about 60 percent of the total
consolidated assets of the commercial banks in Lesotho were foreign assets,
rinanced mafra]y by local savings and time deposits which accounted for
64 percent of their total resources.
2.12      Other financial institutions operating in Lesotho include
branches of several South African building societies, an Agricultural
Development Fund (ADF), the Lesotho Credit Union Scheme for Agriculture
(LECUSA) and . a2rious small credit unions. All insurance business is
handled by South African insurance companies. The Government is
considerin- ,eg_isation to strengthen the operations of building societies,
and to estab-i- sh an agricultural development bank and a local insurance
company. These measures are expected to result in mobilization of more
domestic resources for development.



-5-
2.13      A recent addition to the financial scene is a deferred payment
scheme, which woxuld provide for repatriation to the Lesotho Bank of 60
percent of the earnings of migrant workers. Previously these savings
were held with the Chamber of Mines in South Africa and earned no interest.
Under the new scheme, these deposits will earn interest at a rate of 5
percent per annum. When the scheme was established it was estimated that
by the end of 1977 when all migrant workers were expected to be covered,
the fund would accumulate between R20 to R24 million, part of which could
be utilized for development. Because of the reluctance of the South African
Chamber of Mines and of the migrant workers to cooperate however, actual
funds repatriated so far have been very small, and it is doubtful whether
in the near future the scheme would contribute the expected resources for
development.
2.14      Interest rates in Lesotho are generally in line with those in the
RSA. With the exception oi- the Government, which pays a concessionary 6 per-
cent interest on its overdrafts, interest rates charged to borrowers range
from 11% to 14% for short-i:erm money, 9% to 13.5% for medium term money, and
8.5% to 12% for long-term money, depending on the security provided. Savings
accounts with commercial banks yield between 3.5% and 5% interest, and time
deposits from 5.5% to 7.5%.
The Role of LNDC and BEDCO
2.15      LNDC was established to provide the equity capital and long term
loans needed by both large and small enterprises mainly in the industrial
and tourism sectors, and thus fill in an institutional gap which existed in
the financial environment. LNDC is also the principal vehicle of Government s
industrial policy, and is primarily responsible for promoting industrial
development in Lesotho. In addition to its financing activities therefore,
it is responsible for attracting foreign investors, and where it is unable
to locate such investors, take the initiative in establishing and managing
suitable enterprises. With the establishment of BEDCO, the role of LNDC
was slightly redefined, and. it now concentrates on the promotion and financ-
ing of medium and large enterprises. The promotion and assistance of in-
digenous small enterprises, an important objective of Government's industrial
policy, is thus the full responsiblity of BEDCO. The roles of the two insti-
tutions are thus intended to be complementary, and do not involve costly
duplication of responsibilities.
III. THE LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
The LNDC Act
3.01      LNDC was established under the Lesotho National Development
Corporation Act (1967), "to initiate, promote and facilitate the develop-
ment of manufacturing and processing industries, mining and commerce in a
manner calculated to raise the level of income and employment in Lesotho."
The Corporation is also empowered to manage businesses for the purposes of
safeguarding its investments. The Act exempts the Corporation from taxation.



- 6 -
3.02      Although the Act authorizes the Board to determine the share
capital of the Corporation, this has not yet been done. As a result the
Corporation has been operating without an authorized capital, making it
impossible to determine what the amount of uncalled capital is. While this
does not hamper LNDC at present it may in the future, when the Corporation
seeks to raise new equity funds from non-government sources.  LNDC's manage-
ment has accordingly requested that the Act be amended to stipulate the share
capital and to define the shares of the Government. The Government and LNDC
have agreed that the share capital of the Corporation will be determined, and
the Government's shares will be defined not later than May 31, 1978.
Policy Statement
3.03      LNDC's Board adopted a policy statement in 1975 which specified
limits to LNDC's financial involvement in projects and contained other
provisions relating to investment policy. The Board has recently adopted
a revised policy statement (Annex 1) which more clearly specifies limits
to LNDC's financial commitments. The significant new provisions are:
(i) LNDC should not invest more than 10% of its net worth in
the share capital of any one project, and its aggregate equity
investments should not exceed its net worth.
(ii) LNDC's total financial commitment (viz. equity, loan, guarantee,
and building) in any single project should normally not exceed
20% of the Corporation's net worth nor 60% of the project's
total capital cost, including permanent working capital.
(iii) LNDC should not incur exchange risks with respect to those
of its borrowings that are repayable in foreign currencies.
(iv) LNDC should over time, seek to revolve its funds by selling
off its equity portfolio.
Board and Management
3.04      The LNDC Act specifies that the Board of Directors may consist of
not less then four and not more than nine directors. Seven of these positions
have been filled so far. The present members (see Annex 2) are the Prime
Minister (who is Chairman), the Minister of Commerce and Industry (Deputy
Chairman), the Minister of Finance, LNDC's Managing Director, a prominent
Basotho businessman, the Regional Controller for Southern Africa of the
Commonwealth Development Corporation and a Swiss businessman.
3.05      LNDC's present Managing Director, Mr. Roger Gurr, joined in
July 1976 on a two-year CIDA (Canada) contract. He is a Canadian whose
previous experience includes working as a consultant with Currie, Coopers
and Lybrand of Montreal. His deputy is Mr. Sam Montsi, a Basotho Economist
who joined LNDC in 1975 and was previously the Director of Planning in the
Ministry of Finance. The team is competent and is providing LNDC effective
leadership.



-7-
Organization and Staffing
3.06      LNDC has four departments:  Project Financing and Development,
Operations, Finance, and Administrative Services. All project identification,
promotion and appraisal work are undertaken in the Project Financing and
Development Department. The Operations Department is responsible for the
control of LNDC's subsidiaries 1/ and associated companies 2/ which are
grouped on the basis of their products, markets or technology into eight
sectors (handicrafts, agro and food industries, consumer products, building
materials and construction, tourism, distribution, and automotive). Each
group is headed by a director to whom all the managers of the companies within
the group report; the group director, in turn, reports to the Director of
Operations. In addition there is a unit within the Operations Department pro-
viding technical consulting services to the subsidiaries. The Finance Depart-
ment performs all financial management and accounting functions for the cor-
poration, provides similar support to the subsidiaries and associated companies
and undertakes some project supervision work, whilst the Administration Depart-
ment is responsible for all personnel, administrative and legal functions.
This organization structure (Annex 3) reflects the special nature of LNDC as
both a development bank and an industrial and commercial holding corporation.
The structure is suitable for LNDC since it clearly delineates the responsi-
bilities for project development, control of subsidiaries and associated
companies, finance and administration.
3.07      An acute shortage of suitable Basotho professionals has made it dif-
ficult for LNDC to meet its staffing requirements from local sources. As a
result it has to rely heavily on overseas aid organizations to finance expatri-
ate staff for a majority of its key positions. At present, LNDC has a profes-
sional staff of nineteen cf whom nine are expatriates. This includes the key
post of the Financial Controller and three new professionals for his group who
were recruited during the past twelve months following discussions with the
Bank. The new Director of Operations will be recruited not later than
November 30, 1977. LNDC has prepared satisfactory five-year recruitment
and training plans and is not expected to encounter serious difficulties in
their implementation.
Operating Procedures
3.08      Project Appraisal and Supervision.  LNDC has prepared an Operations
Manual which includes guidelines on procedures for project appraisal and
supervision. In the past LNDC's staff have operated without documented
guidelines and some projects have thus been inadequately appraised and
supervised. Appraisal reports have not always included a comprehensive
assessment of the financial, economic and technical merits of a project.
1/   Companies in which LNDC's shareholding is 51% or more.
2/   Companies in which LNDC's shareholding is 50% or less.



- 8 -
At the request of LNDC's management, the IDA follow up mission conducted
a short seminar on financial and economic appraisal of projects for LNDC's
staff and recommended a format for the preparation of project reports which
LNDC has adopted. As LNDC builds up its staff, it plans to use appraisal
teams consisting of an engineer, an economist and a financial analyst.
3.09      Supervision of projects during implementation is presently under-
taken by the Projects Officer who appraised the project. The system involves
the preparation of monthly progress reports which outline the physical pro-
gress, compare actual costs with estimates, and report on any additional
financing that might be required. The system for supervision once the project
is in operation is being improved through a clearer description of procedures.
In most previous cases, supervision had been undertaken on an ad hoc basis by
the Projects Officers or through the management of the subsidiaries. The
Operations Manual includes a description of the improved procedures.
3.10      Legal, Procurement and Disbursement Procedures.  LNDC has an
acceptable standard form of loan agreement for legally documenting its
loans, and a suitable standard lease form for entering into lease agree-
ments. Because of staff constraints in the past however, legal agreements
on many of its operations were never finalized. LNDC has now finalized
such agreements. Procurement and disbursement procedures for LNDC financed
purchases are being finalized.
Accounts and Audit
3.11      In the past a major weakness in LNDC's accounting system has been
the absence of an internal financial reporting system to generate timely
financial information on operations. Financial control was therefore very
weak especially with regard to the subsidiaries and associated companies.
In addition, although LNDC published annual accounts, these did not usefully
reflect the true financial performance and position of the Corporation because
the financial performance and situation of the subsidiaries were not consoli-
dated into LNDC's accounts. The FY-1976 audit, undertaken by Peat, Marwick
and Mitchell has rectified this problem, and the final FY-1976 financial
reports include consolidated accounts of LNDC and its subsidiaries. LNDC has
also engaged the services of the international management consulting firm of
Coopers and Lybrand to develop and implement a new Management Information
System which will include a system for internal financial reporting.
Interest Rates and Other Charges
3.12      LNDC presently charges 12% on its loans although in the past
it had charged 9 to 10%. LNDC has agreed to set its minimum lending
rate at 12% for the future and charge its borrowers a 1% foreign ex-
change risk fee (to be paid to the Government who will absorb the risk).
This lending rate will be positive in real terms, given Lesotho's ex-
pected inflation rates, and will give LNDC an adequate spread. LNDC now
charges a rent of 15% per annum on development costs for its factory build-
ings which is enough to permit a recovery of the capital costs of such



-9 -
buildings, cover the maintenance costs, and yield some profits. The Corpora-
tion also charges a fee of 1% per annum for guarantees.
IV. LNDC'S OPERATIONS AND FINANCE
Investment Approvals
4.01      Summarized below is LNDC's operations since its establishment
through June 30, 1976.
Total Approved      of which Subsidiaries
(in R' millions)
Number   Amount    Number    Amount    %
Equity Investments             30       0.9        16         0.5      56
Loans                          20        1.8       12         0.3      17
Factory Buildings              20        1.3        4         0.1       8
Guarantees                     11       0.7         5         0.2      29
81       4.7        42         1.1     23
The 81 investments LNDC has approved have provided assistance to 38 projects,
since LNDC has assisted most of these projects with equity investments, loans,
buildings and guarantees. The projects assisted operate in a large variety of
sectors, and include handicrafts manufacturing enterprises, food processing
enterprises, commercial undertakings, hotels, and construction enterprises.
These operations are in keeping with LNDC's role, which is to promote the
development of medium and large scale enterprises in the modern non-agricul-
tural sector. Although LIbDC has not as yet undertaken a comprehensive assess-
ment of the economic impact of its investments, it is estimated that about 90
percent of all industrial output in Lesotho is accounted for by LNDC assisted
enterprises which now employ about 2,000 persons. The fixed asset cost per
job of its investments has been low, ranging from about $650 to about $9,500.
4.02      Equity Investments.  LNDC's largest single equity investment ap-
proved to date was R100,000 in a hotels holding company it wholly owns. It
has also approved token inivestments of R500 or less in six companies. If one
excludes these six investments, however, its average equity investment has
been about R38,000. Because there are presently very few Basotho entrepreneurs
with the necessary financial resources or experience to promote and manage
their own medium and large scale enterprises, LNDC has taken majority ownership
in a number of enterprises. Sixteen of the thirty equity investments LNDC has
approved were for such majority owned subsidiaries, for which LNDC bears the
management responsibility. In addition to the heavy burden which the manage-
ment of these 16 companies places on LNDC's managerial resources, its majority
ownership position exposes it to high financial risks. It is LNDC's policy to
reduce these risks by progressively divesting itself of these subsidiaries.



- 10 -
The Corporation will annually review each of its subsidiaries to determine
their suitability for divestiture on the basis of criteria which have
been agreed upon with IDA. Following its annual review, LNDC will consult
IDA on steps it intends to take. LNDC's management has recently sold half
of its interests in some of its handicrafts manufacturing enterprises to
EDESA 1/, a privately owned international corporation which invests in
development projects in countries in Equatorial and Southern Africa. It
is intended that EDESA would assume management responsibilities for the
enterprises involved.
4.03      Loans.  Much of LNDC's lending have been to the tourism sector,
which have accounted for about 49% of its total approvals. The largest loan
was R800,000 which was made to the Amalgamated Hotels Ltd., owner of the
Holiday Inn complex at Maseru, and the smallest was for R3,000 to a weaving
company. Most of the loans were in the R10,000 - R50,000 range with an
average loan size of about R30,000.   Repayment periods for these loans have
ranged from one year to seven years, reflecting LNDC's flexibility in dealing
with its subsidiaries and associated companies whose needs have included short
term working capital funds as well as term finance for fixed assets.
4.04      Factory Buildings.  To eliminate delays in project implementation
which would otherwise result from the difficulties companies face in acquiring
land in Lesotho, and to attract foreign investors who are offered similar
facilities in other Southern African countries, LNDC has been investing
directly in factory buildings for rent to investors in Lesotho. These build-
ings have been built to the specifications of the applying companies. As at
June 30, 1976 LNDC had invested R1.3 million in buildings for 20 companies out
of which RO.1 million was for four of its subsidiaries. LNDC also develops
building sites for lease to companies which prefer to put up their own build-
ings. Leases on these buildings and sites range from 5 to 20 years and annual
rental charges have, in the past, averaged 14% of the initial cost of develop-
ment. This investment in buildings and site development ties up part of
LNDC's investible resources in fixed assets and creates additional administra-
tive costs through property management responsibilities. It is LNDC's policy
therefore to sell off the buildings so as to release the resources for new
investments whenever possible.
Portfolio
4.05      Annex 4 shows LNDC's outstanding equity and loan portfolio as at
31st March, 1976. The equity portfolio amounted to RO.6 million of which RO.3
million (50%) represented investments in the 16 subsidiary companies. The
financial performance of these companies in which LNDC has outstanding equity
investments has not been particularly good. For the year ended March 31,
1976, only 4 of the 16 subsidiary companies and only 5 of the 12 associated
companies showed profits. The operating losses attributed to LNDC from the
subsidiaries amounted to RO.29 million (equivalent to 96% of its outstanding
1/   Economic Development for Equatorial and Southern Africa.



- 11 -
equity investment in these companies). This overall unsatisfactory financial
performance of the subsidiaries, for which LNDC has direct management responsi-
bility has been due mainly to:
(a) poor and discontinuous management: there has been frequent
disruptions in the management of these companies as a result
of personnel turnovers and a shortage of competent managers
in Lesotho.
(b) inadequate capitalization: some of the companies were started
with too small a capital base and were thus overburdened with
debt servicing problems.
(c) poor marketing programs: there has been no serious attempt
to identify markets and no comprehensive marketing strategy
has been formulated or utilized by the companies.
(d) inadequate management information: compilation and timely
reporting of operating and financial information has been
inadequate, thereby affecting the quality of management
decisions.
4.06      LNDC's new management is dealing effectively with these problems,
and it is expected that the financial performance of these projects which
are basically soundly conceived would be improved in 1977.
4.07      The loan portfolio amounted to R1.1 million of which RO.4 million
(36%) were loans to subsidiaries. In addition RO.7 million of the total
outstanding were to associated companies of LNDC. Almost all the outstanding
loans were therefore to companies in which LNDC was already financially
exposed through equity investments. Because of the inadequate past record
keeping practices of LNDC, and because some of the loans, especially to sub-
sidiaries and associated companies, were made in the form of advances with no
fixed repayment terms, it is not possible to determine the proportion of the
outstanding loans that were in arrears on principal and interest payments as
at March 31, 1976. In general, however, because of the poor performance of
the companies involved (para 4.05) it is estimated that the level of arrears
was very high. For its FY1977, LNDC will, as a result of its newly improved
accounting system and its completed legal agreements, provide detailed informa-
tion on the arrears situation on its outstanding loans.
Profitability
4.08      Annex 5 shows LNDC's income statements for its fiscal years 1973
to 1976. From 1973 to 1975, LNDC earned substantial income from sugar
royalties transferred to it by the Government. In addition, in 1974 and
1975, it received substantial dividends from the Holiday Inn at lIaseru in
which it has a token investment transferred to it by the Government. As
a result of these non-operational revenues, and because it did not make any



- 12 -
provisions against possible losses on its portfolio, LNDC showed net profits
in all three years. In 1976, LNDC received no income from sugar royalties,
and its dividends from the Holiday Inn was half what it received in 1975.
As a result its profit before losses on investments and provisions was only
R38,000 compared to R387,000 in 1975. After write offs of losses on invest-
ments (R293,000) and setting aside provisions (R924,000), LNDC made a net
loss in 1976 of R1.2 million. The substantial write offs and provision
were necessary, but belated steps to reflect the erosion of LNDC's capital
investments in its subsidiaries and associated companies, most of which had
accumulated large losses over the years.
4.09      Annex 6 shows consolidated income statements for LNDC and the sub-
sidiaries for its fiscal years 1975 and 1976. In 1975 the whole group made
a net profit of R189,000 largely as a result of the non-operational revenues
received by LNDC. As a result of the substantial reduction of this non-
operational income in 1976, LNDC's own minor profit before investment losses
and provisions (R38,000) was not enough to offset the substantial operating
losses of the subsidiaries (R287,000) and the group thus made an operating
loss before investment losses and provisions of R249,000. With the addition
of investment losses (R115,000) and provisions against losses (R566,000) the
net group loss comes to R930,000.
Financial Situation
4.10      Summarized balance sheets for LNDC for the fiscal years 1973
to 1976 are shown as Annex 7. As of March 31, 1976 LNDC had a net worth
of R3.3 million (consisting of accumulated funds, Government grants and
capital reserves from revaluation of fixed assets) and long term debts
of only RO.3 million, thus giving it a very low long term debt to equity
ratio of 0.09:1. Its total debt was RO.5 million, and this still leaves
it with a very low total debt to equity ratio of 0.15:1. The Corporation
was temporarily in a tight liquidity situation, with current liabilities
of RO.2 million compared to current assets of only R0.07 million. Its
gross equity and loan portfolio of R1.7 million had also been substantially
written down by provisions of RO.8 million to a net of only RO.9 million.
However, LNDC had a substantial investment of R2.8 million in fixed assets
(mostly factory buildings).
4.11      Annex 8 shows the consolidated balance sheets of LNDC and its
subsidiaries for 1975 and 1976. The consolidated net worth of the group
as at March 31, 1976 was R3.7 million, and the group's outstanding long
term debts amounted to RO.7 million, thus yielding a low long term debt
to equity ratio of 0.18:1. As with the corporation, the group was
temporarily illiquid at 31st March, 1976, with net current liabilities
of RO.3 million. This compares with a group liquidity position of RO.2
million in net current assets a year earlier, indicating that during
FY 1976 the group lost a considerable amount of liquid resources through
its operating losses and had to borrow short term funds to maintain
operations. The group's principal assets were its fixed assets (mainly



- 13 -
factory buildings and plant and machinery) of R3.7 million, and portfolio in-
vestments of R1.0 million., Overall, as at 31st March, 1976 the Corporation
and the group had both financed their assets largely with equity, leaving con-
siderable scope for increased borrowing. Except for the temporary liquidity
problem, which has subsequently been alleviated by an injection of R 1.0 mil-
lion in additional equity contribution from the Government, the financial
situation, both on a Corporation and group basis, was sound.
V. THE BASOTHO ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Establishment and Articles of Association
5.01      The Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation (BEDCO) was estab-
lished in 1975 as a limited liability company under the Lesotho Companies Act,
to promote the establishment and development of small-scale Basotho-owned
enterprises, and in mid-1976, it became a wholly owned subsidiary of LNDC.
BEDCO is empowered under its Memorandum of Association to provide financial
assistance to Basotho entrepreneurs through loans, equity investments and
financial guarantees. It can also provide factory shells, equipment and
technical assistance to these entrepreneurs. The company is empowered to
promote and develop subsidiaries as well as to borrow or raise money for its
operations.
Share Capital and Resources
5.02      BEDCO has an authorized share capital of R4,000 of which only
a token R2 has so far been issued. As of its FY1976, BEDCO had received RO.4
million in grants consisting of RO.1 million from the Lesotho Government and
RO.3 million from the Canadian Government.
Operations
5.03      BEDCO has been active in four areas:
(a)  Development of an industrial/commercial estate in Maseru.
This estate will provide workshop, factory and commercial
retail space for lease to Basotho-owned and operated enter-
prises. The estate is planned to be constructed in three
phases, the first of which will bS ready for occupancy by
mid 1977.  It will provide 1060 m  for workshops2 500 m
for a BEDCO office and a machine shop, and 670 m for commer-
cial shops and offices.
(b) Development of a credit and technical assistance scheme to
assist Basotho-owned SSE's. Although BEDCO has started out
cautiously, it is aiming to make up to 80 loans p.a. through
this scheme.



- 14 -
(c) Promotion and operation of four subsidiary companies (all
Basotho training-oriented) active in the field of brickmaking,
stone crushing, construction and coal distribution, and
(d) Establishment of a mobile equipment pool to service the
needs of small manufacturers.
Board of Directors and Management
5.04      BEDCO's Articles of Association specify that the Company's Board
shall consist of between five to nine directors. Seven members, all selected
by the Government, sit on the Board at present: the Chairman (a former Deputy
Managing Director of LNDC), LNDC's Labor Relations Officer, a representative
from the Lesotho Bank, two prominent Basotho businessmen, BEDCO's Managing
Director and Deputy Managing Director. The Board has delegated approval of
all financial commitments up to R5,000 to the Managing Director and Deputy
Managing Director acting jointly. Approval of financial commitments between
R5,000 - R10,000 has been delegated to a Loans Committee composed of the
Chairman, the Managing Director, two directors and a project officer from
LNDC. All financial commitments in excess of R10,000 must be approved by
the full Board.
5.05      BEDCO's Managing Director since its inception has been Mr. Don
Pruden, a Canadian who was previously in charge of cooperative handicraft
development in Lesotho. His Deputy is Mr. Ben Sebatane a Basotho on second-
ment from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Both men appear to be
energetic and capable and are laying a good foundation for BEDCO.
Organization and Staffing
5.06      Because it is a new institution, BEDCO is still developing a suitable
organization; Annex 18 shows the proposed structure of the organization. There
will be two departments (Administration and Operations) headed by directors
under the Managing Director and his deputy instead of the present six units
(administration, accounting, business extension, physical development, equip-
ment pool, and subsidiary companies). The Administration Department will
perform the administrative, accounting and legal functions, and the Operations
Department will be in charge of the SSE credit scheme, training scheme,
equipment rental scheme, the industrial estates and the subsidiaries. This
new structure is simple, with clearly defined lines of responsibility, and is
suitable for BEDCO's operations.
5.07      BEDCO has a staff of 11 professionals, 6 of whom are Basotho.  In
addition to the Managing Director, there are expatriate managers of the
business extension and equipment pool units, all financed by Canadian aid.
The manager of the physical development unit is also an expatriate. It is
BEDCO's policy to provide a Basotho understudy to every expatriate with a view
to phasing out their assistance by 1981. In this connection BEDCO has prepared
a satisfactory 5-year training and development program for its Basotho profes-
sional staff. Although BEDCO professional staff are capable and well motivated,



- 15 -
it still needs to recruit aLdditional staff especially to strengthen its
project evaluation capability. It therefore needs an expatriate Senior
Projects Officer for its SSE credit scheme who will also undertake training of
Basotho projects officers. Because of the importance of this position, BEDCO
has agreed to appoint a qualified person not later than November 30, 1977.
IDA is assisting in the recruitment of candidates and in the identification
of overseas aid financing for the position.
Policies and Procedures
5.08      BEDCO recently adopted a new policy statement in consultation with
IDA which, inter alia, specifies that BEDCO shall normally invest only in
projects with total capital costs of not more than R 50,000 with a maximum
investment per project of R 30,000. Other significant clauses in the draft
revised policy statement are: (i) BEDCO shall not finance more than 75% of a
project's total capital cost; (ii) BEDCO shall not normally take more than 50%
of the share capital of any one enterprise; (iii) BEDCO's total investment in
share capital shall not exceed its net worth; and (iv) BEDCO shall seek to
protect itself against the exchange risks of foreign borrowings.
5.09      BEDCO has recently completed an Operations Manual which is satis-
factory. To date, however, it has based loan approvals mainly on field inter-
views with clients, credit checks with other financial institutions and the
quality of the security provided. The degree of financial analysis attempted
has been very rudimentary, and loan terms have been based more on client
requests than on analysis of the repayment capacity of the projects. While
analysis of SSE projects will not involve the amount of detail required for
medium and large scale projects, the development of a simple analytical
framework to be used in conjunction with the personal interviews should lead
to better investment decisions.  To this end, the new manual should be useful.
BEDCO normally allows its SSE borrowers to locate their own sources of mate-
rials supply, as the amounts involved are small, however, at times it places
orders on their behalf when price discounts on quantity orders are obtainable.
5.10      Disbursement for BEDCO's loans are undertaken at present by the
Lesotho Bank, with BEDCO acting as guarantor by depositing sums equivalent to
the amounts to be disbursed with the Lesotho Bank. BEDCO earns between 5% to
7.5% per annum interest on these funds depending on the period of deposit,
while the Lesotho Bank charges 10% to the borrowers on the amount disbursed.
This system has the advantage of shifting the administration of loan disburse-
ment and collection to the more experienced Lesotho Bank, but ties down funds
which could be used directly for additional lending because of the 100%
advance deposit requirement involved. IDA has agreed with BEDCO on a new
system which will eliminate this problem by permitting BEDCO to disburse its
loans directly from its own resources using the Lesotho Bank as the administer-
ing agency. BEDCO will charge an interest rate of 12% per annum on funds so
disbursed compared to the 10% presently charged by Lesotho Bank, and pay the
Lesotho Bank a fee of 1% on these funds for its services.



- 16 -
Financial Performance and Situation
5.11      BEDCO's accounts for its first year of operation (FY 1976) are
shown in Annexes 21 & 22. It did not generate any income from its operations
and had an operating deficit before provision of R39,000g This consisted
entirely of administrative expenses. After provisions for losses on its loans
and investments, its net loss came to R46,000. BEDCO received a grant of
R50,000 from the Government to finance these losses. As a small-scale enter-
prise development institution which provides both financial and technical
assistance, however, BEDCO's performance should not be evaluated purely on. the
basis of financial results since it will require annual Government subsidies
to offset its administrative overheads. It is BEDCO's objective, however, to
eventually generate enough income from its loan, equity and rental operations
to cover its necessary high overheads and eliminate its dependence on Govern-
ment subsidies.
5.12      As at March 31, 1976, BEDCO had an investment portfolio of R63,000
consisting of R23,000 in loans and R40,000 in equity investments. It had fixed
assets (mainly equipment and motor vehicles) of R77,000, and it was very
liquid, with net current assets of R242,000 These assets had been financed
wholly with grants, which consisted of R107,000 contributed by the Lesotho
Government, and R314,000 contributed by the Canadian Government. Because of
its small authorized capital, BEDCO is expected to continue relying on grant
financing for most of its operations. Annex 19 gives details of BEDCO's
investment portfolio. All its loans are being repaid satisfactorily.
VI. PROSPECTS
Industry and Tourism
6.01      Despite the numerous constraints to its development, (para. 2.06)
industry is one of the sectors which could reduce the dominance of subsistence
agriculture and create jobs for Lesotho's expanding labour force. The contri-
bution of the sector to GDP is projected to increase from the present 3% to
about 4.5% to 5.0% in 1979/80. Opportunities for investment exist mainly -in
import substitution projects e.g., in the building materials subsector (pro-
duction of bricks, building components such as doors and window frames) and
in export oriented projects (processing of wool and mohair and other raw ma-
terials, handicrafts). The development of these prospects will however be a
difficult task and will greatly depend on a more effective and dynamic LNDC.
In the tourism sector, the potential lies in Lesotho's beautiful mountain
scenery and pleasant temperate climate, To exploit this potential, more in-
vestments in tourist facilities and attractions will have to be undertaken.
These would include expansion and improvement of existing hotels and estab-
lishment of new recreational complexes and other ancillary facilities. Again
the development of these prospects will be a difficult task in which LNDC
is expected to play an active role.



- 17 -
LNDC's Strategy and Projected Operations
6.02      LNDC's Board has adopted a short term strategy emphasizing analysis
and consolidation of its existing subsidiaries and associated companies to
improve their financial performance, and where necessary and feasible, sell-
ing them off. As a result, LNDC's investment commitments in FY 1977 are con-
centrated mainly on restructuring and recapitalizing existing projects, al-
though a few new projects are being promoted. These FY 1977 commitments are
being financed by Government. LNDC has decided upon a longer-term corporate
strategy emphasizing promotion of new, economically viable enterprises in the
country that will create added employment for Basotho.
6.03      LNDC's list of project possibilities as at June 30, 1976 is shown
as Annex 9; Annex 11 shows its projected operations for FY 1977-FY 1981. In
FY-1977, LNDC expects to approve a total of R3.3 million in investments.
Half of this (R1.7 million) is for the development of industrial infrastruc-
ture in Maseru and other parts of the country which is being financed by the
European Development Fund. The remaining approvals in 1977 will, as noted
in paragraph 6.02 above, be mainly for restructuring and recapitalization
of existing projects. In FY-1978, LNDC expects to shift its emphasis to
promoting and investing in new projects. Approvals are expected to amount
to R1.8 million in that year, growing gradually to R2.7 million by 1981.
This proposed level of operations appears reasonable given the restructuring
which LNDC is undergoing, the increasing importance of industry and tourism
in Lesotho's economy, and the role of LNDC as the principal institution for
the development and long term financing of these sectors. LNDC will con-
tinue financing projects through loans, equity investments, and provision of
factory buildings. The proportion of total approvals for equity investments
and factory buildings will initially be high (66% in 1978) for the reasons
already noted in paragraphs 4.02 and 4.04. However, because funds invested
in equity and buildings will not be recycled as easily as funds provided
through loans, LNDC will gradually reduce the proportion of its approvals
(59% in 1981) in these areas.
BEDCO's Projected Operations
6.04      BEDCO's projected investments for FY 1977-1981 (Annex 20) have been
planned to complete projects and programs started in its first year of opera-
tions (para 5.03), as well as to start new projects and programs. In FY 1977
and FY 1978 it p:Lans to invest RO.8 million to complete the industrial
estate in Maseru. Beginning in FY1978, it also plans to invest RO.9 million
in new industrial estates in other parts of Lesotho. This program of invest-
ments in industrial estates is necessary since it will enable BEDCO to provide
much needed factory shells for small Basotho manufacturers. BEDCO plans
to provide R50,000 in SSE loans in FY 1977, and will increase this to an
annual average of R320,000 by FY 1981. The mean loan size is expected to be
R4,000 which means that by 1981, BEDCO would be providing about 80 loans per
year. This target is reasonable considering the anticipated demand for such
loans. Other important projected investments during the 5 years include, RO.2
million for expansion of its equipment rental activities, R1.4 million for



- 18 -
special projects (a foundry, a machine workshop and a brick plant) to be used
as training centres in the respective technical skills for Basotho, and R0.3
million for other training and technical assistance activities. The total
projected investment is R5.5 million.
Resource Requirements
6.05      The resources requirements of LNDC and BEDCO for FY-79 and FY-79,
the two years during which the proposed IDA credit is expected to be committed,
are summarized below.
Expected Commitments
LNDC                                R Million               BEDGO      R Million
Loans                             1.3          SSE Loans             0.6
Equity                            1.0          Industrial Estates   1.2
Factory Buildings                 1.5          Other Investments    1.5
Total                    3.8                                 3.3
The foreign component of LNDC's expected commitments is estimated as R2.9
million, for which it would require new resources. It is looking primarily
to IDA to finance this requirement, and expects the European Investment Bank
to finance the remainder. The R1.9 million earmarked for LNDC out of the
proposed IDA Credit of R2.2 million (US$2.5 million) will thus meet 65% of
the estimated foreign currency requirements of LNDC for FY 1978 and FY 1979,
leaving the rest for possible financing by EIB. LNDC's local currency re-
quirement of RO.9 million will be financed mainly with loans it expects from
the Government, with the gap being filled by funds generated from its opera-
tions. The foreign component of BEDCO's expected investments will amount to
R2.5 million; of which RO.5 million will be the foreign component of SSE loans.
The RO.25 million (US$0.3 million) of the proposed IDA credit allocated to
BEDCO will thus finance 50% of the foreign currency requirements for the SSE
loans during FY 78 and FY 79. The remaining 50% and other foreign currency
requirements of BEDCO are expected to be financed mainly with Canadian aid.
The local currency requirements of BEDCO will be financed by the Government.
LNDC's Financial Prospects
6.06      Projected financial statements and ratios of LNDC for the period
1977-1981 are shown in Annexes 12 through 15. Because of an increase in its
rental rate and the increased investment it is currently undertaking in indus-
trial infrastructure and factory buildings, rental income is expected to in-
crease substantially from 1977. Interest income from its loans is also ex-
pected to increase significantly because of an increase in its lending opera-
tions and because it plans to more effectively collect interest on existing
loans to its subsidiary and associated companies. Its administrative expenses
are projected to increase by 20% each year, and the average cost of borrowing



- 19 -
is projected at 5.0%. On the basis of these projections, profits will rep-
resent 7.6% of average equity in 1977, rising to 10.3% in 1981. This level
of profitability, although lower than the average of 19.7% experienced in
1973 to 1975 because of the loss of its income from sugar royalties, is
still high enough to permit: LNDC to generate funds internally for expansion
of its operations, and to build up an adequate equity base.
6.07      LNDC is projected to increase its total assets from R3.6 million
as at March 31, 1976, to R]4.6 million by March 31, 1981. This will result
largely from increases in its loans and equity outstanding, and from its in-
creased investments in industrial infrastructure and factory buildings. Al-
though it will expand its borrowing (from RO.3 million outstanding at 31st
March 1976, to R7.9 million by 1981), its debt equity ratio will remain
acceptable, rising from 0.1/1 in 1976 to 1.1/1 by 1981. This is largely
because of its present underutilized borrowing capacity. To set prudent
limits on its borrowing howiever, LNDC will limit its debt to three times its
equity. LNDC expects to continue relying on some short term borrowing to meet
its liquidity needs until 1.979, by which time it expects to have built up
enough liquid resources from its own internal funds generation. Because its
debt servicing requirements are minimal until 1980, however, it does not ex-
pect any liquidity problems. Its debt service coverage will remain adequate.
BEDCO's Financial Prospects
6.08      Annexes 21 through 23 show projected financial statements for BEDCO
for the FY 1977-1981. The principal sources of income for BEDCO would be ren-
tals from its industrial estates and from its equipment pool. These are ex-
pected to adequately cover the administrative and other expenses involved in
these operations. The interest income from SSE loans is also expected to cover
the interest charges on the proposed IDA credit, and the nominal fee to the
Lesotho Bank for the administration of the credit scheme. However, because of
the expenses involved in its SSE training and technical assistance scheme,
depreciation of its fixed assets, and provisions against investment losses,
BEDCO expects to make subst:antial annual losses. The cash deficits resulting
from these losses would be financed with grants from the Government.
6.09      Apart from the proposed IDA credit, BEDCO does not expect to incur
any long-term debts. However, as a precautionary move, BEDCO wil), limit its
debt to three times its equity for the present. It expects to inc -ease its
total assets from RO.4 million as at 31st March 1976 to R3.8 million by 1981,
mainly as a result of its investments in industrial estates. Because these
investments will be financed with grants, BEDCO is not expected to encounter
any debt servicing problems on the proposed IDA credit.
VII. THE CREDIT - ITS JUSTIFICATION RISKS AND FEATURES
7.01      The proposed credtit will add to the foreign exchange resources
available for providing term financing to small, medium and large scale in-
dustrial projects, as well as tourism development projects in Lesotho and



- 20 -
thereby help create employment opportunities locally, for the expanding labour
force. It will also provide IDA the opportunity to make significant contri-
butions to the further development of LNDC and BEDCO as effective development
institutions and financial intermediaries. The capacity of LNDC for select-
ing financially and technically viable, and economically justified projects
will be strengthened, particularly through the introduction of economic and
technical analysis in its project appraisals. BEDCO's financial analysis of
SSE loan applications will also be improved.
7.02      Although there is a more than normal risk involved in lending to
small-scale enterprises, this risk is worth taking in Lesotho because develop-
ment and training of new Basotho entrepreneurs is key to future expansion of
of the industrial sector and the employment effects of BEDCO's lending are
expected to be high. To minimize the risk of SSE failures BEDCO will provide
training and technical assistance in business management to its SSE borrowers.
7.03      The proceeds of that part of the proposed credit earmarked for
LNDC ($2.2 million) will be onlent by the Government at 8.5 percent per
annum and will be utilized to finance the c.i.f. cost (i.e. the price at
Lesotho's border) of imported goods, the foreign exchange cost of ancil-
lary services, and the foreign component of imported goods purchased through
normal trade channels and of civil works. This portion would be repaid by
LNDC according to a flexible amortization schedule conforming to the aggregate
amortization schedules of LNDC's subloans. The subloan terms are expected to
range from 8 to 12 years with an average life of about 10 years. The grace
periods included in these terms will vary between 1 and 3 years. The foreign
exchange risk on this portion of the credit will be borne by the Government,
charging a fee of 1% to the sub-borrowers for loans made. LNDC would need
IDA's prior approval for all projects using $100,000 or more of the proposed
credit, and would not be able to use more than $700,000 in total without IDA's
approval.
7.04      The proceeds of that part of the proposed credit earmarked for
BEDCO ($0.3 million) will be lent by Government to BEDCO at 7%. The funds
will be utilized by BEDCO's SSE Loan recipients to finance the c.i.f. cost
(i.e. the price at Lesotho's border) of imported goods, the foreign exchange
cost of ancillary services, and the foreign exchange component of imported
goods purchased locally through normal trade channels and of civil works. The
principal would be repaid through LNDC on a fixed amortization schedule over
10 years including 4 years' grace. The foreign exchange risk on this portion
would be borne by the Government without a fee. BEDCO would submit to IDA for
prior approval full details on the first ten SSE projects for which it has
approved SSE loans for financing by IDA. After these, BEDCO would submit, on
a quarterly basis, a summary project list of projects for which IDA reimburse-
ment of its financing is required.



- 21 -
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Agreement having been reached on all the principal issues, the
project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$2.5 million to be utilized as
outlined above.



!



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 4
LNDC STATEMENT OF POLICY
1.        The Board of Directors has the responsibility for setting policy
and ensuring that Management will effectively implement such policy.
The purpose of this statement is to set forth procedures and matters
which will clarify the Corporation's powers and responsibilities.
2.        The Board of Directors shall meet as frequently as necessary
to conduct the business of the Corporation; it shall meet at least once
each quarter.
3.        LNDC's Management shall be responsible for preparing and submitting
to the Board an annual. program of action, which will include a budget. Such
a program and budget should be supported by financial projections on a
period of at least three years. The program and budget should be submitted
to the Board two weeks prior to the Board meeting at which it will be
examined. Such a program shall, inter alia, show the resources available
to the Corporation, a project by project review of activities and proposed
investment and/or loans by the Corporation, the resource gap, if any,
and proposals regarding ways and means to close such a gap.  Included
in the annual program proposal will be any proposed major changes in the
structure or areas of responsibility of the several staff and/or sections
of the organizations. ThLe Board shall be informed on a regular basis
of proposed changes, modifications and additions to the anmual program.
L.        To further ensure that the LNDC program is consistent with
Government policy, the armual program will be forwarded to the Ministries
of Finance and of Commerce and Industry, and the Central Planning and
Development Office at the time it is forwarded to the Board. All written
comments received will be presented to the Board before discussions of the
annual program.
5.        To ensure full discussion of all matters brought before the
Board, Government members of the Board may, provided there is no Board
objection, each be accompanied by an adviscr(s) who will be permitted
to participate in Board discussions. The Board has the right, however,
to close the meeting to non-Board members at such times as the Board
considers necessary.
6.        The Corporatiorn shall, under normal circumstances, not manage
or attempt to manage the affairs of any of its subsidiaries or investments.
However, it will nominate Directors and ensure that competent managers
are employed and performance is carefully monitored. In projects encoun-
tering severe difficulties in which the Corporation has made an investment,
the Corporation will take such action as it considers necessary to protect
its investment.



ANNAE 1
Page 2 of 4
7.        The Corporation shall compile and transmit to the Board each
quarter the financial and operating record of those enterprises in which
it has major outstanding commitments in the way of loan, equity, guarantee,
and any other assistance of a financial nature. Sach submissions shall
include an analysis of the accounts by the Corporation's staff.
8.        The Board in considering the program of the Corporation will
ensure that the resources and activities of the Corporation are allocated
in such manner that the interest of the national business community
are adequately considered.
9.        Before a loan, equity investment, guarantee, or building is
undertaken by LNDC, LNDC management shall circulate to the Board members
two weeks prior to a meeting, an appraisal document on the project
including a projected profit and loss account, balance sheet, and a cash
flow statement for at least five years, and an evaluation of management,
marketing arrangements, and the project's financial and economic viability.
However, the Managing Director of LNDC may individually approve LNDCts
financial commitments (viz., loans, equity, guarantee, and building) as
follows:
(a) for individual projects having already been approved in
principle or included in a capital budget, up to R 50,000
(b) for individual projects not having received approval in
principle, up to R 25,000.
The Managing Director shall report to the Board such commitments at the
next Board meeting; in no case should total commitments under category
(b) exceed R 50,000 prior to Board approval.
10.       In entering into a commitment the Corporation will be generally
guided by the following principles in addition to those provided by law.
(a) All loans should be reasonably secured and the Corporation
shall charge interest rates, and fees which are compatible
with the prevailing market rates and/or which enable it
to earn a reasonable return on its operations.
(b) All loans shall be by formal written agreement stipulating
rate of interest (plus any additional charges) grace and
repayment period, security and other relevant details.
(c) The Corporation should not invest more than 10% of its net
worth in the share capital of any one project.
(d)  Total aggregate investments in share capital should not exceed
the net worth of the Corporation.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
(e) The total financial commitment (viz., equity, loan,
guarantee!, and building) by the Corporation in any single
project should normally not exceed 20% of the Corporation's
net worth.
(f)  The Corporation's total financial commitment (viz., equity,
loan, guarantee, and building) to any single project should
not normally exceed 60% of the project's total capital cost,
including permanent working capital.
(g) The Corporation shall not normally take a controlling
interest in the voting stock of projects it invests in,
unless it is unable to interest other investors to take
a controlling interest in the projects it is promoting
(excluding property development for future lease or manage-
ment by cther parties, and aid-funded projects for which
it is the executing agency). However, in accordance with
Government policy, LNDC will take the initiative where private
investors; are not available for projects which are financially
and economically viable and in the national interest.
11.       In assessing proposals for financial assistance the Corporation
will take into account primarily the prospects of success of the project,
the ability and integrity of the applicant and the socio-economic benefits
of the project. Furthermore, enterprises assisted should be financially
and technically viable and have competent management.
12.       The Corporation will assist credit-worthy enterprises contributing
to the development of Lesotho including:
(a)  ManufactLring and Processing Industries
(b)  Construct-ion and Building Materials Industries
(c) Tourism -Industries
(d) Commercial Enterprises
(e) Agro-Industries
It will not normally lend for:
(a) Wbrking capital - (except for permanent working capital)
(b) Projects where alternative finance is available.
(c) Refinancing.
13.       The rental charges for building and industrial sites shall reflect
the prevailing market rates and enable the Corporation to earn a reasonable
return over and above the cost of its own resources. Such rental charges
shall usually be based ito yield 15% per annum of actual construction cost
with a provision for escalation based on general increases in construction
costs.



ANNEX 1
Page a of h
14.       In the case of a joint venture in which LNDC is a minority
shareholder, the Corporation should arrange for the auditors of the
enterprise's accounts to be appointed by the Corporation.
15e       The Corporation shall not incur exchange risks with respect
to those of its borrowings that are repayable in foreign currencies.
16,       The Corporation's total debts including guarantees shall not
at any time exceed three times the amount of its paid-in share capital
plus surplus and reserves.
17.       The Corporation's financial policy will aim at maintaining the
value of its own capital, and to manage its funds in such a manner that
the Corporation is, at all times, able to honour its obligations on
time and to achieve a profit margin that enables it to cover its operating
costs and build up adequate reserves.
18.       The Corporation will develop and maintain a solid and well
balanced organization and a management team capable of appraising the
requests submitted to it, assist enterprises in the formulation of their
projects and supervise their execution. It will give special attention
to the training of its professional staff both locally and abroad.
Professional and other staff shall be recruited solely on the basis of
their qualifications and experience.
19.       Each enterprise receiving financial assistance from the Corporatinn
shall have an accounting system which meets the requirenents of sound
management. The Corporation shall, as necessary, exercise its right to
check the activities and inspect the accounts and books of enterprises
assisted. Each enterprise shall be required to submit annual budgets
and quarterly financial accounts.
20.       The Corporation and its subsidiaries' accounts shall be kept in
accordance with generally accepted international accounting principles.
The Corporation and its subsidiaries shall engage the services of an
independent accounting firm of international repute to audit their annual
accounts.
21.       The Corporation will ensure that enterprises to which it provides
assistance will be capitalized with an adequate level of equity fund.
22.       The Corporation shall over time, seek to revolve its funds
by selling off its equity portfolios where prices which give it a reasonable
return on its investments are obtainable. Such sales shall be made to as
wide a range of Basotho shareholders as is feasible.
EAPID March, 1977



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 1
LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
(as of March 31, 1977)
Chairman        : Rt. Hon. Leabua Jonathan           Prime Minister, Lesotho
Directors       : Hon. K.T.J. Rakhetla               Minister of Commerce and
Industry, Lesotho
Hon. C. Sekhoyana                Minister of Finance, Lesotho
Mr. Van DDrsen                   Regional Controller for
Southern Africa, Commonwealth
Development Corporation
Mr. J- M. Nthongua               Private Businessman, Lesotho
Mr. R. Gurr                      Managing Director, LNDC
Mr. R. A. Riby                   Swiss Businessman
EAPID   March, 1977



L N D C
ORGANIZATION CHART
Board of Directors
Managing Director
|Deputy Managing Director
Director of                        Director of                                  Corporate                                 Director   of
Project Financing                      Operations                                  Controller                                  Administrative
& Development                                                                                                                 Services
Manager                    Manager        Group        Manager         Manager       Manager
Manager         of                          of        Directors        of              of            of          Group        Personnel   Office      Legal
of         Project                    Technical    & Coordi-    Financial         Budgeting                 Accountants    Manager    Manager   Advisor
Planning    Development                  Services       nators       Operations    & Controls       Systems                    (Vacant)   (vacant)
(Vacant)
Public        Project                   Engineer
Relations       officers                 (vacant)
Officer    F(3 vacancie      
EAPID                                                                                                                                                       H
March, 1977



LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
SUMMARY OF EQUITY AND LOAN PORTFOLIO AS OF MARCH 31, 1976
(in Rands)
Subsidiaries             Area of Activity            LNDC's Equity               LNDC's Loans                                     Remarks
Outstanding   Holding %   Outstanding   Interest
BEDCO                          Small Enterprise                 2       100                688        n.a.        New company, catering to SSE sector.
Development
Lesotbo Construction Ltd.    Construction                  65,300       100              1,036        n.a.        Profitable company.
Materials
Lesotho Hotels Ltd.            Hotels                     100,000       100                -           _         Holding company for new hotels most of which are
beginning operations.
Lesotho Housing Corporation  Housing                       15,000       100                639        n.a.        Profitable company.
Lesotho Pharmaceuticals        Pharmaceuticals                255        51             50,702        12         May need affiliation with major pharmaceutical concern.
Lesotho Tourist Corporation  Tourism Development              100       100            105,471        12         Hired a new manager to strengthen marketing.
Libeso Ltd.                    Coal Distribution                2       100             32,127        n.a.       Profitable firm recently sold to BEDCO.
LNDC Trading Agency            Handicraft Retailing         4,000       100             61,384        12         Unprofitable branch closed; problems being resolved.
Maseru Tyre Company            Tyre Recaping               46,500       100             11,550        n.a.       Company doing well; new manager appointed.
National Motor Company         Motor Vehicles              19,851        51             21,470        12         New manager and accountants hired; new accounting
system.
Oxbow Enterprises              Handicrafts                    500       100             15,012        n.a.       Project still being developed
Pioneer Motors Ltd.           Motor Vehicles                3,486        51                 84        n.a.       Outstanding overdraft reduced; and new capital
injected.
Royal Crown Ltd.               Handicrafts                 20,000       100             23,654        12         New marketing strategy adopted.
Sherra Ltd.                    Handicrafts                    100       100             29,730        12         Financial structure  eing reorganized.
Swiss Lesotho Watch Centre   Watch Repair                   2,600       100             21,527        12         Possible sale to BEDCO.
Thaba Bosiu Ceramics          Handicrafts                  20,000      10              15,613        12         Sale of 50% share to EDESA pending.
Sub-total                                          297,696                       390,687
Amalgamated Hotels Ltd.        Hotels                          20        20            100,000 -      n.a.        Company doing well.
Domolux Ltd.                  Manufacture of lamps         83,300        49            126,510        10.5        New management appointed.
Frasers Manufacturing Ltd.   Building Materials             1,000         1               -             -         Information not available.
Lesotho Food Industries        Agro-industries             66,167        40             35,823        n.a.        Just became profitable.
Lesotho Mohair Industries
Ltd.                        Mohair products              50,000        25               -             -         Company being established.                                   0
Lesotho Sheepskin
Products Ltd.               Handicrafts                  22,800        43             92,655        12          Financial record-keeping being improved.                      4 
Kolonyama  Candle Co. Ltd.   Candle Making                 16,050        50            118,741        12          Profitable company.                                         it
Metro Lesotho Ltd.             Distribution                25,000        50            179,141         10         Company recently began operations.                          I
Optichem Ltd.                  Agro-industries             10,000        25                  28       n.a.        Company doing well.
Royal Lesotho Tapestry Ltd.  Handicrafts                    8,500        50              1,476        n.a.        Company profitable.
Seacrest Clothing Ltd.        Garments                     17,500        28             54,227        12          New production man hired;company potential looks good.
Taiwan Construction Co.        Construction                10,000        33-1/3         10,766        n.a.        Company profitable in 1975,but temporarily unpro-
fitable in 1976.
Sub-Total                                         310,337                       719,367
Total                                             608,033                     1,110,054
EAPID   March, 1977



AlNNEX
Page 1 of 1
L N D C
ACTUAL INCOME STAT34ENT (YEAR ENDED MARCH 31)
(R'000)
Audited
Income                                                    1973    iti9r    1   ;       7
Income from Commercial Agreements                       400      410      133          -
and Mining
Interest on Loans                                         6       17       49          27
Interest on Investments                                 101       36       60          42
Rental Income                                            70       85      137         187
Dividend Income                                          14      213      267        130
Income from Management & Accountancy                     16       20       22         11
Other Income                                             -          4       1           8
Gross Income                                  607      785      669        405
Fxp  -= e                                                                  =S
interest Charges                                         54       18       11          31
Depreciation                                              5         7      15          20
Administrative  xcpenses                                151      175      256        316
Total Expenses                                210      200      282        367
Profit before Provisions and Tax                            397      585      387         38
Provisions                                               -        -        -         (924)
Loss on Investments                                      -         -        -        (293)
Net Profit (loss)                             397      585      387    (1,179)
FY:  April 1 - March 30
FAPID March, 1977



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 1
LNDC AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATMNTS
(in R'OOO)
Year Ended March 31,                                        1975           1976
Sales                                                      2,534          4,290
Operating Loss                                              (120)          (337)
Interest Payable                                              (8)           (79)
Taxation                                                       (1)          (25)
(129)         (441)
Less losses attributable to outside
shareholders                                               51             41
(78)         (400)
Dividends from Associated Companies                          267            151
Profit (loss) before exceptional Items                       189           (249)
Investments in Subsidiaries written off                       -            (116)
Provisions against Investments in Subsidiaries                             (176)
Provisions against interest in Associated
Companies                                                 -            (390)
Net Group Profit (loss)                                      189           (931)
EAPID
March, 1977



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 1
L N D C
Summarized Balance Sheet (as at March 31)
(R,0001 s)
1973     197-4    1975      1976
Assets
Current Assets
Cash and short term investments            1 ,354       708       350        1
Other                                          72        96        78       73
Total                                   1,,426       804      428        74
Portfolio
Loans                                        202        495       712    1,140
Equity Investments                           384        433       XL       608
Total Portfolio                           586        928    1,216    1,748
Provisions                                --         --        --     (819)
Net Portfolio                            586        928    1,216       929
Fixed Assets (Net)-/                     947      1,314    1,782    2,840
Total Assets                        2,959     3.046    3,426    3,843
Liabilities and EquitZ
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                             599         81        70       64
Overdraft                                     --         26       35       158
Total Current Liabilities                T99        107      105       222
Long-term Liabilities
Long-term Loans                              352        345       340      319
Equity
Accumulated Funds                           2008       ,4    2,981    3,302
Total Liability and Equity             2,959     3,046    3,426    3,843
FY ends March 31
EAPID March, 1977
1/ including factory building and infrastructure



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 1
LNDC AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(in RtOOO)
As of March 31,                                            1975           1976
Assets
Current Assets
Stock                                                 663           660
Debtors                                               420           460
Bank Balances & Cash                                  388           498
Total Current Assets                             1,1471        1,618
Good Will                                              30            -
Pbrtfolio
Interest in Associated Companies                      546           765
Unsecured Loans                                       130             30
Other Long-Term Loans                                 189           174
Total Portfolio                                   865           969
Fixed Assets (Net)                                     2,154         3,697
Total Assets                                           4,520         6,284
Liabilities & Equity
Current Liabilities
Loans and Overdrafts                                  779         1,174
Creditors & Provisions                                489           727
Total Current Liabilities                      1,268          1,901
L.T. Liabilities
Loans                                                 533           655
Deferred Taxation                                      -             23
Losses Attributable to Outside
Shareholders                                       (33)          (33)
500           645
Equity
Accumulated Funds & Grants                          2,752         2,975
Capital Reserves                                      _             763
Total Equity                                    2,752          3,738
Total Liabilities & E)quity                            4,520         6,284
EAPID March, 1977



LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
LIST OF LNDC PROJECT POSSIBILITIES
(7s -o June 30, 1976'
Estimated       Potential ILNDC
Area of        New or                                        ProJect Cost         Fnnci
Activity       Expansion      Location           Ownership       (R'000)          (R'OO0)
Wool and Mohair                 Agro-industry      New             Maseru             Jt.Venture      2,000              850
Lesotho Milling Company         Food Processing   Expansion        Maputsoe           Jt.Venture         94               94
Poultry Processing Plant        Food Processing   New              Maseru             Jt.Venture        120               80
Thaba Bosiu Ceramics            Handicrafts         Expansion      Maseru             Jt.Venture         45               25
Royal Lesotho Tapestry
Weavers                   Handicrafts        Expansion       Maseru            Jt.Venture         150               50
Lesotho Sheepskin               Handicrafts        Expansion       Maseru            Jt.Venture         280              280
Stone Crushing                  Building
Materials          New             Maseru            Jt.Venture        725              362
Steel Company & Joinery         Building
Materials          New             Maseru            Jt.Venture         48               16
Cement Manufacturing Plant      Building
Materials          New             N/A               Jt.Venture      1,250              600
Gonski Knitwear                 Textiles           New             Maputsoe          Jt,Venture      1,100               450
Carpet Manufacture              Handicrafts        New             Maseru            Jt.Venture         170              100
Spenser Textiles                Textiles           New             Masenot           Jt.Venture        650               250
Plasma Freeze Drying            Manufacture        New             Maseru            Jt.Venture          80               30
Seacrest                        Clothing           Expansion       Maputsoe          Basotho            47                47
Lesotho Hotel Groups            Tourism            Expansion       all over the      Basotho            750              750
country
Ceramic Wall Tiles              Building
Materials          New             Maseru            Jt.Venture      1,250              450
Maputsoe Cash & Carry           Distribution       New             Maputsoe          Jt.Venture         600              400
National Motors                 Automobile         Expansion       Maseru            Jt.Venture          75               50
Pioneer Motors                  Automobile         Expansion       Maseru            Jt.Venture          26               26
Industrial Estates              Industrial         Expansion       mainly in         Basotho         1,700            1,700
Infrastructure      and New       Maseru
Total                                                                                        11,160            6,610
EAPID March,1977



ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 2
LESOTHC NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
1.       Approvals and commitments are synonymous.
FY 1977         : Based on Pipeline
FY 1978-81      : Loans increase by 15% until 1979 and by
25% thereafter. Equity increases by 10%
per annum.Buildings increase by 10% per
annum
2.       Disbursement
Loans                       60% in year committed
40% in following year
Equity                      90% in year committed
10% in following year
Buildings                   50% in year committed
50% in following year
Infrastructure              disbursed as follows:  R 300,000 in FY 1977
R 900,000 in FY 1978
R 500,000 in FY 1979
3.       Income
Loans: Average yield; 10% on average portfolio from 1977 - 1979.
12.5% on average portfolio from 1980 - 1981.
Buildings and Infrastructure: Average yield; 15% on portfolio at
beginning of period.
Equity Stream: Old portfolio R 200,00 per year
Nlew portfolio 5% per annum beginning in Lth year after
disbursements.
Short-term Investment Income - 6% on net-current assets
Other income:    R:30,000 per year
4.       Expenses
Administrative:   20% per annum increase based on 1976 expenses
Depreciation  :  10% per annum on administrative assets
Provisions        5% of annual disbursements of loans and equity



ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 2
5.       Resources
New Equity    :   R1.0 million provided by government in
FY 1977.
New Loans     :  a)  IDA:  R1.9 million available from FY
1978: at 8.5% with 0.75% commitment fee.
Repayment-as per subloans.
b)  EDF:  FY 1977; R1.6 million specially
for infrastructure development at 2%.
Repayment over 30 years with 3 years
grace.
e)  EIB: FY 1979; R 2.0 million at 5% for
20 years with 3 years grace.
d) Government of Lesotho; R3.0 million from
FY 1977 at 5% per annum for 20 years with
5 years grace.
6.       LNDC's Loan Collection
a) For loans outstanding at 31st March 1976,
assume collection over 10 years including
1 year's grace.
b) For new loans assume repayment over 12
years including 2 years grace.
7.       Sales of Investments
Beginning in 1980, 5% of equity and
buildings portfolio will be sold off
per year.
8.       Fixed Assets                    Assume administrative assets will increase
by R30,000 per year.
EAPID March, 1977



ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 1
LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
PROJECTED OPERATIONS
(in R'OOO)
Year Ending March 31        1977        1978       1979       1980       1981
Approval & Commitments
Loans                   535         615        708        885      1,106
Equity                  441         485        534        587        646
Factory Buildings       653         716        790        869        956
Infrastructure       :1,70O         -          -          -          -
Total          3,329        1,818     2,032       2,341     2,708
Foreign Exchange
Component                 2,497       1,364      1,524      1,756      2,031
Disbursements
Loans                   754 1/      583        665        814     1,018
Equity                  752 2/      481        530        581        640
Factory Buildings       547  /      686        754        830        913
Infrastructure          300         900        50-                   -
_.353       2,650      2,449      2,225     2,571
_/    Includes R 433,000 approved and outstanding at 31st March 1976
2/    Includes R 355,000 approved and outstanding at 31st March 1976
3/    Includes R 220,000 approved and outstanding at 31st March 1976
EAPID March, 1977



A=NE 12
Page 1 of 1
LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENTS
(in R'000)
Actual                  Projected
Year Ending March 31                        1976    1977   1978    1979    1980    1981
Income
Interest on Loans                          27     152    212       258      386     430
D vidends                                 130      200    200      200      200     238
Rental Income                             187      412    539      777      965   1,151
Interest on short-term
investments                             42      -       -        -        20      26
Other                                      19       30     30       30       30       30
Gross Income                    405      794    981   1,265   1,601   1,875
Ixpenses
Interest Charges                           31       45    124      208      298     377
Depreciation                               20      12      14       16       17      18
Administrative Expenses                   316      360    432      518      622     746
Total Expenses                  367      417    570      742      937   1,141
Profit before Provisions                      38      377    411      523      664      734
Loss on investments                      (293)      -      -        -        -        -
Provisions                               (92L)    (75)   (53)    (60)    (70)    (83)
Net Profit (loss)                         (1,179)    302    358       463      594     651
FAPID March, 1977



ANINEX 13
Page 1 of 1
LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS
(R?000)
As of March 31,                 Actual                       Projected
1976      1977      1976      1979       1980       1981
Assets
Net Current Assets            (148)       (12)      (90)      300        355        579
Portfolio                         1/
Loans                    1,1)40     1,894    2,350       2,813      3,363      4,o46
Equity                     608      1,360    1,8I41      2,371      2,833      3,331
Total               1,748      3,254    4,191       5,184     6,196      7,377
Provisions                 (819)      (894)    (9)7)   (1,007)   (1,077)   (1,160)
Net Portfolio               929     2,360    3,244       h,177      5,119      6,217
Fixed Assets
Buildings and
infrastructure         2,747      3,594    5,180       6,434      7,026      7,673
Other (net)                  93       111       127        141        154        166
Total               2,840      3,705    5,307      6,575      7,180      7,839
Total Assets                 3,621     6,053    8,461    11,052        12,654   14,635
Liabilities Pr Equity
L.T. Liabilities
DA                           -         -        169        766      1,254     1,864
CDC                        168        1l49      130        111         92         73
EDF                          -        300    1,100       1,600      1,547     1,494
EIB                          -          -        -         200        600      1,400
Lesotho Bank               150        150       150        150        142        134
Government                    1       850    1,950       2,800      3,000      3,000
Total                319      1,449    3,499      5,627      6,635      7,965
Equity
Accumulated Funds         2,554     3,856    4,21)       4,677      5,271      5,922
Capital Reserve             748       748       748        748        748        748
Total              3,302      4,604    4,962      5,425      6,019      6,670
Total Liabilities &
Fquity                     3,621     6,053    8,461    11,052    12,654    14,635
1/ Includes R30,000 of unsecured loans
EAPID March, 1977



ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 1
LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
PROJECTED SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS
(in RFOOO)
1977     1978      1979      1980     1981
Sources
Funds from Operations                  389       425       539      681       752
Collection of Loans                     -        127       202      264       335
Drawdown on Borrowings
ISA                                  -        169      597       488       610
EDF                                 300       800      500        -         -
EIB                                  -         -       200       400       800
Government                          850    1,100       850       200        -
Funds from Sale of Equity
& Buildings                           -         -         -       357       408
New Equity/Grants                    1,000        -         -        -         -
2,539    2,621    2,888    2,390    2,905
Uses
Disbursement on
Loans                               754       583      665       814    1,018
Equity Investments                  752       481      530       581      6h0
Buildings                           547       686       754      830       913
Insfrastructure                     300      900       500        -         -
Other Fixed Assets                   30        30       30        30        30
Repayment of Loans                   20        19       19        80        80
2,403    2,699    2,498    2,335    2,681
Net Cash Flow                             136       (78)      390       55       224
EAPID March, 1977



LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED FINANCIAL RATIOS
Actual                              Projected
1973    1971    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1950    1951
1.  Income Statement Items as % of
Average Total Assets
Gross income                            20.6    26.1    20.1   11.2      16.4    13.5    13.0    13.5    13.9
Less:  Financial Expenses                1.8     0.6      0.3    0.9      0.9      1.7     2.1      2.5     2.8
Administrative Expenses           5.3     5.6     8.4    8.6       7.4     6.o      5.3     5.2      5.5
Gross Profit                            13.5    19.9    11. i     1.     I _      5J7      54 7         5. 5
Less: Provision for loans and
investments                       -       -       -       26.6     1.6     0.7      0.6     o.6      o.6
Net Profit (loss)                       13.5    19.9    11.4  (33.9)    6.2       4.9      4.7     5.o    .4.8
2.  Selected Income and Cost Items
Dividend income as % of Average
equity portfolio                       3.6    52.1    56.9   23.4      20.3.   12.5      9.5      7.7     7.7
Income from loans as % of average
loan portfolio                         2.9     4.9     8.1    2.7      10.0    10.0    10.0    12.5    12.5
Cost of debt as % of average total
debt                                   5.7     2.7     2.4    6.3       5.1     5.0      L,6     4.9      5.2
3.  Net Profit
Net profit (loss) as % of year end
equity                                19.8    22.6    13.0  (35.7)      6.6      7.2     8.5      9.8     9.8
Net profit as % of average equity       19.8    25.4    13.9  (37,5)      7.6     7.5      8.9    10.4    10.3
. Debt
Long-term debt/equity                   0.2/1   0.1/1   0.1A  0.1/1    0.3/1   0.7/1    1/1   1.1/1    1.2/1
Interest and Principal coverage           -       -       -              6.7/1   L.7/1   4.2/1  4.2/1    4.1/1  ,
Mm
RAPID March, 1977                                                                                                  Y t



ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 3
LESOTHO
BASOTHO ENTERPRISES DEVELOP'4T CORPORATION (BEDCo)
STATX4E`T OF POLICY AND REGULATIONS
1.  AIMS AND OBJECTIVES OF THE CORPORATION
The Basotho Enterprises Development Corporation is a development
institution created by the Government of Lesotho for the purpose
of furthering the economic development of Lesotho by assisting
in the promotion, establishment and expansion of Basotho owned
and managed enterprises throughout the country. In pursuance
of this objective it shall be the purpose of the Corporation to
achieve and maintain a satisfactory return on capital invested.
BEDCO will only assist enterprises in which the majority equity
holding and management are in the hands of citizens of Lesotho.
2. FORKS OF ASSISTANCE
BEDCO will promote the development of Basotho enterprises through
one or a combination of the several of the following methods:-
a.  Provision of short, medium and long term loan finances;
b. Direct equity investments,
c. Provision of guarantees for loans from other sources;
d. Provision of infrastructural facilities such as
industrial estates, commercial centres and services
for hire;
e.  Provision of extension services through training,
advice and guidance in management, marketing, accounting
and other technical fields;
f.  Establishment and operation of new
manufacturing projects for the purpose of training
Basotho in new technical skills and the operation
of new business with the ultimate objective of
disinvestment in such projects in favour of Basotho
ownership and management.
3.  INVESTMENT GUIDELINES
a.   BEDCO shall charge for its loans, guarantees and services,
interest rates, and/or fees which are compatible with the
prevailing commercial rates and/or which enable it to
earn a reasonable return on its operations.
b.   BEDCO shall take such security for its loans and
guarantees as shall be determined adequate or reasonable
for each investment.



ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 3
c. BEDCO shall norma'Lly not invest in any project with a total capital
cost including buildings and working capital of more than R 50,000
and will normally not invest more than R 30,000 in any single project
(excluding aid-funded projects for which BEDCO is the executing agency
and projects with a high training component mentioned in 2(f)).
d. BEDCO shall norma'Lly finance only economically sound, financially
viable and technically feasible projects.
*             e.  BEDOO shall norma'Lly not finance more than 75% of the project's total
capital costs (including buildings and working capital), or R 30,000
whichever is less. BEDC0 will expect its local partner to raise at
least 25% of the :Droject's total capital costs (as defined).
f. Except for projects established under 2(f) and aid-assisted project,
BEDCO will not normally hold more than 50% of the share capital of any
one enterprise or manage enterprises.
g. BEDCO shall not invest more than 10% of its net worth in the share
capital of any one project excluding aid-funded projects and projects
mentioned in 2(f).
h. Except for aid-funded projects, for which it is the executing agency,
and projects under section 2(f), BEDCO's total financial commitment to
any single project (viz., equity, loan, guarantee, and building)
should normally not exceed 20% of BEDCO's net worth (defined as paid-
in-share capital, grants, and accumulated reserves).
i.  BEDCO's total investments in share capital (excluding aid-funded
projects for whic't BEDCO is the executing agency and projects under
section 2(f)) sha'll not exceed its own net worth, defined as paid
up share capital, grants and accumulated reserves.
j. BEDCO shall supervise its investments to protect its interests and to
enable it to assist its projects to the maximum extent possible.
k. BEDCO shall not normally undertake refinancing.
1. BEDCO will seek to protect itself against the exchange risks of
foreign borrowings.
m. BEDCO's total debts including guarantees shall not at any time
exceed three times the amount of its paid-up share capital plus grants
and accumulated reserves.
n. BEDCO shall give special consideration to enterprises processing or
utilising local raw materials and local labour resources.



ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 3
o. BEDCO shall focus its efforts and assistance on projects which will
create manufacturing, processing or service industries with emaphasis
on the first two.
p.  BEDCO1s management shall be responsible for preparing and submitting
to the Board an annual program of action, which will include a budget.
g. In all instances the Board of Directors shall lay such rules and
regulations as are necessary to govern the day to day operations of
the Corporation.
4. FINANCING OF SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISES - THE CREDIT SCHEME
Assistance shall be provided by the Corporation in accordance to the
following conditions:
a.  The Board of Directors shall establish a Credit Scheme whose main
purpose will be to provide financial and technical assistance to
small-scale Basotho entrepreneurs.
b. The Credit Scheme shall be administered by the Board of Directors
through the medium of a Credit Committee to be appointed by the Board.
c. The Credit Committee shall be empowered by the Board to approve all
loan applications. However, the Board may authorize the Managing
Director to approve loans up to R 5,000, without reference to the
Committee.
d. It shall be at the direction of the Board to determine the scope of
operations of the Credit Scheme, in consideration of the funds available
to the Corporation at any time, and appropriate staffing to administer
the programme effectively.
e. The specific operating procedures and guidelines governing the Credit
Scheme are contained in BEDCO's Operations Manual.



ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 1
BEDCO
Board of Directors
As of August 20, 1976
Chairman:          Mr. Manare (B)             - M.D. Lesotho National Bus Service
Directors:         Mrs. Mokete (B)            -  Labor Relations Officer, LNDC
Mr. Ramakatane (B)         -  Businessman
Mr. Ramarou (B)            - Businessman
Mr. Molelle (B)            - Accountant, Lesotho Bank
Mr. Sebatane (B)           - Deputy M.D., BEDCO
Mr. Pruden (Canadian)      - M.D. BEDCO
(B) = Basotho
EAPID March, 1977



BEDCO
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION
.  I
Managing Director
Deputy Managing Director
Director of Administration                                     Director of Operations
Office                  Legal.      Finance &   |3absidiary    Project         Industrial   Training    SSE
Manage-   Personnel    Services    Accounting    Companies    Development    Estates         & Tech.    Credit
ment                                                                                         Ass7t      Scheme
Scheme
EAPID March, 1977
O I(D
J 



BASOTHO ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO AS AT AUGUST 20 1976
(in Rands)
Date of      BEDCO Equity    Loans Disbursed    Maturit
Name              Activity         Esta-      % Share             under BEDCO SSE   & Rate of       Observations
blishment   Capial   Amount   Credit Scheme          Interest
M. Molapo                Chain               1976          -         -            100         6 months;    Repayments being
Manufacture                                                           10%,      made.
M. Mapitse               Brickmaking         1976          -         -            100         6 mos.; 10%,
N. Sehloho               Watch Repairs       1976          -         -            466         20 mos.;10%           "
J. Moshoeshoe            Leatherworks        1976          -         -          1,813         33 mos.;10%           n
B. Ntisa                 Leatherworks        1976          -         -          5,000         36 mos.;10           it
Mohokare Heavy           Brickmaking         1975         51%     26,814           -                        Start-up problems,
expected to break-
even in FY-77.
Senqu Construction       Construction       1975         51%      13,000           -               _        Expected to break-
Co. (Pty) Ltd.                                                                                             even in FY-77.
Lesotho Quality Stone   Stone Crushing       1976         51%     15,300                                    Expected to be
,Supplies (Pty), Ltd.                                                                                      profitable in FY-77.
EAPID March, 1977
0t'I
H P
H
o 'w



ANN-EX 20
Page 1 of 3
BEDCO
PROJECTED INVESTMENTS AND ASSUMPTIONS
FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
A. Projected Investments (R'OOO)
FY77      FY78       FY79      FY80      FY81    TOTAL
1.  SSE Credit Scheme        50        250       320        320       320     1260
2.  Sebaboleng Industrial
Estate
a)  Phase I              290       -         -          -         -       290
b)  Phase II             -         537       -          -         -       537
c)  Phase III            -         -                             500      500
3. Mini-Industrial
Estates
a)  Maputsoe             -         250       -                   -        250
b)  Thaba Tseka          -         -         410        -        -        410
c) Mohales Hoek          -         -         -          250      -        250
4.  Equipment Pool &
Mobile Service Units    -          100       100        -        -        200
5. Machine Shop              -         250       -                   -        250
6.  Foundry                  -         -         200        -        -        200
7. Brick Plants              -         300       300        300      -        900
8.  Training Scheme          -         100       100        100      100     300
9.  Libeso (Pty) Ltd.        40         _        -                   - -     4
380o    1787      -J43Q       =2Y9Q     22Q  5,85=
Details of Investment Projects
Details of the proposed investment over FY-77 - FY81 are as
Follows:
(a) SSE Credit Scheme (R1.26 million): It is intended that
BED5YO will provide credit in conjunction with technical assistance (financed
under the Training Scheme) to Basotho entrepreneurs. Credit will be provided
for up to five years at an interest rate of 12% p.a. with flexible security
requirement. The target is to approve R320,000 p.a. by FY-79 with an average
credit of about R4,000 to each qualified applicant. It is expected that
investment cost per job created will average R2,000 - R2,500. BEDCO
expects to limit its maximum investment to R30,000 in any one project.



ANNEX 20
Page 2 of 3
(b) Sebaboleng Industrial Estate/Trade Center (R 1.33 million):
The Government has provided 24 acres in Maseru to BEDC0 to construct industrial
buildings for lease.  Theb complex is planned to be constructed in three stages;
Phases I and II will provide 5,130 square meters of industrial and commercial
space by 1980.
(c) Mini-industrial Estates (R 0.91 million): Construction of
industrial estates at Maputsoe, Thaba Tseka and Mohales Hoek will spread
industrial development outside the Maseru area. The decision on the scale,
timing and location of ccnstruction of the various estates will depend largely
on the rate of development of BEDCO's loan processing and business extension
staff. While tentative costs and implementation dates for development of
these estates are included in the operational forecasts, IDA should maintain a
continuing dialogue with BEDCO to ensure that staffing capabilities are
adequate before the geographic spread of BEDCO's activities is too widely
extended.
(d)  Equipment Pools and Mobile Service Units (RO.20 million)
BEDCO expects to acquire additional vehicles equipped with welders, hand
tools, drills, metal for repairs, etc., to service borrowers from the SSE
Credit Scheme, Industrial Estates, and others on a commercial fee basis.
These units are expected to become self-supporting at which point they will
be formed into a subsidiary company of BEDCO with shares sold to private
Basotho.
(e)  MN-Ljzre 3hr.p i( C   _  Mil1%nn):  This is to establish a machine
shop for producing parts and repairing equipment to support Sebaboleng and
other enterprises. At present, the closest machine shop is 100 miles from
Maseru in South Africa.
(f)  Foundry (RO.20 million):  Iuch as the need for a machine
shop, Lesotho lacks any sort of general smelting and casting facility and is
subject to long and costly delays in part deliveries. This project is to
fill such a gap by develcping a pilot foundry operation.
(g) Brick Plants (R 0.91 million): This is a project to develop
a number of appropriate technology clay product plants within Lesotho to
produce building materials like bricks, caly pipes and roofing tiles. An
expert from the Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation is expected to
work out the details of the project. KfW (W. Germany) has indicated interest
in financing the project.
(h)  Training Scheme (R 0.40 million);  This is a scheme to train
LND5/BEDCO's own in-house staff as well as Basotho entrepreneurs.  BEDC0
hopes to receive half the funding from CIDA and the other from the Government.



ANNEX 20
Page 3 of 3
(i) Libeso (Pty) Ltd. (R 0.04 million): BEDCO has agreed to
purchase this Company from LNDC for operation as a subsidiary. The Company
is the sole importer of coal and other solid fuels in Lesotho, and was
established by LNDC in early 1975. As in the case of its other subsidiaries,
BEDC0 intends to sell up to 49% of the equity to private Basotho
Assumptions for Financial Projections
1.       Under SSE scheme only loan finance provided; average repayment
period is 3 years plus 1 year grace. Average return on new loans made in
FY-77 is 6%; loans made in subsequent years earn 13%.
2.       Cost of IDA borrowings is 7%.  Funds repayable over 6 years follow-
ing four years grace from date of first disbursement.
3.       Return on equity investments:  10% on average portfolio.
4.       Income from Equipment Pool and Machine shop offsets direct staff
costs plus depreciation for those operations.
W.       Income from rentals of industrial estates set to recover annual
staff and maintenance costs and to earn annual returns on invested capital
of 13% during first two years of operation of each building and 15% thereafter.
6.       Operations of BEDCO assumed to be tax exempt.
7.       Provision for losses is 10% of annual increase in loan and equity
portfolio.
8.       Loan of R 23,000 outstanding in FY-76 assumed converted to equity
in subsidiaries during FY-77.
9.       Grants to BEDCO treated as equity.
10.       Sale of shares in subsidiaries is R 10,000 in FY-78 and R 15,000
in each subsequent year.
11.       Government of Lesotho assumed to subsidize BEDCO to extent necessary
to maintain Net Current Assets at least at R 50,000 in each year subsequent
to FY-77.
12.       Administrative,expenses based upon expected staffing patterns and
overhead operations.



ANNEX 21
Page 1 of 1
BEDCO
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(RIO00)
Actual                   Projected
Year Ending March 31                        1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
Income
Interest on SSE Loans                     -         2       19       50       73      82
Dividend Income                           -        -         7        9       7        6
Income from Equipment Pool
and Machine Shop                       -        29     114      138      143      147
Rentals Industrial Estates                -        16       59     189      261      320
Miscellaneous                              4        4        3        3        3        3
Total Income                   4       51     202      389       487     558
Erpenses
Loans Administration Fees to
Lesotho Bank                          -       -         2        3        3        3
Interest on IDA Funds                     -        -         5       15       20      18
Administrative Expenses 1/                43      214      510     619      664      714
(of which Deprecdation)              (6)    (12)   (112)   (182)   (182)   (182)
Total Expenses                t3     214      517      637      687      735
Profit before Provisions, and Tax           (39)   (163)   (315)   (248)   (200)   (177)
Provisions                                   -        (9)    (25)      (32)    (32)    (32)
Income Tax                                   -        -        _        _        _        _
Net Profit (loss)                           (46)   (172)   (340)   (280)   (232)   (209)
1/  Includes cost of training .3cheme during FY-78 - FY-81
EAPID March, 1977



ANNEX 22
Page 1 of 1
BEDCO
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS
(Rt 000)
Actual                   Projected
As of March 31                      1976    1977    197                  195-7971
Assets
Net Current Assets                  242       92       50        50         50        50
Portfolio
Loans                           23      50       283       503       617        639
Equity Investments              40     103        93       78         63         48
63     153       376      581        680        687
Less Provisions                  7      16        41        73       105        137
Net Portfolio                   56     137       335      508        575        550
Fixed Assets (Net)                   77      355    1,680    2,508      2?876      3,194
Total Assets                        375     584    2,065    3,066       3,501      3,794
Liabilities & Equity
L.T. Debt                            -        -       125       260       260        260
Grants/Equity
Government, of Lesotho        107      107       191      392        484       986
Government of nanade           31h     695    1,757    2,702       3,277     3,277
Other                           -       -        550      550        550       550
Total Grants              421      802    2,498    3,644      4,311      4,813
Less Accumulated Loss          (46)   (218)    (558)    (838)   (1,070)   (1,279)
Net Grants/Equity             375      584    1,940    2,806       3,241     3,534
Total Liabilities & Equity          375     584    2,065    3,066       3,501     3,794
EAPID March, 1977



ANNEX 23
Page 1 of 1
BEDCO
ACTUAL A?h PROJECTED CASH FLOW STATEMEDN
(R0ooo)
Year Ending March 31              1976    1K7        1978      197         80     1981
Sources
Cash from operations                                 -        -         -         5
Collections of Loans              -        -         17       100       206    298
Draw down on lOA Credit           -        -       125        135       -
Draw down on Grant;s
Government of Lesotho         107      -        84        201        92    502
Government of Canada          314     381   1,062         945       575       -
Other downs                   -        -       550        -         -         -
Sale of Shares                    -        -         10        1X                15
Total Sources                  2 2 8          ,388    1, 396        888    820
Uses
Operating Deficit                 28       151       203       66        18       -
Fixed Assets                      86       290    1,437   13 010        550    500
Disbursements
Loans                         23        50      250       320       320    320
Equity                                                                        -
Total Uses                       3L7  L89_   1, 396                     888    820
Net-Cash Flow                     242    (150)       (42)     -         -         -
EAPID March, 1977



ANNEx 24
LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Cuwmulative Disbursements at
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter                                 End of Quarter
(US$1,000)
1978                                                  LNDC     BEDCO        TOTAL
March 31, 1978                                       200      144         344
June 30, 1978                                        460      183         643
1979
September 30, 1978                                   610      222         832
December 31, 1978                                    760      261       1,021
March 31, 1979                                       904       300      1,204
June 30, 1979                                      1,048      300       1,348
1980
September 30, 1979                                1,192       300       1,492
December 31, 1979                                 1,336       300       1,636
March 31, 1980                                     1,480       300      1,780
June 30, 1980                                      1,624      300       1,924
1981
September 30, 1980                                1,768       300       1,968
December 31, 1980                                 1,912       300       2,212
March 31, 1981                                     2,056       300      2,356
June 30, 1981                                      2,200      300       2,500
EAPID March, 1977



