CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 702 LSO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(DFC Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
and
BASOTHO ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
(PROPRIETARY) LIMITED
Dated May 20, 1977


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 20, 1977 between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association), LESOTHO
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (hereinafter called LNDC) and
BASOTHO ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (PROPRIETARY) LIMITED
(hereinafter called BEDCO) (both Corporations hereinafter some-
times called collectively the Corporations).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Kingdom of Lesotho (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to two million five hundred thousand dollars
($2,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that LNDC and
BEDCO agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower, LNDC and BEDCO, the proceeds of the
credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will
be made available to LNDC and BEDCO on the terms and conditions
therein set forth; and


﻿-2-
WHEREAS LNDC and BEDCO, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
have agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Management and Operations of LNDC and BEDCO
Section 2.01. (a) Each of the Corporations shall carry out
its part of the Project described in Section 3.01 of the
Development Credit: Agreement, and conduct its operations and
affairs with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate economic, financial and investment standards and
practices, with qualified and experienced management and personnel,
and in accordance with the applicable Charter and Statement of
Policy.
(b) LNDC shall employ, not later than November 30, 1977 or
by such other date as the Association shall agree, a Director of
Operations with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Association.
(c) BEDCO shall employ, not later than November 30, 1977 or
by such other date as the Association shall agree, a Senior
Projects Officer with qualifications and experience satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 2.02. Each of the Corporations shall: (i) enter into
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the Borrower; (ii) exercise its
rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower, the Association, LNDC and
BEDCO; and (iii) except as the Association shall otherwise agree,


﻿- 5 -
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning, suspending or waiving the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.03. (a) In accordance with and subject to the
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, LNDC shall present, on its behalf and on behalf of
BEDCO, Investment Projects to the Association for approval or
for authorization of withdrawals from the Credit Account.
(b) When presenting a sub-loan (other than a free-limit
sub-loan) or an investment to the Association for approval, LNDC
shall furnish to the Association an application, in form
satisfactory to the Association, together with (i) a description
of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment
Project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; (ii) the proposed
terms and conditions of the sub-loan or investment, including the
schedule of amortization of the sub-loan or of repayment to the
Borrower of the amount to be used for the investment; and (iii)
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿- 6 -
(c) Each request by LNDC for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit
sub-loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and (ii) the terms and conditions of such free-limit
sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor; provided,
however, that requests for authorization to make withdrawals in
respect of free-limit sub-loans made by BEDCO shall be presented
to the Bank quarterly.
(d) The amortization schedule or schedule of repayment
applicable to each Investment Project shall provide for an
appropriate period of grace and, unless the Association and the
applicable Corporation shall otherwise agree, shall not extend to
more than:
(i) twenty years, in the case of tourism Investment
Projects other than Investment Projects financed or
to be financed by BEDCO;
(ii) fifteen years, in the case of Investment Projects
other than tourism Investment Projects financed or
to be financed by LNDC; and


﻿- 7 -
(iii) the maximum number of years applicable in accordance
with BEDCO's Statement of Policy, in the case of
sub-loans made or to be made by BEDCO,
all such periods to be counted from the date of approval by the
Association of such Investment Project or, in the case of a
free-limit sub-loan, of authorization by the Association to make
withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect of such Investment
Project.
(e) Except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the
provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section shall be
presented to the Association on or before December 31, 1979.
Section 2.05. (a) Each of the Corporations shall exercise its
rights in relation to each Investment Project financed by such
Corporation in whole or in part out of the proceeds of the
Credit, in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower,
the Association and such Corporation.
(b) Each of the Corporations undertakes that, unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan (or, in the case
of LNDC, any investment) will be made on terms whereby such
Corporation shall obtain, by written agreement with the Investment
Enterprise or other appropriate legal means satisfactory to the


﻿- 8 -
Association, rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Borrower, the Association and such Corporation enabling the
Borrower to carry out its obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement and including, without limitation, in the case of any
such sub-loan and, to the extent that it shall be appropriate,
in the case of any such investment, the right to:
(i) require such Investment Enterprise to carry out
and operate the Investment Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, financial and management standards
and to maintain adequate records and documents;
(ii)   apply to sub-loans the financial terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in paragraph (c) of this
Section;
(iii) require such Investment Enterprise to use the
proceeds of the Credit exclusively to finance the
goods and services required to carry out the
Investment Project in respect of which such
proceeds were withdrawn and ensure that such goods
and services shall be used (A) exclusively in the
carrying out of such Investment Project and
(B) purchased at a reasonable price, account


﻿being taken also of other relevant factors, such as
time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of
the goods and availability of maintenance and
repair facilities and spare parts therefor and,
in the case of services, their quality, and the
competence of the parties rendering them;
(iv) inspect, and ensure the Association's right to
inspect, the goods and the sites, works, plants and
construction included in such Investment Project,
the operation thereof and any relevant records and
documents;
(v) require that such Investment Enterprise shall
take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with sound business
practice and that, without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance shall cover marine
transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery of the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit to the place of
use or installation, and that any indemnity thereunder


﻿- 10 -
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
such Investment Enterprise to replace or repair
such goods;
(vi) obtain all such information as the Association
or such Corporation shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition
of such Investment Enterprise;
(vii) establish and amend the amortization schedule
applicable to the respective sub-loan in accordance
with the corresponding provisions of the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
(viii) suspend or terminate access by such Investment
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan
upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to
perform its obligations under its agreements with
such Corporation; and
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, each of the
Corporations undertakes that every sub-loan made by such Corporation
will be made on terms and conditions which shall provide, inter
alia, that:


﻿- 11 -
(i) interest to be paid by the Investment Enterprise
will be not less than twelve per cent (12%) per
annum on the balances of the sub-loan outstanding
from time to time;
(ii) in the case of sub-loans made by LNDC, the Investment
Enterprise will be charged with any fee charged to
LNDC by the Borrower in accordance with Section
3.02 (iv) of the Development Credit Agreement;
and
(iii) the repayment terms shall be in accordance with
Section 2.03 (d) of this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Each of the Corporations shall submit to the
Association for the Association's prior approval: (i) any proposed
amendment of its Charter or Statement of Policy; and (ii) any
substantial change proposed to be made in the repayment provisions
of any sub-loan made by such Corporation.
Section 2.07. Each of the Corporations shall duly perform all
of its obligations under agreements under which funds have been
lent or otherwise made available to such Corporation by the
Borrower or its agencies or others for relending, investment or
management (including the Subsidiary Loan Agreement). Each
Corporation shall promptly inform the Association of any action
which would have the effect of assigning, changing or failing to
enforce any such agreement or any material provision thereof.


﻿- 12 -
Section 2.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree each of the Corporations undertakes: (i) not to sell, lease,
transfer, encumber or otherwise dispose of any of its property or
assets, except in the ordinary course of business; and (ii) to
take all action necessary to maintain its corporate existence and
right to carry on operations and to acquire, maintain and renew
all rights, powers, privileges and franchises necessary or useful
in the conduct of such Corporation's business.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each of the Corporations shall furnish to
the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment
Projects, the sub-loans and investments, and the administration,
operations and financial condition of such Corporation(including
any proposal to create, acquire or take over a Subsidiary).
(b) Each of the Corporations shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project and of each Investment
Project financed by such Corporation (including the cost thereof)
and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition
of such Corporation and shall enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
(c)   Each of the Corporations shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied; (ii) furnish
to the Association, as soon as available but, in any case, not


﻿- 14 -
later than three months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its audited financial statements for such year
and (B) the report of such audit by such auditors of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
such Corporation and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.02. (a) The Association, LNDC and BEDCO shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be
accomplished. To that end, the Association, LNDC and BEDCO shall
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance by, respectively, LNDC and BEDCO of its
obligations under this Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition
of LNDC and BEDCO and any other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b) Each of the Corporations shall promptly inform the Bank
of any condition (including the incurrence of losses by reason of
such Corporation's borrowing operations outside the territories
of the Borrower) which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the


﻿- 15 -
maintenance of such Corporation's services of any loan received by
such Corporation under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the
performance by such Corporation of its obligations under this
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
each of the Corporations shall: (i) conduct its operations and
affairs in such manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all
times, its debt/equity ratio within the limit referred to in
Section 3.06 of this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for
reasons beyond such Corporation's control, be exceeded, promptly
take all such reasonable action as shall be necessary or advisable
to bring such ratio within such limit.
Section 3.04. Each of the Corporations undertakes not to make
any repayment in advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding
debt of such Corporation which, in the judgment of the Association,
would materially affect such Corporation's ability to meet its
financial obligations.
Section 3.05. Each of the Corporations shall take such steps
satisfactory to the Association as shall be necessary to protect
such Corporation against risk of loss resulting from changes in
the rates of exchange between the currencies (including Rands)
used in its lending and borrowing operations.


﻿- 16 -
Section 3.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, each of the Corporations shall not incur or permit any
subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurring of such debt,
the consolidated debt of such Corporation and all its subsidiaries
then incurred and outstanding would be greater than three times
the consolidated capital and surplus of such Corporation and all
its subsidiaries. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by such Corporation or
any subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) on
the date and to the extent the amount of the loan is drawn down
and outstanding pursuant to such loan contract or agreement, and
(ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the
extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of Rands debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable by such Corporation for the purposes
of servicing such debt;


﻿- 17 -
(d) "consolidated debt of such Corporation and all its
subsidiaries" means the total amount of debt of such Corporation
and subsidiaries, excluding any debt owed by such Corporation
to any subsidiary or by any subsidiary to such Corporation or to
any other subsidiary of such Corporation; and
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and
subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up
capital, plus all non-capitalized grants made to such Corporation
and subsidiaries, surplus and free reserves of such Corporation
and subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall
represent equity interests of such Corporation in any subsidiary
or of any subsidiary in such Corporation or any other subsidiary
of such Corporation.
Section 3.07. LNDC shall, not later than May 31, 1978
or by such other date as the Association shall agree, take all
such action as shall be necessary to determine LNDC's share
capital as required by Section 10 of LNDC's Charter.


﻿- 18 -
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association, of LNDC and of BEDCO thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
LNDC and BEDCO of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by the Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address here-
inafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For LNDC:
Lesotho National Development Corporation
P.O. Box MS 666
Maseru
Lesotho


﻿- 20 -
Cable address:
DEVCOR
Maseru
For BEDCO:
Basotho Enterprises Development
Corporation (Pty) Ltd.
P.O. Box 1216
Maseru
Lesotho
Cable address:
DEVCOR
Maseru
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of LNDC and BEDCO may be taken or executed
by the Managing Director of LNDC or BEDCO or such other person or
persons as such Managing Director of LNDC or BEDCO, as the case
may be, shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. Each of the Corporations shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of such Corporation take any action or execute any
documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by
such Corporation pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.


﻿- 21 -
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 22 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Hans A. Adler
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
LESOTHO NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
By /s/ T. Makeka
Authorized Representative
BASOTHO ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
(PROPRIETARY) LIMITED
By /s/ T. Makeka
Authorized Representative


