CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 702 LSO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(DFC Project)
between
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 20, 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 20, 1977 between KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
(hereinafter called the Borrower), and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the cost of the Project described in
Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement by extending the Credit as
hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Lesotho National
Development Corporation (hereinafter called LNDC) and by Basotho
Enterprises Development Corporation (Proprietary) Limited
(hereinafter called BEDCO) with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to LNDC
and BEDCO the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and LNDC and BEDCO;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-4-
(g) "Investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan,
made or proposed to be made by LNDC out of the proceeds of the
Credit in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project;
(h) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise which,
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not have a
solely commercial purpose, and to which a Corporation proposes
to make or has made a sub-loan or in which LNDC proposes to make
or has made an investment;
(i) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a sub-loan or investment;
(j) "Rand" and "R" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(k) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency
of the Borrower is that of another country from the territory
of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in Rands
for such goods or services shall be deemed to be foreign currency
cost.
(1) "Charter" means:
(1) in respect of LNDC, LNDC's Act, as defined in
paragraph (a) of this Section,
(2) in respect of BEDCO, the Memorandum of Association
of BEDCO, dated May 4, 1975, as amended to the date
of this Agreement;


﻿- 5 -
(m) "Statement of Policy" means, as the case may be, the
statements of lending and investment policy approved by the
Directors of:
(1) LNDC, on February 5, 1975, as amended on February
3, 1977;
(2) BEDCO, on September 1, 1975, as amended on March
11, 1977;
(n) "Subsidiary" means, with respect to either Corporation,
any company of which a majority of the outstanding voting stock
or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively controlled
by such Corporation or by any one or more subsidiaries of such
Corporation or by such Corporation and one or more of its
subsidiaries; and
(o) "Initial Sub-loan" means any of the chronologically
first ten sub-loans made or proposed to be made by BEDCO,
irrespective of the amount of any such sub-loan.


﻿-6 -
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to two million five hundred thousand dollars
($2,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw
from the Credit Account:
(i) amounts expended (or, if the Association shall so
agree, such amounts as shall be required to meet
expenditures to be made) for the reasonable cost
in foreign currency of imported goods (except
goods described in paragraph (c) of this Section)
and services required for carrying out the
Irvestment Project in respect of which the
withdrawal is requested;
(ii) the equivalent of eighty per cent (80%) of the
invoiced price paid for goods purchased as set
forth in paragraph (c) (i) of this Section; and
(iii) the equivalent of seventy per cent (70%) of the
cost in Rands of civil works included in Investment
Projects;


﻿- 7 -
provided, however, that no amount shall be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in respect of an Investment Project unless (A) the
sub-loan or investment for such Investment Project shall have been
approved by the Association or (B) the sub-loan shall be a
free-limit sub-loan for which the Association shall have
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account.
(b) A free-limit sub-loan shall be (i) a sub-loan made or
proposed to be made by LNDC for an Investment Project in an amount
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit which shall not
exceed the sum of (A) $100,000 equivalent, when added to any other
outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit for such Investment Project or (B) $700,000
equivalent, when added to all other free-limit sub-loans financed
or proposed to be financed by LNDC out of the proceeds of the
Credit; or (ii) a sub-loan made by BEDCO for an Investment Project,
other than an Initial Sub-loan.
The amounts referred to in this paragraph (b) shall be
subject to change from time to time as determined by the
Association.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
withdrawals from the Credit Account may be made on account of
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower only for (i) goods
previously imported into its territory through normal trade


﻿-8-
channels from countries which are members of the Bank (or from
Switzerland); and (ii) civil works as described in subparagraph
(iii) of paragraph (a) of this Section.
(d) Except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of
expenditures (A) before the date of this Agreement or, (B) in
respect of a sub-loan subject to the Association's approval or
in respect of an investment, if such expenditures shall have been
made more than ninety days prior to the date on which the
Association shall have received in respect of such sub-loan or
investment the application and information required by Section
2.03 (a) of the Project Agreement or, (C) under a free-limit
sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on which the
Association shall have received in respect of such free-limit
sub-loan the request and information required by Section 2.03
(b) of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower, LNDC and BEDCO of
such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-9-
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on .ay 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15, commencing May 15, 1987 and ending November 15,
2026, each installment to and including the installment payable on
November 15, 1996 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.08. The Borrower hereby designates LNDC as its
representative for the purpose of taking any action required
or permitted to be taken under the provision of Section 2.02
of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE III
The Project
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist
the Borrower in financing such productive facilities and resources
in the Kingdom of Lesotho as will contribute to the economic
and social development of the country. The Project consists
in the financing by the Corporations of specific development
projects through sub-loans to, and investments in, Investment
Enterprises in the territory of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall cause each of the Corporations to
carry out its part of the Project and conduct its operations and
affairs in accordance with sound financial standards and practices,
with qualified management and personnel, and in accordance with
its Charter and Statement of Policy, and shall take and cause to
be taken all action necessary on their part to enable each of the
Corporations to perform all of its obligations under the Project
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which might interfere with such
performance.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall enter with LNDC and
BEDCO into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, under which the Borrower, inter
alia, shall:


﻿- 11 -
(i) relend to LNDC the equivalent in Rands of the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from time to time
from the Credit Account up to an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of two million two
hundred thousand dollars for purposes of financing
Investment Projects;
(ii)   cause LNDC to repay the Borrower in Rands the
amounts relent to LNDC pursuant to (i) above in
accordance with an amortization schedule which
shall (A) conform in relevant part substantially to
the aggregate of the amortization schedules
applicable to sub-loans made by LNDC and the
schedules of repayment to LNDC in respect of
investments made by LNDC and (B) take into account
any cancellation, in respect of any such sub-loan
or investment, made prior to the agreed maturity
for such sub-loan or scheduled repayment for such
investment;
(iii) cause LNDC to pay interest to the Borrower on
the outstanding balances of the principal amount
relent to LNDC as required by sub-paragraph (i)
above. Such interest shall be paid at an annual
rate of eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%);


﻿- 12 -
(iv) cause LNDC to pay to the Borrower a fee at an
annual rate of one per cent (1%) on the outstanding
amount of every sub-loan made by LNDC, in
consideration of the assumption by the Borrower of
the foreign exchange risk under the Development
Credit Agreement;
(v) relend to BEDCO the equivalent in Rands of the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from time to tLe
from the Credit Account up to an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of three hundred
thousand dollars, for purposes of financing
Investment Projects;
(vi) cause BEDCO to repay LNDC, acting on behalf of the
Borrower, in Rands the amounts relent to BEDCO
pursuant to (v) above within a period of ten
years from the date ninety days after the date of
the first disbursement made by BEDCO under a
sub-loan, such period to include four years of
grace;
(vii) cause BEDCO to pay interest to the Borrower on
the outstanding balances of the principal
amount relent to BEDCO, such interest to be
paid at an annual rate of 7%;


﻿- 13 -
(viii) cause LNDC to act as agent of BEDCO for purposes
of (A) receiving from BEDCO all data and
information required to enable LNDC, on behalf of
BEDCO, to deliver to the Association
applications and requests, together with the
information relevant thereto, referred to,
respectively, in paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section
2.03 of the Project Agreement and (B) delivering to
the Association, on behalf of BEDCO,
applications for withdrawals from the Credit
Account and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
and
(ix) cause LNDC to act as agent of the Borrower for
purposes of collecting from BEDCO all payments to
be made, from time to time, to the Borrower on
account of (A) principal and (B) interest, under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall duly perform and cause
each Corporation duly to perform all of its obligations under
agreements under which funds have been lent or otherwise put at
the disposal of such Corporation by the Borrower or its agencies
or others for relending, investment or management, including, but
not limited to, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the


﻿- 14 -
Association shall otherwise agree the Borrower shall not assign,
change or fail to enforce any such agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, not later than May 31, 1978
or by such other date as the Association shall agree, take all
such action as shall be necessary to enable LNDC's Board to
determine LNDC's share capital as required by Section 10 of LNDC's
Charter.
Section 3.05. Prior to any proposed amendment to the Charter
of LNDC or BEDCO, the Borrower shall inform the Association of
the amendment so proposed and shall afford the Association a
reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower and
LNDC on such proposed amendment.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Project, LNDC, BEDCO, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment
Projects, and the sub-loans and investments.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) a default shall occur in the performance of any
obligation of LNDC under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(b) a default shall occur in the performance of any
obligation of BEDCO under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(c) a change shall have been made in the Charter of either
Corporation which will materially and adversely affect the
financial condition or operations of the Corporation in question;
(d) any part of the principal amount of any loan to a
Corporation having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(e) a change shall have been made in the Statement of
Policy of either Corporation without the Association's prior
concurrence;
(f) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of either of the Corporations; and


﻿- 16 -
(g) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by either Corporation, ii such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct
of such Corporation's business or such Corporation's financial
situation or the efficiency of such Corporation's management
and personnel or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph
(b) or paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) or paragraph (e) or
paragraph (f) of Section 4.01 shall occur; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (g) of Section 4.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower and to the applicable Corporation.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a) that the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf
of LNDC and BEDCO has been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(b) that the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
on behalf of the Borrower, LNDC and BEDCO, respectively, has been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed on behalf of, LNDC and BEDCO,
respectively, and is legally binding upon LNDC and BEDCO in
accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed on behalf of, the
Borrower, LNDC and BEDCO, respectively, and is legally binding
upon the Borrower, LNDC and BEDCO in accordance with its terms.


﻿- 18 -
Section 5.03. The date of August 23, 1977 is hereby specified
for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles
III and IV of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 25 years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be earlier.


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is hereby designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of tne General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P. 0. Box 395
Maseru
Lesotho
Cable address:
FINMIN
Maseru
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                              440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 20 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
By /s/ T. Makeka
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Hans A. Adler
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Development Credit Agreement, the
provisions of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(2) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If
(a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account shall have been suspended with respect
to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period of
thirty days, or (b) by the date specified in paragraph (e)
of Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement no applications or
requests permitted under paragraph (b) or paragraph (c) of
such Section shall have been received by the Association in
respect of any portion of the Credit, or having been so
received, shall have been denied, or (c) after the Closing
Date an amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from
the Credit Account, the Association may by notice to the
Borrower terminate the right of the Borrower, or of any
Corporation acting on behalf of the Borrower, to submit


﻿- 22 -
such applications or requests or to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account, as the case may be, with respect to
such amount or portion of the Credit. Upon the giving of
such notice such amount or portion of the Credit shall be
cancelled."
(3) the words "to inspect any relevant records and documents
and" are inserted after the word "Association" in Section 9.01
(c).


