Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC1280 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: February 10, 2005 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Turkey 
Project ID: P094167 
Project Name: Privatization Social Support 
Project 2 
Task Team Leader: John A. Innes 
Estimated Appraisal Date: April 5, 2005 
Estimated Board Date: May 31, 2005 
Managing Unit: ECSHD 
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector: Compulsory pension and 
unemployment insurance (70%); 
Vocational training (20%);Micro- and 
SME finance (10%) 
Theme: Social safety nets (P);Social risk 
mitigation (S);Education for the knowledge 
economy (S);Small and medium enterprise 
support (S) 
Safeguard Policies Specialists in the task team:  
Loan/Credit amount ($m.):  
IBRD: 300 
Other financing amounts by source:  
($m) 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
 
6. 
The key development objective of the proposed repeater Second Privatization Social 
Support Project (PSSP 2), is to improve the competitiveness of the Turkish economy through 
supporting the Government’s privatization program and increasing the efficiency of labor market 
services.  Key impact indicators will thus be: (i) the number and economic size of SOEs 
privatized and/or closed down; (ii) the number of SOE workers made redundant; (iii) number of 
redundant former SOE workers obtaining future employment; and (iv) placement-rates for the 
various labor redeployment services provided. 
 
7. 
The proposed project would buttress the privatization strategy through mitigating the 
social costs of privatization, thereby also enhancing the social acceptability of privatization.  The 
current government is stable politically, and committed to privatization of SOEs to enhance 
economic competitiveness, reduce the fiscal burden of SOEs, and concentrate the state on its 
core public administration role.  Current strong economic growth facilitates this process through 
the creation of alternative employment and providing a more attractive environment for the sale 
of SOEs.  The December 17, 2004 decision to open negotiations with Turkey on EU Accession 
in October 2005 should further enhance the attractiveness of to foreign investors of strategic 
SOEs being privatized.    
Page  2
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
 
8. 
The PSSP 2 will have three components as follows: (i) Mitigating the Social Cost of 
Privatization - MSCP(estimated at US$ 420.0 million); (ii) Labor Redeployment Services 
–
LRS 
-
(estimated at US$ 77.5 million); and (iii) Management, Monitoring and Evaluation – MME - 
(estimated at US$ 2.5 million).  This structure follows closely the design of the PSSP, but with 
more of an emphasis on productivity enhancement and competitiveness both as a result of the 
specific privatizations to be supported and the increased attention given to efficient outcomes for 
workers re-inserted in the labor market.  The PSSP 2 is expected to become effective in July 
2005, and be implemented over a period of 4 years. 
 
9. 
A SIL has been chosen as the appropriate lending instrument as this has worked very well 
under the PSSP.  As the PSSP 2 supports the government’s privatization program and there is 
little traditional procurement involved, it in reality has many features of a SWAP. 
 
10. 
The MSCP component will consist primarily of severance pay for workers made 
redundant as a result of privatization, combined with counseling services on finding alternative 
employment.  The LRS component will continue the process of financing demand-driven labor 
insertion services (such as employment counseling and placement, retraining, small business 
advisory services, micro-business incubators and temporary community employment). These 
services are currently being provided by IS KUR (Turkish Employment Agency) and KOSGEB 
(Small and Medium Business Agency) under the PSSP.  A net impact evaluation is underway, 
the results of which will help to refine the exact mix of services to be provided so as to maximize 
their economic efficiency.  The MME component is critical to ensure the effective management 
of the privatization process itself and addressing the social costs thereof.  An important part of 
this component is a series of just-in-time monitoring and evaluation studies to help refine policy 
through studying what actually happens to workers, productivity and management at the 
enterprise level during and after privatization. 
 
11. 
Although there are no formal co-financing partners, close contact will be maintained with 
UNDP/ILO and particularly the EU given the strategic importance of the PSSP 2 in helping 
Turkey meet the challenges of its economic modernization on the road to the EU. 
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
 
The Project is active throughout the country
.
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
 
Not applicable
.
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Page  3
Applicable?
Safeguard Policy 
If Applicable, How Might It Apply? 
[n] 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) 
[n] 
Natural Habitats
(
OP
/
BP
4.04) 
[n] 
Pest Management
(
OP 4.09
)
[n] 
Involuntary Resettlement
(
OP
/
BP
4.12) 
[n] 
Indigenous Peoples
(
OD 4.20
)
[n] 
Forests
(
OP
/
BP
4.36) 
[n] 
Safety of Dams
(
OP
/
BP
4.37) 
[n] 
Cultural Property
(draft OP 4.11 - 
OPN 11.03
)
[n] 
Projects in Disputed Areas
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[n] 
Projects on International Waterways
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50) 
Environmental Assessment Category:
 
As a repeater project with no appreciable change in activities to be financed from PSSP1, and 
with satisfactory results from the last project on environmental matters, a continuing Category C 
was requested. Discussion during the meeting focused on the “micro-business incubator” portion 
of the project (approximately 1% to 3% of loan amount) which is the only aspect that would 
appear to have environmental implications.  The project may finance technical assistance with 
respect to relocating very small businesses from less satisfactory locations (regarding health, 
worker safety and the environment) to renovated disused warehouse facilities.  One can cite 
possible secondary environmental risks (e.g. air or water emissions during operations; waste 
management; etc.) from the investments. The safeguards team was concerned that these activities 
should be carried out in an environmentally sound fashion, following Turkish law and 
augmented by appropriate best practices.  One could make the argument that an “FI” (with B or 
C
sub-projects) or “low risk B” category would actually be (and have been) more applicable and 
protective than a “C”, but the safeguard team was cognizant of the fact that as a repeater project 
with a short preparation time and good past performance, an alternative approach might be 
advanced.  Therefore, the Task Team will include language in the PAD and Loan Agreement to 
ensure that good practices are recommended in the technical assistance, as well as followed by 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  4
the client for environmental due diligence with respect to the micro-business incubators.  This 
aspect will be supervised during implementation, and if needed the project will be reclassified to 
a
higher category, and environmental screening criteria, checklists and simple best practice 
guidance will be prepared.   
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared.  Not applicable. 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS.  Not applicable. 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS.  Not 
applicable. 
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
John A. Innes 
02/22/05 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Ronald Hoffer 
02/17/05 
Comments 
Sector Manager: 
Hermann von Gersdorff 
Date 
Comments 
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
