Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1507 
Project Name 
Privatization Social Support Project 2 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance (70%); 
Vocational training (20%); Micro- and SME finance (10%) 
Project ID 
P094167 
Borrower(s) 
TREASURY 
Implementing Agency 
Privatization Administration 
Treasury 
Inonu Bulvari 36 
Emek 
Turkey 
Tel: 90+312-212-8256 
Fax: 90=312-212-8250 
ozgur.pehlivan@hazine.gov.tr 
Privatization Administration 
Ziya Gokalp Caddesi 80 
Kurtulus 
Turkey 
Tel: 90+312-432-4339 
Fax: 90+312-433-2341 
pcu@oib.gov.tr 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
April 3, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 14, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
June 14, 2005 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Turkey is confronted by major issues in enhancing its competitiveness to benefit from 
globalization and prepare for the progressive economic integration with the European Union 
(EU)
.
The State-owned Enterprises (SOEs) have been a major drain on the budget, and drag on 
the Turkish economy for years.  To address these persistent financial imbalances and erratic 
growth, the SOE sector is being privatized, but this runs against public perceptions in Turkey on 
privatization which are frequently negative.  Addressing public perception and the real social 
costs of workers made redundant as a result of privatization are important elements in ensuring 
an effective and sustainable privatization program. The Government and the Bank are in broad 
agreement on the diagnosis and strategies for economic adjustment and structural reform with a 
focus that includes privatization and closure of most of the remaining SOEs. 
 
In addition to enhancing competitiveness, privatization of SOEs will make a sizeable 
contribution to both fiscal management and the reconfiguration of the public sector.  On fiscal 
management, loss-making enterprises will be closed.  The sale proceeds of privatized enterprises 
will be used i
n
the management of Turkey’s public debt which currently amounts to some 70% 
Page  2
of GDP.  On the reconfiguration of the public sector,
 removing the state’s role in the 
management of large and strategic enterprises such as Turkish Airlines and Turk Telecom will 
enable the state to focus more on its core roles of economic management, service delivery and 
appropriate market regulation.   
 
The privatization program and labor redundancies supported by the PSSP are shown in 
table 1, whilst the future program to be supported by Second Privatization Social Support Project 
(PSSP2) is shown in table 2. 
 
Table 1: SOEs that have been privatized under the PSSP 
Number of SOEs 
36
Number of laid off workers 
14,805
Payments made 
Euro 133.35 million
Table 2: SOEs to be privatized under the proposed PSSP2
 
Number of SOEs 
21
Number of Workers to be laid off workers 
29,000
Severance Payments to be made 
Euro 356.06 million
Job Loss Compensation 
Euro 57.32 million
Retirement Social Assistance 
Euro 21.11 million 
Total JLC Payments 
Euro 425.49 million
2. Objectives 
 
The development objective of the proposed Second Privatization Social Support Project 
(PSSP2) is 
to support the Government’s privatization program through mitigating the negative 
social and economic impact of the privatization of SOEs.  The objective of the privatization 
program is to enhance the efficiency and competitiveness of the Turkish economy and thereby 
help in meeting the market demands of EU accession. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) recognizes the fact that sustaining Turkey’s 
economic recovery will hinge upon vigorous reform implementation as a pre-requisite for 
eventual EU Accession.  Structural reform priorities include restructuring and/or privatizing of 
SOEs.  Key priorities for the medium term include inter-alia  (i) continuing the restructuring and 
privatization of SOEs to enhance competitiveness and (ii) implementing the reform process 
inherent in the EU “Acquis Communuataire” including making the labor market more modern 
and effective.  The Bank has a deep dialogue and practical experience in helping the PA and 
Turkey in this area and has the chance to respond to a strong request to continue to do so
.
The October 2, 2003 CAS for FY04-06 identified the themes for the IBRD program: 
sound macroeconomics and governance, equitable human and social development, attractive 
business climate and knowledge, and strong environmental management and disaster mitigation. 
 
Page  3
There are economic, social, and political objectives for providing social support packages 
to workers displaced by restructuring and privatization of SOEs.  From an 
economic standpoint
,
the objectives are to reduce excess labor costs so enterprises can increase productivity and be 
competitive, and to facilitate the rapid return of workers to productive employment, thereby 
reducing the duration of state-supported income support payments.  From a 
social standpoint
,
the objectives are to provide transitional income support while displaced workers are finding 
alternate employment and, for those who have difficulty finding employment, providing 
extended income support to prevent these workers and their families from slipping into poverty.  
From a 
political standpoint
,
social support programs are intended to build public support for 
restructuring by signaling to citizens, communities, and labor representatives that those 
responsible for restructuring are attuned to the needs of affected workers and that they are ready 
and willing to assist those who need and want help. 
 
4. Description 
 
The PSSP2 will achieve this through three closely related components, namely: (i) Job 
Loss Compensation (JLC) to assist workers made redundant as a result of the privatization 
process; (ii) Labor Redeployment Services (LRS) to help affected workers find alternative 
employment; and (iii) Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (MME) to ensure effective 
implementation and assess the social impact of privatization. 
 
(a) 
JLC:
 
The objective of this component is to ameliorate the temporary negative 
social and economic impact of job loss compensation on workers displaced during 
privatization of SOEs.  This component will finance severance and related payments, as 
regulated by law, to workers displaced by job loss due to the privatization of SOEs.  It is 
expected that a total of 38,000 workers will receive these benefits at a total cost of Euro 
420 million.  Very limited local technical assistance (TA) will be used to assist in the 
implementation of JLC. 
 
(b) 
LRS:
 
The objective of this component is to provide labor redeployment services 
to workers who have been displaced by the privatization of SOEs, including secondary 
layoffs, to assist them in rapidly re-entering the labor market.  The component will 
finance a variety of LRS, including job counseling, placement services, labor retraining, 
business advisory services and temporary community employment through the Turkish 
Employment Agency (ISKUR), and small business incubators through the Small and 
Medium Industry Development Agency (KOSGEB).  LRS will be delivered to workers in 
21 SOEs being privatized;
 
and to approximately 18,000 unemployed workers through 
sub-contractors to ISKUR and KOSGEB.  Small amounts of TA, training and goods will 
be provided to ISKUR and KOSGEB to assist in program implementation and build up 
their capacity.   
 
(c) 
MME:  
The objective of this component is to monitor the social impact of the 
Privatization program and manage the PSSP effectively as a whole.  The component will 
finance: (i) surveys to evaluate the effectiveness of the JLC and LRS in mitigating the 
social costs of labor redundancies resulting from employment and privatization on 
Page  4
selected communities; and (ii) undertake in-depth socio-economic analyses of specific 
communities where privatization has taken place. 
 
The component will also finance limited TA and minor goods to: (i) coordinate project 
execution, and manage the resources of the project; (ii) procure all Bank-financed goods and 
services for implementing agencies; (iii) operate the financial management system (FMS) 
according to the Bank’s financial management requirements; (iv) act as liaison between the 
technical agencies and the World Bank; (v) ensure that annual audits are completed in keeping 
with Bank standards, and (vi) mange the MME studies from with the technical support of the 
Directorate General of Research  (EKA) in Treasury. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: (Euro 
m.) 
BORROWER 90 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
360 
 Total 
450 
 
Retroactive financing amounting to Euro 210 million (58% of the loan amount) is 
proposed for JLC for some 20,000 workers laid-off since January 1, 2003.  Actual disbursement 
of the loan proceeds for JLC will only be made at the point of privatization which may occur at 
any time from July 2005 to June 2009.  Clearance is being sought from senior Bank management 
for this exceptional retroactive financing.  
 
6. Implementation 
 
The signatory to the Loan Agreement will be the Under-secretariat of the Treasury.  The 
primary implementing agency will be the PA under the Prime Minister’s Office.  Technical 
implementation of the JLC and LRS components of the project will be managed by a technical 
Labor Adjustment Group (LAG) within the PA.  EKA within Treasury will assist the PA in 
undertaking the program of evaluations and assessments under the MME component. 
Administrative operations will be handled by a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) with Financial 
and Procurement/Reporting Departments within the PA.  The LAG and PCU Departments will 
be headed by civil servants.  The Financial Department Head at the PCU, who will serve as 
Coordinator of the PCU, will be the primary point of liaison with the Bank.  The following 
summarizes implementation for each separate component. 
 
JLC
:
The PA will identify SOEs qualifying for Bank financing of JLC based on 
Investment Criteria agreed with the Bank (see Annex 6), and will notify the Bank concerning the 
name of the enterprise and approximate number of qualifying workers prior to making severance 
payments. The PA will verify that the SOEs involved meet the agreed criteria, and that agreed 
procedures have been followed in calculating the payments (additions and subtractions to the 
initially agreed list of 21 SOEs are to be agreed with the Bank).  
 
LRS
:
This component will be coordinated by the Labor Adjustment Group within the 
PA, in close cooperation with ISKUR and KOSGEB.  The LAG will be responsible for: (i) 
Page  5
developing and maintaining the administrative framework for the LRS; (ii) taking the lead role, 
in cooperation with representatives from two lead agencies, unions, SOE management, and 
community leaders to organize in-plant labor redeployment assessment and planning sessions for 
workers; and (iii) providing ongoing monitoring of the delivery of labor redeployment services 
being administered by the two lead agencies.  Actual delivery of LRS is to be contracted to local 
services providers in keeping with the POM and LRS Field Implementation Manual as agreed 
with the Bank.  The LAG consultants will be procured through one TA contractor.   
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The JLC and LRS components of the PSSP2 are not intended to be sustained over time, 
as they are one-time severance payments and labor redeployment programs are intended to 
facilitate privatization of SOEs.  However, experience gained during operation of these programs 
can assist the government to design and implement additional downstream SOE privatization and 
civil service reform programs.  The LRS program is modeled after experience gained in the 
ongoing PSSP, and similar programs in ECA, the EU and OECD, and will provide institutional 
experience which can be useful for strengthening similar programs for general unemployed after 
the PSSP2 is completed.  Participation of the PA, KOSGEB and ISKUR in the evaluation studies 
under the MME component is designed to enhance their long-term analytical and evaluation 
capacity. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
The PSSP2 will be the Bank’s fifth engagement in the social protection sector in Turkey.  
The previous Employment and Training Project (ETP) in 1993, Privatization Implementation 
Assistance and Social Safety Net Project (PIAL) in 1994 were investment and reform oriented 
projects designed to strengthen the delivery of labor services and strengthen institutional capacity 
and also set the stage for the Government to downsize the SOE sector in the longer-term.  
Whereas, the PSSP in 2000 and the SRMP in 2001 were designed to support the Government’s 
effort to disengage from production activities and thus foster the continuing development of the 
private sector, reduce the socio-economic impact of privatization, and to mitigate the negative 
impact of economic instability on poor households respectively.  
 
The Bank’s past experience in the social protection sector in Turkey, is rather checkered, 
with past macro-economic instability, uncertain political environment and limited absorptive 
capacity being the main reasons behind less than optimal project implementation.  However, the 
presence of a single party government with its large parliamentary majority may ease some of 
the problems that have been encountered in the past and thus expedite privatization.  In fact the 
Government has announced bold and politically difficult measures to reduce public expenditures 
and raise revenues, and to improve overall efficiency.  These include wage restraint, tax and tax 
administration reforms and aggressive privatization drive coupled with social security reforms 
and the introduction of social safety net for redundant SOE workers.  To help achieve the 
underlying objectives of improved efficiency and sustained fiscal contraction, the Government is 
committed to accelerating the pace of privatization.  To this end has requested the Bank’s 
assistance to help and prepare privatization transactions, ensure an efficient and transparent 
privatization process, and strengthen the capacity of various agencies to implement privatization, 
Page  6
establish a regulatory regime that promotes competition and efficiency and establish an effective 
a
social safety net for displaced labor.  In this regard, the payments anticipated under the 
proposed project combine the severance payment as well as job loss compensation.  It is 
anticipated that severance payment will be paid on lump sum basis, whereas, job loss 
compensation will be paid on a monthly basis.  The duration of job loss compensation will vary 
according to the employment history of the beneficiary. 
 
With regard to labor redeployment services, there has been considerable experiences in 
Turkey, both under the ETP, PIAL and PSSP.  Experience in Turkey, and other countries 
indicates that these services are normally utilized by a small percentage and are relatively low 
cost as compared with income support payments. 
 
The Lessons learned are: 
(i) 
should be carefully designed and targeted to maximize optimum utility.  For instance, 
temporary community employment programs should be carried out by private or 
NGOs, as an alternative to public agencies.  This approach will improve job 
placement and employment; and  
(ii) 
(ii) labor redeployment services should be sub-contracted on a competitive basis to 
local service providers, which will deliver services on performance contract basis.  
These contracts should include, pre-negotiated job placement rates, as appropriate 
with related financial incentives and payments should be made on agreed unit cost per 
trainee, and services should made available for directly laid off workers, in addition 
to secondary lay offs.  Monitoring will be carried out on displaced workers, so as to 
find out the socio-economic impact of privatization. Such monitoring has already 
been conducted in Turkey. 
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [ 
] 
[x] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[x] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[x] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[x] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[x] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[
]
[x] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[x] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[x] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[x] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[x] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
Existing supervision reports on the ongoing Privatization Social Support Project, draft social 
impacts and analyses and draft net impact evaluation of the LRS. 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  7
11. Contact point 
Contact: John A. Innes 
Title: Lead Operations Officer 
Tel: 5242+246 
Fax:  
Email: Jinnes@worldbank.org 
Location: Ankara, Turkey (IBRD) 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
