Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  04/25/2005 
Report No.:  AC1446
1. Project Statistics  
 
Country:  Turkey 
Project ID:  P094167 
Project Name:  Privatization Social Support Project 2 
Task Team Leader:  John A. Innes 
Estimated Appraisal Date: April 4, 2005 
Estimated Board Date: June 14, 2005 
Managing Unit:  ECSHD 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance (70%);Vocational training 
(20%);Micro- and SME finance (10%) 
Theme:  Social safety nets (P);Social risk mitigation (S);Education for the knowledge 
economy (S);Small and medium enterprise support (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
480.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER 
120.00
120.00 
Environmental Category: C - Not Required 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [X] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The development objective of the proposed Second Privatization Social Support Project 
(PSSP2) is to support the Government's privatization program through mitigating the 
negative social and economic impact of the privatization of SOEs.  The objective of the 
privatization program is to enhance the efficiency and competitiveness of the Turkish 
economy and thereby help in meeting the market demands of EU accession.   
 
3. Project Description 
The PSSP2 will achieve this through three closely related components, namely: (i) Job 
Loss Compensation (JLC) to assist workers made redundant as a result of the 
privatization process; (ii) Labor Redeployment Services (LRS) to help affected workers 
find alternative employment; and (iii) Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (MME) 
to ensure effective implementation and assess the social impact of privatization.  
 
(a) 
JLC:  The objective of this component is to ameliorate the temporary negative 
social and economic impact of job loss compensation on workers displaced during 
privatization of SOEs.  This component will finance severance and related payments, as 
regulated by law, to workers displaced by job loss due to the privatization of SOEs.  It is 
Page  2
expected that a total of 29,000 workers will receive these benefits at a total cost of Euro 
420 million.  Very limited local technical assistance (TA) will be used to assist in the 
implementation of JLC.  
 
(b) 
LRS:  The objective of this component is to provide labor redeployment services 
to workers who have been displaced by the privatization of SOEs, including secondary 
layoffs, to assist them in rapidly re-entering the labor market.  The component will 
finance a variety of LRS, including job counseling, placement services, labor retraining, 
business advisory services and temporary community employment through the Turkish 
Employment Agency (ISKUR), and small business incubators through the Small and 
Medium Industry Development Agency (KOSGEB).  LRS will be delivered to workers in 
21 SOEs being privatized; and to approximately 18,000 unemployed workers through 
sub-contractors to ISKUR and KOSGEB.  Small amounts of TA, training and goods will 
be provided to ISKUR and KOSGEB to assist in program implementation and build up 
their capacity.  
 
(c) 
MME:  The objective of this component is to monitor the social impact of the 
Privatization program and manage the PSSP effectively as a whole.  The component will 
finance: (i) surveys to evaluate the effectiveness of the JLC and LRS in mitigating the 
social costs of labor redundancies resulting from employment and privatization on 
selected communities; and (ii) undertake in-depth socio-economic analyses of specific 
communities where privatization has taken place.  
 
The component will also finance limited TA and minor goods to: (i) coordinate project 
execution, and manage the resources of the project; (ii) procure all Bank-financed goods 
and services for implementing agencies; (iii) operate the financial management system 
(FMS) according to the Bank's financial management requirements; (iv) act as liaison 
between the technical agencies and the World Bank; (v) ensure that annual audits are 
completed in keeping with Bank standards, and (vi) mange the MME studies from with 
the technical support of the Directorate General of Research  (EKA) in Treasury.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
National.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Specialists on the Team 
 
Page  3
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
No major issues.  Best practice environmental and occupational health/safety issues will 
be included in training provided to beneficiaries of microbusiness incubators.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
None.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Not applicable.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Not applicable.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Not applicable.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management, Cultural Property and/or the Safety 
of Dams policies, the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of 
the Environmental Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
Not applicable.   
Page  4
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
BP 17.50 - Public Disclosure 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr John A. Innes 
 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Ibrahim Akcayoglu 
 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr John A. Innes 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Ronald N. Hoffer 
 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Hermann A. von Gersdorff 
04/20/2005 
Comments:   
