Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1386 
Project Name 
Privatization Social Support Project 2 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance 
(70%);Vocational training (20%);Micro- and SME finance (10%) 
Project ID 
P094167 
Borrower(s) 
TREASURY 
Implementing Agency 
 
Treasury 
Inonu Bulvari 36 
Emek 
Turkey 
Tel: 90+312-212-8256 
Fax: 90=312-212-8250 
ozgur.pehlivan@hazine.gov.tr 
Privatization Administration 
Ziya Gokalp Caddesi 80 
Kurtulus 
Turkey 
Tel: 90+312-432-4339 
Fax: 90+312-433-2341 
pcu@oib.gov.tr 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
February 22, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 5, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 31, 2005 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
1. 
Turkey is confronted by major issues in enhancing its competitiveness to benefit 
from globalization and prepare for the progressive economic integration with the 
European Union (EU).
 
The State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs) have been a major drain on the 
budget, and drag on the Turkish economy for years.  To address these persistent financial 
imbalances and erratic growth, the SOE sector is being privatized, but this runs against public 
perceptions in Turkey on privatization which are frequently negative.  Addressing public 
perception and the real social costs of workers made redundant as a result of privatization are 
important elements in ensuring an effective and sustainable privatization program. The 
Government and the Bank are in broad agreement on the diagnosis and strategies for economic 
adjustment and structural reform with a focus that includes privatization and closure of state-
owned enterprises 
 
2.
 
In addition to enhancing competitiveness, privatization of SOEs will make a sizeable 
contribution to both fiscal management and the reconfiguration of the public sector.
 
On 
Page  2
fiscal management
,
loss-making enterprises will be closed or sold (the largest loss-making 
enterprise is Turkish Railways, currently losing some US$700 million a year, but as this can not 
be privatized it will be restructured under a separate Railways Restructuring Project).  The sale 
proceeds of privatized enterprises will be used in the management of
 Turkey’s public debt which 
currently amounts to some 70% of GDP. On the 
reconfiguration of the public sector
,
removing 
the state’s role in the management of large and strategic enterprises such as Turkish Airlines and 
Turk Telecom will enable the state to focus more on its core roles of economic management, 
service delivery and appropriate market regulation.   
 
3. 
The Privatization Administration (PA), which falls under the Privatization High 
Board (PHB), is in charge of the Government’s privatization portfolio, after a slow start, 
has made strong progress in privatization and is committed to a robust future program.
 
Indeed, the agenda of the Government of Turkey has been dominated by the needs of 
comprehensive financial and public sector reform to make a definite break with the troubled 
history of inadequate transparency, public deficits, inflation and financial instability.  The 
privatization program and labor redundancies supported by the PSSP are shown in table 1, whilst 
the future program to be supported by PSSP 2 is shown in table 2. 
 
Table 1: SOEs that have been privatized under the PSSP 
Number of SOEs 
36
Number of laid off workers 
14,805
Payments made 
US$ 177,354,493
Table 2: SOEs to be privatized under the proposed PSSP 2
 
Number of SOEs 
21
Number of Workers to be laid off workers 
29,000
Severance Payments to be made 
US$ 473,557,933
Job Loss Compensation 
US$ 76,244,301
Retirement Social Assistance 
US$ 16,100,000
4. 
The Government’s program emphasizes the critical role of structural reforms in 
overcoming the current crisis of the SOEs and thus creating the foundations for renewed 
growth and financial stability
.
Structuring the SOEs is one of the main priorities in the list of 
structural reforms since (i) the SOEs are the major contributor to fiscal imbalances, (ii) lack of 
clear policies to structure the SOEs to hard budgetary constraints and allocation of scarce 
resources to priority needs may result in further severe deterioration of the SOEs, and (iii) the 
inefficiencies of the SOEs are c
ontributing to increase the financial cost and reduce Turkey’s 
competitiveness. 
 
5. 
The CAS recognizes the fact that sustaining Turkey’s economic recovery will hinge upon 
vigorous reform implementation as a pre-requisite for eventual EU Accession.  Structural reform 
priorities include restructuring /privatizing of SOEs.  Key priorities for the  medium term include 
inter- alia  (i) continuing the restructuring and privatization of SOEs to enhance competitiveness 
and (ii) implementing the reform process inherent in the EU “ Acquis Communuataire” including 
making the labor market more modern and effective. The Bank has a deep dialogue and practical 
Page  3
experience in helping the PA and Turkey in this area and has the chance to respond to a strong 
request to continue to do so. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
6. 
The key development objective of the proposed repeater Second Privatization Social 
Support Project (PSSP 2, is to improve the competitiveness of the Turkish economy through 
supporting the Government’s privatization program and increasing the efficiency of labor market 
services.  Key impact indicators will thus be: (i) the number and economic size of SOEs 
privatized and/or closed down; (ii) the number of SOE workers made redundant; (iii) number of 
redundant former SOE workers obtaining future employment; and (iv) placement rates for the 
various labor redeployment services provided. 
 
7. 
The proposed project would buttress the privatization strategy through mitigating the 
social costs of privatization, thereby also enhancing the social acceptability of privatization.  The 
current government is stable politically, and committed to privatization of SOEs to enhance 
economic competitiveness, reduce the fiscal burden of SOEs, and concentrate the state on its 
core public administration role.  Current strong economic growth facilitates this process through 
the creation of alternative employment and providing a more attractive environment for the sale 
of SOEs.  The December 17, 2004 decision to open negotiations with Turkey on EU Accession 
in October 2005 should further enhance the attractiveness of to foreign investors of strategic 
SOEs being privatized.    
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
8. 
The PSSP 2 will have three components as follows: (i) Mitigating the Social Cost of 
Privatization - MSCP(estimated at US$ 420.0 million); (ii) Labor Redeployment Services – LRS 
-
(estimated at US$ 77.5 million); and (iii) Management, Monitoring and Evaluation – MME - 
(estimated at US$ 2.5 million).  This structure follows closely the design of the PSSP, but with 
more of an emphasis on productivity enhancement and competitiveness both as a result of the 
specific privatizations to be supported and the increased attention given to efficient outcomes for 
workers re-inserted in the labor market.  The PSSP 2 is expected to become effective in July 
2005, and be implemented over a period of 3.5 years. 
 
9. 
A SIL has been chosen as the appropriate lending instrument as this has worked very well 
under the PSSP.  As the PSSP 2 supports the government’s privatization program and there is 
little traditional procurement involved, it in reality has many features of a SWAP. 
 
10. 
The MSCP component will consist primarily of severance pay for workers made 
redundant as a result of privatization, combined with counseling services on finding alternative 
employment.  The LRS component will continue the process of financing demand-driven labor 
insertion services (such as employment counseling and placement, retraining, small business 
advisory services, micro-business incubators and temporary community employment). These 
services are currently being provided by IS KUR (Turkish Employment Agency) and KOSGEB 
Page  4
(Small and Medium Business Agency) under the PSSP.  A net impact evaluation is underway, 
the results of which will help to refine the exact mix of services to be provided so as to maximize 
their economic efficiency.  The MME component is critical to ensure the effective management 
of the privatization process itself and addressing the social costs thereof.  An important part of 
this component is a series of just-in-time monitoring and evaluation studies to help refine policy 
through studying what actually happens to workers, productivity and management at the 
enterprise level during and after privatization. 
 
11. 
Although there are no formal co-financing partners, close contact will be maintained with 
UNDP/ILO and particularly the EU given the strategic importance of the PSSP 2 in helping 
Turkey meet the challenges of its economic modernization on the road to the EU. 
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
No safeguard policies apply. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 200 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
300 
 Total 
500 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: John A. Innes 
Title: Lead Operations Officer 
Tel: +90-312-459-8347 
Fax: +90-312-446-2442 
Email: Jinnes@worldbank.org 
Location: Ankara, Turkey (IBRD)
 
