                                     Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                           Report No: ICR0000902



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (IBRD-47910)



                                        ON A

                                        LOAN

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 360 MILLION
                          (US$ 465.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                                 REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                                       FOR A

                SECOND PRIVATIZATION SOCIAL SUPPORT PROJECT



                                     May 12, 2010




Human Development Sector Unit
Turkey Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective as of March 2, 2010)

                 Currency Unit = Turkish Lira (TL)
                       TL 1.00 = 0.652 US$
                       US$ 1.00 = 1.533 TL

                          FISCAL YEAR
                      January 1- 31 December

              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CPS         Country Partnership Strategy
EKA         General Directorate of Economic Research (Treasury)
EU          European Union
FMS         Financial Management System
FOM         Field Operational Manual
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ISKUR       Turkish Employment Organization
ISR         Implementation Status and Results Report
JLC         Job Loss Compensation
KOSGEB      Small and Medium Industry Development Organization
LAG         Labor Adjustment Group
LRS         Labor Redeployment Services
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MME         Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO         Non-Governmental Organizations
PA          Privatization Administration
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PCU         Project Coordination Unit
POM         Project Operational Manual
QAG         Quality Assurance Group
SBA         Small Business Assistance Services
SOE         State-Owned Enterprise
PSSP        Privatization Social Support Project
TA          Technical Assistance
TAC         Tripartite Advisory Committee
TCEP        Temporary Community Employment Programs
TPSE        Training for Prospective Self Employers
VTSE        Vocational Training Programs for Prospective Self Employers


              Vice President:    Philippe H. Le Houerou
            Country Director:    Ulrich Zachau
             Sector Manager:     Kathy Lindert
         Project Team Leader:    Jesko S. Hentschel
           ICR Team Leader:      Carla Pittalis
                                      TURKEY
                     SECOND PRIVATIZATION SOCIAL SUPPORT PROJECT




                                                     CONTENTS




                                                                                                                  Page
Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph



  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes............................................... 8
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 15
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 29
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance...................................................... 29
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 31
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 32
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 34
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 35
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 38
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 39
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 41
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 46
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 47
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 54
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents....................................................................... 55
  MAP ­ IBRD 33501
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Privatization Social
Country:                Turkey                  Project Name:
                                                                          Support Project 2
Project ID:             P094167                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-47910
ICR Date:               05/12/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                 TREASURY
Original Total
                        USD 465.4M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 442.2M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 421.9M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Privatization Administration
 Turkish Employment Organization (ISKUR)
 Small and Medium Industry Development Organization (KOSGEB)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       02/17/2005     Effectiveness:                                01/31/2006
                                                                                   03/28/2006
                                                                                   02/13/2008
Appraisal:            04/04/2005     Restructuring(s):                             03/27/2008
                                                                                   06/29/2009
                                                                                   07/20/2009
Approval:             06/14/2005     Mid-term Review:        06/29/2007
                                     Closing:                06/30/2009            10/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                        Moderately              Implementing
Quality of Supervision:                                          Moderately Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory          Agency/Agencies:



                                                i
Overall Bank                                           Overall Borrower
                           Moderately Satisfactory                               Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                           Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                                 Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                             Quality at Entry
                           No                                                  Moderately Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                                  (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                                Quality of
                             No                                                None
time (Yes/No):                                         Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                      Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                         3                      3
Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance                             94                  94
General education sector                                                   1                     1
General industry and trade sector                                         1                      1
Other social services                                                     1                      1


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for the knowledge economy                                       17                  17
Improving labor markets                                                   33                  33
Small and medium enterprise support                                       17                  17
Social analysis and monitoring                                            17                  17
Social risk mitigation                                                    16                  16

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                             At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:              Philippe H. Le Houerou                 Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:            Ulrich Zachau                          Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager:              Kathy A. Lindert                       Hermann A. von Gersdorff
Project Team Leader:         Jesko S. Hentschel                     John A. Innes
ICR Team Leader:             Carla Pittalis
ICR Primary Author:          Carla Pittalis




                                                   ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of PSSP II was to support the Government's privatization
program through mitigating the negative social and economic impact of the privatization
of State-Owned-Enterprises (SOE).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Project Development Objectives were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target       Formally        Actual Value
                                                Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                   approval           Target        Completion or
                                                 documents)          Values         Target Years
                  Productivity of former State-Owned Enterprises (SOE) will increase when
Indicator 1 :
                  privatized due to reduction in labor costs.
                                                                                 Data on sample
                                                                                 companies suggests
Value
                                                                                 that privatization
quantitative or   n.a.                       n.a.
                                                                                 led to efficiency
Qualitative)
                                                                                 gains in privatized
                                                                                 SOEs.
Date achieved     06/30/2005                 06/30/2009                          10/31/2009
                  Largely achieved. No assessment of productivity levels in privatized SOEs was
Comments
                  conducted during project implementation. The ICR team thus conducted a
(incl. %
                  background analysis of two major SOEs whose job loss compensations were
achievement)
                  financed under PSSP II.
                  Workers displaced during privatization receive temporary income support (Job
Indicator 2 :
                  Loss Compensation) to help prevent them from falling into poverty.
                                                                                 13,614 workers
                                                                                 received JLC
                                                                                 payments (13,535
                                                                                 received Severance
Value
                                                                                 and Special job
quantitative or   0                          29,000 workers
                                                                                 Loss Compensation
Qualitative)
                                                                                 payments; 79
                                                                                 received social
                                                                                 assistance payments
                                                                                 for civil servants).
Date achieved     06/30/2005                 06/30/2009                          10/31/2009
Comments          Largely achieved. All workers displaced from the 20 SOEs privatized within the
(incl. %          scope of PSSP II received job loss compensation (JLC) payments. The lower
achievement)      number of actual beneficiaries is a result of overestimation at appraisal.
                  Workers displaced by the privatization and economic reform program receive
Indicator 3 :     Labor Redeployment Services (LRS) to assist them in returning to the labor
                  force.



                                                  iii
                                                                             9,420 participants
                                                                             in ISKUR training
                                                                             programs, 8,546
                                                                             completed them,
                                                                             4,896 employed; 5
                                                                             SBIs established,
                                                                             generating 1,086
Value
                                                                             jobs from existing
quantitative or 0                         11,000
                                                                             tenants; 1,536
Qualitative)
                                                                             participants in
                                                                             Small Business
                                                                             Assistance
                                                                             Programs
                                                                             generating 210
                                                                             start-ups employing
                                                                             332 people.
Date achieved 06/30/2005                  06/30/2009                         10/31/2009
Comments        Partially achieved. Actual beneficiaries did not include workers displaced from
(incl. %        privatized State Owned Enterprises, nor secondary lay-offs, but comprised the
achievement) unemployed population at large (see Section 3.2 in the main text).

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                              Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                                Revised
                                               approval                          Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                              documents)                          Target Years
                Productivity of elements of industrial sector, containing about 21 former State-
Indicator 1 : Owned Enterprises (SOE), is calculated to improve as a result of labor shedding
                during Privatization.
                                                                              Data on sample
                                                                              companies suggests
Value
                                          10% annual                          that privatization
(quantitative   n.a.
                                          increase                            led to efficiency
or Qualitative)
                                                                              gains in privatized
                                                                              SOEs.
Date achieved 06/30/2005                  06/30/2009                          10/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        See comment under PDO Indicator 1.
achievement)
                About 29,000 workers displaced from SOEs receive severance payments, and
Indicator 2 :
                poverty has been mitigated as indicated through results of social impact.
                                          29,000 workers                      13,614 workers
                                          displaced from                      received JLC
Value                                     SOEs receive                        payments (13,535
(quantitative   No payments.              payments, and                       received Severance
or Qualitative)                           poverty has been                    and Special job
                                          mitigated as                        Loss Compensation
                                          indicated through                   payments; 79



                                               iv
                                           results of social                   received social
                                           impact.                             assistance payments
                                                                               civil servants).
Date achieved 06/30/2005                    06/30/2009                         10/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Largely achieved. See comment under PDO Indicator 2.
achievement)
                A range of services are delivered to approximately 11,000 displaced workers
Indicator 3 :
                with job placement rates as follows:
                                            Job Counseling:
                                                                                Job Counseling:
                                            10%; On-the-Job
                                                                                11%;
                                            Training: 70%;
                                                                                On-the-Job
                                            Institutional
                                                                                Training: 78%;
                                            Training: 50%;
                                                                                Institutional
                                            Vocational
                                                                                Training: 50%;
                                            training: 20%;
                                                                                Vocational training:
                                            Temporary
Value                                                                           25%; Temporary
                                            Community
(quantitative   0                                                               Community
                                            Employment:
or Qualitative)                                                                 Employment: 16%;
                                            10%; Small
                                                                                Small Business
                                            Business
                                                                                Assistance: 14%
                                            Assistance: 10%
                                                                                startup; Incubators:
                                            startup;
                                                                                90% business
                                            Incubators: 90 %
                                                                                survival rate over
                                            business survival
                                                                                duration of
                                            rate over duration
                                                                                contract.
                                            of contract.
Date achieved 06/30/2005                    06/30/2009                          10/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Fully achieved. Placement rates same or better than originally targeted.
achievement)
                The Government evaluates the impact of privatization on key affected groups
                (including by sex, age, education level, region) and devises appropriate policy
Indicator 4 :
                responses; designs criteria for LRS to focus on most effective services for
                different client groups
                                                                                No evaluation
                                                                                conducted,
Value                                                                           following an
(quantitative   n.a.                        n.a.                                amendment to the
or Qualitative)                                                                 Loan Agreement
                                                                                (see Comments
                                                                                section below)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                    06/30/2009                          10/31/2009
                Not achieved. The MME component, under which the impact evaluation was to
Comments
                be conducted, was amended to exclude all the originally planned M&E studies.
(incl. %
                As a result, these were not carried out, with the exception of a background report
achievement)
                on SBIs.
Indicator 5 : Project objectives are achieved, and disbursements are on schedule.
Value           n.a.                        5                                   Project objectives



                                                 v
(quantitative                                                                  were largely
or Qualitative)                                                                achieved and loan
                                                                               funds disbursed
                                                                               almost in full.
Date achieved 06/30/2005                06/30/2009                             10/31/2009
Comments
              Largely achieved. Overall, Euro 329.7 million, corresponding to 92 percent of
(incl. %
              loan funds, were disbursed.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                            DO                             IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     08/17/2005        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     04/19/2006        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      8.14
  3     01/11/2007        Satisfactory                Highly Satisfactory               108.35
  4     12/13/2007        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   187.37
  5     06/26/2008        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   216.32
  6     02/08/2009    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            307.20
  7     09/02/2009    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            404.42
  8     04/13/2010    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            442.15


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Amendment to Loan
                                                     Agreement: Management,
 03/28/2006       N        S      S           8.14
                                                     Monitoring & Evaluation
                                                     (MME)Component revised
                                                     Amendment to Loan
                                                     Agreement: increase in
 02/13/2008       N        S      S         187.37
                                                     disbursement percentage for Job
                                                     Loss Compensation component
                                                     POM amendment: Temporary
                                                     Employment Workers with
                                                     annualized monthly wages less
 03/27/2008       N        S      S         190.46
                                                     than 1.2 gross minimum wages
                                                     made eligible for JLC
                                                     reimbursements under PSSP II
                                                     Partial loan extension for
 06/29/2009       N       MS     MS         387.93   Category 4, Consultants and
                                                     Training


                                                vi
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 07/20/2009       N       MS     MS         404.42   Euro 15 million cancellation




I. Disbursement Profile




                                       vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

The Second Privatization Social Support Project (PSSP II) was approved by the Board on June
14, 2005. The Loan Agreement was signed on October 24, 2005 and the Loan became effective
on January 31, 2006. The Project was the second World Bank-financed investment operation
                                              1
supporting the privatization process in Turkey .

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and sector background: Less than five years before PSSP II was approved, the Turkish
economy had suffered a serious crisis with devastating consequences, including a devaluation of
the currency, a jump in nominal interest rates to 100 percent, the virtual collapse of the banking
system, and the bankruptcy of scores of enterprises. In the aftermath of the 2001 crisis,
authorities announced a New Economic Program, which included stabilization measures based on
strong fiscal discipline, a structural reform agenda, and a renewed commitment to privatization.
The combination of these interventions and the political stability that characterized Turkey since
the 2002 elections helped the economy rebound from that crisis. During the 2002-07 period,
Turkey enjoyed six years of strong economic growth, averaging 6.8 percent annually, and was set
on a path of continued robust growth. Privatization revenues between 2003 and 2009 amounted
to US$30 billion, four times the total revenues generated in the previous two decades (see Table
1). Supported under PSSP II, privatization included major companies of national importance,
such as Petkim (petro-chemicals), Tupras (oil refinery), Tekel (tobacco and salt) and Seker
(sugar).     The global economic and financial crisis that began in September 2008 changed
Turkey's short-term outlook considerably: output and trade fell substantially, unemployment rose,
incomes fell, and poverty increased.

               Table 1: Privatization Revenues (US$ billion) in Turkey, 1985-2009




Source: Privatization Administration



1
    PSSP I was approved on December 21, 2000 and became effective on December 22, 2000.


                                                  1
Rationale for Bank assistance: PSSP II was prepared at the request of the Government and was
directly linked with Turkey's overall economic reform program, which envisions a structural
transformation of the economy through the reduction of state involvement and advancement of
market reforms. In addition to enhancing competitiveness, the Government's privatization
program aims to make a sizeable contribution to both fiscal management and public sector
reform. Nonetheless, as in many countries, public perceptions about privatization in Turkey are
frequently negative.

The 2000 Country Assistance Strategy addressed the social effects of privatization as one of the
political risks of the ambitious reform program initiated by the Government. In the midst of
Turkey's financial crisis, which culminated in February 2001, fiscal pressure made it important
for the Government to seek support for its privatization program through the financing of
severance payments. A previous Bank-financed project, PSSP I, had successfully financed job
loss compensation payments for more than 18,000 workers displaced from privatized State-
Owned Enterprises. More importantly, the Project helped the Privatization Administration design
a broader framework to mitigate the negative economic and social effects of privatization,
including an awareness-raising mechanism for affected workers about post-privatization benefits
and programs available to them. Such framework was maintained throughout PSSP II (see
Section 3.2).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

PSSP II substantially incorporated the mechanisms developed for the earlier PSSP I loan. The
Project's development objective was to support the Government's privatization program through
mitigating the negative social and economic impact of the privatization of State-Owned
Enterprises (SOE). Progress towards this objective was to be measured and monitored based on
the following key indicators identified in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD):

 ·   The productivity of elements of the industrial sector, comprising about 21 former SOEs,
     improves as a result of labor shedding, workers displaced from SOEs. Workers receive
     severance payments, and poverty is mitigated as indicated through results of social impact
     assessments;
 ·   Labor Redeployment Services (LRS) are delivered to both workers made redundant directly
     from within the SOEs and to workers suffering unemployment from the secondary
     employment effects. Job placement rates are equal to or better than similar programs in
     Turkey and the region; and
 ·   The Government evaluates the impact of the privatization program and labor redeployment
     services, and identifies policy alternatives. Evaluation studies are undertaken and Project
     objectives are achieved, disbursements are on schedule, and annual Project audits are
     satisfactory.

The Loan Agreement and the PAD also included a provision that a maximum of 210 million of
the loan could be used to retroactively reimburse 81 percent of job loss compensation payments
made to workers displaced from privatizations after January 1, 2003.




                                               2
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

Neither the PDO nor the key performance indicators changed during Project implementation.
The third key performance indicator, however, became partially irrelevant following a loan
amendment, shortly after loan effectiveness, which excluded the originally planned evaluation
studies from the Project (see Section 1.6).


1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The PAD described the main beneficiaries of the Project as:

(i) Workers displaced from SOEs being privatized, and their families. These workers would
     benefit from job loss compensations to help prevent them from falling into poverty.
(ii) Workers affected by collateral displacement in firms associated with State-Owned
     Enterprises (SOE) where downsizing occurs, in particular in mono-enterprise communities,
     and the general economic reform program. Displaced workers would receive Labor
     Redeployment Services (LRS) to assist them in returning to the labor force.

    In practice, 13,614 workers, representing the totality of displaced workers from the 20 SOEs
    privatized within the scope of PSSP II (including workers displaced after January 1, 2003, as
    specified in the Loan Agreement and PAD) received job loss compensation payments. This
    compares with the original Project target of 29,000 workers, whereby the lower number of
    actual beneficiaries (47 percent of appraisal estimate) is not a reflection of weak Project
    performance, but rather of initial overestimations. This resulted from the Privatization
    Administration's double-counting of Job Loss Compensation (JLC) and Special Job Loss
    Compensation (SJLC) beneficiaries, whereas these payments are made to the same
    individuals (see Table 9).

    Although the PAD described beneficiaries of Labor Redeployment Services (LRS) as those
    primarily affected by the privatization process, including secondary lay-offs, no such
    targeting of services was applied. In practice, the entire adult population was eligible for LRS
    and more so as a result of a roll-out of ISKUR's training programs at the national level in
    2007, against an initial target of 36 provinces. These had been selected on the basis of SOE
    privatizations that occurred since January 2003, and that were expected to occur during the
    implementation of PSSP II (see Section 3.2). Although the increase in the number of
    beneficiary provinces was in line with the PAD (which states that provinces where LRS
    would be delivered would be determined by the Privatization Administration) this choice had
    the effect of further expanding the LRS target.




1.5 Original Components (as approved)

                                                 3
The Project consisted of three components:

(a) Job Loss Compensation (Cost at appraisal2: 340.3 million; Actual disbursement:
 312.47million): This component financed severance, special job loss compensation (JLC), and
retirement social assistance payments to workers displaced by job loss due to the privatization of
SOEs. The Privatization Administration (PA) was reimbursed by loan funds for the job loss
compensation payments provided to: (i) SOEs making regular severance payments; (ii) the
Turkish Employment Organization (ISKUR), which would make special job loss compensation
payments; and (iii) the State Pension Administration, which would make retirement social
assistance payments according to procedures agreed with the Bank.

Severance payments also included end-of-service compensation for retiring workers. Turkish
Labor laws define severance payments, applying to both public and private sectors, as payments
to workers who are terminated as well as workers retiring voluntarily. A worker can choose to
retire once he or she has reached the minimum requirements, or to postpone retirement until he or
she has reached the maximum age. Although these end-of service payments were not specifically
mentioned in the PAD, they were in line with the provisions of the Loan Agreement which refers
to the Turkish Law as defining severance payments eligible for Project financing (see Box 1).


        Box 1: Job Loss Compensation Payments financed under PSSP II

        Severance payments: According to Turkish Labor Laws No. 4857 and 1475, the legal definition of
        severance payments, which applies to both public and private sectors, includes workers who are
        terminated as well as workers retiring voluntarily. Severance payments are calculated on the basis
        of a worker's ending salary and length of service, whereby he or she receives one month of
        severance pay for each year in service. In the case of retirement, workers are eligible for such
        payments provided that they meet certain requirements, such as a minimum retirement age and a
        minimum number of contribution days towards the Social Security System (SGK). A worker can
        choose to retire once he or she has reached the minimum requirements, or to postpone retirement
        until he or she has reached the maximum age.

        Special Job Loss Compensation (SJLC) payments: In addition to regular severance payments,
        the Turkish system provides for SJLC payments, ranging up to eight months, depending on
        conditions and length of service, designed to encourage workers to leave over-staffed SOEs.

        Retirement Social Assistance for civil servants payments: The parameters for these payments
        are defined in the Privatization Law No. 4046. The Law provides a 30 percent retirement bonus to
        those civil servants entitled to voluntary retirement before or at the time of privatization, in order to
        induce those employees who qualify for retirement, to actually do so. Employees are given two
        months from the date of privatization to choose this option.



(b) Labor Redeployment Services (Cost at appraisal: 17 million; Actual disbursement:
 14.9 million): This component financed labor redeployment services to workers displaced by
the privatization of SOEs, including secondary layoffs, to assist them in rapidly re-entering the
labor market. The component was managed by the Turkish Employment Agency (ISKUR) and
by the Small and Medium Industry Development Agency (KOSGEB), as described below.


2
    Appraisal costs and actual disbursements for the original components refer to IBRD financing only

                                                         4
Activities managed by ISKUR included:
    (i) Job counseling and placement services, such as pre-counseling, job/vocational and social
          counseling, provision of labor market information, aptitude assessments, labor exchange
          and placement services, and relocation services. Service providers included NGOs,
          private firms and labor organizations.
    (ii) Retraining, including vocational, general education and literacy training, and vocational
          training for self employment. Service providers included enterprises, private, NGO and
          public training institutions.
    (iii) Temporary community employment, such as environmental clean-up, refurbishment of
          public infrastructure, provision of assistance to social agencies. Organizations proposing
          such programs, which could account for up to 25 percent of Labor Redeployment
          Services disbursements, had to demonstrate that the program would not displace normal
          employment.

Activities managed by KOSGEB included:
    (i) Small Business Assistance services (SBAs) for individuals wishing to start their own
         business. Eligible service providers included private agencies, autonomous government
         organizations, foundations, and statutory occupational organizations.
    (ii) Small Business Incubators (SBIs), including facilities/premises rental, small business
         consulting services for tenants, shared support services and equipment. Eligible service
         providers included private agencies, private and non-governmental associations and
         foundations. Incubators funded for less than 36 months under PSSP I were also eligible
         to receive continuing support for operating costs under PSSP II.

Service providers had to agree to minimum job placement and start-up rates for ISKUR programs
and SBAs, respectively, and, in the case of SBIs, prepare business plans to reflect increasing
capacity to cover costs from their own funds.

(c) Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (Cost at appraisal: 0.9 million; Actual
disbursement: 0.474 million): The objective of this component was to monitor the impact of
Labor Redeployment Services (LRS) and manage PSSP II effectively as a whole. The component
was to finance:
    (i) Surveys to evaluate the effectiveness of the LRS in mitigating the social costs of labor
         redundancies resulting from employment and privatization on selected communities.
    (ii) In-depth socio-economic analyses of specific communities where privatization has taken
         place.

The component was also to finance limited TA and small goods to: (i) coordinate project
execution, and manage the resources of the Project; (ii) procure all Bank-financed goods and
services for implementing agencies; (iii) operate the financial management system; (iv) act as
liaison between the implementing agencies and the World Bank; (v) ensure that annual audits
were completed in keeping with Bank standards; and (vi) manage the MME studies with the
technical support of the Directorate General of Economic Research (EKA) in Treasury.




1.6 Revised Components




                                                 5
Component 3 was revised by the exclusion of the M&E portion. Shortly before loan
effectiveness, EKA requested that it no longer provide technical support for the ME studies,
following a Treasury's management decision partly dictated by organizational priorities and
partly by the potentially sensitive nature of impact assessments related to the privatization
program. As a result, a Loan Amendment3 excluded from the Management, Monitoring and
Evaluation (MME) component the originally planned studies to assess the social and economic
impact of the privatization program and of the effectiveness of Labor Redeployment Services as
mitigating measures. The revised component, re-labeled "Project Management", only included
provision of technical assistance and goods for the PCU for Project coordination and
implementation. Although it was agreed that specific evaluation studies would still be undertaken
by the Privatization Administration during the life of the Project, only one such study on Small
Business Incubators (SBI) was undertaken. To partly compensate for this lack of data, several
key background notes and beneficiary surveys were conducted as part of the ICR itself (see
Section 2.3).

Revisions in the MME component were not accompanied by any changes of the Project's results
framework, which remained in its original form, maintaining indicators on industrial productivity
and poverty mitigation to be assessed through productivity and economic analysis of individual
SOEs, social impact evaluations, and impact evaluation of services on employment of displaced
workers. However, in practice, following the MME component revisions, these assessments were
not undertaken as part of the Project (see Section 2.3).


1.7 Other significant changes

During implementation, the Project underwent the following additional changes to the one listed
above: (i) two amendments to the Loan Agreement; (ii) one Project Operational Manual (POM)
amendment; (iii) a loan closing date extension and; (iv) two loan amount cancellations (see
details below).

(i) Amendments to the Loan Agreement
 March 28, 2006: As part of the same Loan Amendment described under section 1.6 above,
    the Government also requested that administrative and operational support services be
    provided through the PCU, rather than a Technical Assistance firm initially included in the
    Project design. As a result, the amendment also included a new disbursement category and
    minor reallocations for incremental operating costs.
 February 13, 2008: a second amendment to the Loan Agreement requested by the
    Government increased the disbursement percentage for the Job Loss Compensation
    component from 81 percent to 95 percent, with the aim of further incentivizing the ongoing
    privatization program.

(ii) Revisions to the Project Operational Manual (POM)
 In October 2004 the Government passed an amendment to the Privatization Law permitting
     workers laid-off from privatized SOEs to apply for temporary, low-wage and low-skill
     employment through the Temporary Employment Program (TEP). In practice, because this is
     not a temporary program, but results in a series of 11-month contracts within state ministries,
     workers enrolled in the TEP were excluded from Job Loss Compensation (JLC)


3
    Dated March 28, 2006


                                                 6
        reimbursements under PSSP II, and this was explicitly stated in the original POM (see Box
        2). However, in 2006, it emerged that the number of TEP applicants from privatized or
        liquidated SOEs was significantly higher than initially anticipated by the Privatization
        Administration, and that 1,876 such workers had erroneously received JLC reimbursements
        under PSSP II. The amount was eventually deducted from a later JLC disbursement
        application, but this circumstance had two important implications:

        -   The Bank, despite some underlying concerns about the nature and incentives of the
            Temporary Employment Program (TEP), agreed that it was effectively a social safety-net
            for the poorest and most disadvantaged workers made redundant as a result of
            privatization. As a result, the POM was amended-in March 2008 to make all workers
            that joined the TEP, earning an annualized monthly wage of less than 1.2 gross minimum
            wages, eligible to have their JLC expenses reimbursed under PSSP II. Because TEP
            wages are related to the workers' education levels, this definition de facto included all
            applicants with primary and secondary school education (i.e. an estimated 98 percent of
            all workers who apply to join the TEP workers), and excluded virtually all university
            graduates (see Table 2).

        -   The monitoring system for JLC reimbursement applications under PSSP II was also
            strengthened as a result of the unintended TEP workers' reimbursement prior to the POM
            amendment.


             Box 2: Turkey's Temporary Employment Program (TEP or 4C)

             In October 2004 the Turkish Government passed an amendment to the Privatization
             Law permitting workers laid-off from privatized SOEs to apply for temporary, low-
             wage and low-skill employment through the Temporary Employment Program (TEP,
             also known as 4C from the article of the Civil Servants Law governing it).

             Once an applicant has been placed in a government body, he/she is entitled to be
             employed indefinitely on an 11-month work schedule, up to the date the employee
             qualifies for a pension. Applicants do not need to be within a certain number of years
             of their retirement to be hired under the TEP, nor are they required to seek job
             training or attempt to find alternate employment before joining the TEP. PA data as
             of early 2008 indicated that roughly 93 percent of the people rehired under the TEP
             are under the age of 50. Only 1 percent of the people hired by the TEP had retired
             since starting work.




                Table 2: Wages and education distribution of TEP workers in Turkey

                         Primary Education or less          Secondary Education          University Education
Monthly Gross Wage       TL 694.38                          TL 684.96                    TL 765.54
                         (1.03 minimum wages)               (1.17 minimum wages)         (1.31 minimum wages)
% of TEP workers         54%                                44%                          2%
      Source: PA, November 2007


    (iii) Closing date extension



                                                        7
    June 29, 2009: A partial loan extension for Category 4, Consultants and Training, was
    granted until October 31, 2009. All other Project activities were no longer eligible to finance
    expenditures incurred after June 30, 2009. The extension allowed the PA to complete the
    necessary activities related to Project closing, including submission of eligible reimbursement
    payments under Components 1 and 2 to the Bank, as well as preparing payment orders and
    processing final closure of the special account.


(iv) Cancellations
 July 20, 2009: 15 million, from portions of the loan which closed on June 30, namely
     Category 1 - Job Loss Compensation Payments, and Category 7-Unallocated, were cancelled
     at the Government's request.
 January 12, 2010: the remaining undisbursed loan balance, amounting to 15.3 million, was
     cancelled as part of World Bank's loan closing procedures.



2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project Design: The overall objective of the Project was clear and consistent with the
Government's economic reform agenda, which was started in the aftermath of the 2001 crisis and
included a renewed commitment to privatization as a means to reduce state ownership in the
industrial sector. The Project design was largely based on the previous PSSP I operation, which
was successfully implemented and largely achieved its intended outcomes. Project components
were well aligned with the overall objective, although the actual beneficiary population,
consisting largely of retirees under the Job Loss Compensation (JLC) component on one side, and
virtually no displaced workers under the Labor Redeployment Services component on the other,
limited the effectiveness of the Project.

Strong features of Project design include:
    - Privatization Administration's taking charge of engagement mechanism with affected
        workers. Project design strengthened the interaction between the PA and affected
        workers by continuing, under the leadership of the Labor Adjustment Group (LAG), the
        in-company pre-layoff labor redeployment assessment and planning sessions established
        under PSSP I. This was an unprecedented approach for the PA, which, in its own view,
        brought, for the first time, the workers directly and early on into the process.
    - Minimal adverse selection. A monitoring mechanism was put in place to ensure
        appropriately targeted use of JLC funds. Reimbursing the Privatization Administration
        for JLC (i) at least six months after successful privatization (full privatization or transfer
        of at least 51 percent of capital or effective liquidation); and (ii) after verification that
        none of the workers included in the reimbursement request was rehired in the public
        sector or the privatized enterprise, virtually eliminated adverse selection. The inclusion,
        prior to the POM amendment, of ineligible Temporary Employment Program (TEP)
        workers as JLC beneficiaries, led to further strengthening of the monitoring system.
    - Accountability of service providers. Linking the Turkish Employment Organization
        (ISKUR)'s and Small and Medium Industry Development Organization (KOSGEB)'s
        training and business assistance programs with job placement rates made service
        providers more accountable and offered an incentive to provide better quality programs.


                                                  8
    -   Expansion of sustainable Small Business Incubator (SBI) model. PSSP I and II
        significantly contributed to the strengthening and expansion of the SBI model in Turkey,
        and to KOSGEB's capacity to implement it. Project design also included specific
        requirements to increase SBI sustainability, through the requirements that service
        providers submit a business plan reflecting increasing capacity to cover costs from their
        own funds. Tying SBI funding under PSSP II to the number of registered workers, which
        KOSGEB itself monitored on a regular basis, also resulted in better governance, with no
        unregistered workers being supported by the Project. The SBI assessment completed
        under PSSP II also showed that a significant majority of workers in SBIs are connected to
        the social security and that this number is significantly higher than in the overall
        economy.
    -   Participatory process. In addition to strengthening workers' participation through the
        pre-layoff sessions led by the Labor Adjustment Group, stakeholders' engagement was
        envisaged through the Tripartite Advisory Committee, whose role was to advice on
        overall policy aspects related to Project implementation.

Other design factors, however, limited the effectiveness of the overall Project:
   - Job Loss Compensation (JLC) largely benefitting retirees. Disbursements under the
        JLC component largely financed workers' retirement, and thus did not promote their
        transition to new jobs. This was not explicitly stated in the PAD, though it was in line
        with the Loan Agreement which refers to the Turkish Privatization Law (where retirees
        are entitled to severance payments) as governing the disbursements under PSSP II (see
        Box 1). The ICR for PSSP I does not analyze this in detail, but makes some general
        reference to the close-to-retirement age of many workers displaced by the Privatization,
        suggesting that this aspect could have been anticipated and/or addressed more explicitly
        up-front in the design of the follow-up PSSP II.
   - Broad targeting of Labor Redeployment Services (LRS). The PAD specifically
        indicated that the LRS component would benefit workers displaced by the privatization
        of SOEs, including secondary layoffs, to assist them in rapidly re-entering the labor
        market. LRS activities achieved important results in terms of job placements and
        creation. However, because actual beneficiaries did not include workers laid-off from
        privatized SOEs, but the unemployed population at large (see section 3.4) LRS activities
        were somewhat delinked from the Project's key objective. Based on the evidence from
        PSSP I that the displaced workers' demand for LRS was minimal and that this may have
        been due to the support being provided towards early retirement of workers, one of the
        key lessons highlighted in the PSSP I ICR was that it would be helpful, moving forward,
        to "build in the flexibility to adjust the type of services to the level and sources of
        demand and, if opening the program more broadly (e.g., to generally unemployed) to do
        so formally rather than implicitly, so that the services could be better adjusted to the
        actual recipients' needs while in parallel being balanced with the needs of the workers
        displaced by the primary lay-offs." In practice, this did not materialize and the LRS
        component maintained the same design and targeting as in the previous operation.
   - A multi-layered implementation arrangement limited coordination effectiveness. Project
        activities were coordinated by a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within the Privatization
        Administration (PA). The PCU was the Bank's main interlocutor and liaison with all the
        implementing agencies, and provided administrative and implementation support for
        Project activities. The Labor Redeployment Services component was implemented by
        the Turkish Employment Organization (ISKUR) and the Small and Medium Industry
        Development Organization (KOSGEB), and coordinated by the Labor Adjustment Group
        (LAG) within the PA. Such arrangement, with the PCU and the LAG both acting as
        coordinators at different levels within the PA, led to: (i) a lack of coordination and


                                               9
        effective cooperation between the PCU and the LAG; (ii) a perception, by the
        implementing agencies, of excessively long processing of administrative tasks; and (iii)
        somewhat fragmented flow of information from each implementing agency to the PCU
        and, in turn, to the Bank.


Background Analysis: The ICR finds the background analysis for the preparation of PSSP II to
have been overall adequate, though not all lessons were properly reflected into the project design.
Background analysis was conducted towards the end of PSSP I and it included an evaluation of
the economic and social impact of privatization among affected workers. However, due to
Government's concerns about the sensitivity of the report, this was never made public and some
of its lessons, particularly those pertaining to labor redeployment services, were not adequately
reflected in the project design. Key lessons that were taken into account from PSSP I include (i)
targeting and selecting service providers on a competitive basis and with pre-negotiated, results-
oriented performance criteria; (ii) a self-standing M&E component including a series of social
impact studies; and (iii) a thorough monitoring system to minimize risk of misuse of funds.
Specific lessons that were not incorporated into the design of PSSP II, or only partially so,
include (i) the importance of formally tracking demand and use of services by SOEs' laid-off
workers, secondary layoffs, and the generally unemployed, to enable proper adjustments of future
programs; and (ii) the importance, if broadening the scope of the program (for example to the
generally unemployed) to do so formally rather than implicitly, so that such programs can be
better adjusted to actual needs.

Adequacy of Government's commitment: At the time of appraisal, the Government had
shown full commitment to the privatization process by approving a new privatization program,
which included major companies of national importance, to be implemented over the period
2006-09. Moreover, PSSP I was successfully being implemented, and supported the privatization
of 36 SOEs, financing Job Loss Compensation to 18,261 workers. The Government continued to
remain fully committed to the privatization agenda, which over the past six years has resulted in
more sales revenues than in the previous two decades combined. This agenda was consistently
supported by job loss compensation payments to affected workers, which PSSP II financed.
Similarly, ISKUR and KOSGEB were fully committed to, and successfully implemented several
labor redeployment services which resulted in significant job creation (see Section 3.2).

Assessment of risks: The Project's overall risk was rated Moderate. The ICR finds that the risk
assessment was overall realistic and that adequate mitigation measures were identified, with one
exception related to a lack of effective institutional coordination among the Project's
implementing agencies. Despite being rated Negligible, this risk did materialize and mitigating
measures were not properly addressed during preparation. Instead, these were limited to stating
that PCU in the PA had been adept at handling coordination so far, and that Project protocols had
been signed between the PA and all implementing agencies. This particular risk was
underestimated and, thus, sufficient mitigation measures were not put in place.

Quality Assurance Group (QAG) assessment: A Quality-at-Entry assessment was conducted in
September 2005. The assessment rated the quality at entry as Moderately Satisfactory. It
identified: (i) strong features in the high strategic relevance of the Project; (ii) strong Government
commitment to the privatization agenda; (iii) a more realistic estimate, compared to PSSP I, of
Job Loss Compensation beneficiary workers and per/worker payments; (iv) an experienced
implementing agency; (v) use of experiences from the previous project; and (v) preparation of a
better quantification of expected economic benefits. The main shortcoming identified was not
having reflected the findings of the first social impact study conducted under PSSP I, with


                                                 10
particular reference to labor redeployment services. The QAG assessment also pointed out the
lack of baseline data to conduct realistic assessments of the impact of privatization in
communities where employment is heavily dependent on a single enterprise.



2.2 Implementation

The Project was successful in delivering most of the outputs under the three components and
achieving most of its intended outcomes. The Project was not considered at risk at any time
during its implementation period.
Most outputs were delivered and the loan was disbursed almost in full. The loan became
effective in early 2006, seven months after approval. This gap was largely due to the
Privatization Administration's decision to complete the implementation of PSSP I, which closed
in December 2005, prior to commencing the activities under the follow-up project. Once the loan
became effective, implementation proceeded well, as reflected by steady disbursement flows. At
project-end, total disbursements amounted to 329.68 million or 92 percent of total loan
proceeds, with cancellations totaling 30.3 million. The loan benefitted 13,614 displaced workers
through job loss compensation, provided training to 9,420 unemployed (52 percent of whom were
placed in jobs), supported the creation of five new Small Business Incubators which generated
1,086 jobs through existing tenants, and financed Small Business Assistance services generating
210 start-ups and 332 jobs.

Overall Project ratings were consistently satisfactory. Throughout the Project's life, both Project
Development Objective (PDO) and Implementation Progress (IP) ratings were mostly
Satisfactory, with the exceptions of IP once being rated as Highly Satisfactory in 2007 and both
IP and DO being rated Moderately Satisfactory starting in early 2009 until project closing. M&E
was downgraded to Moderately Unsatisfactory in February 2009, and further downgraded to
Unsatisfactory in the last two ISRs. The following section examines this aspect in more detail.
Overall, the downgrading of IP and PDO ratings during the later stages of the Project's life is not
a reflection of a deterioration of PSSP II performance. Rather, it resulted from intensive
supervision efforts which led the team to conclude that some key issues had not been fully
recognized and acknowledged in the past.

At the same time, implementation was partially affected by (i) the exclusion of key evaluation
studies originally part of the Project design; (ii) a loan amendment to make most Temporary
Employment Program (TEP) workers eligible for Job Loss Compensation reimbursement even
though the TEP was not in line with the Project's aim to support rapid re-integration into the
labor market through Labor Redeployment Services (see Section 1.7); (iii) the lack of Tripartite
Advisory Committee (TAC) meetings, as envisioned in the Loan Agreement and Project
Appraisal Document; and (iv) the absence of a formal Mid-term Review (MTR).


    -   M&E: M&E activities could not be implemented as originally planned as a result of the
        amendment to the loan agreement that excluded most of the initially envisaged evaluation
        studies. Some of these evaluations were undertaken as part of the ICR, but they can
        substitute for the comprehensive M&E conceived at appraisal only to a limited degree.
        The Project's Results Framework was not revised and continued to include outcome
        indicators, such as increased productivity of former State-Owned Enterprises and
        mitigation of poverty among affected workers, which proved difficult to measure.



                                                11
    -   Tripartite Advisory Committee: The role of the TAC was described under Schedule 5 of
        the Loan Agreement, which explicitly indicated that it "shall be responsible for reviewing
        the progress of Project implementation and advising on any policy issues related to the
        implementation of the Project". The TAC was established under PSSP I and consisted of
        representatives from the Government, including Treasury, Privatization Administration,
        State Planning Organization, State Institute of Statistics, KOSGEB, ISKUR, employers
        (e.g., Turkish Confederation of Employer Associations, Union of Chambers of
        Commerce of Turkey) and Unions. The PCU organized four annual meetings during the
        implementation of PSSP I, which provided a platform for sharing information and
        exchanging views with stakeholders on the implementation of the Project. The TAC,
        however, never met during the implementation of PSSP II. In late 2007, the Bank and
        the Government agreed that, given the smooth progress of project activities, there was no
        need to hold regular TAC meetings at that point in time. During project implementation,
        the PCU reiterated the view that the TAC was not an effective tool to discuss broader
        questions regarding the privatization process, and that meetings under PSSP I made
        sufficient contributions, with no perceived additional value-added in pursuing additional
        meetings under PSSP II. Given that the TAC had been prominently highlighted in the
        original project design as well as project documents, the Bank asked Government to hold
        TAC meetings during the last phase of Project implementation. The PCU subsequently
        informed the Bank, during the last supervision mission, about the decision of the PA not
        to convene the TAC for the remaining life of the Project and the Bank Team requested
        separate meetings with Union representatives as part of the ICR preparation. However,
        these meetings did not materialize either, in part due to the unavailability of Union
        representatives.

    -   Mid-term Review: A MTR had been originally planned for June 2007, later scheduled for
        May 2008, but was not carried out, in part due to staff transition within the World Bank
        team. Instead, the new task team undertook a comprehensive review of all project
        activities through an in-depth mission conducted at the end of 2008, which constituted a
        de-facto mid-term review.



2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design. A positive feature of the Project's original design included a self-standing M&E
component, which was to finance surveys to evaluate the impact of Labor Redeployment Services
and conduct socio-economic analyses of communities affected by privatization. On the other
end, one shortcoming of the M&E design was a somewhat ambitious and broad Results
Framework. For example, assessing the productivity of former State-Owned Enterprises (SOE)
proved to be a challenge, as this data is not publicly available and the Privatization
Administration does not have an incentive to track SOEs once they are privatized. Secondly, the
Results Framework included indicators on poverty mitigation and increased productivity of
industrial sector segments, but no proper measurements or baselines were provided.

M&E Implementation. In practice, with the exception of a report on Small Business Incubators,
the studies originally planned as part of project design were not conducted, as the component was
revised to focus exclusively on project management aspects, and not M&E. During the in-depth
November 2008 supervision mission, the World Bank team and the implementing agencies
discussed the importance of undertaking a number of focused evaluation studies whose results
would ideally be available before the loan closing date. The Government later decided that it

                                               12
would not undertake (and the Project would not finance) such studies. This was reflected in the
downgrading of the Project's M&E performance rating to Moderately Unsatisfactory in February
2009, and to a further downgrading to Unsatisfactory in the last two ISRs. As a result, some key
background notes and surveys were carried out as part of the ICR analysis, in close cooperation
with the implementing agencies. These included:

    -   A quantitative and qualitative survey on a selected sample of workers benefitting from
        Job Loss Compensation (JLC) payments within the scope of PSSP II, to assess the social
        impact of privatization and the mitigating effect of JLC payments for these workers and
        their families.

    -   A background note to support the assessment of the JLC component, including its
        contributions to SOE performance and with a specific focus on productivity.

    -   A quantitative survey of Small Business Incubator managers, tenant and graduated
        companies aiming at providing a more complete picture as to whether small-business
        incubators can constitute a viable method for employment generation.

    -   A pilot follow-up survey of individuals, who recently completed a training program
        under PSSP II, was conducted as part of a broader TA program supporting ISKUR in
        building its institutional capacity on M&E and performance management in order to
        improve the effectiveness of its Active Labor Market Programs. The objective of the
        survey was twofold: (i) to test the feasibility of using surveys to supplement the data
        already available at ISKUR and Social Security Institute; and (ii) to provide insights on
        the effectiveness of ISKUR training programs financed under PSSP II. Further analysis
        of the pilot survey will help ISKUR assess if such a tracking survey is feasible and
        whether it can be conducted on a regular basis and incorporated into an enhanced
        monitoring and evaluation system.

Follow-up workshops are being planned with the relevant agencies to further discuss the key
findings and lessons of the ICR and of the background surveys conducted as part of it. Although
these background analyses conducted as part of the ICR are important, they can only substitute
the originally planned studies to a limited extent.

M&E Utilization: The utilization of M&E was limited. This largely resulted from the exclusion
of key evaluation studies from the Project shortly after loan effectiveness. Also, because the
Results Framework was never revised to reflect the changes in the Management, Monitoring &
Evaluation component, it could not be properly utilized.


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards. The Project did not trigger any safeguards policies. In the case of Small Business
Incubators (SBI), environmental and occupational health and safety practices were included in the
support and training given to enterprises, though SBI tenants and graduates pointed to the need of
more training altogether. PSSP II, which financed job loss compensations for the privatized
Tekel Tobacco SOE, was also found in compliance with the Bank's policy on tobacco in OP 4.76,
on the basis that the Project did not provide direct funding to the tobacco sector, but would
instead support displaced workers find employment outside of the tobacco sector.




                                               13
Fiduciary. Procurement and financial management practices were defined in the Project
Operational Manual (POM), and the Government received continuous guidance from country-
based Procurement and Financial Management (FM) Specialists.

FM arrangements for PSSP II were found to be Satisfactory and control procedures to be in place.
The accounting software used by the PCU had adequate security levels and was capable of
producing the financial monitoring reports of the Project. FM reporting was prepared by the PCU
as part of quarterly Project Management Reports, which included a specific section on Financial
Management and Procurement. These were consistently found to be Satisfactory from a FM
perspective.

PSSP II was not procurement-intensive as a substantial amount of the Loan (about 312.5
million) was allocated for Job Loss Compensation payments. Three Procurement post-review
missions were conducted during implementation. The reviews, which included sub-contracts
awarded by KOSGEB and ISKUR local offices, found that selection of equipment and service
providers was made according to the procedures stipulated in the POM.


2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

PSSP I was not intended to be followed by a repeater operation, but as the privatization program
advanced, additional assistance was requested by the Government through the follow-up PSSP II.
The same components were retained, along with the structures established within the
Privatization Administration (PA) and implementing agencies. All loan activities were completed
by June 30, 2009, with the exception of Category 4, Consultants and Training, which was
extended to end-October 2009 to allow the completion of necessary tasks related to project
closing.

The Government's commitment towards privatization continues.            The 2007-13 Ninth
Development Plan, which outlines Turkey's overarching medium-term development goals, aims
to reduce State-Owned Enterprises' share in national income and employment as a result of
privatization, in line with the EU harmonization agenda which promotes privatization of
inefficient SOEs as a key ingredient to increase efficiency in production and attract Foreign
Direct Investment.

Job loss compensations continue to be paid to affected workers under Turkish law. However, the
mechanism created under PSSP through which the Labor Adjustment Group organized pre-layoff
labor redeployment assessment and planning sessions for workers is no longer in place. Though a
sample of workers, who had been laid off during the privatizations of PETKIM and TUPRAS and
who were contacted as part of this ICR preparation, stated that this mechanism was not fully
effective, the Privatization Administration (PA) believes it had an important impact on its
approach to the privatization process, by bringing workers into the process early on. Prior to
PSSP I, there was no direct interaction between the PA and the affected workers.

The following Labor redeployment Services activities also continue to be implemented:
 - Following its recently expanded mandate, the Turkish Employment Organization (ISKUR)
   requested World Bank's technical assistance on the delivery of public employment services
   and on building a performance monitoring and evaluation system for its training programs to
   ultimately increase their effectiveness and efficiency. This indicates strong ownership and
   sustainability of ISKUR's training activities.



                                              14
    - Small Business Incubators, with the exception of Avanos, are all operational, despite
      continuing to feel the negative impact of the global economic crisis.
    - The Small and Medium Industry Development Organization (KOSGEB) and ISKUR signed a
      protocol to continue small business advisory services, with the same content as the PSSP II-
      funded Small Business Assistance Services. While ISKUR's primary target are the
      unemployed, KOSGEB offers the training to broader segments of population interested in
      establishing a new firm, in addition to financial support in the form of a small grant.


3. Assessment of Outcomes


3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Project objectives remain highly relevant. The objective, design and implementation of PSSP
II remain highly relevant with regard to Turkey's reform program. The Government's Ninth
Development Plan (2007-13) indicates privatization as a key priority to increase competitiveness
and reduce the burden of loss-making SOEs on the Turkish economy, and calls for a reduction in
the ratio of total SOEs gross sales revenues to GDP. As a result of the global economic
downturn, Turkey's public debt4 has further increased, with a forecast of about 47 percent of
GDP at end-2009, from below 40 percent at end-2007. The Government's 2010-12 Medium
Term Program (MTP) assumes a gradual improvement in public sector balances with the
contribution of privatization revenues, projected to be TL 10.4 billion in 2010, TL 9.4 billion in
2011, and TL 8.9 billion in 2012. Privatization, in the past five years, picked up considerably.
Privatization revenues between 2005 and 2009 (exceeding US$28 billion) were three times as
high as combined privatization revenues in the previous 19 years.

The social costs of privatization also remain a key concern. Since as recently as December 2009,
thousands of workers from privatized TEKEL (which benefitted from PSSP II JLC
reimbursements)5 have been protesting in Ankara. The press has been providing a broad coverage
of these events, and the Government eventually responded with an extension of the working
period under the Temporary Employment Program (TEP) from 10 to 11 months and with an
increase of TEP workers' salaries between 12 percent and 15 percent.

The ongoing 2008-11 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS), shaped directly by Turkey's Ninth
Development Plan and by the Government's Program, aims at contributing to three main
development pillars, one of them being Improved Competitiveness and Employment. Continued
strong privatization is highlighted as a key ingredient of a better investment climate and overall
better investment environment. The backbone of this part of the World Bank-financed program is
the Programmatic Competitiveness and Employment Development Policy Loans (CEDPL) series,
which supports the improvement of the Turkish investment climate, including a vast program of
privatization of SOEs. The CEDPL series has now been discontinued but the content of CEDPL
reforms is carried over in the new Restoring Equitable Growth and Employment Programmatic
DPL.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives


4
 EU definition
5
 Workers involved in the ongoing protests did not, themselves, benefit from PSSP II financing, as they
were laid-off on January 31, 2010, when the loan had already closed.

                                                 15
PDO Indicator 1: Productivity of former State Owned Enterprises (SOE) will increase when
privatized due to reduction in labor costs.

Data suggests that privatization, through Job Loss Compensation (JLC) support, led to
efficiency gains in privatized SOEs.

A full analysis of privatization effects on productivity levels proved difficult, due to limited
availability of data from privatized SOEs. Petkim and Tupras, both publicly traded companies
subject to disclosure of information regulations, provided the only source of sufficiently available
and reliable information and thus the ICR focused its analysis on these two former SOEs. JLC
for these two companies, operating in the Petrochemical and Refinery sectors, were also among
the largest financed under PSSP II, exceeding 63 million in disbursements and benefitting about
2,500 workers.

Productivity and efficiency gains realized: The analysis found that, despite the unfavorable
impact of the global economic slowdown on the sector as a whole, significant productivity and
efficiency increases were realized by the two companies, thanks to the massive restructuring and
investment programs carried out following their privatization.

 - Tupras, Turkey's largest industrial enterprise, owns 59 percent of the total petroleum
   products storage capacity in Turkey. In 1990 the company was handed over to the
   Privatization Administration. Today, 49 percent of Tupras shares are publicly traded. In late
   2005 the block sale of the remaining 51 percent of state-owned Tupras shares was granted to
   the Koç-Shell Joint Venture Group. According to company figures, while total investments
   between 1989 and 2005 had been US$1.95 billion, the amount of investment undertaken after
   privatization has reached US$1 billion in a period of three years. The company also became
   the national export champion by exceeding US$4.45 billion in exports by the end of 2008. As
   part of the restructuring program, Koç Holding went through a significant portfolio shift,
   resulting in focusing on key core sectors, as well as efficiency, margin growth and
   shareholder value. The number of employees has decreased by 15 percent since the 2005
   privatization, while exports increased by 32 percent and production, with the exception of
   2008, was overall sustained. The company began implementing an operating efficiency
   program (OEP) to further support group's profitability just after the privatization. The
   program aims to generate savings of US$378 million, distributed over the 2007-11 period.
   Tupras has also undertaken various other measures to improve operations and profitability
   (see Table 3).

                 Table 3: Tupras's Pre and Post-privatization Key Indicators

 C
 N S        US
 O          P    US
 N I          US
 I           E         US
 R      P
 P      E
 N          E
Source: Tupras's Annual Reports




                                                16
 - Petkim is Turkey's main petrochemicals producer and the largest producer of thermoplastics
   and intermediaries, satisfying approximately 25 percent of domestic demand for
   petrochemicals. Its products are exported to countries of the European Union, the United
   States, Africa, the Middle East, Eastern Europe, Asia and the Far East. After a secondary
   offering in the first half of 2005, the stake held by the Privatization Administration (PA) was
   reduced from 88.9 percent to 54.4 percent. The PA realized the block sale of its 51 percent
   stake in 2007. After quarters of operational losses, Petkim reported TL12.1 billion net profits
   in its first 2009 quarter financials compared with the net losses of TL15 billion and TL98
   billion in the first and fourth quarters of 2008, respectively. Petkim succeeded in halving its
   operating expenses on a year to year basis thanks to its restructuring efforts leading to a
   decline in number of workers. Petkim's workforce has been gradually cut back over the last 8
   years. At the same time, production for marketing per worker increased from about 200 tons
   in 2001 to about 450 tons in 2008 (see Figure 1), while operating expenses as a ratio of
   revenues decreased from 9 percent in 2003 to 4 percent in the first half of 2009. Petkim
   exported around 36 percent of its production in 2008, a much higher proportion than the 25
   percent average over the last five years as the company increased its export exposure due to
   the increasing percentage of cheap imports in the domestic market.


            Figure 1: Petkim's Employees and Per Capita Efficiency, 2001-2008




                                                                                                     S
ource: Petkim 2008 Annual Report




PDO Indicator 2: Workers displaced during privatization receive temporary income support
(JLC) to help prevent them from falling into poverty.

                                               17
PSSP II effectively provided income support to workers affected by privatization and
prevented them from falling into poverty.

13,614 workers benefitted from job loss compensation payments. The Project successfully
financed temporary income support, in the form of job loss compensation payments, to 13,614
workers, corresponding to the totality of workers displaced from the 20 SOEs that were privatized
under the scope of PSSP II, including those workers displaced after January 1 2003, as stipulated
under the Loan Agreement, whose payments were retroactively reimbursed under the loan.
Although the original Project target was to benefit 29,000 workers, the lower number of actual
beneficiaries (47 percent of appraisal estimate) is not a reflection of weak Project performance,
but rather of initial overestimations. This resulted from the Privatization Administration's double-
counting of Job Loss Compensation (JLC) and Special Job Loss Compensation (SJLC)
beneficiaries, whereas these payments are made to the same individuals (see Table 9).

Beneficiaries were largely retirees but retirement date flexibility provides an incentive for early
retirement. About 80 percent of beneficiary workers had either reached maximum retirement age
at the time of the SOE privatization, or were eligible to continue to work for a few years but
chose to retire when they first qualified. This was not explicitly stated in the PAD, though it was
in line with the Loan Agreement which refers to the Turkish Privatization Law (where retirees are
entitled to severance payments) as governing the disbursements under PSSP II (see Box 1).
Moreover, because of the very flexibility in workers' retirement date, severance payments likely
provided an incentive for early retirement, reducing the liabilities of the enterprise to be
privatized, thereby positively influencing the privatization likelihood itself. Of the remaining
workers who did not retire, almost the totality joined the Temporary Employment Program
(TEP).

Severance payments constitute a safety net for most vulnerable workers. Severance payments,
which constituted 99 percent of total Job Loss Compensation disbursed under PSSP II, provided
income support to workers displaced from privatized SOEs, preventing them from falling into
poverty. For those workers who reached the maximum retirement age, severance payments
represented an additional income to the regular pension flow. For early retirees and laid-off
workers, the most vulnerable category of employees, such compensations provide, respectively, a
bridge to retirement or a transitional safety net to other employment, including enrollment in the
TEP. Average monthly severance payments can provide affected households with incomes above
standard poverty lines for several years, helping them adjust. For example, for a 5-member
household, whose poverty line is calculated to be TL935, the average severance payment would
provide an income 10 percent above this threshold for 46 months (see Table 4).


    Table 4: Average Monthly Severance vs. Poverty Line for Selected Households Sizes

                                                                     Average
                                 Total Severance                                     Average        No. of Average Monthly
Household Complete 2009 Turkey                         Total No. of  Severance
                                 Payments under PSSP 2                               Severance      Severance Payments 10%
size      Poverty Line (TL)                            Beneficiaries Payment per
                                 (Euro)                                              Payment (TL)   above Poverty Lines
                                                                     Worker (Euro)
3         696                    308,201,563           13,535          47,741
                                                                     22,771           62
4         820                    308,201,563           13,535          47,741
                                                                     22,771           53
5         935                    308,201,563           13,535          47,741
                                                                     22,771           46
6         1,044                  308,201,563           13,535          47,741
                                                                     22,771           42
Note: Complete poverty line contains both food and non-food expenditures; /US$ FX rate as of March 15, 2010
Source for Poverty Line figures: 2008 Poverty Study, TURKSTAT


                                                            18
Nevertheless, most workers experienced an overall decrease in their personal and household
income levels, with early retirees and terminated workers feeling most of the burden. This
emerged from a quantitative assessment, supported by focus groups discussions, on a sample of
201 displaced Petkim and Tekel workers.6 Workers who had reached their maximum retirement
age were almost not affected by the privatization process as they are able to sustain themselves
through their pension. On the other hand, younger retirees or terminated workers claimed a more
negative impact. Many workers also indicated that they used job loss compensation payments to
meet ongoing expenses and honor debts, rather than invest them or spreading them over time as
monthly income. This contributed to workers' sense of insecurity and concerns about the future.

The Temporary Employment Program (TEP) is not perceived as a temporary arrangement.
Workers' criticism and unmet expectations towards the TEP indicate their perception of the
program as a bridge to retirement rather than a temporary arrangement to ease transition to new
employment. Workers indicated their "temporary" status under TEP as responsible for causing a
sense of job insecurity, despite the possibility to renew TEP contracts indefinitely. Criticism was
also expressed about TEP salary levels and mismatches between workers' qualifications and
previous experiences and occupations assigned to them while enrolled in the TEP. About 25
percent of the interviewed workers had enrolled in the TEP. Of those, 61 percent are still in the
program. Those who left the TEP indicated that they had remained in it for a minimum of two
years.


PDO Indicator 3: Workers displaced by the privatization and economic reform program receive
Labor Redeployment Services (LRS) to assist them in returning to the labor force.

While the Project contributed to high placement rates for ISKUR programs, creation of
additional Small Business Incubators (SBI) generating jobs, and new business start-ups
through Small Business Assistance Services (SBA), this objective was only partially
achieved given that actual beneficiaries did not include workers displaced from privatized
SOEs, nor secondary lay-offs, but comprised the unemployed population at large.


(i) Labor Redeployment Services ­ managed by ISKUR:

Placement rates were higher than originally estimated. During the life of the Project, ISKUR
completed 481 labor redeployment projects. Of these, over 90 percent consisted of training
programs. The overall job placement rate for those who completed the training reached 57
percent, with 4,896 trainees being employed. For each service delivered, the actual placement rate
either exceeded or matched the original targets (see Table 5). The employment placement link is
the most important result of the training course and can well be considered as the success rate of
the organized training and employment services classes.




6
  Given the limited sample size, largely due to the lack of workers' contact information, the survey (which
was conducted as part of the ICR) was not intended to draw general conclusions but it highlights a few
areas where the PA and other relevant stakeholders may wish to focus their attention and possibly
undertake some further analysis.




                                                    19
                              Table 5: ISKUR's Employment Placement Rates
      * Temporary Community Employment Programs

                                                               P                     E          G                 A
                                                              C          P          R        PSSP   R         E
      S     T                   P             P                 T        E               F                P           R
F     T
O      J T
TCEP
C
VTSE
TOTAL
      ** Vocational Training for Prospective Self Employers
      Source: ISKUR


      Virtually no participation from displaced SOE workers was achieved. Only a handful of the
      ISKUR training participants consisted of displaced workers from privatized SOEs directly.
      Similarly, the case that the beneficiaries of the Labor Redeployment Services (LRS) had been
      affected through secondary lay-offs is very hard to make given that the LRS services were rolled
      out nationally (from an originally targeted 36 provinces) and did not target the areas where major
      privatizations occurred (see Section 1.4). The decision for the expansion, according to ISKUR,
      followed the inclusion of TEDAS, which had workers in all provinces across Turkey, within the
      scope of the Privatization Program. According to ISKUR, lack of participation from displaced
      SOE workers may be partly attributed to the Temporary Employment Program (TEP), which
      came into effect shortly before PSSP II approval, attracting several workers who might have
      otherwise enrolled in ISKUR training activities. However, the demand from workers displaced by
      privatized SOEs, as well as from the traditionally defined secondary lay-offs, was negligible
      under PSSP I as well.
      Low enrollment rates by displaced workers from privatized SOEs and views of PSSP II
      beneficiaries, though not conclusive, suggest an opportunity to assess (i) the attractiveness of
      the current set of training programs for displaced SOE workers, and incentives for them to enroll
      in such trainings. Because most workers benefitting from Job Loss Compensation are retirees,
      while the remaining ones largely opt for the TEP, the demand for LRS is expectedly negligible;
      (ii) the effectiveness of such trainings in placing workers in sustainable and relevant jobs; and (ii)
      the extent to which such workers are adequately informed about the existence of ISKUR
      programs, and how the information flow could be improved.
      The focus group of Petkim and Tupras workers, conducted as part of the ICR, indicated that (i)
      most workers were not aware of ISKUR trainings; (ii) chances of finding employment after
      attending ISKUR training programs were considered limited; and (iii) many workers believed that
      they were already qualified for their job, and thus would not benefit from further training. Results
      from a pilot survey of 561 ISKUR training beneficiaries under PSSP II, conducted within the
      scope of the broader TA being provided to ISKUR to increase the effectiveness of its Active
      Labor Market Programs, also suggest areas of improvement. (i) proactive information flow from
      ISKUR seems limited, with most workers coming to know about the programs from ISKUR's
      Employment Offices or through family and relatives; (ii) 61 percent of the participants rated the
      trainings as good or excellent, but only 31% believed that the skills acquired during the training
      helped them find a job; (iii) compared to ISKUR data, indicating an overall placement rate of 57
      percent, only 39.5 percent of trainees said to have found a job following the training; and (iv)
      salary scales of those employed in 2009 tended to be in the low-medium range, with 74 percent
      declaring average monthly earnings between TL250 and TL749, and 97 percent below 1,250 TL

                                                        20
against Turkey's minimum wage of TL 576; (iv) training was rated relevant by half of those who
were employed after the training.
The capacity of ISKUR staff, especially at the local level, increased. ISKUR management and
staff highlighted the PSSP series' contribution to ISKUR's diversified training offers, increased
geographical coverage (prior to PSSP I in-service training was offered in 25 provinces, compared
to 70 provinces under PSSP II), and a strengthened implementation capacity among ISKUR staff,
particularly at the provincial level. This also resulted from partial decentralization of service
providers' selection, whereby ISKUR as well as KOSGEB local offices were authorized to sign
contracts amounting up to 30,000.

(ii) Small Business Incubators (SBIs) ­ managed by KOSGEB
The Small Business Incubators (SBI) model is new in Turkey and was strengthened and
expanded with the support of PSSP. The SBI model, which was first established in Zonguldak
with the support of World Bank funding and technical assistance, was strengthened and expanded
across Turkey under PSSP I and II. Of the 15 incubators currently operating across Turkey, 10
were established with the support of PSSP I and II7. The implications of PSSP support go well
beyond the financing per se, as it had an important impact on KOSGEB's capacity to design and
implement the SBI model. The Project design also made the financing of SBIs subject to specific
requirements to increase their sustainability, by requiring that service providers submit a business
plan reflecting increasing capacity to cover costs from their own funds, with a view to enable
sustainability. This was reflected in the phasing out of operating costs reimbursements, such as
with full support for the first year, two-thirds support for the second year, and one-third support
for the third year. All SBIs funded under PSSP I and II, with the exception of Avanos, which
closed as a result of financial problems, are still operational through their own funding sources.
SBIs helped create more than 400 new firms and more than 3,500 jobs. Over the years,
KOSGEB has monitored the performance of the incubators, including employment figures and
occupancy rates, but it lacked a more complete picture as to whether SBIs constitute a viable and
cost-effective model for employment creation. To partly compensate for this lack of data, a
background study was conducted within the scope of the ICR: 10 SBI managers, 24 graduated
companies, and 71 tenant companies were surveyed. The survey also benefitted from a previous
report commissioned by KOSGEB in 2007.8 Notwithstanding the limited sample and non-
conclusive data, the survey's initial findings provide a good opportunity for KOSGEB to identify
some of the key issues highlighted by SBI companies and management.
Overall, incubators financed under PSSP I and II helped the creation of 436 firms which
generated 3,518 jobs. Roughly 30 percent of all SBI-supported firms have graduated. Currently,
PSSP-funded SBIs host 293 tenant firms which have generated 2,370 jobs. Of the existing firms,
14 percent were started by women, who hold 31 percent of the generated jobs.




Graduates' survival rates vary across SBIs. Though these tend to be lower beyond the second
year, they compare well with international data and are an important result given the novelty


7
  The remaining five incubators include Zonguldak and four other ones supported by EU funding and
targeted mostly to women
8
  Assessment of the World Bank-funded Incubators Under Privatization Social Support Project, by Prof.
Tunc Tayanc (August 2, 2007)

                                                  21
of the SBI model in Turkey. Inputs from managers of PSSP I-funded SBIs (whose data was used
as a proxy for PSSP II-funded SBIs as well, since the latter were established later and had no
firms graduated for more than 1 year) indicate that graduates' survival rate after one year is very
high, with an average of 82 percent. Data on two and three-years survival rates suggest that, on
average, about 65 percent of the firms manage to survive after the second year and 42 percent
survive at least three years, with Adana and Eregli ranking significantly behind (see Table 6).
Considering that the very concept of SBIs has been implemented in Turkey for less than a decade,
these are good results and compare well with the U.S. Small Business Administration's reports
that two-thirds of new employer establishments survive at least two years, and 44 percent survive
at least four years.9


                 Table 6: PSSP-I financed SBIs graduated companies' survival rates



                                                                         % of                     % of                     % of
                                                  # o f g ra d u a t e   gra dua te s             gra dua te s             g ra d u a t e s
                                                  co m p a n ie s        s u rv iv e d a ft e r   s u rv iv e d a ft e r   s u rv iv e d a ft e r
                                 Nu m b e r o f   (s in c e S BI         the 1st y e a r o f      t h e 2 nd y e a r o f   t h e 3rd y e a r o f
                     S BI        te na nts        in c e p t io n )      g r a d u a t io n       g r a d u a t io n       g ra d u a t io n

                     Adana       42               45                     55 %                     22%                      2%
                     Eregli      15               22                     60 %                     30%                      12%
              PSSP




                     Eskisehir   16               15                     96 %                     81%                      53%
                     Tarsus      84               34                     10 0%                    95%                      95%
Note:                            28               9
                   Van                                     10 0%        100 %         50%
Data
are only reported for PSSP I-funded SBIs, as most of those financed under PSSP II were established after
the end of 2006 and thus had no firms graduated for more than 1 year. Data on the Diyarbakir SBI was not
included because too limited.
Source: KOSGEB and SBI managers


Performance after graduation has been positive for half of the graduated respondents, but
would welcome more training in the areas of marketing and promotion. For about 50 percent
of graduated respondents production capacity increased after graduation, in the range of 10-25
percent in the majority of the companies. Respondents attributed the main reason for the increase
to the change of location outside the Small Business Incubators (SBIs), which helped them get
closer to their customers. The average revenue created per employee increased from US$6,468 in
2008 to US$9,512 in 2009. To help them in the transition process out of the SBIs, tenant and
graduated companies indicated the need for more training, particularly in the areas of marketing
and promotion. Only 10 percent of the surveyed tenant SBI firms indicated that they received
such training.

Incentives, costs and benefits of SBIs are some areas of further analysis. About 30 percent of
graduate respondents stated that they could not have started a new business without an SBI.
While this cannot lead to conclusions on SBIs' value-added, it gives an opportunity to assess the
incentives for firms to apply to incubators, as well as the related costs and benefits, such as the
quality and frequency of training courses, the extent to which networking and efficiency


9
    U.S. Small Business Administration (2007 data)


                                                           22
opportunities are exploited, how access to financial resources and grant could be improved, and
whether more can be invested in the physical infrastructure of some SBI facilities.


(iii)      Small Business Assistance Services (SBAs) ­ managed by KOSGEB

Start-up rates exceeded agreed rates. The Labor Redeployment Services component financed
Small Business Assistance services (SBAs), implemented by KOSGEB and delivered by external
service providers selected through a competitive process. Services included initial assessment of
the aptitude and skills of unemployed persons to start businesses, developing business plans,
advising on accounting, financial, legal, marketing and sales services issues, assistance in the
dialogue with local authorities, short-term training and other consulting services to unemployed
clients who intended to start their businesses. Service providers agreed to start-up rates of at least
10 percent and a minimum of 50 percent client's share in the start-up business. Within the scope
of PSSP II, 14 SBAs were delivered in 13 provinces to 1,536 participants. For all the delivered
SBAs, the start-up rate has exceeded the agreed rate, with notable cases such as Elazig, Osmanye,
and Istanbul (see Table 7) whose start-up rates were more than double those initially agreed.


        Table 7: Committed and actual start-up rates for Small Business Assistance Services

Source: Government's Project Closing Report


                                                                     Actual
  Implementing No.                  Committed start- Actual start-up Number of        No. of people
  KOSGEB Office Participants        up rate (%)      rate (%)        start-ups        employed
   stanbul                 75              10%              16%              11             12
  Çorum                    214             10%              11%              20             20
  Diyarbakûr               147             10%              15%              21             24
  Samsun                   157             10%              11%              16             16
  Elazû                    51              10%              24%              12             18
  Bartûn                   128             10%              11%              13             13
  Giresun                  124             10%              11%              13             14
  Mersin                   92              10%              16%              13             30
  Gaziantep                93              10%              13%              10             36
  Malatya                  72              10%              20%              14             15
  Adana                    74              10%              14%              10             22
  Osmaniye                 75              10%              23%              16             52
  Kastamonu                70              10%              13%               9              9
   stanbul                 164             10%              21%              32             51
                          1,536            10%              14%              210            332




Relatively high female start-up rates. Another important result stemming from SBAs was the
relatively high participation and start-up rates of female entrepreneurs. About 37 percent of all
SBA participants were female, and 33 percent of start-ups were owned by women (see Figure 2).

                                                 23
This compares well with entrepreneurship data across Turkey, which indicates that only 12.5
percent of all entrepreneurs are women. 10


     Figure 2: Small Business Assistance Services Participation and Start-up rates by Gender




Source:


Government's Project Closing Report


Creation, within the Privatization Administration (PA), of a consultation mechanism with
workers working in soon-to-be privatized SOEs, was an overall key achievement under the
Project. Such mechanism did not exist in the PA prior to the PSSP operations. The mechanism
consisted in the Labor Adjustment Group (LAG) visiting each company once the decision to sell
or liquidate was announced, to inform its workers about the privatization process and, more
importantly, about the benefits packages available to them, including job loss compensation and
labor redeployment services through ISKUR and KOSGEB programs (see Table 8). In PA's
view, one of the very reasons why this activity could be carried out in what was often a very
hostile environment is that PSSP provided the necessary backing to the LAG to approach workers
who would have otherwise been unwilling to engage with the PA.




10
     Source: World Economic Forum Gender Report


                                                  24
Table 8: State-Owned Enterprises visited by the Labor Adjustment Group under PSSP II
       Province      SOE's Name                                                Date
       Istanbul      TDI (Turkish Marine Enterprise)                           18/04/2006
       Nigde         Bor Sugar Factory                                         02/05/2006
       Konya         Eregli Sugar Factory                                      04/05/2006
       Murgul        Copper Enterprises                                        29/06/2006
       Istanbul      TEKEL General Directorate                                 16/01/2007
       Istanbul      TEKEL General Directorate                                 07/04/2008
       Samsun        TEKEL (Central Company of Tobacco, Salt and Alcohol)      30/04/2008
       Konya         Meram Electricity Company                                 12/05/2008
       Izmir         PETKIM (Petro Chemistry Holding)                          14/05/2008
       Konya         TEKEL Company                                             15/05/2008
       Cankiri       Baskent Electricity Company                               13/11/2008
       Kastamonu     Baskent Electricity Company                               14/11/2008
       Sakarya       Sakarya Electricity Company                               16/11/2008
Source: Government's Project Closing Report


The process would start with the LAG illustrating the activities supported under PSSP II to SOE
management, and discussing with them the most suitable options for the employees in question.
Regional economic development and job market opportunities were also discussed with SOE
management, with a view to identify the most effective services for displaced workers in the local
context. The LAG would subsequently hold an extensive meeting with the workers, during which
they were informed about the menu of options available to them, including labor redeployment
services through ISKUR and KOSGEB. Union representatives and SOE management were also
invited to these meetings. Often, additional informal sessions with smaller groups of workers
would be held to address specific questions and concerns.

From the Government and the Privatization Administration's (PA) perspective, the Labor
Adjustment Group's informational activity had two important implications:
   - It brought workers early into the PA's privatization process. Until then, the PA had never
       approached the workers directly, but focused largely on the corporate side of the
       restructuring process; and
   - It provided the PA and SOE management with a sense of workers' concerns and
       expectations.

At the same time, though not conclusive, the qualitative and quantitative surveys conducted as
part of the ICR on Job Loss Compensation beneficiaries, suggest that the impact of the Labor
Adjustment Group (LAG) consultations may not have been fully effective. Despite the LAG's
awareness-raising role, workers from Petkim and Tupras, both visited by the LAG, lamented a
lack of information flow from company management and the Government, with almost half of
those surveyed unsure of the main source of their information, less than 30 percent citing the
company and a minority citing the Privatization Administration (see Figure 3). This resulted in
the reliance on informal channels which led to some degree of misinformation and apprehension
among affected workers about their post-privatization prospects. For example, workers' concerns
of not receiving severance payments or being penalized if they did not accept the company's
offers were cited, as well as a general lack of clarity and unclear expectations about the
Temporary Employment Program program. Very few workers were aware of ISKUR and
KOSGEB programs.

                                                   25
  Figure 3: source of information about post-privatization packages for displaced workers




Source: Job Loss Compensation beneficiaries' survey




3.3 Efficiency

The Project Operational Manual indicates that, in order to qualify for Bank financing, specific
investment criteria had to be met by each reimbursement application, requiring: (i) that the
payment of JLC results in a positive rate of return for a specific SOE or a sector; (ii) that the
investment be in accordance with Turkey's general economic development strategy; and (iii) that
the investment leads to an overall increase to either production, profits or exports at the enterprise
or sector level. For each application, the PA prepared and submitted to the Bank supporting
documentation towards each of these criteria:

    (i) a cost-benefit analysis, based on a 4-year period, of providing JLC vs. paying the affected
         workers' salaries, to determine SOE eligibility; and
    (ii) a summary report of the SOE background the rationale behind its privatization, its
         relevance to the overall Government privatization strategy, and a summary post-
         privatization analysis.

The Petkim and Tupras case-studies indicate that their privatizations were in line with the
Government's strategy, that their post-privatization performance and efficiency significantly
improved, and that they have strategies in place for further productivity gains. The cost and
benefit analysis for both SOEs also indicated significant savings for the SOE as a results of
providing JLC payments to affected workers.




                                                 26
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

The overall outcome of the project is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

Several of PSSP II impacts on beneficiaries were satisfactory:

    (i) The Project successfully supported the privatization process of the Government through
         financing job loss compensation payments, largely in the form of severance payments,
         which led to efficiency gains in the privatized companies.
    (ii) Financing of job loss compensation resulted in mitigating the impact of privatizations on
         affected workers by providing a safety net keeping them out of poverty.
    (iii)Labor Redeployment Services created jobs through a wide range of training, small
         business incubators, and small business assistance services.
    (iv) Some of the approaches and tools financed under the Project, such as the LAG's
         awareness-raising mechanism for affected workers, small business incubators and
         assistance services, and performance-based contracting for ISKUR, which did not exist
         prior to PSSP, were adopted more widely by Government. The Project provided not only
         the financial resources to undertake these activities but, in the case of the LAG's
         consultations, it provided the necessary backbone for their engagement with workers in
         what was often a difficult environment for the Privatization Administration.

Notwithstanding, several factors limited the overall satisfactory outcome:

    (i) The Project did not promote workers' transition into the job market, by financing, to a
          large extent, early retirement.
    (ii) The TEP program, whose applicants became, for the most part, eligible for PSSP II
          financing through a POM amendment, does not encourage workers to find jobs, being the
          program a de facto bridge to retirement.
    (iii) KOSGEB and ISKUR activities, though intended to benefit largely workers displaced by
          the privatization of SOEs as well as secondary lay-offs, did not, in fact, target such
          beneficiaries. They ultimately resulted in a positive impact on the unemployed population
          at large, but were delinked from the Project's key objective.
    (iv) Despite the importance of establishing a mechanism, within the PA, to consult with and
          inform workers about the privatization process and the options available to them,
          preliminary evidence suggests that it was not fully effective. Furthermore, this framework
          is no longer in place at the PA, raising some questions about its ownership and
          sustainability.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

PSSP II effectively provided income support to workers impacted by privatization and prevented
them from falling into poverty. Workers who had reached their maximum retirement age
declared to have been almost not affected from the process as they are able to sustain themselves
through their pension and, in some cases, through income generated from investments. On the
other hand, younger retirees or terminated workers, approximately one-third of all those
surveyed, claimed a more negative impact on their incomes, including a sense of inadequacy and
the inability to properly support their children's future. For these, severance payments constitute a
bridge to either retirement or to the Temporary Employment Program (TEP), respectively, in non-

                                                 27
poverty circumstances. The average monthly severance payment reimbursed under PSSP II
provides an income just above standard households' poverty rates for several years (see Table 4).
Though this does not translate into the affected households maintaining the previous living
standards, it does provide an important safety net.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The activities financed under PSSP II increased institutional capacity in several ways:
   - Both PSSP operations, despite some previously outlined weaknesses in implementation
        arrangements, contributed to the interaction among three Government agencies, namely
        the Privatization Administration (PA), ISKUR and KOSGEB.
   - The PCU capacity was also enhanced. Under PSSP I, a technical assistance firm had been
        hired to carry out the administration activities related to the Project. Under PSSP II, these
        activities were transferred to the PCU, thereby increasing the capacity within the PA.
   - PSSP supported the creation of a framework within the PA which allowed direct
        interaction and pre-privatization awareness-raising activities for affected workers. Such
        mechanism, which did not exist before, changed the overall approach of the PA towards
        privatization, by bringing workers into the picture. The PA believes this was a crucial
        achievement of PSSP II. Even though preliminary evidence suggests that the LAG's
        company visits were not as effective in terms of providing information to workers about
        post-privatization options, the PA believes the mechanism, which is no longer in place
        since the closing of PSSP II, should be maintained. A follow-up assessment of the LAG
        consultations' impact would provide further insights on their effectiveness, and, more
        importantly, on how to improve this important bridging mechanism between the PA and
        the workers.
   - SBIs are also a relatively new concept in Turkey. The first incubator established under
        PSSP was Tarsus, in 2003. Its success was followed by demand from other regions, and a
        total of 11 incubators were established across Turkey by the end of PSSP II. KOSGEB
        gained significant capacity in the design and management of the SBI model, which was
        very new in Turkey at the time PSSP I was designed.
   - ISKUR highlighted the increased capacity, particularly of local office staff, in project
        management, monitoring, and auditing. Because Labor Redeployment Services were
        delivered by service providers requiring a planned procurement process with related
        agencies, this also contributed to planning and project management capacity of the
        agencies with which ISKUR cooperated. ISKUR local office managers also attended a
        training session on project management, which also gave them an opportunity to interact
        and exchange knowledge.



(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

As part of the ICR, three beneficiary surveys were conducted (please see Annex 5 for a more
detailed description of the surveys' objectives and key findings):

    (i) Job Loss Compensation beneficiaries' survey
    (ii) Small Business Incubators (SBI) beneficiaries' survey
    (iii) ISKUR training beneficiaries' survey



                                                 28
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

The risk to development outcome is rated Low. The Project's objective was to support the
Government's privatization program, through mitigating the negative social and economic impact
of the privatization of SOEs. The main risk, consisting in the reversal of the SOE privatizations
supported under PSSP II, is virtually non-existent, with no such occurrence in Turkey and no
evidence or basis to believe that it would occur in the future. Moving forward, the Government
remains committed to the privatization agenda, especially in the Energy sector. The negative
social and economic impact of privatization will continue to be mitigated through the job loss
compensation payments to laid-off workers and retirees, which is mandated under, and funded in
line with Turkish legislation. Laid-off workers will also continue to be eligible for the Temporary
Employment Program.

With regards to the other activities supported by PSSP II, Labor Redeployment Services (LRS)
continue to be carried out by KOSGEB and ISKUR. Small Business Incubators, with the
exception of Avanos, are still operational and Small Business Assistance Services continue to be
offered by both KOSGEB and ISKUR, though a mutual protocol they have recently signed.
ISKUR itself has an expanded mandate and has requested technical assistance from the World
Bank on the delivery of public employment services and on building a performance monitoring
and evaluation system for its training programs. As a further indication of strong ownership and
sustainability of training programs, ISKUR is also undertaking an Impact Evaluation of its Active
Labor Market Programs, currently in its design stage, with support from the World Bank.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

The ICR rates Quality at Entry Moderately Satisfactory for the following reasons: (i) project
design was and continues to remain relevant to the country's economic reform program which
considers privatization a priority; (ii) project design specifically addressed the Government's
fiscal pressure at the time of the 2000-01 crisis, and subsequently maintained, under PSSP II, a
successful framework and mechanism for the Privatization Administration to finance severance
payments while engaging with the workers through the Labor Adjustment Group; (iii) an
adequate assessment of the Borrowers' compliance with Bank's safeguard policies and fiduciary
matters was conducted by the locally-based team as well as Financial Management and
Procurement staff; and (iv) a comprehensive and self-standing M&E component was part of the
Project's original design.

At the same time, shortcomings at the design stage limited the effectiveness of the operation: (i)
there was no explicit recognition that a large portion of Job Loss Compensation would finance
retirees, and would thus not promote workers' transition to new jobs; (ii) targeting of Labor
Redeployment Services (LRS) was not in line with actual beneficiaries, despite evidence from
PSSP I that displaced workers did not enroll in LRS and the recognition, in PSSP I's ICR, that it
might be helpful, if opening the program more broadly (e.g. to the generally unemployed) to do
so formally rather than implicitly, so that the services could be better adjusted; and (iii) the early
amendment to the loan agreement to exclude critical evaluation studies from the Project design
suggests unrealistic expectations and a weak dialogue with the Borrower in this particular area,
also in view of pre-existing concerns about the sensitivity of the impact assessment conducted
under PSSP I.

                                                 29
(b) Quality of Supervision

Quality of supervision is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. During Project implementation, the
Bank maintained a sustained dialogue with the Government, particularly the Privatization
Administration (PA) and all the implementing agencies. Several team members were based in the
field and carried out close supervision of the Project. Financial Management and Procurement
staff, all located in the country office, was an integral part of the regular dialogue with the
counterparts. At the same time, supervision did not properly address some issues that emerged
during implementation. Those included:
      The exclusion of key impact studies from the Project design, without properly
         safeguarding the M&E aspect and without reflecting such changes into the Project's
         Results Framework, considerably impaired the ability to measure project performance.
      The Project Operational Manual amendment to include Temporary Employment Program
         (TEP) workers as eligible for Job Loss Compensation reimbursements with Project funds,
         in retrospect, impaired the ability to provide incentives for workers to re-enter the labor
         market.
      Despite close follow-up in the field, important discussions and possible agreements in
         between missions were not sufficiently or properly reflected in ISRs. The second ISR
         was submitted only four months after effectiveness, and thus did not reflect the important
         discussions with the Government on the amendments related to M&E while they were
         still ongoing. Once it was filed, the ISR simply indicated that the loan had been amended
         to simplify the M&E activities and integrate them into the Labor Redeployment Services
         (LRS) component. In fact, this was not the case, as the loan amendment did not make any
         reference to including M&E activities under the LRS component, but this was rather a
         non-binding agreement that the Bank had made with the PA, which never materialized.
         Similarly, no ISR was submitted to reflect the ongoing discussion about the eligibility of
         TEP workers, but only when this was agreed upon, and without providing the necessary
         background information on how this decision was reached and which alternatives (if any)
         had been considered. Overall, the outcome and intermediate outcome indicators reported
         in the ISRs were not in line with those in the original results framework.
      The lack of Tripartite Advisory Committee meetings, even though this was part of the
         Loan Agreement, which was not amended accordingly.
      Not carrying out a formal mid-term review, although the (new) team did undertake an in-
         depth supervision and full project review mission later in the Project's life that was
         essentially equivalent to a mid-term review.

However, during the last year of Project implementation, the Bank team conducted a large
number of supervision missions of every aspect of the Project and produced, apart from the
regular aide memoires, a number of policy notes for the Government concerning overall reform
possibilities of the social support for privatization processes as well as the Labor Redeployment
Services.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Given the Moderately Satisfactory rating for Quality at Entry and the Moderately Unsatisfactory
rating for Quality of Supervision, overall Bank performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.
This is also in view of the fact that (i) overall Project outcome was not significantly affected and
was rated Moderately Satisfactory (see Section 3.4); and (ii) intensive supervision efforts were
made during the last year of project implementation.



                                                30
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Government performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. Both during preparation and
implementation, the objectives supported under the Project enjoyed strong commitment from the
Turkish Treasury, the Privatization Administration, and all the implementing agencies, as they
were part of the Government's own privatization strategy. The country context, with an
invigorated privatization agenda, also confirmed the high relevance of Project activities.
Nevertheless, existing Government policies to mitigate the negative effects of privatization limit
displaced workers' incentives to transition to new jobs. The TEP, which was introduced before
PSSP II approval but whose participants were eventually made eligible for loan financing through
an amendment of the Project Operational Manual, is de facto a permanent program which
workers view as a bridge to retirement rather than a temporary alternative. The recent decision to
increase the yearly contract duration from 10 to 11 months further reiterates the permanent nature
of the TEP. Special Job Loss Compensation, awarded upon termination, is also a strong incentive
for terminated workers to not re-join the workforce as soon as possible. These are issues whose
resolution is beyond the scope of the Project, but nonetheless limited the effectiveness of PSSP II.
The assessment of Government performance also takes into account the lack of adequate
monitoring and evaluation arrangements, following Treasury's General Directorate of Economic
Research's decision to no longer be part of the Project and, with it, the exclusion of the originally
planned evaluation studies. The lack of originally envisioned consultations with the Tripartite
Advisory Committee was an additional factor in limiting fully satisfactory Government
performance.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

The performance of the implementing agencies is rated Moderately Satisfactory. ISKUR and
KOSGEB took the lead on Labor Redeployment Services (LRS), while the Labor Adjustment
Group (LAG) was mostly involved in Job Loss Compensation reimbursements in addition to
coordinating LRS activities. The PCU provided overall coordination and acted as the main
liaison with the Bank. The Project disbursed 92 percent of its funds, and implemented most of its
activities under all three components. Fiduciary performance, both at the central as well as local
agency level, was satisfactory. However, coordination across the agencies was penalized in part
by a persistent lack of communication between the PCU and the LAG, which also affected the
interaction and information-sharing process..

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Given the Moderately Satisfactory ratings for both Government and Implementing Agencies'
Performance, the overall Borrower Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.


6. Lessons Learned

 Linking service providers' contracts to actual performance rates, as was the case under PSSP II
 where training providers had to agree to pre-negotiated job placement rates of participants, is an
 excellent example of results-oriented project design, which should be increasingly replicated.
 Establishing an institutional platform for discussion with affected beneficiaries should be
 considered particularly for those operations targeting vulnerable groups. The Privatization
 Administration (PA) established such a platform under PSSP II and in its own view it had an

                                                 31
   important impact, by bringing workers into the privatization process early on. For the PA, this
   was an unprecedented approach.
   Project design needs to fully take into account lessons from previous projects, particularly in
   the case of repeater or follow-up projects. In the case of PSSP II, several lessons from the
   previous operation were incorporated. Others, such as the importance of making it explicit and
   including in project design the option of broadening the scope of the Labor Redeployment
   Services program to the overall unemployed population, was not properly reflected at the
   design stage.
   Amendments to loan agreements and Project Operational Manual should be fully consistent
   with, and support the project's scope and should be weighed carefully against other alternatives.
   If needed, mitigating measures should be identified. In the case of PSSP II, the POM
   amendment to include Temporary Employment Program (TEP) workers as eligible for Job Loss
   Compensation reimbursements with Project funds, in retrospect impaired the ability to
   encourage workers to re-enter the labor market and was thus not in line with the concept behind
   the Labor Redeployment Services component.
   Assessing the impact of Project activities should be at the core of each operation, particularly
   because of the potential implications that such findings could have on policy options and,
   ultimately, on the main beneficiaries. In the case of PSSP II, the Privatization Administration
   and the implementing agencies ­ ISKUR and KOSGEB ­ could not benefit from a full range of
   evaluation studies under PSSP II. The background notes and beneficiaries' surveys conducted
   as part of the ICR compensated for this lack of data only to a limited extent, but highlight some
   key areas for further analysis and/or consideration.
   Conducting impact assessments requires full ownership of relevant stakeholders, to maximize
   their utilization and impact. Lack of such ownership for the impact study conducted under
   PSSP I limited its utilization and distribution.
   Implementation arrangements should be kept simple and rely on existing structures within a
   given line agency, rather than create ad-hoc groups which are likely be dismantled at Project
   closing, with important implications about sustainability and capacity building. Following the
   closing of PSSP II, the implementation set-up was no longer in place, and with it some of the
   key features that were supported under the Project, including the framework for consultations
   with affected workers.
   Data collection and tracking of beneficiaries over time is a crucial component of good and
   sustainable Project management. Without this information, programs' effectiveness cannot be
   determined, and monitoring efforts fall short of assessing the impact of financed activities on
   the ultimate beneficiaries. The amount and quality of data available to assess the impact of
   PSSP II-supported activities was limited, particularly with regards to workers' contact
   information and adequate databases and tracking systems for Small Business Incubators'
   graduated firms and Small Business Assistance Services' participants.



7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

As part of its review of the draft ICR, the Privatization Administration provided comments on
two points (see Annex 7): (i) the view that the overall project rating should be increased from
Moderately Satisfactory to Satisfactory, based on IKSUR and KOSGEB's performance and on
the fact that the overall unemployed population benefitted from their services; (ii) the importance
of adequate transitional arrangements to minimize disruptions deriving from team rotations,
including task-team leaders (TTL) changes, within the World Bank.



                                                 32
The ICR analysis concurs with the Privatization Administration's view that the impact of project-
financed activities on the beneficiaries was satisfactory. Nevertheless, for the reasons outlined
throughout the report (and summarized in section 3.4), Moderately Satisfactory is considered the
most appropriate rating for the project's overall outcome.

With regards to the second point, the ICR notes the importance of ensuring that task-team leaders
and teams' transitions are made more efficient. PSSP II itself underwent one TTL change during
its four-year implementation. This occurred in mid-2008. To ensure continuity, the previous TTL
(who had been based in Ankara) supervised the project one full year after his relocation to
Washington, D.C., with the prospective new TTL (based in Ankara since October 2007) joining
the supervision missions on a continuous basis. Given that the mid-term review had been
postponed until the new team was in place, an in-depth project review occurred which looked at
operational, economic and social aspects of project implementation in detail, towards the end of
2008 (and this ICR used much information gathered during this in-depth review). This in-depth
review, including the operational questions attached to it, might have understandably contributed
to the impression that the transition process was particularly long and onerous.


(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                               33
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in Euro Million) (includes both IBRD and Borrower
financing)
                                                       Actual/Latest
                                 Appraisal Estimate                     Percentage of
          Components                                  Estimate (Euro
                                  (Euro millions)                         Appraisal
                                                         millions)
 Job Loss Compensation                  420.1              353.35          84.1%
 Labor Redeployment Services             27.2                14.93         54.9%
 Management, Monitoring and
                                          0.9                 0.474        52.7%
Evaluation
            Total Baseline Cost         448.2              368.75          82.3%
Physical Contingencies                     -                   -              -
Price Contingencies                        -                   -              -
             Total Project Costs        448.2              368.75          82.3%
Front-end fee PPF                          -                   -              -
Front-end fee IBRD                        1.80                1.80          100%
      Total Financing Required          450.00             370.55          82.3%




(b) Financing
                                                         Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of       Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing       (Euro       (Euro       Appraisal
                                                         millions)   millions)
 Borrower                                              90.00       40.87         45.4 %
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                       360.00      329.68      91.6%
and Development
Total                                                  450.00      370.55      82.3%




                                               34
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Job Loss Compensation:

Under the first component, 13,614 workers benefitted from severance payments, representing the
total number of workers displaced from the 20 State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs) privatized during
the life of PSSP II, as well as those occurred between January 2003 and October 2005. The lower
number of actual beneficiaries, compared to the original Project estimate to benefit 29,000
workers, was the result of overestimation at the appraisal stage, rather than of weak Project
performance. The initial overestimation resulted from the Privatization Administration's target
being based on the number of payments rather than on the number of beneficiary workers. This
determined a double-counting of Job Loss Compensation (JLC) and Special Job Loss
Compensation (SJLC) beneficiaries, whereas these payments are made to the same individuals
(see Table 9). The Loan Agreement and the PAD also included a provision that a maximum of
 210 million of the loan could be used to retroactively reimburse 81 percent of job loss
compensation payments made to workers displaced from privatizations after January 1, 2003 and
October 24, 2005, the loan signing date. Actual disbursements under the provision amounted to
 209.8 million, just below the established ceiling, benefitting over 9,300 workers.

Table 9: Job Loss Compensation Payments under PSSP II


                                                  Number of     Number of   Payment amount from
        Company Name                              Workers       Payments    PSSP II loan (Euro)
1       SÜMER BEYKOZ                              209           209         3,940,168
2       S^MER MER NOS                             717           717         10,968,051
3       S^MER S DA                                64            64          1,129,638
4       SÜMER ANTALYA                             220           220         3,464,628
5       SÜMER TERCAN                              204           204         3,268,855
6       S^MER MAN SA                              346           346         5,435,383
7       ADAPAZARI EKER                            128           128         1,399,982
8       SAMSUN GÜBRE                              462           462         6,842,289
9       BA AK S GORTA                             54            54          709,428
10      T^PRA                                     597           597         13,018,892
11      ET ALUM NYUM                              2,295         2,295       31,249,916
12      THY                                       1,425         1,425       22,990,704
13      TD                                        1,565         1,565       35,645,686
14      SEKA ZM T                                 628           628         12,048,128
15      PETK M                                    1,856         1,856       50,377,072
16      TEKEL S GARA                              2,596         2,596       54,323,405
17      TEKEL TUZ                                 491           491         6,823,106
18      KB Murgul                                 653           653         11,720,787
19      SEDA -Sakarya Elektrik                    337           337         8,576,114
20      BEDA -Ba kent Elekrik                     564           564         13,603,932
        Severance                                 13,535        13,535      278,309,300
        SJLC (33 firms)                                         7,939       29,892,263
        SJLC (9 firms)                                          7,759       3,900,363
        Civil Servants Social Assistance (3 firms) 79           79          262,351
        Job Loss Compensation (*)                 79            15,777      34,054,977
Total Job Loss Compensation                       13,614        29,312      312,364,277


Source: Privatization Administration
Note: Special Job Loss Compensation (SJLC) payments are made to the same eligible workers who receive
Severance Payments as well. Therefore, SJLC beneficiary workers are already comprised in the number of
workers receiving severance payments.


                                                           35
Component 2: Labor Redeployment Services

Labor Redeployment Services outputs included: 9,420 participants in ISKUR training, the
establishment of five new Small Business Incubators (SBI); 1,536 participants in Small Business
Assistance Services (SBA). The following tables provide a more detailed view of each of these
programs.

                            Table 10: ISKUR Programs' Outputs (as of June 30, 2009)


                                                                                                                         Total   Total
                                                                                                                                   # of
                                                                                                                         # of   Pa rticipa
                                             2006          2007                 2008                                   Projects     nts
                                            # of                 # of
                                   # of   Participa   # of    Pa rticipa   # of
     Se rvice Type               Projects    nts    Projects      nts    Projects
  Counseling                         1              296                                                                     1         296
  Formal Training                   41              845          102           2030           120          2181           263         5056
  On the Job Training               46              889           47            891           82           1801           175         3581
  Temporary Community
  Employment Program
  Services (TCEP)                    9              113           16            180           14            137            39         430
  Vocational Training for
  Prospective Self-
  Employees                                                                                    3             57             3          57
  TOTAL                             97              2143         165           3101           219          4176           481         9420
Source: Government's Project Closing Report

 Table 11: Employment Generated under PSSP I and II SBIs (as of October 2009)
                Year                                                                     Nu mb er of    Num be r      Nu mbe r
                of           Num be r of                     Num be r                    grad uated     of fi rm s    of jobs     Nu mb er of
  IS GEM        estab.       staff in          Nu mber       of            Num be r      fir m s        starte d      c re ated   wom e n
  Loc ation                  ISG EM            of offi ces   occup ie d    of te nan t                  up by         by          em plo yed
                                                                           fir ms
                             man age me nt                   offic es                                   wome n        e xisting   by ten ants
                                                                                                        e ntre p.     ten ants
  Tarsus           2003                                                                            34
                                         12           100           90             84                           13          516          1 85
  (PS SP1)
  Eregli           2004                                                                            22
                                          4            24           15             15                             2          50              8
  (PS SP1)
  Eskisehir        2004                                                                            15
                                          3            20           20             16                             4          58             19
  (PS SP1)
  Adana            2004                                                                            45
  (PS SP1)                                3            42           39             42                             7         267          1 20
  Me rsi n         2004                                                                             6
  (PS SP1)                                1            19           19             15                             2         108             12
  Van              2005                                                                             9
  (PS SP1)                                8            30           30             28                             3         285             45
                S ubtotal                31           235          213            200           131             31        1,284          3 89
  Samsun            2006                                                                          3
  (PS SP2)                                4            26           26             27                             5         749          2 58
  Ela zig          2006                                                                             1
                                         13            25           25             28                             1         215             67
  (PS SP2)
  Yozgat           2007                   2            27           26             17               7             1          63              3
  (PS SP2)
  Avanos           2006               N /A           N /A         N/ A               7          N/A           N/ A         N/A           N/ A
  (PS SP2)
  Diyarba kir      2007                   1            15           14             14               1             3          59             22
  (PS SP2)
                S ubtotal                20            93           91             93            12             10        1,086          3 50
                   Total                 51           328          304            293           143             41        2,370          7 39


Source: ISKUR



                                                                          36
                      Table 12: SBA's participants and start-up rates

                                                                         Actual
       Implementing No.                 Committed start- Actual start-up Number of     No. of people
       KOSGEB Office Participants       up rate (%)      rate (%)        start-ups     employed
        stanbul               75              10%             16%             11             12
       Çorum                  214             10%             11%             20             20
       Diyarbakûr             147             10%             15%             21             24
       Samsun                 157             10%             11%             16             16
       Elazû                  51              10%             24%             12             18
       Bartûn                 128             10%             11%             13             13
       Giresun                124             10%             11%             13             14
       Mersin                 92              10%             16%             13             30
       Gaziantep              93              10%             13%             10             36
       Malatya                72              10%             20%             14             15
       Adana                  74              10%             14%             10             22
       Osmaniye               75              10%             23%             16             52
       Kastamonu              70              10%             13%              9             9
        stanbul               164             10%             21%             32             51
                             1,536            10%             14%             210           332


Component 3: Project Management
Under the former Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (MME) component most of the
originally planned impact studies were excluded, with the exception of a study on Small Business
Incubators (SBIs), completed in August 2007.




                                              37
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Please see description in Section 3.3 of the main text.




                                                 38
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                 Responsibility/
       Names                      Title             Unit
                                                                   Specialty
Lending
 Ibrahim Akcayoglu     Operations Officer           ECSSD    Co-Task Team Leader
                       Sr Financial Management               Financial Management
 Ayse Seda Aroymak                                  ECSPS
                       Specialist                            Specialist
                       Senior Social Protection
 Jeanine Braithwaite                                HDNSP    Economist
                       Economist
 John A. Innes         Lead Operations Officer      ECSHD    Task Team Leader
 Jennifer Manghinang   Senior Program Assistant     ECSHD    Program Assistant
 Ibrahim Sirer         Sr Procurement Spec.         ECSPS    Procurement Specialist
 Elif Yonca Yukseker   Program Assistant            ECCU6    Program Assistant

Supervision/ICR
                                                             Co-Task Team
 Ibrahim Akcayoglu     Co-Task Team Leader          ECSSD
                                                             Leader/Consultant
                       Sr Financial Management               Financial Management
 Ayse Seda Aroymak                                  ECSPS
                       Specia                                Specialist
 Dilek Barlas          Deputy Executive Secretary    IPN     Lawyer
Irina Kichigina        Chief Counsel                LEGEM    Lawyer
 Robert R. Gourley     Consultant                   ECSHD    JLC Expert
                                                             Task Team Leader, June
Jesko S. Hentschel     Sector Coordinator           ECSHD
                                                             2008 to October 2009.
                                                             Task Team Leader,
 John A. Innes         Lead Operations Officer      ECSHD    January 2006 to June
                                                             2008.
 Carla Pittalis        Operations Analyst           ECCU6    ICR Author
 Ibrahim Sirer         Sr Procurement Spec.         ECSPS    Procurement Specialist
 Jennifer Manghinang   Sr. Program Assistant        ECSHD    Program Assistant
 Elif Yonca Yukseker   Program Assistant            ECCU6    Program Assistant




                                               39
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                      24.57                    102.31
  FY06                                       -                         0.00
  FY07                                       -                         0.00
  FY08                                       -                         0.00

                          Total:            24.57                    102.31
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                       -                         1.21
  FY06                                      20.98                     76.93
  FY07                                      15.82                     87.93
  FY08                                      15.40                    131.39
 FY09                                       19.65                     99.42
 FY10                                        8.54                     19.88

                          Total:            80.39                    416.76




                                       40
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


The following beneficiary surveys were conducted as part of the ICR preparation:

(i) Job Loss Compensation (JLC) Beneficiaries' Survey: A quantitative survey, followed by a
    focus group discussion, on a selected sample of workers benefitting from JLC payments
    within the scope of PSSP II, to assess the social impact of privatization and the mitigating
    effect of JLC payments for these workers and their families.

(ii) Small Business Incubators (SBI) Beneficiaries' Survey: A quantitative survey of SBI
     managers, tenant and graduated companies with the aim of providing a more complete picture
     as to whether small-business incubators can constitute a viable method for employment
     generation.

(iii) ISKUR Training Programs' Pilot Beneficiaries' Survey: A pilot follow-up survey of
      individuals, who recently completed a training program under PSSP II, was conducted as part
      of a broader TA program supporting ISKUR in building its institutional capacity on M&E
      and performance management in order to improve the effectiveness of its Active Labor
      Market Programs. The objective of the survey was twofold: (i) to test the feasibility of using
      surveys to supplement the data already available at ISKUR and Social Security Institute. Data
      from these sources will be used to develop an effective monitoring and evaluation system for
      ISKUR; and (ii) to provide insights on the effectiveness of ISKUR training programs
      financed under PSSP II. Further analysis of this pilot survey will help ISKUR assess if such
      a tracking survey is feasible and whether it can be conducted on a regular basis and
      incorporated into an enhanced monitoring and evaluation system.


(i) Job Loss Compensation Beneficiaries' Survey:

One important constraint in conducting the assessment was the limited and fragmented workers'
contact information. This has important implications on the ability to effectively track workers
displaced by the privatization process, and to ultimately gain insights for future policy decisions
affecting them. The sample consisted of 201 displaced Petkim and Tekel workers, including
some enrolled in the Temporary Employment Program (TEP). A sub-group of 20 workers from
the quantitative survey participated in follow-up focus group discussions, which were held in
Izmir and Samsun (see Table 13). The survey was not intended to draw general conclusions
about the privatization process or the affected workers population as a whole. However, it
highlighted a few areas where the PA and other relevant stakeholders may wish to focus their
attention and possibly undertake some further analysis.

                   Table 13: Sample of surveyed Petkim and Tekel workers

                                      Quantitative              Qualitative
            Total sample size         201                       20
            Enrolled in TEP           49                        8




                                                41
Key findings of the assessment are summarized below:

   -   The financial and social impact of privatization differed for each category of workers,
       though the majority claimed a decrease in their personal and household income levels.
       Workers who had reached their maximum retirement age were almost not affected from
       the process as they are able to sustain themselves through their pension and, in some
       cases, through income generated from investments. On the other hand, younger retirees
       or terminated workers, approximately one third of all those surveyed, claimed a more
       negative impact, including a sense of inadequacy and the inability to properly support
       their children's future. Temporary Employment Program (TEP) workers indicated some
       deterioration in their conditions, partly because their life standards were based on their
       previous salary levels. Some had consumer credits or home loans and used severance
       payments to meet these obligations, rather than invest them. This contributed to their
       sense of insecurity and concerns about their ability to support their families.

   -   Job Loss Compensation payments being largely utilized to meet ongoing expenses and
       honor debts. All the workers who were retired or laid-off told that they received their
       severance and notice payments within a few days. Many workers paid their debts, others
       used the funds for the education of their children and few of them invested them through
       the banking system. Some workers indicated that they started extra jobs unrelated to their
       occupation in Petkim and Tekel in order to have an additional income.

   -   The Temporary Employment Program (TEP) is not perceived as a temporary
       arrangement. Workers' criticism and unmet expectations towards the TEP indicate their
       perception of the program as a bridge to retirement rather than a temporary arrangement
       to ease transition to new employment. Workers indicated the "temporary" status of TEP
       responsible for causing a sense of job insecurity, despite the possibility to renew TEP
       contracts indefinitely. Criticism was also expressed about TEP salary levels, lack of
       premiums and overtime, and mismatches between workers' qualifications and previous
       experiences and occupations assigned to them while enrolled in the program. About 25
       percent of the interviewed workers had enrolled in the TEP. Of those, 61 percent were
       still in the program. Those who left the TEP indicated that they had remained in it for a
       minimum of two years.



(ii) Small Business Incubators (SBI) Beneficiaries' Survey:

An extensive questionnaire was filled out by 24 SBI graduates, 71 tenant companies and 10 SBI
managers. Additionally, 10 companies, which are no longer SBI tenants, were interviewed to
assess the reasons for their decision to leave the SBI.

Below is a summary of the survey's key findings:

SBIs helped the creation of 436 firms which generated, cumulatively, 3,518 jobs so far. Although
established two to three years ago, the SBIs funded under the PSSP II were quite successful in
stimulating entrepreneurship and creating jobs in their regions. Established under PSSP II,
Samsun's SBI is the most successful incubator in terms of employment generation. It helped the



                                              42
generation of 749 jobs and has the highest number of women employed in all SBIs (34 percent of
all employees of its tenants are women).

48 percent of tenants graduated from SBIs as of September 2009. The survival rate of graduates
after one year is high, at an average of 87 percent. Survival rates decrease to 74 percent and 54
percent in the second and third year of graduation, respectively.11 According to the SBI managers
the increase in the failure of business in the third year of graduation is a result of the financial
crisis.

SBIs have made notable contribution to their regional economies. The total turnover of
companies in seven SBIs (which provided information) was US$73 million since 2005, 26
percent of which was generated by two PSSP II SBIs (Elazig and Samsun). 63 percent of the total
turnover by all SBIs was generated by regional sales.

The level of exports by SBI companies (both tenants and graduates) has been low, amounting to
US$790,000 as of September 2009. 14 percent of total exports are generated by the tenants of
SBIs created under the PSSP II. In general, exporting is not one of the growth strategies of SBI
companies which mainly target the local (first regional and then national) market.

The capacity utilization ratio of SBIs is high, at an average of 88.5 percent (88 percent for
PSSP I incubators and 89 percent for PSSP II incubators). There is a gradual increase in the
capacity utilization rates per year, except for Tarsus and Eregli. Among PSSP II SBIs, Diyarbakir
has the lowest capacity utilization ratio (60 percent as of September 2009) decreasing from 85
percent in 2008, because of the financial crisis.

While a total of 499 applications were received by all SBIs in 2008, the number reached 734 by
September 2009. The increase in the total number of applications was due to the creation of the
new PSSP II-funded incubators which started to operate in 2006-2007. The majority of
applications (73 percent of all applications in 2008 and 76 percent of applications in 2009) were
received by four PSSP II-funded SBIs. On the other hand, applications to individual SBIs are
decreasing, with the exception of Elazig and Yozgat, due to the financial crisis.

Only a small number of SBI employees (8 percent) hold a university degree. In general, SBI
entrepreneurs have less than 10 years of work experience. Therefore, they need high level of
mentoring, training and technical assistance to develop knowledge and skills needed to create and
grow viable businesses. However, only around 10 percent of SBI firms declared that they
received such training. Also, only 9 percent of all trainings organized by SBIs (a total of 621
courses) were delivered by the PSSP II-funded incubators. The low levels of mentoring are cited
as an issue by the tenants and graduates of SBIs who highlight the need for guidance on
marketing and promotion as a crucial element for their growth and sustainability. Other kinds of
soft services, such as networking between tenant firms, and between tenants and other regional
companies as well as universities to access knowledge and advice, were deemed to have been
insufficient.. Linked with the issue of providing such services is the need for upgrading the skills
and knowledge of SBI managers and staff, which tenants and graduated firms noted as an existing
weakness.



11
   The above survival rates, unlike those discussed in the main text, are based on all SBIs, including those
established under PSSP II, and include Diyarbakir data, though it was very limited.


                                                     43
The majority of SBI firms increased their production capacities after graduation, mainly due to
the change of location which helped them get closer to the market/customers. They also increased
the average revenue created per employee in 2009 as compared to 2008, from US$6,468 to
US$9,512 as of September 2009.

In general, SBI tenants and graduates were not satisfied with the financial support and other
incentives provided through SBIs. SBI tenants can benefit from two main KOSGEB instruments:
(i) a grant of TL4,000 provided upon the submission of a business plan; and (ii) a loan amounting
to TL40,000 for the procurement of machinery and equipment. As pointed out by firms and SBI
managers, it may take around 6-8 months for a tenant to receive the grant support. For the
TL40,000 loan, tenants are required to submit Bank guarantee letters to KOSGEB. However, it is
very difficult for a newly established company to receive such letters preventing many SBI
tenants from accessing these resources.

Machinery and equipment investments by all companies were low (a total of US$5.4 million as of
September 2009). Around 70 percent of tenants and graduates stated that they had not made new
investments in machinery and equipment in 2008-09. This was also cited as a barrier to improve
production and sales by both tenants and graduates.
The majority of tenants and graduates found the SBI locations to be unattractive and difficult to
reach by customers and suppliers. There were also some problems reported with basic
infrastructure (such as power supply and Internet connection) which prohibit effective operation
of tenants in some SBIs.

Newly qualified personnel and new or improved products were the most important outputs cited
by both SBI tenants and graduates as a result of their activities in the incubators.

For SBI graduates, the key benefits obtained by locating inside SBIs were improved relationships
and networks, improved understanding of specific issues/problems, and improved internal
knowledge and capacity.

40 percent of graduates and 53 percent of tenants thought that the benefits of SBI support
outweighed costs. The rest either thought costs equaled benefits or costs outweighed benefits.
Contrary to the graduates, who believed costs outweigh benefits (17 percent), a large number of
existing tenants (41 percent) were of the opinion that costs outweigh benefits in SBIs due to the
current limitations in accessing financial support and benefitting from proper incentives.
The additionality of SBIs is moderate: 24 percent of graduates and 30 percent of tenants stated
that they would not have established their companies if they had not been supported by SBIs.

The legal status of SBIs is another important issue for the provision of effective incubation
services as well as for sustainability. Currently, management companies have to be established as
for-profit firms which are obliged to pay taxes and other costs (such as energy) at commercial
rates. With the initiative of Tarsus SBI a non-governmental organization called "SBIs' Union"
was established in early 2009 mainly to lobby for the improvement of the legal status of SBIs.

The current financial crisis negatively affected both graduate and tenant firms. They reported
problems in their access to finance, securing new contracts with current and potential customers,
and collecting money from customers for the goods/services they provided.




                                               44
(iii) ISKUR Training Programs' Pilot Beneficiaries' Survey:

The survey was conducted on a sample of 561 recent participants in ISKUR training programs
financed under PSSP II.

Key findings of the survey are summarized below:

About half of the participants came to know about the programs through ISKUR offices, while
the rest largely found out through informal channels.

61 percent of the participants rated the trainings good or excellent, but only 31% believed that the
skills acquired during the training helped them find a job.
Overall, only half of the respondents (51.2%) indicated that the training program was relevant to
the job they found. Among the respondents who were employed in wage and salary jobs in 2009
salary scales tended to be in the low-medium range, with 74 percent declaring average monthly
earnings between TL250 and TL749, and 97 percent below 1,250 TL against Turkey's minimum
wage of TL 576; (iv) training was rated relevant by only half of those who were employed after
the training.
These initial findings suggest an opportunity for ISKUR and the PA to further assess (i) the
attractiveness of the current set of training programs for displaced SOE workers, and incentive
system (or lack thereof) for them to enroll in such trainings. Because most workers benefitting
from JLC are retirees, while the remaining ones largely opt for the TEP, the demand for LRS is
expectedly negligible; and (ii) the extent to which such workers are adequately informed about
the existence, content, and how the information flow can be improved.




                                                45
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable




                                        46
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

(i) Summary of Borrower's ICR

The PA, in coordination with ISKUR and KOSGEB, submitted a Project Closing Report on
January 7, 2010. The summary and main conclusions are reported below.

OVERALL SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION

Social dimension of privatization has been on the agenda since the beginning of privatization
process. As social partners and large part of society worded their opinions on privatization, the
situation of employees was mentioned as a priority subject and some solutions were suggested. It
was envisaged that in addition to all legal rights which were previously gained by employees who
lost their jobs during or after privatization procedures, a job loss compensation would be paid; for
the ones who wished to continue to be employed in public sector a different status was
determined and these people were assigned to positions needed in public sector. This right is
valid for each State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs) employee and means a very comprehensive job
guarantee. Additionally Privatization Fund was set and certain provisions concerning early
retirement boost were adopted.

Compared to the other countries, Privatization process in Turkey has been extended to a longer
period of time. In enterprises included in this process, the fact that new employment was, unless
urgent, very low, developments in global economy, innovations in technology, growing
competition and effects of crises on organizations kept the number of employees in certain levels
thus SOEs were generally composed of senior employees who were close to retirement age.
Considering boosts on early retirement, job guarantee in public, job loss compensations,
international projects and vocational trainings, it can be alleged that compared to the other
countries privatization process in our country provided a smoother transformation.

All the implementing agencies of PSSP II are in agreement that the project achieved its objectives
and outputs. This conclusion is supported by the information given under the section output by
components as well as the remarks of the implementing agencies in the last part of the report.

In terms of Job Loss Compensation Component, overall, the rigorous Privatization Program of
the Privatization Administration enabled a very high disbursement rate for this Component.
Between the beginning and as of the end of the Project, total 312,364,277.00 had been
transferred from project resources to privatization fund to meet compensation payments of 13,614
beneficiaries from 20 enterprises. Final figures are also given in the coming paragraphs.

90 percent of Project sources were allotted for compensation payments of the personnel that
became redundant in organizations included in privatization program. This allotted resource was
used to distribute, without any failure, the legal compensations of workers employed in SOEs
which were sold or closed due to privatization process.

Job Loss Compensation payments amount for Turkey's biggest privatization implementation
Turkish Telekom were included in the JLC Budget projections at appraisal. However, this
enterprise was privatized by PA undertaking the related tender and sales process based on a
different regulation and law without including it under the scope of Privatization Program. As a
result, this enterprise and the corresponding amount 72 million was excluded from the future
projections. Also as explained in the relevant section a refund of 19 million (not actual refund to



                                                47
the loan account) by reduction of this amount from an eligible application was made for exclusion
of ineligible 4C/Temporary Employment Program (TEP) workers.

Despite these revisions, on account of the speedy implementation of the Privatization
Administration's privatization program in 2007 and 2008, most of the component budget had
been disbursed. Nevertheless, the amendment for changing the disbursement rate from 81 percent
to 95 percent starting from 2008 also played a role in reaching this rate.

Creating ownership for the project plays an important role in its success. Thanks to the
groundwork established under PSSP I, Privatization Administration project groups were very
affiliated with the Job Loss Compensation component and their responsibility in terms of
providing data and information to the Labor Adjustment Group. Verification committee(s) for
this component also worked effectively and timely.

In conclusion, we may say that the risks listed under PAD for this component did not realize and
the component was implemented successfully both in terms of implementation and disbursement
rate.

The final realization rate including eligible payments during grace period is 312,473,416.83
Loan disbursement rate for this component is 91.86 percent.

Under PSSP I lead agencies had to provide funds from their own resources as counterpart fund
for the Labor Redeployment Services. For the Turkish Employment Organization ( KUR) and
the Small and Medium Industry Development Organization (KOSGEB) to utilize these funds first
of all their investment budget had to be approved by the State Planning Organization (SPO) and
the funds had to be then released by the Ministry of Finance. Funds from the World Bank also
had to be included in their investment plans to be utilized during the year. So it was crucial that
the lead agencies obtained whatever budget they planned for the related year to be able to deliver
also the services they planned for annually.

In this regard, PSSP II operated in a different manner. 100 percent of Labor Redeployment
Services (LRS) was financed from the loan. Therefore although KOSGEB and ISKUR had to
include the amount corresponding to the Bank contribution in their annual budgets approved by
the State Planning Organization, absence of need from counterparts facilitated their budget
approval in terms of implementing the LRS.

For Labor Redeployment Services, both KUR and KOSGEB local offices actively participated
in the implementation. A number of training and seminar activities were organized for the staff
of these two agencies which assisted in creating the ownership for the project besides ensuring
effective implementation in the field.

PSSP I had presented a good example of cooperation among different government institutions
and also contributed to the training of the participatory institution's staff including the local staff.
Likewise PSSP II was also coordinated by the Privatization Administration in a successful
manner with daily communication with the implementing agencies through both by the Labor
Adjustment Group and Project Coordination Unit.

The financial management system utilized under PSSP I was not always responsive to the
requirements of the Treasury Comptrollers. Therefore, under PSSP II a more usable and
responsive software had been obtained. The project received positive opinion from the
controllers in terms of the Financial Management System.


                                                  48
With regards to evaluation of the Government's performance during the preparation and
implementation of the operation, we may say that the project was prepared very quickly, partly
because it was a follow-up project and also it was prepared by the team that implemented PSSP I.
All the counterparts actively participated the preparation phase of the project as well as the formal
negotiations. The protocols between the Turkish Employment Organization ( KUR) and the
Small and Medium Industry Development Organization (KOSGEB) and the Privatization
Administration were signed prior to negotiations and draft Financial Operational Manual, Project
Operational Manual and PAD were all ready and only minor adjustments were required at the
time of formal negotiations.

The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was mostly commended for its performance in terms of
coordinating this multi implementing-agency project. However this was not always an easy task.
The organigram of PSSP I and II envisaged co-coordinators at Privatization Administration,
Labor Adjustment Group (LAG) and PCU. Although LAG was in charge of technical aspects of
the project, as coordination and communication and also ensuring compliance with Bank's
procedures rested with the PCU, whenever PCU was by-passed either by LAG, the implementing
agency or even sometimes by the Bank, this would cause complications and slow down the
decision-making process. It has been experienced that the organigram for PSSP II was not the
best option in terms of functionality.

Apart from this, whenever any issues regarding implementation would rise, these were discussed
in detail and once the direct and correct channels of communication were in use, since and open
dialogue among all parties would enable a workable solution. It is believed that PCU's
professional problem solving approach played a role in this as well.

In terms of sustainability, it is very pleasing to see the results of an eight year work by all parties.
ISKUR and KOSGEB enriched their capacity pertaining to delivery of active labor programs and
programs for new entrepreneurs in small scale business. Incubators were introduced as a new
model and it is believed that the model will be further elaborated in a tailor-made manner to
comply with the conditions of Turkey in the best possible way.

In terms of Labor Redeployment Services (LRS), ISKUR and KOSGEB are now receiving funds
from EU or their own resources to continue the services. Albeit the focus of strengthening of the
labor market and small business initiatives is on the youth and the women, the services are still
open to the general unemployed. This automatically makes the workers who would become
redundant due to privatization, eligible to benefit from these services once they register with
ISKUR.

However, experience from PSSP I and PSSP II shows that the menu of LRS is not attractive and
enrolling these services is not a priority option for the workers redundant due to privatization.
Workers who did not retire would prefer to join the 4C/Temporary Employment Program (TEP)
schedule as explained under Component 1 to be able to retire from public work.               The
implementation of 4C coincided with that PSSP II Labor Redeployment Services and it was
chosen as a more preferable option.

Still, what the Privatization Administration (PA) can do next is, to continue announcing the
availability of Labor Redeployment Services at the enterprise level hence workers who would be
interested in these services may be guided to the related agency. PA experts and project groups
are capable of visiting the SOEs and this can be done on the basis of a schedule that would be
prepared in accordance with the tender program of PA. With the current funds available to


                                                  49
  KUR and KOSGEB, their services which will be ongoing after PSSP II closure would be open
to redundant workers as well.

Bank performance was mostly satisfactory in the eyes of the Government. One issue under
Component 1 took some time to be resolved which was the implications of 4C/TEP schedule for
workers in the SOEs. However the Bank and project experts worked out a way to agree on some
criteria as 4C/TEP was seen as a social safety measure for redundant workers by the Government.
Reaching an understanding on this concept enabled resuming fast disbursement of the
Component. The Bank team and experts changed several times which sometimes slowed down
the processes as naturally the new team would require some time for orientation. However, one
minor recommendation of the Government from its own experience would be on
information/knowledge and institutional memory transfer. The Bank might consider systemizing
its method of archiving on these matters to facilitate the reorientation of the new team when a
change occurs during the course of a project. Even though the Government is more than happy to
assist, it is also important for the Bank to enhance its procedures to that respect.

One of the issues expected to be covered by this report is the description of the proposed future
operation of the project to achieve its objective in the future. At this point, firstly we should
mention that PSSP II PAD pointed out that "the Job Loss Compensation and Labor
Redeployment Services (LRS) components of the PSSP II are not intended to be sustained over
time, as they are one-time severance payments and LRS are intended to facilitate privatization of
SOEs. However, experience gained during operation of these programs can assist the
government to design and implement additional downstream SOE privatization and civil service
reform programs. The LRS program is modeled after experience gained in the ongoing PSSP,
and similar programs in the Eastern Europe, the EU and the OECD, and will provide institutional
experience which can be useful for strengthening similar programs for general unemployed after
the PSSP2 is completed".

In parallel to opinion given regarding the Government's performance, we would repeat that the
LRS have become highly institutionalized both within ISKUR and KOSGEB with the
contribution of two PSSP projects among others they had implemented. The Government might
design new measures for redundant workers or revise the existing system. However, this should
be done from a broader perspective where general social security regulations would be
reconsidered.



TURKISH EMPLOYMENT ORGANIZATION'S (ISKUR) EVALUATION

Within the scope of PSSP II Labor Redeployment Services consulting services, vocational
training and short-term Temporary Community Employment Programs (TCEP) were provided
with the aim of enabling adjustment of registered ISKUR unemployed people into the labor force
market and receive financial benefits. It aimed to increase employment, meet qualified labor force
demand of market and implemented in line with Active Labor Force Programs total 481 projects
were put into life in different service types and professions. Within this framework, 263 formal
training, 175 on the job training, 3 Vocational Training Programs for Prospective Self Employers
(VTSE), 39 TCEP, and 1 consulting service were implemented, for a total of 481 projects.

In these projects implemented, total 9,420 people benefited from services and a resource
amounting to 18,278,329.66 TL was used. Of 9,420 beneficiary participants 8,546 completed the
services and amongst them 4,896 were placed to jobs. In workplace trainings employment ratio


                                               50
reached to 78.26 percent (2,408 people), in formal training 50.42 percent (2,377 people),
Temporary Community Employment Programs (TCEP) 15.72 percent (64 people) and consulting
services 11.49 percent (34 people). In Vocational Training Programs for Prospective Self
Employers (VTSE) 25 percent (13 people) established business. Other participants who were not
placed to jobs acquired a new profession or developed their current skills according to the needs
of labor force market so their employability chances increased.

With a wide distribution range, projects were implemented in 63 provinces. 84.11 percent of all
participants belonged to age group of 15-29, 39.01 percent was female. These ratios prove that
women and youngsters whose employability was hard benefited greatly from the provided
services.

Service Benefit and job placement cost per person for the services provided within the scope of
Job Replacement Services were, respectively: for Temporary Community Employment Programs
(TCEP) TL 3,836.67 and TL 24,398.85; for counseling services TL 143.56 and TL 1,249.82; for
formal training TL 2,458.03 and TL 4,874.69; for on-the-job training TL 1,632.70 and TL
2,086.30; for Vocational Training Program for Prospective Self Employers (VTSE) TL 1,218.22
and TL 4,872.88.

Above mentioned results were obtained at the end of projects. Meanwhile legislation actions
which constituted the base for service procurement continued incessantly and in line with
feedbacks and proposals developed together with dependent establishments and KUR-Labor
Adjustment Group, legislation was revised, and within the framework of World Bank service
procurement terms and conditions four Circular amendments were prepared. In those 3 in-service
trainings 290 participants- 200 KUR personnel- received 1,460 person-day services. Via
legislation actions the objective was to enable quick response of legislation to the needs. Besides
there was a significant improvement in project evaluation, monitoring, audit knowledge and skills
of Organization personnel.

In Temporary Community Employment Programs (TCEP) activities held to preserve cultural
heritage, environment and public substructure etc. workers received not only certain social
security but also a temporary income. Providing temporary income support to the unemployed is
included within training services as well. Accordingly in 480 projects 9,124 unemployed people
benefited from this opportunity by training and TCEP services.

In the budget of ISKUR in PSSP II LRS component-reaching to 10 million with additional
resource- 9,965,938 were allotted to projects as of end of year 2008.

By spending a budget of 9,876,975, a resource usage ratio with 99 percent was attained
successfully. Ratios stipulated in World Bank Field Operational Manual Employment
guarantee/commitment of service providers were exceeded; these ratios were 70 percent for
workplace training activities, 50 percent for formal training, 10 percent for TCEP services, 10
percent for consulting services, 20 percent for employment and TCEP services thus in all service
types, success was attained. Furthermore by providing service to 9,420 unemployed people the
number 8,500 that was originally planned in JLC component at appraisal exceeded with a ratio of
10.82 percent.

Employment necessity in training services enabled establishing a correlation working by itself
between training supply and labor force demand. Job placement guarantee was a determining
measure in performance evaluation that drove service providers to arrange a program aiming to
develop the skills in demanded professions.


                                                51
This model which has a similar form implemented successfully in the USA and England is
adapted skillfully to our country by considering changing labor force market conditions, work
legislation and organizational cases and methods. In World Bank Project Evaluation Meeting and
Report of January 2009, amongst its matches, it was pointed out as one of the best
implementations on both local and international scales.

To conclude, in addition to achievements obtained within the scope of project objectives,
organizational capacity and development in activities increased via Job Replacement Services; a
significant progress was achieved to place the unemployed ones registered in ISKUR into
employment market and short-term financial support given to the unemployed by trainings and
WPSB services helped to soften the social tension.

SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATION'S (KOSGEB)
EVALUATION

PSSP I and PSSP II Projects, by carrying international standards and experiences in two
significant mediums of promoting entrepreneurship "Business Establishment Counseling" and
"Business Development Centers" to our country, enabled the data transfer that helps us
implement these models. This background obtained through PSSP projects also played a vital
role in submitting competent projects to the European Union.

As an outcome of this experience gained through Project, KOSGEB took a decision to implement
these models with its own resources and for that purpose, prepared its own regulations and
instructions. Thanks to these models adapted to Turkey's conditions, self business employment
activities can be more commonly implemented throughout the country.

Besides, during the project implementation period many entrepreneur candidates (given in tables
related to measurable project outcomes) attained an opportunity to establish their own businesses
and in provinces the reputation of entrepreneurship and BDC concepts increased. More active
participation of local parties to development process was enabled.

KOSGEB would like to thank to Privatization Administration Project Coordination Unit, Labor
Adjustment Group and World Bank Ankara Office personnel, experts and advisers who all
contributed greatly to the implementation process of Project.

We would like to conclude with a suggestion in terms of impact assessment of implemented
projects.

As explained in the previous sections the research component of the PSSP II was cancelled at the
beginning of the project. This was partly due to the fact that similar studies under PSSP I were
only completed in 2005, right before the beginning of PSSP II and at the time of PSSP I closure.
The implementing agencies including KUR and KOSGEB were all agreement that output
monitoring and tracking of Labor Redeployment Services were important during project
implementation. These figures were compiled both by KUR and KOSGEB for PSSP II and
were included in the relevant sections of this report. Similarly the agencies were in agreement
that as for impact assessment it would be important to undertake these at least after 6 months the
projects are completed to maximize the prospective benefit from such studies. In this respect as a
broader policy the Bank might consider funds to undertake impact assessment studies in the form
of grants, after loan closure, for instance as Post-Implementation Assessment Funds, similar to
Project Preparation Facility Funds provided during project preparation/appraisal phases.


                                               52
(ii) Comments on Draft ICR

The following comments were received from the Privatization Administration, through the
Undersecretariat of the Treasury, on April 19, 2010. The report was also cleared by ISKUR and
KOSGEB.

Referring to the draft ICR Report dated as of March 19, 2010, we would like to express our
pleasure at having brought this mutual and very remarkable project to life. ICR Report (the
Report) for the PSSP 2 is a well-prepared, narrative and comprehensive report which will create
the opportunity to serve as guidance for similar future project operations.

On this occasion we would also like to emphasize a point as an addition to the Report. Changes of
the task-team leaders of the World Bank (the Bank) for various times, caused the establishing of
the effective communication to be delayed while an extra time is needed for them to be able to
adjust the management and implementation system of the Project, and hence be able to provide
the necessary technical support on time. Through this experience, the importance of transferring
the existing know-how of the project to the new team and furthermore, keeping the existing staff
as much as possible during the continuance of the project life, have inevitably appeared.

In that context, even though the Bank and Government performances are evaluated as moderately
satisfactory, for the reasons both ISKUR and KOSGEB performances is much above their target
rates, admitting the fact that almost the secondary vulnerable and overall unemployed population
benefitted from the services, we think that Moderately Satisfactory rating of the overall project
performance is unjustifiable. Instead, it could be rated as Satisfactory, since the Project had been
implemented smoothly based on the inherited system and experiences delivered from the PSSP 1.




                                                53
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Not Applicable.




                                         54
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank documentation:
 PSSP I Project Appraisal Document, November 27, 2000 (Report No: 20709 TU)
 PSSP II Project Appraisal Document, May 10, 2005 (Report No: 31738 TU)
 Aide-Memoires (2005-2009)
 Back-to-office reports and letters to Government (2005-2009)
 Signed Loan Agreement, October 24, 2005
 Amendments to the Loan Agreement, March 28, 2006 and February 13, 2008
 Project Operational Manual, May 2, 2005
 Amendment to the Project Operational Manual, March 27, 2008
 Country Assistance Strategy FY01-03, November 28, 2000. (Report No. 21408 TU)
 Country Assistance Strategy FY04-06, October 2, 2003. (Report No. 26756 TU)
 Country Partnership Strategy FY08-11, January 25, 2008. (Report No. 42026 TR)
 Country Partnership Strategy Progress Report, December 3, 2009 (Report Number: 51689 TR)
 Implementation Status and Results Reports (2005-2009)
 PSSP I Implementation Completion Report, June 21, 2006 (Report No. 34931TU)
 Labor Adjustment Project Implementation Completion Report, September 1999 (Report No: 3728-TU
 Quality at Entry Assessment, September 8, 2005
 Procurement post reviews

Other documentation:
 Project Closing Report, prepared by the PA, ISKUR and KOSGEB (December 4, 2009)
 Project's Quarterly Reports (2005-2009)
 Petkim Annual Reports, 2000-2009
 Tupras Annual Reports, 2002-2008
 Small Business Incubators Assessment Report, August 2, 2005
 Independent Auditors' Reports
 Privatization Administration's website

Consultations and interviews held as part of the ICR:
Privatization Administration
 Ozge Alpay, Head of PCU
 Rahmi Aksu, Head of LAG group
 Dogan Attila, LAG group
 Baris Dincer, former PA consultant
 Zafer Demirkan, PA

ISKUR
 Ferudun Giresun, Head of Labor Adjustment Department
 Abdullah Kadir Yanici, Labor Training Department Manager

KOSGEB
 Necla Haliloglu, Managing Director
 Seyda Ikiz, Expert

World Bank
 Jesko Hentschel, TTL and Sector Manager
 John Innes, former TTLSeda Aroymak, Senior Financial Management Specialist
 Ibrahim Sirer, Senior Procurement Specialist
 Robert Gourley, Consultant


                                            55
                                                                                                                                                                                   TU R K E Y
                                                                                                                                                                                        PROVINCE CAPITALS*

                                                                                                                                                                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                                                        RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TURKEY
                                                                                                                                                                                        MAIN ROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                        RAILROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                        PROVINCE BOUNDARIES*
               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
               The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
               shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
               Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
               endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                         *Province names are the same as their capitals.


                             26°E                              28°E                           30°E                             32°E                        34°E                              36°E                                      38°E                                                                    R US S I AN F E DE R AT I ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 US AN         DE        ON
                   B U L G ARIA
                     ULG A R I A
                                                                                                                                          Blac k Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0          50         100      150       200 Kilometers
                                                  To
                               To               Burgas
              42°N          Kurdzhali                                                                                                                                                                     0                  50            100                 150 Miles                                                     GEORGI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GE OR GI A                                  42°N

                                       Edirne                                                                                                                                        Sinop
                                                  Kirklareli
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                            Istanbul Strait                                   Bartin                                                                                                                                                                    Batumi
                                                                             (Bosphorus)
                                                                                                              Zonguldak                                                       Ku
                                                                                                                                                                                   zey
                     CE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                a
                                        Tekirdag                                                                                                                                                          Samsun                                                                                               Artvin        Kur
                                                                              Istanbul                                                                     Kastamonou                       Ana                                                                                                                                                 To
                 EE




                              To
                            Komatini                      Sea of
                                                                                  Kocaeli
                                                                                   (Izmit)                     Düzce
                                                                                                                                        Karabük
                                                                                                                                                           Devr
                                                                                                                                                               ez
                                                                                                                                                                                                  dolu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Dag                  Ordu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Trabzon                                        Ardahan             Kirovakan               AZER-
            GR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             lari                                                     Rize
                                                         Marmara
                                                                         Yalova
                                                                                                     Sakarya                                                                                                                                       Giresun                                                                                                         BAIJAN
                                                                                                                        Bolu                                             il                                                                                                                 ruh                                     Kars
                                                                                                     (Adapazari)                                       Çankiri        Kiz           Amasya                                                                                                Ço                                                      ARMENIA
                                                                                                                                                                     Çorum                                                  Kelki
              40°N
                              Çanakkale                                                       Bilecik
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t                      Gümüshane                                                                                                        40°N
             Çanakkale                                                   Bursa                                                                                                                                      Tokat                                                           Bayburt                          Ara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         s                          Agri Dagi
               Strait                                                                                            Sakar ya                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (5166 m)
            (Dardanelles)                                                                                                                                                                           erek                                                                                                                                    Igdir
                                            Balikesir                                                Eskisehir                                                                                   Cek                                                                                                                                Agri
                                                                                                                            ANKARA                                                                                                                                       Erzincan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Erzurum
                                                                                                                                                     Kirikkale
                                                                                                                                                                              Yozgat                                         Sivas                      t
                                                                              Kütahya                                                                                                                                                               Fira                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Maku
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AZER.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    zil
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ki
                                                                                                                                                     Kirsehir                                                                                                  Tunceli
                                                                                                    Afyon                                                                                                                                                                       Bingöl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Mus
                               Izmir
                                                Manisa
                                                                            Usak
                                                                                                                                       Tuz
                                                                                                                                       Gölü                 Nevsehir                                                                                      Elazig                         Mu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ra   t                               Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Van       Van
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Salmas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ISLAMIC
                                                                                                                      Aksehir
              38°N
                                                                                                                       Gölü
                                                                                                                                                Aksaray
                                                                                                                                                                                       Kayseri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Bitlis                                    REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Malatya
                                                 Aydin                                        Hoyran
                                                                                               Gölü                                                              Nigde                                                                                                               Diyarbakir                      Siirt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IRAN
                                                               Denizli                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Batman                                                   To
                                                                                                        Baysehir            Konya                                                                                                                Adiyaman                                                                                                  Oroumieh
                                                                                     Burdur                Gölü                                                                                                    Kahraman                                                                           Tigris                            Hakkari
                                                                                                    Isparta                                                                                                          Maras                                                                                       Sirnak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                an
                                                                                                                                                                                                               yh
                                                                                                                                                                                        n




                                                  Mugla                                                                                                                                                   Ce                                            ates                                  Mardin
                                                                                                                                                                                     yha




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Euph                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                   Se




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Dahuk
                      GR




                                                                                                                                       Gö      Karaman                                  Osmaniye                                     Gaziantep                 Sanliurfa                                        To Damir
                                                                                          Antalya                                         ks                                                                                                                                                                      Kabu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                                                                ri
                            EE




                                                                                                                                           u




                                                                                                                                                                                    Adana
                                  E                                                                   Gulf of                                          g   la          Icel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Kilis                                                     Al Hasakah
                              C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 33501R2
                                                                                                      Antalya                                   s   Da               (Mersin)                                                                                                                                                                 I R AQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AQ
                                                                                                                                            o
                                                                                                                                       To r
              36°N                                                                                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                               Hatay (Antakya)                          Aleppo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SYRIAN       AB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SY RIA N A R A B
JULY 2008




                                                          Mediterranean Sea
                                                28°E                             30°E                                  32°E                            34°E
                                                                                                                                                                                             To Ladhiqiyah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REPUBL I C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REPUB L                                                                   42°E                          44°E
