Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9824-KE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KENY'A
UNIVERSITIES INVESTMENT PROJECT
OCTOBER 7, 1991
Population and Human Resources Division
Easte-^n Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the rierfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KENYA: LNIVERSITIES INVESTMENT PROJECT
Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit       =      Kenya Shilling (KSh)
US$1.00             =      KSh 28 (June 1991)
US$1.00             =      SDR 0.750672 (August 31, 1991)
Measures
Metric System
Government Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CHE          Commission for Higher Education
CVC          Committee of Vice-Chancellors
EDSAC        Education Sector Adjustment Credit
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GOK          Government of Kenya
JAB          Joint Admissions Board
JICA         Japanese International Cooperation Agency
JKUCAT       Jomo Kenyatta University College of Agriculture and Technology
KCPE         Kenya Certificate of Primary Education
KCSE         Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education
ODA          Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
PIU          Project Implementation Unit (Ministry of Education)
SOE          Statement of Expenditure
UNESCO       United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
USAID        United States Agency for International Develoriment
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Kenya in
May/June 1991, comprising Nicholas Burnett (senior economist and mission leader),
Josephine Hykin (science and technology expert), James McCabe (principal education
specialist), Gordon Hunting (education specialist/consultant), James Kamunge (education
specialist/consultant) and Maureen Woodhall (student loan expert/consultant). Christine
Allison (economist) led earlier preparation missions for the project, in conjunction with those
for the Education Sector Adjustment Credit (2295-KE) approved by the Board on September
3, 1991. Raju Laburam provided secretarial assistance in the preparation of the report. Jamil
Salmi and William Saint are the lead advisers, Dennis Mahar the managing division chief and
Callisto Madavo the managing department director for the operation.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
)KENYA: UIIVERSITIES INVESTMEN:T PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ............. i
I.  IUNIVERSITIES IN KENYA
A. The Education Sector .1
B. The Universities.                                                           2
C. Sectoral Issues and Government Strategy.                                    6
D. External Assistance ................................   10
II.  THE PROJECT
A. Objectives ......................................  12
B. Summary Description ...............................   12
C. Detailed Description of Components  .....................   12
C.1 Central Components ..........................   12
C. 1.1  Strengthening the Commission for Higher Education 12
C.1.2  Reforming the Student Loan Scheme  ....         ....  15
C.1.3  Studies ..........          .................   16
C.1.4  Support for Applied Research ....         .........  16
C. 1.5  Project Implementation .....         ............  17
C.2 University Components.           ...............                   '1
C.2. 1  Subproject Selection and Phasing ....       .......  17
C.2.2  Subprojects by Function  .....         ...........  19
C.2.3  Phase I Subprojects by University  ....       ......  21
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Costs .......................................... 25
B. Financing Plan ..........            .........................   28
C. Procurement ..........             ..........................   28
D. Disbursements ..........             .........................   31
E. Accounts and Audits  ...............................  32
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Project Preparation  ..........................   33
B. Organization and Management .........................    33
C. Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation  ..........          ..........  34
D. Environmental Impact ...........................                          35
V.   PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Justification  ..........         ..................   36
B. Risks ......................................                              36
VI.    ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION   ......                            ...............  38
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLES
2.1       University Components by Functional Category   ................   20
2.2       Phase I Packages by Functional Category   ....................   21
3.1       Project Costs by Expenditure Category  ......................   26
3.2       Project Costs by Component  ...........                     I        ................   27
3.3       Proposed Project Financing  .............................   28
3.4       Procurement  .............                       .........................    29
ANNEXES
1. Letter of Education Sector Policy  .........                           ..................   41
2. Public University Admissions and Cost Data .....................  53
3. Interim  Task Group and Secretariat: Structure and Staffing   ....                        ........   57
4. Strengthening CHE: Schedule of Subcomponents and Outputs   ....                              ......   58
5. Studies: Outline Terms of Reference  ..........................   60
6. Support for Applied Research: Criteria for Funding .................   61
7. University Subproject Selection Criteria and Operational Indicators  ....                        ...  62
8. University Components: Implementation Schedule ..................   65
9. Phase I Packages: Typical Subprojects  .........................   66
10. Phase I Packzges: Summary List of Subprojects ...................   68
11. Detailed Project Costs ...................................   75
12. Technical Assistance Requirements    .....    ....................   83
13. Estimated IDA  Disbursement Schedule   ........................   84
14. Implementation Responsibilities of CHE  and PIU   ..................   85
15. IDA  Supervision Plan  ...................................   87
16. Documents in the Project File  ..............................   88
MAP
IBRD No. 23076: Kenya Universities



KENYA: UNIVERSITINVEsTMENT PROECT
Credit and Project Summary
lorrower:           Republic of Kenya.
Beneficaries:       Ministry of Education, Commission for Higher Education, Student
Loan Scheme body, and six public university institutions.
AigmWt:             SDR 41.3 million (US$55.0 million equivalent).
Terms:              Standard IDA terms with 40-year maturity.
Onlending Terms:   Grant.
I     Qkect Objectives:  Support the government's program to consolidate and develop the
universities by (a) rationalizing and strengthening the institutional
framework for higher education, in both the public and the private
sectors; (b) limiting the growth of government budgetary resources
devoted to the public universities by promoting cost sharing and
improved investment planning; and (c) improving the quality of the
teaching and research delivered at the public universities. The project
is directly complementary to the Education Sector Adjustment Credit
(EDSAC), approved by the Board on September 5, 1991 (Credit No.
2295-KE), building on the higher education adjustment policies
supported by EDSAC.
Project Description:  Central Components: strengthening the Commission for Higher
Education, reforming the Student Loan Scheme, carrying out relevant
studies, supporting applied research, and implementing the project.
University Components, at the six public university institutions:
strengthening institutional development (especially administration and
finance), staff development in key areas, and the supply of teaching
and related equipment. This will be done in three phases, Phase I
having been selected at appraisal and Phases II and IH to be appraised
and selected by the strengthened CHE as part of institution building.
Benefsits:          The project, together with EDSAC, will have three principal benefits.
First, it will set in place an institutional framework for the
coordination, planning, programming, budgeting and financing of
Kenya's public universities. The project is designed to support
institution building through the progressive adoption of new functions
by the Commission for Higher Education, specifically through
preparing a universities development plan for 1993-99 and through
taking responsibility for subproject appraisal and selection under
Phases II and m of the University Components. This is the key
benefit, and is also supported by EDSAC. Second, the project will
help to control the government's education budget, stabilizing the
rapidly escalating university share of the recurrent budget for



education at around 20 percent. Recurrent spending by the rapidly
expanding universities has been one ot the two main factors driving
the education sector budget, which in turn has been a major force in
driving overall government expenditure and resulting in the fiscal
deficit. The adoption of an institutional framework for financing
universities, limits on student admissions, and the reform of the
Student Loan Scheme will together bring university expenditure under
control. Third, the bulk of the project funding will be used to provide
equipment and materials to improve the quality of the teaching and
research that the universities deliver. In time, the concentration of
both teaching and research quality improvements on those science and
engineering disciplines most critical for Kenya's development will also
benefit the economy as a whole.
The project has two risks. The first - and most serious - risk is that
the policy framework put in place by EDSAC, which provides the
context for and is extended over time by this project, may not hold if
government support falters in the face of public opposition to various
reform measures. Restricting student numbers, and increasing cost-
sharing, both direct and deferred, ire two examples of measures
potentially unpopular with student. and their parents, while giving
CHE far reaching financial controls is potentially unpopular with the
university Vice-Chancellors, even though they sit, and will continue to
sit, on the Commission of CHE. However, the preparation of both
EDSAC and this Project have involved extensive consensus building
through ad hoc task groups, and indeed the ones established for this
project are now being formalized and will evetntually become part of
CHE. This consensus building appears to have paid off in terms of
the initial policy steps that the government has already taken: limiting
student admissions, stating that CHE will be revamped and appointing
a Coordinator, and announcing reforms to the Student Loan Scheme.
Tackling these issues in the context of EDSAC (where they are
conditions of tranche release) as well as in this project (where they are
the subject of covenants), not to mention their inclusion in the IMF
Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility approved on August 2, 1991,
provides a powerful external stimulus to stay the course.
A second risk, specific to the project, is that CHE will take time to
develop the capacity to coordinate university development in general,
and to appraise subprojects in particular, and that this will impede
implementation. This risk has already been reduced, however, by the
extensive manner in which the Phase I subprojects were reviewed
jointly by the Bank and the government at appraisal, which established
consensus on both procedures and criteria, and subsequently
confirmed at negotiations. Moreover, the risk is justified in the
interest of institution building and will be mitigated by the conditions
of disbursement on Phases I and III and will also be the subject of
specific attention during the two major project reviews.



- fii -
Summary of Project Costs and Financing Plan (US$ million):
Lncal      Foreign     IQ1al
Estimated CostsL'
Cent-al Components               5.3          4.2          9.4
University Components            2.6         43.0         45 5
Total Base Cost                  7.9         ' 7.2        55.1
Price Contingencies              2.1          3.9          6.0
Total Project Cost              10.0         51.1         61.1
Financing Plan
Government                       6.1          -            6.1
IDA                              3.9         51.1          55.0
Total Project                   10.0         51.1          61.1
a/ Net of taxes
Estimated Credit Disbursements by IDA Fiscal Year (US$ million)
FY92        FY93         FY94         EF9          FY96
Annual              8.4         15.1         10.5        10.5         10.5
Cumulative          8.4         23.5        34.0         44.5         55.0
Rate of Mleurn: Not applicable.
MU: IBRD No. 23076.



I. UNIVE SITIES IN KENYA
A. The Edtication Sector
1.1          Kenya's education system has expandei dramarically in the three decades
since Independence in 1963. Rapid growzh has been driven by demographic pressure from
one of the highest population growth rates in the world, the desire to offset the unequal
distribution of educational resources and opportunities inherited from the colonial period, the
recognition that human capital accumulation is essential for economic growth and for both
national and individual development, and the belief that education is an important vehicle for
national integration. The number of primary school students has grown from about 890,000
in 1963 to over 5,000,000 today, and the gross enroIlmtnt ratio has increased from about 50
percent to over 90 percent. Secondary school student numbers have risen fiom about 30,000
to over 600,000, and university students from 600 to 50,000, of whom 10,000 are at
universities abroad. Adult literacy rates are estimated to be above 60 percent for males and
40 percent for females. Generally, Kenya's educational enrollment ratios, its female
participation rate, and its achievements in adult literacy compare very favorably with other
sub-Saharan African countries.
1.2          Such high standards of educational achievement for a rapidly growing
population have not come without cost. Unlike many sub-Saharan African countries, Kenya
has invested heavily in its education system, and levels of both public and private expenditure
are high by world standards. Central government expenditure on education now accounts for
over a fifth of all Government expenditure and over six percent of GDP. Development
expenditure represents only a small proportion of these outlays, largely because parents and
communities provide the bulk of the investment needs in primary and secondary school. By
contrast, public recurrent expenditure on education is very high and has risen steeply since
Independence. By 1989/90 it accounted for 36 percent of the country's total voted recurrent
budget compared to 15 percent at Independence and 30 percent in 1980. The proportion of
parental and community financing varies widely by level of education and is inversely related
to the adequacy of government financial support. At primary and secondary levels, private
contriburions are substantial; they support learning materials and recurrent boarding costs in
addition to virtually all investment needs. Government expenditure is essentially for teachers'
salaries. At the tertiary level, government shoulders the financial burden of both investment
and recurrent costs.
1.3          An important structural change was introduced in the mid-1980s when the
former 7:4:2:3 British-type education system was replaced with a North American 8:4:4
model. In essence, a year was added to primary education which now culminates with the
Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) after eight years, the terminal year of formal
education for about 50 percent of children; the former four year "O" level and two year "A"
level secondary courses were merged into a four year cycle which terminates in the Kenya
Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE); and a year was added to the undergraduate
degree program so that a Bachelor's degree now takes at least four years of study. This
structural change has been accompanied by a qualitative change at all levels. By adding more
subjects, including practical subjects in upper primary and secondary education, the new
curriculum aims to expose children to a broad range of experiences in preparation both for
life and for further study.
1.4          Kenya has reviewed periodically the philosophy and objectives of its education
system. The most recent, the 1988 review by the Presidential Working Party on Education



and Manpower Training for the Next Decade and Beyond, called for increased access to
education and training and enhanced quality at all levels, while recognizing the reality of
Kenya's macroeconomic and financial constraints. Issues of cost effectiveness, internal and
external efficiency, as well as educational quality, access and equity, were therefore deemed
critical. The Working Party's recommendations were largely adopted by the government in
Sessional Paper No. 6 of 1988, also titled Education and Manpower Training for the Next
Decade and Beyond. Implementation of the Sessional Paper has begun; the government's
Letter of Sectoral Policy of July 29, 1991 (Annex 1) sets out the principal measures the
government will adopt over 1991-93 to tackle these issues systematically. Chief among them
are limits on the growth of primary and secondary school teachers, lims on university
admissions, and reform of the university student loan scheme, all of whicn will halt the
unsustainable rapid growth in the education recurrent budget, ard the preparation of a sectoral
investment plan to guide development expenditures. In addition, important qualitative reforms
are included, notably some public sector provision of textbooks to primary schools, revisions
to primary and secondary curricula, a study of falling primary participation ratios and high
wastage, the strengthening of the Ministry of Education's planning and statistics capacity, and
the establishment of an institutional framework for the public universities. The program
described in thz government's Letter is being supported by IDA through' the Education vector
Adjustment Credit (EDSAC), approved by the Board on September 5, 1991
(Credit No. 2295-KE). Those measures affecting universities are described further in this
chapter1/.
B. The Universtiesc
1.5          Post-Secondarv Institutions. Post-secondary education in Kenya consists of 17
university level and about 160 other institutions:
*     Four public universities and two university colleges (with 41,000 students,
including 39,000 undergraduates and 2,000 postgraduates);
*     Eleven private universities (with 2,000 students);
*     Eighteen public teacher training colleges (15 primary, with seven more under
construction, and three secondary, with 19,000 students);
*     Three private primary teacher training colleges (with 300 students);
*     Three public national polytechnics (with 5,000 students);
o     Other public training institutions, run by various government ministries (52,
with 13,000 students);
*      Private training institutions (325, with 16,000 students).
In addition, there are approximately 10,000 Kenyan students attending post-secondary
institutions abroad, mainly in Britain, Canada, India and the United States.
I/    The full program is described in Report P-5571-KE for EDSAC.



- 3 -
1.6          There is great diversity in the facilities, equipment, courses and standards of
training offered by these institutions. In 1985, the government established the Commission
for Higher Education (CHE), to be responsible under the Universities Act of 1985 for the
promotion and development of all post-secondary institutions (including universities), the
coordination of their curricula, and their inspection and accreditation. CHE has published a
first ever directory of "Post Secondary School Institutions and Courses in Kenya" (excluding
universities) but has otherwise been largely preoccupied with accrediting the existing private
univeisities and guiding the planning of new ones. It has not as yet played a major role with
regard to the public universities. While public universities and teacher training colleges come
under the aegis of the Ministry of Education, the national polytechnics are under the recently
established Ministry of Technical Training and Applied Technology; other public training
institutions are the responsibility of specific ;ine ministries, e.g. the Ministry of Health runs
the schools of nursing.
1.7          The Changing Role of Universities. Kenya's universities have gone through
three periods of development. The first, from 1956-84, was characterized by the planned and
controlled expansion of a single university institution. The second, from 1985-90, saw a
dramatic increase in the numbers of both university institutions and students, with the
universities being one of the main driving forces behind the rapidly rising, and unsustainable,
recurrent budget for education, and with the quality of university education being seriously
jeopardized. The third, which has just begun in 1991, is a renewed period of controlled
growth, with the emphasis on planned development, expenditure control, cost-sharing and
improving the quality of teaching ana research. Both the EDSAC and this project are
designed to support the government's efforts during this new period.
1.8          From 1956 until 1984 there was only one public university, the University of
Nairobi, with a relatively small eurollment (8,900 in 1984), the bulk of the students pursuing
degrees in liberal arts, medicine, agriculture, engineering and education. Its graduates, and
also those few Kenyans who then went abroad for their degrees, were largely recruited into
the public service. Indeed, the principal role of the university was to supply a very small
educated elite to staff the public service. With the government's desire to indigenize the civil
service following Independence in 1963, university education was essentially free to those
enrolled and employment in the public sector was guaranteed upon graduation. Following the
recommendation of a Presidential Working Party on a Second University, Moi University was
established in 1984.
1.9          The next five years, from 1985-90, were ones of dramatic change for Kenya's
public university system. Two former constituent colleges of the University of Nairobi
became universities in their own right: Kenyatta University in 1985 and Egerton University in
1987. From 1987-90, there was a huge increase in the number of public universities and
students, all largely unplanned and far in excess of the numbers anticipated when university
expansion was being planned in the early 1980s. Following an earlier closure, 1987
witnessed a "double-intake" of 8,500 students, compared to 3,500 in 1986. Subsequent
admissions in 1988 and 198' remained high, above 7,000 each year. But even against this
background, 1990 stands as an extraordinary yeor in which 21,450 students were admitted,
bringing total enrollments to about 41,000 (39,000 undergraduates and 2,000 postgraduates).



1.10         Four principal factors account for the dramatic growth between 1985--90, and
particularly since 1987:
a)    The role of the universities changed from that of preparing students to ;,e-ome
public servants into that of training high level manpower for the ecovomy as a
whole; this policy that the universities are expected to meet national
development objectives and to respond to emerging socioeconomic needs was
defined in various government policy statements, and was most recently
reaffirmed in Sessional Paper No. 6 of 1988.
b)     Continued high levels of population growth expanded the absolute numbers of
sec3ndary school leavers, increasing the pressure for more university student
places.
c)    The 8-44 system arrived at the door of the universities in 1990. This
structural change in Kenya's education system (para. 1.3) reflected the
g,wernment's desire to make education more relevant for development and to
increase equity by exp.nding educational access at all .evels. The year 1990
had two groups of school leavers. It was the last year in which "A" level
school leavers could seek university admission for 3-year degrees and also the
first year in which KCSE school leavers from the new secondary school cycle
were due to start the new 4-year university cycle. The government admitted
both groups at the same time, taking in 12,243 "A" level holdets and 9,205
KCSE school leavers.
d)    The private demand for university places grew rapidly, reflecting the
particularly high value Kenyans place on education in general, and on
university education in particular. This is largely because university education
has been essentially without private costs, while yielding very high private
returns.
1.11         The Current Public University System. The events of 1990 required the
conversion of a number of other tertiary institutions into university facilities such that the
public sector now has four full universities, two constituent university colleges and eight
campus colleges spread over 14 different sites. Full universities are autonomous financially
and grant their own degrees. Constituent university colleges are affiliated with full
universities and may in time become full universities themselves; they have financial
autonomy but do not grant their own degrees. Campus colleges are parts of full universities
at different physical locations. It is government policy that different universities concentrate
on certain disciplines, through their designation as national centers of excellence. The
universities have agreed on these specializations in general terms and will further refine them
in the future.
1.12         The public university institutions are shown on the Map and consist of:
The University of Nairobi, with a 1990/91 enrollr.- nt of 13,740
undergraduates and 1,600 postgraduates (total 15,340 students). Established
in 1956 as the Royal Technical College, an affiliate of the University of
London in Britain, it became Nairobi University College, a constituent college



of the University of East Africa, in 1963 and a full university in 1970. In
addition to arts graduates for the general civil service, it developed programs
after Independere to meet specialized public service needs for those qualified
in medicine, architecture, law, engineering, veterinary sciences, commerce,
education, population, meteorology, surveying and photograrnmetry. The
University of Nairobi has six campus colleges spread over eight sites, and is
the only major postgraduate university. It also has a site at Kibwezi for
teaching and research on arid and semi-arid lands.
Mol University, with 6,620 undergraduates and 70 postgraduates (total 6,690
students). Established in 1984 as Kenya's second full university, it specializes
in the fields of science and technology, medicine, environmental sciences,
forestry, library and information sciences. It has one campus college at
Chepkollel, formerly Moi Diploma Teachers College.
*      Kenyatta University, with 8,650 undergraduates and 340 postgraduates (total
8,990 students). A constituent college of the University of Nairobi since
1972, it became a full university in 1985 and specializes in education, music
and home science.
*     Egerton University, with 6,890 undergraduates and 500 diploma students
(total 7,390 students). Established as an Agricultural College in 1939, it
became a constituent college of the University of Nairobi in 1986 and a full
university in 1987. It specializes in agriculture, has one campus college at
Laikipia (temporarily housed in Naivasha), and has sites at Baringo and Lamu.
In the past it ran a large number of vocationally oriented diploma courses.
These are now being phased out and replaced by degree courses.
--    Jomo Kenyatta University College of Agriculture and Technology
(JKUCAT), a constituent college of Kenyatta University, with 1,350
undergraduates and 700 diploma students (total 2,050 students). Established
as a diploma college i 1981, it became a constituent college in 1988 and
specializes in agricultural engineering, food science and horticu.ture.
*     Maseno University College, a constituent college of Moi University, with
1,600 undergraduates. Establishel iP 1990 in premises formerly occupied by
Siriba Diploma Teachers College and Government Training Institute, Maseno
offers degree programs in education.
1.13         Each public university is established by an Act of Parliament which sets up a
Couneil to govern it, a Senate responsible for all academic matters, and Teaching Faculties
and Departments; it also makes provision for university statutes to regulate the university's
management and administration. The head of each of the six university institutions is the
Chancellor, who is also the President of the Republic of Kenya, and who appoints the
Chairmen of Councils, the Vice-Chancellors and other senior university officers, in
consultation with the Council and the Minister of Education. Although CHE was intended,
among other functions, to coordinate the activities of the public universities, it did not initially
play that role. The informal Committee of Vice-Chancellors (CVC), established in 1985,
meets monthly under the chairmanship of one of the Vice-Chancellors and discusses issues of
common concern. A notable achievement of the CVC has been the establishment in 19%6 of a



- 6 -
Joint Admissions Board (JAB), responsible for processing applications to all the public
universities.
1.14         Private Universities. The government has encouraged private universities in
order to reduce pressure on the public universities and to offer local private education to
students who would otherwise have attended private universities abroad. There are 11 private
universities, 10 affiliated with religious organizations, as shown on the Map. Before CHE
was established in 1985, they were registered under the Company Act and affiliated with
foreign universities for the award of degrees. They are now registered under the Universities
Act and CHE is now in the process of inspecting and accrediting them, in order to award
them charters and thereby enable them to grant degrees themselves. The first charter, to the
University of Eastern Africa, was awauied in 1991 and others are expected to follow in the
next few years. Total current enrollments are fairly small at about 2,000 students but several
private universities have expansion plans, notably the University of Eastern Africa (600
students at present), Daystar University Col:ege (500), United States International University
(400) and the Catholic Higher Institute of Eastern Africa (300). Growth of the fee-charging
private universities has been constrained by their inability to compete aggressively with the
essentially free public universities.
C. Sectoral Issues and Government StrateLy
1.15         The rapid expansion of universities and student numbers and the changing role
of the universities have resulted in a series of interlinked problems that the government is in
the process of resolving, with IDA's support through both EDSAC and this project. Chief
among these problems are the institutional framework within which un ;ersities operate; the
overall rate of university expansion; the balance among different degree and diploma courses
and the relevance of curricula; the financing of universities; and their management and
staffing. The overall strategy of the government is to consolidate the university sector
through controlled and well planned future growth, emphasizing subjects of most importance
to national development, and ensuring that different universities specialize in different areas.
1.16         Institutional Framework. The need is critical for an institutional framework
for the effective planning, financing and coordination of the universities, especially in the
public sector. At present, each university acts autonomously, according to its individual Act
of Parliament. Its budget, both recurrent and development, is not subject to systematic
scrutiny, both in and of itself and in the context of the university system as a whole. This
framework was appropriate when there were only one or two universities, but can no longer
be relied upon in the era of consolidation, rationalization, and fiscal restraint that the
expanded number of universities now faces. Systematic attention is now required to such
important functions as long zerm planning, budget review, staffing norms, program/course
rationalization, and forging closer links between the universities and the world of work.
1.17         The Universities Act of 1985 which established CHE envisaged that CHE
would take on this function of planning, financing and coordinating the public universities. It
has not done so, in part because of a lack of expertise and in part because the Vice-
Chancellors, though themselves members of the Commission of CHE, have understandably
been reluctant to give up their autonomy. Where they have recognized the need to cooperate,
as with the establishment of the CVC and the JAB, they have done so well. Under these
circumstances, CHE has concentrated on those of its functions under the Universities Act



- 7 -
which it has found feasible to perform, principally the promotion and accreditation of the
private universities, which it has done in an effective manner.
1.18         Largely in the context of the development of EDSAC, the government
recognized in mid-1990 that there was a critical need to update the institutional framework for
the public universities. The government's initial thinking was that a new institution would
need to be established. Moreover, it would take time to build consensus on the need for such
an institution. A target date was set that the new institution should be functional by January
1, 1993. As a precursor, the government set up a Task Group responsible for the
coordination and planning, programming and budgeting of the public universities, and for the
preparation of this project. The intention was that the Task Group would in time be merged
into the new institution. In the process of building consensus, however, the government came
to realize that there was in fact no need for a new institution, but rather that CHE could be
revamped to take on the responsibilities that were originally intended for it. In May, 1991,
therefore, the government determined that CHE would take on these responsibilities.
Recognizing, however, that this will take as much Lr.e for a revamped CHE as for a new
institution, the government determined to continu'. with the Task Group structure but to place
it administratively tinder CHE, although it reports directly to the Permanent Secretary of the
Ministry of Education. The Task Group is chaired by a full-time Coordinator, appointed in
July 1991, who also heads an interim secretariat within CHE. This is administratively
convenient, will ensure a smoother revamping of CHE, and permits the existing staff of CHE
to continue their important work with regard to the private universities. CHE will therefore
be revamped by January 1993 and, by the end of 1993, it will have assumed certain key
functions, notably the preparation of universities financing and investment plans, the
allocation of grants from the public sector to the universities, and the coordination of donor
assistance. This forms part of the education sector adjustment program that both EDSAC and
this project support. In addition, CHE will in time provide a central university admissions
service and will further assist in the process of defining universities' specializations.
1.19         University Expansion. Not only has the number of public university
institutions growth from one to six, but admissions have increased dramatically in recent
years, far faster than anticipated when the university expansion scheme was drawn up. With
the 1990 undergraduate admission of 21,450 students adding to three former years of high
admissions, bringing total enrollments to over 40,000, the system has been stretched beyond
its limit (Annex 2, Table 1). Facilities and staff alike are over-extended, classes are held
throughout the year on a shift-system and often comprise more than 200-300 students, and
jobs for graduates are increasingly difficult to find. Recognizing that this situation is not
sustainable, the government has in 1991 admitted only 10,000 new undergraduates and will
limit future growth to 3 percent per annum (Annex 2, Table 2). During negotiations.
assurances were obtained that undergraduate admissions will not exceed 10.300 in 1992.
10.61Q in 1993. 10.930 in 1994. 11,260 in 1995 and 11.600 in 1996 (para. 6.3(a)). This is
also a key element of the EDSAC program. This limitation means that a declining proportion
of secondary school leavers will attend university. This in turn will make an important part
of CHE's future work the determination of policy toward non-degree tertiary education in
general, including the future of diploma courses (para. 1.20).
1.20         Balance mong Cours. The huge enrollments of recent years have frustrated
the government's policy to expand science-based courses in order that the universities will
contribute to national development. A shortage of laboratories and equipment and the heavy
preponderance of students with qualifications in arts-based subjects has resulted in all



- 8 -
universities, except JKUCAT, channelling a large proportion of new admissions into degree
courses in Arts and Education. The result is that science students now represent only 30
percent of 1990 admissions, compared to over 50 percent in 1985 (Annex 2, Table 2). It is
government policy to increase the proportion of science student admissions to 40 percent by
1992 and then further to 50 percent by 2015. In the past, some of the present university
institutions played an important role in producing diploma and technician level manpower.
With recent pressures on the universities to accommodate large numbers of degree level
students, many diploma courses have been squeezed out. This trend is projected to continue
throughout the 1990s, with only JKUCAT remaining as a major diploma level university
institution. The effect of this policy, together with the conversion of Moi, Siriba and Laikipia
teachers colleges from diploma level institutions into university facilities in 1990, has been a
further exaggeration in the already unbalanced ratio of middle-level manpower to graduates.
Tlhis is an issue that CHE is addressing. A related problem is the general absence of an
interface between the universities and the world of work. Non-public sector employers have
from time to time complained of university graduates' lack of preparation for employment -
in terms of subject content, exposure to various equipment and techniques, and disposition.
Holders of diplomas, on the other hand, have been highly regarded.
1.21         Financing. The rapid expansion of universities has set off a train of
unsustainable financial events. First, as already noted (para. 1.4), overall spending on all
levels of education has to be curtailed for overall fiscal reasons. Recurrent spending on
higher education has been rising even faster than that on education as a whole and is therefore
one of the main factors driving the overall education budget. Higher education accounts for
almost the entire development budget of the education sector, as the government scrambles to
improve physical facilities to accommodate enlarged student numbers. In terms of recurrent
expenditure, it costs the government 75 times more to educate a university student than a
primary school student for a year, and 25 times more than a secondary student. Yet, as noted
above, there has been almost no direct cost sharing at university level, in stark contrast to the
very considerable cost sharing that occurs at primary and secondary levels of education in the
public sector. Second, despite increased overall spending, real expenditure per university
student has declined by about 30 percent in real terms during the past five years, with
corresponding deterioration in the quality of education. Third, development spending has
been concentrated on the provision of buildings to teach and house students; government has
not had sufficient funds to equip libraries and science and engineering laboratories and to train
sufficient academic staff to teach the students. Fourth, it is not feasible for universities to
remain totally dependent on the public purse for their financing, and they will increasingly
have to seek additional sources of income.
1.22         Given that goverment spending on the universities cannot contiwue to
increase, the government has decided both to limit student numbers (para. 1.19) and to
increase cost sharing, both direct and deferred. Starting in 1991, students are to pay a direct
annual charge to the universities on registration of KSh 6,000. A bursary scheme will also
operate to assist financially needy students to pay this direct charge; no more than 20 percent
of students will receive bursaries.
1.23         In addition, deferred cost sharing, in the form of the Student Loan Scheme
administered by the Ministry of Education, will be drastically revamped. Since 1974, this
loan program has enabled students to meet the costs of board, lodging, books and personal
expenses. Although originally intended to support only needy students, all university students
have in practice received loans regardless of family income. Moreover, even though the loan



- 9 -
has carried a heavily subsidized rate of interest of only 2 percent, only 15 percent of
graduates have serviced the loans after receiving their degrees. Furthermore the component
of the loan which has been paid to the universities for food and accommodation has been
inadequate to cover costs, requiring the universities to subsidize student subsistence at the
expense of academic programs. In future, the student loan will be capped at KSh 21,500, the
component for personal expenses will be phased out by 1993, the component for board and
lodging payable directly to the universities will be increased, a book element of KSh 3,500
will be provided (available only as a credit at the university bookstores), and the tuition
component will be increased to KSh 5,000 in 1991. The amount directly payable to the
universities for tuition, board and lodging will thus rise from KSh 13,000 in 1991 to KSh
18,000 by 1993. Thus students will increasing!y have to pay directly for their personal
expenses and the loan proceeds will increasingly go to the universities. In addition, following
a review currently underway, the loan scheme will be revised to carry a realistic rate of
interest and recovery will be stepped up (see paras 2.12-2.14). A condition of effectiveness is
the collection in academic year 1991/92 of the direct charge of KSh 6.000. the operation of
the bursary scheme for needy students (not to exceed 20% of student enrollment), and the
limiting of the loan to KSh 21.500. with no more than KSh 5.000 available for personal
expense (para. 6.1(a)). At negotiations. assurances were obtained that the student loan will
be capped at KSh 21.500 through 1993 and at a level satisfactory to IDA during 1994-96. that
the personal element will be eliminated by 1993. and that the direct charge will be maintained
at least at KSh. 6.   (para. 6.3(b)). These are also contained in the program that EDSAC
supports.
1.24          Direct and deferred cost sharing at the public universities will combine with
limits on undergraduate admissions to hold constant the univers.ties' share of the total
recurrent budget for education at about 20 percent (Annex 2, T.ible 3). It will also increase
competition within the university subsector, reducing the bias against the private universities.
1.25          Management and Staffing. The rapid expansion of the universities has left
them without adequate numbers of senior administrators and teaching staff. There is an
urgent need to train university administrators in management and finance and there is a severe
shortage of academic staff. Retention and recruitment of academic staff is increasingly
difficult, in +he face of worsening physical conditions, increased teaching loads with
concomitant loss of research time, and declining real salaries. In part to deal with this last,
the government now permits university staff to import personal vehicles duty free. An
attempt to recruit expatriate academics to help fill the gap on a temporary basis has been
largely unsuccessful, because of the relatively low salaries offered. Universities are trying to
solve the academic staff shortfalls by using qualified part-time teachers, who are also in short
supply in some subjects, and graduate students and research fellows, but their nuinbers and
the time they can spend away from their research commitments are limited. By contrast,
academic staff no longer have sufficient time for research, as their opportunities to take leave
have been curtailed and as research funding has declined. Limited use has also been made of
closed circuit television for teaching, but training is needed in its application to university
teaching.
1.26          In sharp contrast to the shortages of academic staff, there is an excessive
number of nonacademic staff. While there we,re about 3,700 academic staff in 1990/91 (a
staff to student ratio of 1: 11), there were 16,700 nonacademic staff (resulting in a staggering
overall staff:student ratio of 1:2). An early priority for the Task Group preceding the



- 10-
revamped CHE will be the establishment of staffing norms for both academic and
nonacademic staff.
D. External Assistance
1.27         Kenya's universities have always benefitted from donor assistance, although
this has until recently been fairly limited in volume terms as there was only one university
until 1984. With the expansion of the universities, there are now three major programs:
e     The British Overseas Development Administration (ODA) has a major
program to assist Moi University, consisting of a library building together
with equipment and science books, equipment for science and technology
faculties and departments, and support for Information Sciences. In addition,
ODA is assisting all universities with communications skills training for
university teachers and Kenyatta University with staff development for the
Faculty of Science.
*     The United States Agency for International Development (USAID), consistent
with its overall strategy of assisting Kenyan agriculture, has continued the
support it first extended to Egerton University when it was still an
Agricultural College. Current support is in the areas of institutional capacity
development and agricultural management.
i ¢  The Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), consistent with its
overall strategy of promoting science and technology in Kenya, has supported
JKUCAT since the early 1980s and is currently half way through a five year
program of assistance to develop its courses in agriculture and technology.
In addition, Italy is assisting Moi University with facilities development; the Netherlands is
financing the development of Agricultural Engineering at the University of Nairobi;
Switzerland is aiding the University of Nairobi's programs in Food Technology and Nutrition
and in Diplomacy Training; Germany is financing postgraduate scholarships at several
universities; UNESCO is funding the development of the Department of Home Economics at
Kenyatta University; and the Ford and Rockefeller Foundations, as well as the International
Development Research Center, are supporting research at all universities. The Rockefeller
Foundation is currently funding the development of a complete inventory of current and
planned donor support to the universities.
1.28         Role of the Bank. The Bank's overall strategy toward Kenya is to help the
Government improve public sector imanagement, to expand and diversify the export base, and
to lay the foundations for sustainable development, including by strengthening Kenya's human
resource base. Lending includes both poiicy-based support and investment project financing,
with an increased share of both in the human resource sectors. Lending for human resources
has so far consisted of six investment projects and one sectoral adjustment operation in
education, and of four population projects. A Health Rehabilitation Project (Report 9174-KE)
will represent the first IDA operation in health, as opposed to population, and is intended to
be followed by a health adjustment operation. Past IDA lending for education has provided
modest assistance to the University of Nairobi. The Second (185-KE) and Fourth (797-KE)
Education credits provided facilities, equipment and staff development over 1970-82 to



- 11 -
establish the Faculty of Agriculture. The Fifth Credit (1107-KE) assisted the same Faculty to
establish the Department of Range Management at Kabete and Kibwezi and also the newly
created Department of Forestry, provided books for both teaching and the library, and funded
a mainframe computer.
1.29         The first six education projects were successful in themselves. They did not,
however, sufficiently address rising education expenditures, teacher numbers and hiring,
declining quality, issues of equity and access, and sector management weaknesses. Current
Bank strategy for education is to support major policy reform through sectoral adjustment
operations, complemented with appropriate investment proJects. The first phase of this
strategy is now in place with the Education Sector Adjustnment Credit (EDSAC),
complemented by the present Universities Investment Project. The EDSAC (Cr. No.
2295-KE) covers policies for all levels of education, including the universities, and seeks (a)
to contain the growth of education's high recurrent budget through restraining the size of the
primary and secondary teaching forces and limiting and improving the coordination of
budgetary resources going to the universities; (b) through savings on the teacher salary bill, to
increase spending on textbooks and other school materials, especially at primary level; (c) to
increase access to primary schools, especially for children from the Arid and Semi-Arid
Lands; (d) to improve the quality and relevance of education at all levels; and (e) to
strengthen sector management, planning, budgeting and information systems, including at the
university level. The policy matrix for EDSAC is attached to the government's Letter of
Sectoral Policy in Annex 1. In the event of successful implementation of both EDSAC and
the Universities Investment Project, a second education adjustment credit is planned for FY95
to consolidate and extend reform throughout the sector.
1.30         Other lessons from Bank project experienice in Kenya have also been applied
in the preparation of this project. Both agriculture and education projects have taught the
need for a market-oriented approach to the supply of graduates in agriculture. Experience in
implementing fellowship training under education projects has also pointed to the need for
administrative simplicity and the consolidation of training programs.
1.31         Given that donor assistance to the universities has until recently been fairly
limited, its coordination has been satisfactorily handled on an ad hoc basis. This is no longer
appropriate and the government anticipates that CHE will progressively take on the role of
donor coordination for the public universities.



- 12 -
IL THEIURQOZC
A. Obiectives
2.1           The objectives of the project are to support the government's education sector
adjustment program as it pertains to the universities by (a) rationalizing and strengthening the
institutional framework for higher education, in both the public and the private sectors; (b)
limiting the growth of government budgetary resources devoted to the public universities by
promoting cost sharing and improved investment planning; and (c) improving the quality of
the teaching and research delivered at the public universities. The project is thus
complementary to EDSAC.
B. Summary Description
2.2           The project is designed to be implemented over a 4.5 year period starting in
January 1992. It consists of two major components:
(a)    At the central level (US$9.4 million base cost), strength_ning CHE, reforming
the Student Loan Scheme, carrying out relevant studies, supporting applied
research, and implementing the project. Project elements include (i) office
furniture and equipment, including computers; (ii) training of central
institutional staff; (iii) technical assistance; (iv) studies; (v) initial operating
costs of that section of CHE to be responsible for the coordinating, planning,
programming, budgeting and financing of public universities; (vi) applied
research funding; and (vii) project implementation.
(b)    At the six public university institutions (US$45.6 million base cost),
institutional development (especially the strengthening of administration and
finance), staff development in key areas, and the supply of teaching and
related equipment. Project elements include (i) science and engineering
equipment, including minor civil works as needed to install and operate it; (ii)
computers; (iii) equipment, books and journals for libraries; (iv) printing and
publishing equipment; (v) telephone systems; (vi) vehicles; (vii) office
equipment; and (viii) training of academic, technician, administrative and
service staff.
C. Detailed Description of Compoagents
C.1 Central Components
C.1.1 Strengthengng the Commission for Higher Education
(Base Cost: US$5.0 million)
2.3          CHE will be revamped (para. 1.18). From January 1, 1993 it is expected to
take on new responsibilities in addition to its existing work and will be respon-sible for:



13
(a)    Coordination and harmonization of public universities' academic programs;
(b)    Planning, programming, budgeting and financing of the public universities
based on 10-vear projections, 6-year development plans, and 3-year funding
plans in accordance with the Government's forward budget;
(c)    Central universities admissions services;
(d)    Accreditation and promotion of private universities;
(e)    Coordination of education and training courses in post-secondary institutions;
(f)    Planning higher education in accordance with manpower needs in the public
and private sectors of the economy and in conformity with national skills and
employment patterns of graduates, technicians and craftspersons;
(g)    Accreditation of diploma colleges and other post-secondary institutions;
(h)    Award of degrees to upgraded diploma colleges;
(i)    Raising funds from non-Government sources;
(j)    Determination of equivalence of qualifications; and
(k)    Management and implementation of the project.
2.4           Preparing for the revamping of CHE will take time, however, in order to
determine an appropriate organizational structure and operating procedures. For the interim
period prior to January 1993, a full-time Coordinator was appointed in July 1911 and a full-
time secretariat is being recruited. For administrative convenience, they are on CHE's staff
and will utilize CHE's administration, finance and data processing services. The Coordinator
reports directly, however, to the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Education. The
Coordinator is the Chairman of a Task Group which is also responsible directly to the
Permanent Secretary for:
(a)    Review of legal and organizational arrangements relating to CHE and the
universities, prior to revamping CHE;
(b)    Planning, programming and budgeting of universities;
(c)    Review of the long-term development of the Student Loan Scheme; and
(d)   Implementation of the project.
2.5          Four subgroups have been established under the Task Group, responsible for
each of the above four responsibilities. The structure of the Task Group and its specialist
subgroups and the staffing of its secretariat are shown in Annex 3. A conditon 
effectiveness, is the, iMplemenktaton of,aran&eMents satisfactory to ID-A concernin_th§
tffng. accommodain wrk nrormmand budget of the Task Grouap and, its associated
&ubgrops  d ereiat for 1221192 (i.e. through June 1992) (para. 6.l(b)). The
responsibilities of the subgroups concerned with the legal and organizational review and with
the review of the student loan scheme are inherently interim and will terminate before CHE is
revamped. The responsibilities of the other two subgroups will, however, be fully absorbed
into the revamped CHE. Assurane were obtained at neaotiations concering (at
submission by June 30. 1292 of a propoal satisfactory to IDA for restructring CHE with
efec from Januar 193. and also for contintued interim arrangement fro-m July_-Dcember
1922 and (b) the inrleMntation by Januar 1. 1993 of this nr=onosal following IDA's review
and cgmmentn (para. 6.3(c)). This proposal will cover the organization, staffing, budget and
work plan of CHE for 1992/93, includtng the management and implementation of the project.
The revamping of CHE is also included in the EDSAC program.
2.6          Planing. Po  MMingN anBudgeting for Univers  Dement. The
Project will provide funding for the Coordinator and the Task Group, together with sub-



- 14 -
groups, panels, resource persons and consultants, in cooperation with the universities, to
prepare a long-term public university development plan for 1993-99. The plans will be
consolidated by CHE after January 1993 and incorporated into the National Development
Plan. The planning process will include the adoption of unit costs and norms for utilization of
staff and resources and incorporate the use of output indicators. Long term university
planning, including refining the analysis of costs and use of norns, will be continued by the
revamped CHE, which will also be responsible after January 1993 for recommendations on
annual budget allocations to the universities. At negotiations. assurances were obtained
concerning the submission for IDA's review and comment of (a) the drai        y
development plan for 1993-99 by March 1. 1993: and b)y     h  ecy        r. starting in
1993, of CHE's draft recommendations on university admissions and b sWgets for the financia
year sarting on July I (paras. 6.3(d) and 6.3(h)).
2.7           Starting with initial provision of :omputers to support the planning by
universities and the Task Group, an integrated information system will be established as a
basis for improved planning and management of universities. The Task Group, in association
with the universities and CHE, will begin to establish the information system with the
assistance of consultants who will carry out a systems analysis and study. The project will
Eovide funding for the study.
2.8           The project will also provide funding to strengthen CHE to carry out the
following other functions related to the coordination, planning and efficient operation of
university and other higher education:
(a)    Taking over the admissions work of the Joint Admissions Board;
(b)    Award of degrees for non-university bodies;
(c)    Accreditation of private universities and promotion of the private university
sector; and
(d)    Coordination of post-secondary education, particularly with regard to labor
market aspects.
2.9           Annex 4 is a summary and schedule of CHE's project-related activities,
agreed during appraisal.
2.10          The Project will provide technical assistance, staff training including study
tours, seminars and workshops, and equipment for the Task Group and its Secretariat, and for
CHE following its revamping. Technical assistance and staff training programs, seminars and
workshops and study tours were agreed during appraisal. Planning and detailed budgeting for
these programs needs to be completed by the Task Group/CHE and included in their initial
and annual work plans to be submitted to IDA. The Project will also fund all the incremental
operating costs of the Task Group and initial transfer of its responsibilities, resources and
systems to the restructured CHE, until June 30, 1994; funding for this purpose between July
1, 1991 and project effectiveness is provided through an IDA Project Preparation Advance
(para. 4.2). At nezotiations. asurances we  obtained that the  overnment will fom Jul
1994 fully fund the operating budg  of CHE at a level satisfactory to IDA such that CHE cn
carrM gut its university coordination, planning and financing functions (para. 6.3(e)).
2.11          At neggtiations. assuranc  were obtained concerning the anal submissio
for _A's review and comment (a) by March 1. of CHE's    oed work rogram and
budet for the financialyea stringt on July 1:- and (1)by Aus1. of a detailed report on



- 15 -
CHE's activities during the previous financial year. paying particular attention to the fuznctions
discussed in paragraphs 2.6-2.8 (paras. 6.3(h) and 6.3(i)).
C.1.2 Reforming the Student Loan Scheme
(Base Cost: US$1.5 million)
2.12         Policy decisions about the Student Loan Scheme were taken by the
government in July 1991 and adopted with effect from academic year 1991/92 (para. 1.23).
In addition to overall loan policy, the administration of the scheme is to be reformed. It is
currently administered by the Ministry of Education. Disbursements and loan recoveries are,
however, handled by separate sections under separate management. Moreover each manager
has other responsibilities, that for disbursements also being responsible for the universities'
development budgets and that for recoveries also being responsible for secondary school
registration. A 1991 review of the staffing for the Student Loan Scheme by the Directorate of
Personnel Management made recommendations to strengthen significantly the
accounting/finance staff and reduce the number of general education officers in both the loan
recovery and disbursement sections.
2.13         A Loan Scheme Review Committee, responsible for reviewing the
administration of the scheme, has been established as one of the Task Group's subgroups, also
chaired by the Coordinator (para. 2.4), and with terms of reference agreed with IDA. The
Review Committee will inter alia examine the organization of loan scheme administration
(possibly through the establishment of a separate Student Loan Board), the application of a
realistic interest rate, and mechanisms for improved loan recovery. In addition an
information systems review is to be carried out, to examine the linkages between the
computer systems of the Student Loan Scheme, CHE and the universities; as a necessary
preliminary step, the backlog of manual records is being updated. On the basis of the
recommendations of the Review Committee and of the systems analysis, an Action Plan will
be drawn up for reforming the scheme's administration, including the merger of the
disbursement and loan recovery units, starting with records and accounts in December 1991
and completLig the merger of administration and finance by July 1992. The Action Plan will
also list the office equipment, computers, staff training and technical assistance to be financed
under the project. A conAition of disbursement for the Student Loan Scheme is the initial
execution of this Action Plan. to be acceptable to IDA (paras. 3.13 and 6.2(a)).
2.14         At negotiations, assurances were obtained concerning the annual submission
for IDA's review and comment (a) by March 1. of the staffing. work program and budget oa
the body reonsible for the student loan scheme for the financial year beginning in July: and
(b) by August 1. of the activities of the body during the year ending on June 30 (paras. 6.3(h)
and 6.3(i)). For 1992, this will be the Ministry of Education. These submissions will include
inter alia targets and achievements regarding the interest rate, loan recoveries and analyses of
the impact of changes in the loan scheme on access to university education, including for
needy students and women.



- 16 -
C.1.3 Studies
(Base Cost: US$0.7 million)
2.1S         Three major policy studies will be included in the project:
*     A graduate labor market study will assess the relationship between supply and
demand for graduates in tne economy in a largely qualitative way using a
market-oriented approach.
*     A study of the future development of the private university sector will be
carried out for CHE. It will explore how the government could assist in
increasing enrollment and examine alternative models of funding the
establishment and operation of private universities.
*     A socioeconomic study of access to the universities, and of subseql!ent
performance, particularly in respect of equity and gender issues.
Annex 5 contains outline terms of reference for the studies. Detailed terms of reference were
reviewed at negotiations.
2.16         In addition, as noted in section C. 1.2, studies are included in the Student Loan
Scheme component to monitor the changes in the Student Loan Scheme and to evaluate its
impact, particularly on needy students and women. At negotiations, assurances were obtained
that all studies will be submitted to IDA for review and comment within three months of their
comletion in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to IDA (para. 6.3(f)).
C.1.4 Support for Agpiled Research
(Base Cost: US$1.5 million)
2.17         TI. e project will provide modest funding for the carrying out of selected
applied research projests which are relevant to Kenya's economic development and for which
the university concerned has the necessary expertise and background. The criteria for support
of an applied research project are set out in Annex 6. Proposals will initially be appraised by
the Task Group, and subsa.uently by an appropriate body within the revamped CHE. The
review procedure will include an evaluation by an acknowledged expert in the field. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that (a) the initial three proposals accepted by the Task
Group/CHE. together with the experts' evaluations and the Task Groug's assessments. will be
submitted to IDA for review and confirmation: (b) that subsequent proposals will be approved
in accordance with ageed criteria: and (c) that an annual report for the year ending on June
30 on the use of applied research funds will be submitted to IDA by August 1 each year
(paras. 6.3(g) and 6.3(i)). Proposals approved after the first three will be subject to random
review by IDA.



- 17 -
C.1.5 Project Itnplementalion
(Base Cost: US$0.8 million)
2.18          The project will finance incremental implementation costs for both the Central
Components discussed in this section C. 1 and the University Components discussed in section
C.2 below. These costs are essentially the operating costs related to this project of the Project
Implementation Unit in the Ministry of Education, discussed in para. 4.4.
C.2 3Iniversity Components
2.19          Each of the four universities will receive US$ 10 million of support under the
project and each of the two constituent colleges will receive US$5 millionl/. These equal
levels of assistance for each institution were agreed in order to build consensus among the
universities for the strengthening of the central institutional framework. If necessary, the
allocation across universities will be reexamined in the light of experience during the second
major project review in mid-1994 (para. 4.9). The support to the university institutions will
be in the form of funding specific subprojects. At all six university institutions the
subprojects will concentrate on institutional development, staff development, and teaching and
related equipment, complementing the major investments the government is making in
university buildings.
C.2.1 Subproiec Selection and P!basing
2.20          Each of the six university institutions has prepared a three phase package of
proposals comprising subprojects for both university-wide facilities and specific academic
discipline areas. These packages were prepared in accordance with formal procedures,
criteria and operational indicators (Annex 7), agreed with IDA for subproject developmenit,
appraisal and selection. The procedures permit only projects for which there is an urgent
need, which canne. be funded from other sources, which conform with institutional goals
(generally, that they are in the areas in which each university has been designated a national
center of excellence - para. 1.11), and which do not require civil works. In essence this wIll
result in the project supplying equipment and providing training for university-wide activities
and for science and engineering departments. The criteria emphasize links to the
socioeconomic and labor market environment.
2.21          Each subproject submission includes a detailed proposal, technical
procurement specifications, costs, implementation plans, and a justification in terms of the
agreed eligibility criteria. Subprojects were initially prepared by the academic staff who will
be responsible for their implementation, a key step for ensuring effective subproject
impiementation. As the total number of subprojects and the associated funding requests at
l/These figures include contingencies. Base cost amounts are US$9.1 and US$4.6 million,
respectively, totalling US$45.6 million.



- 18 -
first greatly exceeded proposed project financing, they were prioritized through a two-step
process. Initially each university institution determined its own priorities amolng the
subprojects submitted by its staff. Subsequently an ad hoc Project Preparation Group, with
representation from all the universities and other relevant organizations such as CHE and tie
Project Implementation Unit, established technical subgroups (e.g. for Science, with
subgroups for Biological and Medical Sciences, Physical Sciences and Engineering, and
Computing). The technical subgroups set common unit costs and staff development
parameters and discussed all high value and high maintenance equipment, its rationalization
across institutions, and the appropriate timing for its acquisition. This resulted in a final set
of consistent subprojects, which were then divided into three phases. The selection process
has thus resulted in a structured resource allocation, at the level of both the individual
university institutions and the public universities as a system, characterized by openness and
peer review. The process has represented the first occasion ever at the individual universities
in which departments have been involved in other departments' decisionmaking, and at the
national level in which individual universities have been involved in each others'
decisionmaking.
2.22          Each phase is 18 months long: Phase I covers the period from project
effectiveness until June 1993; Phase II, July 1993 to December 1994; and Phase III, January
1995 to June 1996. The phased approach will permit adequate time for thorough subproject
preparation; avoid a hurried program of specification and installation; ensure the coherence of
the subprojects as a whole; enable the content of the Phase II and IlI packages to be modified
as appropriate in the light of Phase I implementation; and develop the institutional capacity of
CHE (para. 2.23). Annex 8 is a schedule of the activities that will result in the
implementation of the Phase I packages, and the development, selection, appraisal and
implementation of those for Phases II and III.
2.23          The Phase I packages, which represent about 45 percent of total project
funding for the universities, were reviewed in detail during appraisal, jointly by IDA and key
members of the ad hoc Project Preparation Group established by the government, and were
f-nalized during negotiations. Annex 9 presents some typical Phase I subprojects and Annex
10 summarizes the Phase I packages confirmed at negotiations, noting which selection crite ia
each subproject met. The Phase II and Phase HI packages, which are expected to be of
approximately equal size, were jointly reviewed at a more general level in order to determine
their broad composition. As a key element in institution building, the Phase II and III
packages will be appraised by a Project Appraisal and Implementation Subgroup, chaired by
the Deputy Coordinator, which will evolve from the existing ad hoc group, continuing its
practices of openness and peer review. The subgroup will be one of four subgroups under the
Task Group, to be serviced by the full-time secretariat, including the key positions of Deputy
Coordinator and Assistant Coordinator-Prcject (paras. 2.4-2.5 and Annex 3). A condition of
prplect effectiveness is the establishment of this Project Appraisal and Implementation
Subgroup. the apointment of the Dept Coordinator on the Task Group's Secretariat, and
the apnointment of Liaison Officer at each of the six university institutions (para. 6. 1(b)).
The Subgroup will ultimately become part of the revamped CHE, and its organization will be
a key part of the proposal for restructuring CHE (para. 2.5).
2.24          In appraising the Phase II and RI packages, the Project Appraisal and
Implementation Subgroup will continue to use the agreed subproject selection criteria and
operational indicators (Annex 7) and will also take into account the outcome of Phase I
implementation. Phase II and Phase m allocations to a subproject will not be made until the



- 19 -
Phase I and Phase II subprojects, respectively, are completed. A condition of disburs§Lene
for the Phase 11 and Phase III packages is the submission of evidence to IDA that the
packages consist of subprojects appraised according to the agreed criteria and assessed in the
light of Phase I and Phase II implementation where Qppropriar_ (paras. 3.13 and 6.2(b)).
C.2.2 Subprojects by Function
2.25          The main subprojects can be classified in terms of three activities:
a)    Institutional Development (Base Ccet: US$1.5 million). These subprojects
include a major commitment to staff t aining in the areas of institutio)n
planning, managenrrnt, administration, finance and procurement, tok sther with
the office equipment (mainly computers) necessary to facilitate these tasks.
They will put into place management information systems, focusing
particularly on student, staff and budgetary data.
b)    Staff Development (Base Cost: US$4.7 million). These subprojects cover
academic, technician and administrative and service staff and include in
country and overseas training; strengthening and expanding existing links with
collaborative overseas universities and research centers; short overseas visits
to study good international practice; collaborative research; and professional
meeting attendance.
academic staff subprojects are for subject discipline and teaching-
oriented studies and for training in the efficient use of laboratory and
leaching equipment. No more than 20 doctoral candidates are to be
included because the universities already have a relatively high
proportion of teachers with Ph.Ds and because there are many
bilaterally funded departmental links and postgraduate training
courses.
-     technician staff subprojects are mainly for training in the maintenance
and use of laboratory and workshop equipment, including but not
limited to that to be acquired under the project.
-     administrative and service staff subprojects relate mainly to training
in the use of new office equipment and Software, including basic skills
training such as wordprocessing, special programs for specific
administrative software packages, longer term courses in information
technology, accountancy and institutional management, training to
facilitate the introduction of computers into libraries and offices, and
training in desktop publishing and other teaching support activities.
c)    Teaching and related equipment (Base Cost: US$39.5 million). Equipment,
including 3 years worth of accessories, spare parts and maintenance,
represents the vast bulk of the subprojects, in terms of both number and
expenditure. It falls into five categories: that for laboratories and workshops,
that for library development, computers, printing and publishing facilities, and
telephone and transport systems.



- 20 -
laboratory and workshop equipment (US$22.1 million) ranges from
large numbers of small standard items such as microscopes and
overhead projectors through major analytical and testing machines to a
few very high cost items such as electron microscopes and nuclear
magnetic resonance spectrophotometers.
library development material (US$6.3 million) includes books and
journals mainly in the disciplines supported by the subprojects,
equipment for handling texts and documents and the improvement of
library access and services.
computers (US$4.0 million) consist of both the expansion of existing
mainframe facilities and their supplementation with personal computer
networks.
printing and publishing facilities improvement subprojects (US$1.7
million) are located in libraries, departments and central
administrations.
-     telephone (US$2.2 million) and transport (US$3.2 million)
improvement subprojects are included in almost all the universities'
proposals, reflecting the dispersed campuses that now characterize the
public university system.
EqWroment subprojects include also minor civil works necessary to implement the subprojects
e.g. st Allized power supplies, constant water pressure, controlled environments and specialist
drainage for some equipment.
2.26         Table 2.1 presents the individual university packages according to this
classification and by university institution.
Table 2.1: University Components by Functional Category
(US$ million)
._                    =              
Nairobi  Moi  Kenyatta   Egerton   JKUCAT   Maseno   Total
Instit. Devt.   0.2    0.1      0.1        0.6        0.2        0.3     1.5
Staif Devt.     1.6    2.1      0.4        0.2        0.1        0.3     4.7
Equipment       3.7    4.6      4.2        4.8        4.0        0.8    22.1
Library         1.1      -      2.0        1.4        0.2        1.5     6.3
Telephone       0.5    0.8       0.8        -          -          -      2.2
Transport       0.6    0.6      0.4        0.7         -         0.7     3.2
Printing        0.3    0.5        -        0.5        0.1        0.2     1.7
Computing        1.1    0.3     1.1       0.8         -         0.7     4.0
Total           9.1     9.1     9.1        9.1        4.6        4.6    45.6



- 21 -
C.2.3 Phase I Subprojects by University
2.27         The same classification is presented in Table 2.2 for the Phase I packages, i.e.
those for the period from project effectiveness until June 1993. This section then discusses
the Phase I packages for each university, consistent with the designation of each as a national
center of excellence in certain disciplines (para. 1. 11).
Table 2.2: Phase I Packages by Functional Category
(US$ million)
Nairobi  Moi  Kenyatta   Egerton   JKUCAT    Maseno   Total
Instit. Devt.    -       -        -          -        0.1        0.1      0.2
Staff Devt.     0.5    0.7       0.2       0.2         -         0.1      1.7
Equipment       2.5    2.3       2.9        2.8        1.8        0.5    12.7
Library         0.4      -       0.2       0.7        0.1        0.6      2.0
Telephone       0.5    0.5       0.5         -          -                 1.5
Transport       0.3    0.3       0.2       0.2         -         0.4      1.4
Printing         -      0.4       -        0.2        0.1        0.1      0.8
Computing       0.2    0.2       0.5       0.4                   0.4      1.7
Total           4.4    4.4       4.4        4.4       2.2         2.2    22.0
2.28         The University of Nairobi Phase I package of US$4.4 million includes both
university-wide and departmentally based activities. At the overall university level, it includes
communications (telephone, transport and printing), computer facilities, library, the university
health center (a requirement as an employer) and institutional management and administration.
At the departmental level, the package concentrates on those disciplines for which the
University of Nairobi is the designated national center of excellence (medicine, architecture,
engineering, veterinary medicine, computing and meteorology) and also includes a range of
science and technology disciplines based in the constituent colleges of the university.
2.29         Major elements in the Phase I package at the University of Nairobi include:
At the College of Agriculture and Veterinary Sciences: equipment upgrading
and associated training for veterinary anatomy, animal production, animal
physiology, crop science, public health pharmacology and toxicology, clinical
studies, soil sciences, range management, Kibwezi dryland field station,
veterinary pathology and microbiology.
At the College of Biological and Physical Sciences: equipment and staff
development for the science workshop, botany, chemistry, geology,
mathematics, meteorology, physiks, zoology, and biochemistry.
At the College of Health Sciences: equipment for human pathology and human
anatomy, and surgical instruments to enable dental surgery to have a fully
operational theater for oral and maxillofacial surgery.



- 22 -
At the College of Engineering and Architecture: Computer Assisted Dcsign,
basic workshop and laboratory equipment, with a related program of staff
development.
At the College of Education and External Studies: equipment and training for
educational communication and technology.
During appraisal, it was confirmed that these colleges have sufficient laboratory and workshop
space to accommodate the Phase I equipment.
2.30         A major component of Moi University's USU4.4 million Phase I package is
the enhancement of university-wide facilities. Institution wida planning and evaluation will be
strengthened and the student and financial data systems improved. Computer equipment will
enable the university to keep pace with rapidly growing teaching demand. Staff and
equipment in the central instrumentation center will be upgraded in response to the practical
emphasis in all disciplines, the growth of science, forestry and technology programs, and
serious current equipment maintenance and repair problems. Other university-wide services
to be improved include printing, telephone and transport. No provision is made for the
university library under the project because ODA is financing its construction and initial
supply of books and reference materials.
2.31           At the departmental level, there is a very great need for science equipment.
Several departments currently transport students five hours by road each way to the University
of Nairobi for essential practical work. Disciplines for which Moi University is to be the
national center of excellence include technology, environmental studies and forestry. All the
technology departments have both undergraduate and postgraduate programs and have
experienced a very rapid growth in student numbers. The project will fund equipment and
training to improve the practical component of these courses, teaching and learning methods,
and the quality and relevance of research. The departments of environmental studies and
forestry aim to train high level manpower for sustainable development and professional
management of natural resources, including short courses for resource managers. The project
will enable them to raise standards in the existing laboratories and to establisn field research
laboratories in various parts of Kenya. The remaining disciplines, basic sciences and a group
of cognate medical subjects, will be equipped to support their vocational orientation and to
improve teaching and learning methods. The university is completing a major building
program which wll provide adequate space and services for all the proposed equipment.
Equipment to be provided under the project will also complement science equipment being
funded by ODA, and every effort has been taken to ensure consistency between the IDA- and
ODA-financed assistance to Mol University.
2.32         Kenyatta University's Phase I package of US$4.4 million is designed to
upgrade both university-wide and departmental facilities, with emphasis on improved
efficiency, staff development, equipment and teaching methods. The university has not been
able to attract donor financing to the same extent as the other university institutions and hence
there is a broad range of needs, including computer equipment, library materials, telephone
equipment and improved transport. Computer equipment will improve the systems and
performance of the administrative and finance departments and of institutional policy making
and planning. The library will acquire a significant number of basic texts and journals,
computerize its operation, information and reference systems, support teaching and learning



- 23 -
by establishing a central audiovisual resource center, and expand its special provision for
blind students.
2.33          At the departmental level, the project will supply equipment and associated
training for basic science and for environmental sciences. The equipment to be supplied
recognizes and supports the need for new methods of teaching and learning which will
emphasize practical work, self reliance, innovation and environmental awareness. A crucial
factor in the selection and appraisal of Kenyatta University's package has been the need to
avoid duplication across several departments of expensive items of analytical equipment, with
associated high running and maintenance costs; the project preparation process has therefore
contributed particularly to interdepartmental cooperation at the university.
2.34          Egerton University's Phase I package of US$4.4 million covers some central
facilities and also those departments with very urgent requirements that have the capacity to
implement their subprojects right away. The university-wide components of the package are
designed to enable the university administration, library, transport and educatic ;.al materials
center to provide a more efficient and effective service for staff and students. '!he university
administration will upgrade its computer facility for data collection and management
information. The library will increase its bookstock and purchase book binding and related
book repair equipment. Aging vehicles, site expansion, and more students who need to travel
as part of their study programs require improved transportation. The educational materials
center will acquire additional desk top publishing and printing equipment and new
reproduction and video facilities. Related staff development is included in all of these
subprojects.
2.35          Egerton is to be the national center of excellence in agriculture and related
subjects, including the basic sciences and relevant aspects of engineering. Departmental
subprojects cover botany, chemistry, physics, zoology, mathematics, computer science,
agricultural engineering, agronomy, animal health and animal science. The departments can
be considered in two groups, those of long standing (which existed when Egerton was an
agricultural college), and those recently established as part of the recent rapid expansion of
the universities. The former non science departments have obsolete equipment which urgently
requires replacement and updating. The more recently created science departnents have very
little equipment and the package will provide for their basic needs. Some empty practical
facilities currently exist; a new science block will be ready for occupation during the academic
year 1991/92.
2.36          Jomo Kenyatta University College of Agriculture and Technology
(JKUCAT) Phase I package of US$2.2 million focuses on improving the administration of the
university, the library, the engineering workshops and the quality of science and mathematics
teaching and research. In order to provide effective information and support for the academic
programs, the key areas of planning, finance, management and administration will be
strengthened through staff development and the provision of equipment for computerized
management systems and stude t monitoring. The library will purchase additional text books,
journals and library proc3ssing eqaipment, and install a closed circuit television network to
improve the quality and efficiency of learning.
2.37          JKUCAT is the national center of excellence for horticulture, food science,
agricultural engineering including water resources and irrigation, and post harvest technology.
The College concentrates on the production of applied scientists and engineers and the



- 24 -
package contains highly appropriate subprojects covering practical training and the supply of
laboratory and workshop equipment. Phase I equipment will be concentrated on agricultural
engineering, the basic sciences, mathematics and computing. A very high proportion of
JKUCAT's package is for equipment, reflecting not only the vocational nature of its programs
but also the very poor current provision of scientific equipment. Workshop and laboratory
space and technician support are already available.
2.38         Maseno's Phase I package of US$2.2 million covers the library, office
equipment, education and basic science equipment to enable the science studies to include
practical work.



- 25 -
IIo. PROTECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Costs
3.1          The project is costed over five years, shorter than the standard seven year
disbursement profile for Kenya because the project contains no civil works and because the
procurement documents for the Piiase I packages will be substantially prepared by
effectiveness. Total costs are estimated at US$61.1 million. Base costs are estimated at
US$55.1 million (90%) and contingencies at US$6.0 million (10%). Foreign exchange costs
account for US$51.1 million, or 84% of the total. Taxes and duties are excluded in
calculating the project cost. Table 3.1 summarizes costs by expenditure category; they are
detailed in Annex 11. Equipment, vehicles, and library books account for 78% of base costs,
staff development and training for 12%, studies for 1%; institutional development (mainly
consultants) for 3%; and recurrent costs for 5%. The equipment costs include both minor
civil works necessary to install the equipment and minor amounts of furniture, estimated
together to total no more than 10% of equipment costs. Recurrent costs are included only for
the Task Group and its Secretariat and for the Project Implementation Unit (PIU); others are
excluded because the project basically provides equipment for facilities that already exist or
are being constructed as part of the expansion of the university system. During subproject
appraisal, it was confirmed that adequate funding existed for the operation and maintenance of
the equipment supplied in each subproject.
3.2          Project costs are estimated at June 1991 prices. As the bulk of the project is
in foreign exchange, the project was initially costed in United States dollars and only the local
cost items were costed in Kenya Shillings. Equipment and documentation lists for Phase I
procurement for the university components and for procurement during the first two years of
project implementation for the central components were reviewed in detail during appraisal;
the exception was the equipment for strengthening the Student Eoan Scheme which is a rough
estimate contingent on the action plan to follow the administrative review of the scheme (para.
2.13). Equipment lists for Phases II and III were reviewed in less detail but sufficient to
estimate total project costs. Equipment, furniture, vehicle and book lists are included in the
final project preparation documents submitted to the Bank at negotiations and included in the
Project File.
3.3          The total project costs include US$6.0 million equivalent for contingencies, or
10 percent of project costs. As there are no civil works and as final equipment lists have yet
to be drawn up for Phases II and Im, only price contingencies are included. Price
contingencies for foreign exchange expenditures are 3.9% per annum for 1991-96; price
contingencies for local expenditures are included at 11.5% for 1991, 9.5% for 1992, 7.5%
for 1993, 6.0% for 1994 and 5.0% for 1995 and 1996.
3.4          The foreign exchange component of US$51.1 million is based on estimates of
50% for consulting services, 50% for training and staff development, 50% for studies, and
90% for -equipment, vehicles and library materials.
3.5           Project costs by component are shown in Table 3.2. The Central Components
account for 17%, of which half is to strengthen CHE, and the University Components for
83%.



Table 31: Project Costs" By Expenditure Category
___________ _  KSh. mullion     |          US$ million
Foreign    Share in
Exchange   Total Base
Local    Foreign     Total      Local     Foreign     Total    Share (%)   Costs (%)
INVESTMENT COSTS           141.4      1274.1     1415.5     5.2        47.1       52.4        90         95
Institutional Development      22.0        23.5       45.4      0.8         0.9        1.7       52          3
Staff Development              100.5       79.7       180.2     3.7         2.9       6.7        44          12
Studies                          9.5        9.5       19.0      0.4         0.4       0.7         50          1
Equipment, Furniture and         -        992.2      992.2       -         36.7       36.7       100         67
Vehicles
Librry Materials and Equipcmt    -        169.2       169.2      -          6.3       6.3        100         11
PPF                             9.5         -          9.5      0.4         -         0.4         0          1
RECURRENT COSTS             72.9        -        72.9       2.7         -         2.7         0          5
Incremental Operating           50.7        -         50.7      1.9         -          1.9        0          3
Incremental Implementation      22.2        -         22.2      0.8         -         0.8         0          2
TOTAL BASE COSTS           214.2     1274.1     1488.4      7.9       47.1       55.1         86        100
Price Contingencies             55.5      105.9       161.5     2.1        3.9        6.0        66          11
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS          269.8     1380.1     1649.8     10.0       51.1       61.1         84        111
af Net of taxes



Table 3.2: Poject Cos' by Component
KShx. million                   US$ million
Foreign    Share in
Exchange   Total Base
Local    Foreign    Total      Local     Foreign     Total    Share (%)   Costs (%)
CENTRAL COMPONENTS           143.0      112.3      255.2      5.3        4.2        9.4        44         17
Strengthenng CHE b/            84.5       35.1      119.6       3.2        1.7       5.0        34          9
Reforming Student Loan         12.4       27.9       40.3       0.5        1.0       1.5        69          3
Scheme b/                              _ _
Studies                        9.5        9.5        19.0       0.4        0.4       0.7        50          I
Support for Applied Research   14.3       39.8       54.1       0.4        1.1       1.5        74          3
Project Implementation         22.2        -         22.2       0.8        -         0.8         0          2
UNIVERSITY COMPONENTS    71.3            1161.9     1233.0      2.6       43.0       45.6       94         83
Nairobi                        19.9      226.1      245.0       0.7        8.4       9.1        92          17
Moi                            24.6      221.4      246.0       0.9        8.2       9.1        90          17
Kenyatta                        6.2      241.7      246.0       0.2        8.9       9.1        97          17
Egeiton                        10.5      235.5      246.0       0.4        8.7       9.1        96          17
JKUCAT                          4.0      119.5      123.5       0.2        4.4       4.6        97          8
Maseno                         6.9       116.6      123.5       0.3        4.3       4.6        94          8
TOTAL BASE COSTS          214.2      1274.1     1488.4      7.9       47.2       55.1        86        100
Price Contingencies            55.5      105.9      161.5       2.1        3.9       6.0        66          11
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS         269.8      1380.1     1649.8     10.0       511        61.1       84         111
/ Netoftaxes
b/ Includes PPF



- 28 -
B. Financing Plan
3.6          Of the total project costs of US$61.1 million, the contribution of the
government will be US$6.1 million (10%) which will cover 7% of investment costs and 67%
of recurrent costs. The remainder of the project costs will be financed by IDA. Table 3.3
presents project costs by financing source. An IDA credit to the Government of Kenya of
US$55.0 million is proposed, which will be passed on to the central institutions and the
universities as grants. The project, and its financing, take account of the major bilateral
programs at Moi, Egerton and JKUCAT universities (para. 1.27).
Table 3.3: Proposed Project Financing
(US$ million)
Expenditure         Total Base                             Percentage
Categories           Costs          GOK           IDA         IDA
INVESTMENT                52.4          3.7         48.7         93
Institutional Development        1.7                        1.7        100
Staff Development                6.7                       6.7         100
Studies                          0.7                       0.7         100
Equipment, furniture and        36.7          3.7          33.0         90
vehicles
Library materials and            6.3                       6.3         100
equipment
PPF                              0.4                       0.4         100
RECURRENT                 2.7           1.8          0.9         33
Incremental Operating            1.9           1.5         0.4          21
Incremental Implementation       0.8          0.3          0.5          63
TOTAL BASE COSTS             55.1          5.5          49.6         90
Contingencies                    6.0          0.6          5.4          90
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS            61.1          6.1          55.0         90
C. Procurement
3.7          Table 3.4 su-mmarizes procurement arrangements. Procurement will be
undertaken by the Projoct Irnplementation Unit (PIU) of the Ministry of Education. IDA-
financed procurement of goods and services is expected to be 74% by International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) and 26% by other means. Where ICB procedures are used,
qualified domestic manufacturers will be allowed a marginal preference of 15% for goods or
the existing rate of import duties, whichever is lower, over the CIF price of competing
foreign suppliers. Equipment, vehicles and library materials will be consolidated in three
packages each for phased ICB procurement, in accordance with World Bank guidelines.



- 29 -
Table 3.4: Procurement
(US$ million)
ICB      LCB       Other     N.A.   Total Cos
GOODS AND ASSOCIATED MINOR
CIVIL WORKS
Equipment                                   31.3    0.9         0.1                32.3
(31.3)   (0.9)      (0.1)              (32.3)
Furniture                                                                2.1        2.1
____________________.________ _________                      .                       ...   (-)  (-)
Vehicles                                     3.5                                    3.5
(3.5)                                 (3.5)
Library Equipment and Materials              5.9                1.0                 6.9
(5.9)      .       (1.0)               (6.9)
Minor Civil Works                                                        2.0        2.0
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~________  ____                                   (-)        (-)
SERVICES
Training                                                                 9.2        9.2
(9.2)     (9.2)
Technical Assistance                                            0.7                 0.7
(0.7)              (0.7)
Studies                                                         0.8                 0.8
(0.8)              (0.8)
TOTAL CIVIL WORKS, GOODS AND                40.7    0.9         2.i    13.3        57.5
SERVICES                                   (40.7)   (0.9)       (2.6)    (9.2)    (53.4)
RECURRENT
Operating Costs (CHE)                                                    2.6        2.6
(0.9)     (0.9)
Implementation Operating Costs (PIU)                                     1.0        1.0
(0.7)     (0.7)
TOTAL RECURRENT                                                          3.6        3.6
*    I______________________                __              .    .  ....     . ._ (1.6)  (1.6)
TOTAL PROJECT                               40.7    0.9         2.6    16.9        61.1
(40.7)   (0-9)      (2.6)   (10.8)     (55.0)
Amounts in parentheses are to be financed by IDA.



- 30 -
3.8          Other means of IDA-financed procurement include:
a)    Some contracts for equipment and library materials are s:nall in value
and it is unlikely that they will attract foreign competition. Such
contracts costing less than US$100,000, up to an aggregate amount
not exceeding US$900,000, will be procured through Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB). LCB procedures will include local
advertisement, allowing sufficient time for bid submission, public bid
opening, clearly spelled out evaluation criteria, and award to the
lowest evaluated bidder. Interested foreign contractors will not,
however, be precluded from participation. Smaller contracts costing
less than US$25,000, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding
US$100,000, will be procured through international or local shopping
based on price quotations from at least three suppliers.
Local procurement procedures were reviewed by IDA and are
consistent with the requirements except for preference for
"indigenous" local firms. At negotiations, it was confirmed that all
LCB procurement will conform to IDA guidelines. Also, the first
LCB document will be reviewed by IDA before its release to bidders.
b)    For certain university-level library books and journals, the number of
suppliers is limited. Such contracts, up to an aggregate amount of
US$1.0 million, will be procured through Limited International
Bidding (LIB) or by direct purchasing from the publisher.
c)    Training and other staff development (e.g. seminars and workshops):
based on an annual Staff Development and Related Training Plan that
the Task Group (and then CHE) will draw up, with the PIU, on the
basis of the training needed at the central level and contained within
the university subprojects.
3.9          Technical Assistance and Studies. Tle technical assistance requirements will
be provided by firms and individual consultants. Approximately 60 months of the technical
assistance is costed on the assumption of procurement from qualified foreign consultants and
approximately 234 months from local sources. Details are provided in Annex 12. Selection
procedures for all consultants (firms and individuals) will be in accordance with the
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as
Executing Agency (August 1981). All consultant terms of reference, qualifications,
experience and conditions of employment will be satisfactory to IDA and subject to review
before an agreement (or contract) is negotiated and signed. Procedures in consultancy
contracts involving firms will include a mandatory review by IDA of the proposed short list,
letter of invitation and award proposal for all contracts.
3.10         Review of Procurement. All bidding packages exceeding US$100,000 to be
financed by IDA for goods will be subject to IDA prior review. All other contracts will be
subject to selective post-award review. Thus about 95% of the total value of procurement
will be subject to IDA prior review.



- 31 -
3.11         Government-financed procurement will be as follows:
a)    Furniture up to US$2.1 million: contracts would be awarded to local
manufacturers in accordance with local procedures.
b)    Minor civil works, up to US$2.0 million, necessary to implement
some of the University Component subprojects: either force account
by the universities' own facilities staff or by direct contract.
D. Disbursements
3.12         Disbursements from the IDA credit will be on the basis of:
a)     100% of foreign and ex-factory local expenditures for equipment,
library materials and vehicles;
b)    80% of local expenditures for other equipment, library materials and
vehicles procured locally (in order to avoid IDA financing taxes);
c)     100% of foreign and local expenditures for staff development and
related training, studies, and foreign and local institutional
development, technical assistance and specialists;
d)     100% of CHE's incremental operating costs associated with its role in
university coordination and planning, through June 30, 1994;
e)    60% of the PIU's incremental operating costs throughout the project;
and
D)     100% of withdrawn Project Preparation Advance funds.
3.13         There are two conditions of disbursement:
a)    For the Student Loan Scheme component, the initial execution of an
Action Plan acceptable to IDA for reforming the administration of the
Loan Scheme (paras. 2.13 and 6.2(a)); and
b)    For Phase II, and subsequently for Phase III, of the University
Components, submission of evidence that the packages consist of
subprojects appraised according to the agreed criteria and assessed in
the light of Phase I and Phase II implementation where appropriate
(paras. 2.24 and 6.2(b)).
3.14         All disbursements will be fully documented except for items costing less than
$50,000 where certified statements of expenditures (SOEs) will be used; supporting
documentation will be retained by the implementing agncies for review by IDA supervision
missions and for annual audits. It is anticipated that the credit will be fully disbursed by June
30, 1996. Annex 13 is an indicative schedule of IDA disbursements, expected to be faster
than in the standard disbursement profile for Kenya because of the advanced state of project
preparation and the absence of major civil works.



- 32 -
3.15          A foreign exchange Special Account of US$4.0 million, funded by IDA, will
be established in the Central Bank of Kenya. To the extent possible, IDA's share of all
payments will be made through the Special Account except for any exceptionally large item
which will be handled under IDA regular procedures. The Government will submit
replenishment requests on a quarterly basis or whenever the Special Account is diminished by
one third, whichever comes first. The Government and the universities will make available
their contributions, as the case may be, for items to be financed out of the Special Account at
the same time as withdrawals are made from the Special Account.
E. Accounts and Audits
3.16          The project would be subject to normal public sector accounting and auditing
procedures, which are considered satisfactory to IDA. The PIU would maintain separate
project accounts and would prepare as part of its input to the half-yearly reports to be
submitted to IDA for review (para. 4.g) a financial statement or project expenditures. Project
accounts would be audited annually covering -ll expenditures related to the project and with
particular attention to and including separate opinions for (a) expenditures reimbursed against
SOEs, and (b) the adcministration of the Special Account. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained that annual audits of project accounts and SOEs by independent auditors acceptable
to- IDA will be carried out and that all audited accoumts will be made available to IDA within
six months of the close of each fiscal year (para. 6.3(k))



33 
IV. PJT LMENTATION
A. Status of Project Preparation
4.1          The project was prepared by the government through the establishment of a
Policy and Planning Task Group, with representation from the Ministry of Education, CHE
and each of the six public university institutions. This Task Group also helpeA to prepare the
higher education policy changes being supported by EDSAC which provide the general
franiework for the project. An Qrii pL     ntn was prepared for the appraisal
mission, which included the policy framework, a public universities investment program,
detailed proposals for the central components, summaries of the individual university
subprojects, summary expenditure proposals, and implementation and procurement
arrangements. This document shows clearly how all components (central and university)
relate to overall policy for the development of the university sector. This document was
agreed in final form at negotiations and is included in the project file. The Policy and
Planning T&k Group established two Subgroups, that for the Central Components and that for
the University Components. The latter included the procurement engineer from the PIU.
The Task Group and its subgroups have now been fornmalized with the appointment of a full-
time Coordinator in July 1991, chairing a Task Group under CHE equipped with a full-time
secretariat (paras. 2.4-2.5).
4.2          The continued work of the Task Group and its secretariat, together with the
review of the Student Loan Scheme (para. 2.13), between project appraisal and effectiveness
are being financed by a Project Preparation Advance of US$400,000 confirmed on August 14,
1991.
B. Organization and Management
4.3          Under the overall authority of the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of
Education, project implementation responsibility would be delegated to CHE, initially the
Task Group and subsequently the restructured CHE itself. Until CHE is revamped, the buik
of the work would be handled by the Project Appraisal and Implementa: -n Subgroup,
although formal responsibility would rest with the overall Task Group (Annex 3). The
Deputy Coordinator and the Assistant Coordinator-Project on the Task Group secretariat
would have principal day-to-day responsibility for project implementation, but again formal
responsibility would rest with the Coordinator. The condition of effective-ess concerning the
Task Grop and its associated subgroups and secretariat thus also aplies to project
implementation; in addition the proposal to be submitted to IDA by June 30. 1992 Lor
restructuring CHE will cover the continued management and implementation of the pro
(paras. 2.5, 6.1(b) and 6.3(c)).
4.4          The Task Group, and later CHE, would have responsibility for all project
implementation functions except three. Project accounts, procurement and disbursements for
justified project expenditure would be handled by the existing Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) of the Ministry of Education, which has been responsible for implementing the Fifth
(1107-KE) and Sixth (1683-KE) IDA Education Credits. The respective operational
responsibilities of the CHE Task Group and the PIU are listed in Annex 14. The PIU would
be represented on the Project Appraisal and Implementation Subgroup of the CHE Task



- 34 -
Group. It would also liaise closely on procurement with technical panels appointed by this
Subgroup and with Liaison Officers appointed at each of the six university institutions for
project preparation and implementation who would provide input during specifications, bid
document preparation and bid evaluation. The PIU would have full responsibility for
procurement from specifications/bid document stage through equipment delivery and
installation. The PIU would also share responsibility, as appropriate, with the Task Group
and Liaison Officers for implementation of the annual staff development and related training
programs (para. 4.5). It would be strengthened to handle the procurement of advanced
scientific equipment.
4.5           At negotiations, assurances were obtained concerning the submission by CHE
to IDA b" March I each year of proposed project implementation work programs, action
plans and detailed implementation schedules by project element to execute the work prosgram.
for the fiscal year to start in July. satisfactory to IDA (para. 6.3(h)(i)). These will include a
staff development and related training program, integrating the training and other staff
development needs of the central components and the university subprojects into a
consolidated program, indicating the nature, duration and location of training; similar
proposals for seminars and workshops; and any required consultant services with terms of
reference. The submission of such a program. action plan and implementation schedule for
1991/92 is a condition of project effectiveness (para. 6. 1(c)).
4.6           Detailed implementation schedules for strengthening CHE (Annex 4) and for
the University Components (Annex 8) were agreed during appraisal. Of the other central
components, an implementation schedule for reforming the Student Loan Scheme will form
part of the action plan to be submitted to IDA as a condition of disbursement (paras. 2.13,
3.10 and 6.2(a)); timetables for the studies were agreed at negotiations (para. 2.15); and the
funding of applied research will be ongoing throughout the project. The Central Components
would be implemented by CHE, initially through the Task Group; all procurement, whether
central or for the universities, would be handled by PIU; the Task Group and the university
Liaison Officers would implement the annual staff development and related training program
with appropriate support from PIU.
4.7          The World Bank will communicate directly on all project matters with CHE,
initially the Task Group Coordinator. However, it is understood that for administrative
efficiency, CHE may request the Bank to communicate directly to the PIU Director on
matters concerning project accounting, procurement and disbursements, with copies sent to
CHE.
C. Monitoring. Reportinig and Evaluation
4.8           At negotiations, assurances were obtained that CHE (initially the Coordinator)
will submit to IDA half:yearly progress reports by February 1 and August 1, highlighting
issues that need resolution (para. 6.3(i)). These reports would be prepared with the help of
the PIU and other appropriate bodies such as that responsible for the Student Loan Scheme.
In addition, the Project Appraisal and Implementation Subgroup will, in conjunction with the
PIU, conduct monthly meetings to assess progress and resolve any problems emerging in the
implementation of individual project components.



- 35 -
4.9          IDA's supervision plans are detailed in Annex 15, and include ongoing
supervision from the Bank's Nairobi office. In addition to regular supervision, two major
reviews of the project are planned. The first will be in the second half of 1992 to ensure
smooth transition to project management by CHE; the second in the first half of 1994 to
evaluate progress in the achievement of project objectives in general, and the functioning of
the restructured CHE in particular, in advance of Phase III for the University Components.
For the first major review, the key document to be prepared by the government will be the
proposal for restructuring CHE (para. 2.5), plus the regular submissions. For the second
review, the August 1994 half-yearly report will be replaced with a complete report on
progress since effectiveness. and will include any government proposals for reshaping the
proe  (para. 6.3(j)). During both reviews, the Task Group and CHE's developing capacity
to appraise subprojects under the University Components will be the subject of particular
attention. During the second, the allocation to individual universities will also be reexamined
(para. 2.19).
4.10         During the period of implerrentation of EDSAC, i.e. through 1993,
supervision missions for EDSAC and for this Project will, wherever possible, be scheduled to
coincide, permitting joint supervision of the policy issues relating to higher education. Once
the third and final tranche of the Adjustment Credit is released, the second major review and
continuing supervision will enable the Government and IDA to continue to discuss the overall
university policy framework. The Phase II and III university component packages will be
appraised by CHE and subject to an IDA condition of disbursement (paras. 2.24, 3.13 and
6.3(b)); IDA will attach considerable importance to satisfying itself that the condition of
disbursement is met, through in-depth random review of the appraisals, especially for Phase
II. It will also be important for IDA to ensure the continued involvement of supervision
expertise in advanced scientific and engineering equipment in order to review subproject
appraisals and equipment procurement specifications.
4.11         No later than six months after the Credit closing date, CHE, with the
assistance of the PIU, will prepare and provide to IDA a Project Completion Report
evaluating the implementation, initial operation, costs and benefits of the project, and the
performances of the Goverment and IDA, including the significant lessons learned during
imp;ementation.
D. Environmental Impact
4.12         The project involves no construction and wil be environmentally neutral.
During appraisal, it was determined that university procedures were satisfactory for the
handling of potentially dangerous scientific equipment, e.g. radioisotopes. Certain university
subprojects will also support teaching and research relevant to atmospheric, ground and water
pollution and the preservation of endangered animal and plant species.



- 36 -
V. PROJECT BENEFITS, .IUSTIF1CATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Justification
5.1          The project, together with the education sector adjustment credit, will have
three principal benefits. First, it will set in place an institutional framework for the
cootdination, planning, and financing of Kenya's universities. Second, it will help to control
the government's education budget. Third, it will improve the quality of the teaching and
research that the universities deliver.
5.2           The process of strengthening CHE so that it will by 1993 become the
institution responsible for the coordination, planning, programming, budgeting and financing
of the public universities will be the key benefit of the project, and is also supported by
EDSAC. It is essential to establish and maintain an institutional framework for Kenya's
university development, such that the uncontrolled experience of 1985-90 will not be repeated.
The project is designed to support institution building through the progressive adoption of new
functions by CHE, specifically through preparing a university development plan for 1993-99
and through taking responsibility for subproject appraisal and selection under Phases II and m
of the University Components. At the same time, CHE will continue its effective work in
promoting and accrediting private universities, and will be aided in this by the study of their
future development to be carried out under the project. If successful, the Kenyan experience
in managing tertiary education expansion could be an important reference point for other
African countries as they face similar transition problems.
5.3          Establishing this institutional framework will not only lead to the rational
development of Kenya's university subsector, it will also permit the government to bring
university expenditure under control. Recurrent spending by the rapidly expanding
universities has been one of the two main factors driving the education sector budget, which
in turn has been a major force in driving overall government expenditure and resulting in the
fiscal deficit. The adoption of an institutional framework for financing universities will lead
to improved resource allocation. In addition, the limits on student admission!s and the reform
of the Student Loan Scheme will also help to bring under control the rapidlly increasing
university level expenditure. University expenditure should now stabilize at around 20
percent of the overall recurrent budget for education, arresting the present very rapi&y
increasing share.
5.4           The quality of teaching will be enhanced by the provision of much needed
investments at the six public universities; this will account for the bulk of project funds.
Research will also be modestly assisted through the funding of applied research. Improved
teaching and research conditions should also help to attract and retain academic staff. In
time, the concentration of both teaching and research quality improvements on those science
and engineering disciplines most critical for Kenya's development will also benefit the
economy as a whole.
B. Risks
5.5           The project has two risks. The first - and most serious - risk is that the policy
framework put in place by the Education Sector Adjustment Credit, which provides the



- 37 -
context for and is extended over time by this project, may not hold if government support
falters in the face of public opposition to various reform measures. Restricting student
numbers, and increasing cost-sharing, both direct and deferred, are two examples of measures
potentially unpopular with students and their parents, while giving CHE far reaching financial
controls is potentially unpopular with the university Vice-Chancellors, even though they sit,
and will continue to sit, on the Commission of CHE. However, the preparation of both the
Adjustnent Credit and this Project have involved extensive consensus building through ad hoc
task groups, and indeed the ones established for this project are now being formalized and
will eventually become part of CHE. This consensus building appears to have paid off in
terms of the initial policy steps that the government has already taken: limiting student
admissions, stating that CHE will be revamped and appointing a Coordinator, and announcing
reforms to the Student Loan Scheme. Tackling these issues in the context of the education
sector adjustment credit (where they are conditions of tranche release) as well as in this
project (where they are the subject of covenants), not to mention their inclusion in the IMF
Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility approved on August 2, 1991, provides a powerful
external stimulus to stay the course.
5.3          A second risk, specific to the project, is that CHE will take time to develop
the capacity to coordinate university development in general, and to appraise subprojects in
particular, and that this will impede implementation. This risk has already been reduced,
however, by the extensive manner in which the Phase I subprojects were reviewed jointly by
the Bank and the government at appraisal, which established consensus on both procedures
and criteria. Moreover, the risk is justified in the interest of institution building and will be
mitigated by the conditions of disbursement on Phases n1 and In (paras. 2.24, 3.13 and
6.2(b)) and will also be the subject of specific attention during the two major project review,,
(para. 4.9).
U



- 38 -
VI. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1          The following are conditions of effectiveness:
a)    The collection in academic year 1991/92 of the direct charge of KSh 6,000,
the operation of the bursary scheme for needy students (not to exceed 20% of
student enrollment), and the limiting of the student loan to KSh 21,500 with
no more than KSh 5,000 available for personal expenses (para. 1.23);
b)    The implementation of arrangements satisfactory to IDA concerning the
staffing, accommodation, work program and budget of the Task Group and its
associated subgroups and secretariat for 1991/92 (para. 2.5), to include the
Project Appraisal and Implementation Subgroup, the appointment of the
Deputy Coordinator on the Task Group's secretariat, and the Liaison Officers
at the six university institutions (paras. 2.23 and 4.3); and
c)    The submission of a project implementation work program, action plan and
implementation schedule for 1991/92, to include a staff development and
related training program (para. 4.5).
6.2          Conditions of disbursement are:
a)    For the Student Loan Scheme, the initial execution of an Action Plan
acceptable to IDA for reforming the administration of the Loan Scheme
(paras. 2.13 and 3.13); and
b)    For Phase II, and subsequently for Phase III, of the University Components,
submission of evidence that the packages consist of subprojects appraised
according to the agreed criteria and assessed in the light of Phase I and Phase
II implementation where appropriate (paras. 2.24 and 3.13).
6.3          In addition, during negotiations, assurances were obtained concerning:
a)    Limiting undergraduate admissions to 10,300 in 1992, 10,610 in 1993, 10,930
in 1994, 11,260 in 1995 and 11,600 in 1996 (para. 1.19);
b)    Capping the student loan at KSh 21,500 through 1993 and then at a level
satisfactory to IDA during 1994-96, eliminating the personai element from the
loan by 1993, and maintaining the direct student charge at least at KSh 6,000
(para. 1.23);
c)    The submission by June 30, 1992 of a proposal satisfactory to IDA for
restructuring CHE (including for project implementation) with effect from
January 1993, and also for continued interim arrangements from July-
December 1992, and the implementation by January 1, 1993 of this proposal,
following IDA's review and comment (paras. 2.5, 2.23 and 4.3));



- 39 -
d)     The submission for IDA's review and comment by March 1, 1993 of a draft
public university development plan for 1993-99 (para. 2.6);
e)     That the government will, with effect from July 1994, fully fund the operating
budget of CHE at a level satisfactory to IDA such that it can carry out its
university coordination, planning and financing functions (para. 2.10);
0      That each study funded by the project will be submitted to IDA for review
and comment within three months of its completion in accordance with a
timetable satisfactory to IDA (para. 2.16);
g)    That the initial three applied research proposals accepted by the Task Group,
together with the experts' evaluations and the Task Group's assessments, will
be submitted to IDA for review and confirmation and that subsequent
proposals will be approved in accordance with agreed criteria (para. 2.17);
h)     The submission for IDA's review and comment by March 1 each year of
proposals for the financial year to start on July 1 as follows:
(i)          a project work program, action plan and
implementation schedule, including a staff
development and related training program (para 4.5);
(ii)         a work program and budget (including staffing) for
CHE (initially including the Task Group) (para. 2. 11);
(iii)        a work program and budget (including staffing) for the
body responsible for the Student Loan Scheme (para.
2.14); and
(iv)         starting in 1993, CHE's draft recommendations on
university admissions and budgets (para. 2.6);
i)     Starting in August 1992, the submission to IDA by February 1 and August 1
each year of progress reports as follows:
(i)          in February, on project activities within the preceding
July-December (para. 4.8);
(ii)         in August on:
a)    project activities within the preceding January-
June (para. 4.8);
(b)    CHE's (including the Task Group) activities
during the previous financial year (para. 2. 11);
(c)   the activities of the body responsible for the
Student Loan Scheme during the previous
financial year (para. 2.14); and



- 40 -
(d)   the use of applied research funds during the
previous financial year (para. 2.17);
j)     The submission by August 1, 1991 for the second major review of a complete
report on the project since effectiveness, including any government proposals
for reshaping the project (para. 4.9); and
k)    The carrying out and submission to IDA within six months of the close of
each fiscal year of annual audits of all project accounts and SOEs (para.
3.16);
6.4           Subject to these provisions, the project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA
credit of SDR 41.3 million (US$55.0 million equivalent) to the Government of Kenya.



- 41 -
Annex I
REPUIUCOf 0  KENYA                                   Page 1 of 12
OFFICE OF THE.VICE.PRESIDENT AND  MINISTRY  OF FINANCE
:444--oWde Add.                                    , ,                       THE rREASURY;
FiNANCE.NAIACS&..  . '                -; **                                     P.O. l86  3000io
*.4ODa;  ,3i38   11  1 .i.--  .  -  _        .                    .- .          I NAtBoil -+ 
Rd. No. .:             .                                      .     ... . .    .    '-KENYA..
N ~ ~~~~~ .........   ;.,1:
*and 41t0                                                   -      J'--_         - 9W
.. .. .. .. .. .. . ...
Mr. Barber B. Conable               .       : .  .                    .        . .;  ..
President                              . -                                .:
:he World Bk       .. .;  ;...... -:                 .  -
. .      * .18.18 R Ste-eteX.W.;;    . .: ,.             --:.:                         --
..Washingtoa.D.C. 210433: ^.. *                              ,       '
* * - * * - t.             s ;.  .  ;.  *.  .  _ 
:--l   U-S..A\.:        ,     i.         _             *                 ,   .
LE-MB OuF EDUCATTO! scrR   oq 
I am writing to you in connection with the proposed Education Sector Adjustment
Credit (EDSAC) for which we are seeking assistance from the International Development
Association. Kenya has accorded high priority to education since Independence, and has
achieved literacy and participation ratios that are very high by African standards. Today
more than 6 million Kenyans, which is about a quarter of the country's total population, are
enrolled in various educational institutions. At the primary level, enrollment rose from less
than one million chi'ren at Independence to more than S million in 1990, an indication that a
high proportion of primary aged children now enter school. Adult literacy rates are estimated
to be above 60 percent for males and 40 percent for females. Although not yet quite equal,
school participation rates and educational achievement levels for females are rapidly
approaching those of males.
In addidon to making education widely accessible to the population and providing
skilled manpower for the economy, Kenya prides itself on the quality of its education system
and on the relevance of education to the lives that people lead after completing their formal
education. In tis regard, the education system was reformed in 1985. The former 7:4:2:3
system whiW imlvod seven years of primary education, four years of secondary education,
two years of log school and three years (mnimum) of university education was replaced by
an 8:4:4 syst_ The new 8:4:4 educadon system entails eight years of primary education,
four years of  condary education and four years (minimum) of university education. In
changing the slructure of the education system, major curriculum changes were also
introduced. These were designed to make primary and secondary levels of education
appropriate to both the needs of those children for whom that level of education is terminal as
well as catering for those who go on to the next level. With the first group of secondary
school leaveks having sat for the new Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE)
examination in November 1990 and having recently en6ered university, implementation of the
new system Ls well underway. However, a number of transitional problems in the
implementation of the new curriculum have been identified and the Government of Kenya
intends to address some of these in the context of EDSAC.
The needs of a rapidly growing school age population and rising demand for more
education have necessitated that Kenya spend heavily on inputs essential to a well fitnctioning



42 -                                           n
Page 2 of 12
education system. These have included awong other things: the ever increasing teachers
salary bill; increased dernandi for provision of physical facilities; equipment and learning
materials to educational institutionjs; and expansion in professional and administrative support
services for the promotiou amld provision of formal education. This demand for education is
based on considering education as a vehicle for national development and individual
advancement. Both public and private expenditure on education are high in Kenya, and have
continued to rise in recent years. However, at 6.7 percent of GNP, public expenditure on
education has probably reached its limits. In Sessional Paper No.1 of 1986 (Economic
Management for Renewed Growth), which provides the 'ong-term economic framework for
the country till the turn of century, my Government noted its concern over the rate of growth
of public expenditure ont educatiotn, especially recurrent expenditure. Rapidly rising education
expenditures not only constrain the budgetary allocations on other important sectors but also
contributes to the fiscal deficit. Tlhe Sessional Paper No. I of 1986 indicated the intention of
Government to gradually reduce education's share in Goverunent ministries recurrent
expenditure, and this objective remains central to present-day macroeconomic management.
Kenya has periodically reviewed the philosophy and objectives of its education
system. The most recent review was concluded in 1988 by the Presidential Working Party on
Education and Manpower Training for the next Decade and Beyond. The thrust of the
resulting Sessional Paper (No. 6 of 1988) is increased access to education and provision of
quality education for sustainable living couched in the reality of Kenya's macroeconomic and
financial constraints. A number of recommendations of the Sessional Paper have already
been implemented while the implementation of others is planned during the period supported
by EDSAC.
Recent Refom  in the Edaion L
These have included aonong rmany others:
The implementation of the 8:4:4-system of education at primary school level
in January 1985, at secondary school level in January 1986 and at university
level in October 19. The change in the system of education and training
aimed at enhancing and improving the relevance and quality of education and
training at all levels.
     The expansion of enollment and divesification of courses in the public
universities. This gave rise to the establishment of Moi University in 1985,
Kenyanta University in 1986, Egerton University in 1986, Jomo Kenyatta
College of Agricultre and Technology in 1989, and Maseno University
Coilege, Laikipia College and Chepkoelel campus in 1990. The expanded
woess to univeity education aimed at reducing the large number of Kenyans
who were going to foreign countries for university level education. There are
now abo  40,000 Kenyans in the public universities.
°     Deentralizadon in 1989 of the disbursement of university students loans to
the district level through Kenya Commercial Bank of Kenya and National
Bank of Kenya. This was an efficiency measure to facilitate accountability for
the loans.
     Further decentralizadon and deconcentration of educational management
administration, and supervision services to the districts in accordance with the
Government policy on district focus for rural development which was
introduced in 1983. Now there are about 800 Zonal Education Officers
staffed by Inspectors of Schools, 300 Divisional Education Offices staffed by



43.                                        AnnIe
Page 3 of 12
Education Officers, and B Provincial Education Offices staffed with Deputy
Assistant Directors of Education, Senior Education Officers, Senior Irnspector
of Schools and School Auditors.
Increased levels of and cost sharing measures in tte provision of physical
facilities, equipment, textbooks and other learning resources in primary and
secondary schools. Parents have a responsibility to provide facilities, books
and equipment in primary schools. However, in boarding priinary schools in
arid and semi arid areas the Govemnment continues to provide facilities,
equipment and books.
Improvement in the internal efficiency within the education sector in relation to the
above reforms calls for: establishing an institution for the disbursement and recovery of
university students loan; economic deployment of teachers; gradual withdrawal of boarding
subsidies in Government maintained secondary schools and colleges; improving procurement
of text-books for primary schools; delinking training and university graduation from public
sector employment; and improved management, administration and supervision throughout the
sector. In this regard, reomsto bi minl                                  ng
gAW: (i) access improvement; (ii) quality improvement; (iii) education budget
rationalization; and (iv) strengthening sector management planning, btudgeting and information
systems.
ReforMs to be Imbeent2d duringz the Creit
The attached policy matrix sets out in detail the objectives, actions, and timetable which are
summarized below.
(i) Access tg Educatn
A central objective of Government policy is to continue to expand access to primary
school to those segments of society currendy unable to attend school, and se§  expand
access to secondary and tertiary education. In order to increase primary participation ratios
zmong children from remote parts of the country, the public sector will continue to establish
and maintain boarding schools in arid and semi arid areas an well as explore the feasibility of
alternative delivery systems for nomadic peoples. At the secondary level, commlnities will
be encouraged through Harambee efforts to continue building secondary schools. However,
unlike in the past when schools were established wherever communities chose to put them,
District Education Boards will control the establishment of new secondary schools so that
expansion can occur in a more planned way than hitherto. Goverment hopes that through
this policy small schools with low enrollments which have proven uneconomic to staff will be
no longer be vabllshed and those in existence will be merged with large viable institutions.
At te twtary level, Government intends to continue expanding erollments as a way
of serving equity objectves by opening up the system to students from a wider range of
socioeconomic backgrounds and som different pars of the country. However, after the large
enrollment increase in 1990 Government intends to allow the universities a period for
consolidation, and will admit no more than 10,000 new students in 1991. Admissions in 1992
and 1993 will be 3% higher than for the previous year, and actual numbers of students will
not exceed 10,302 and 10,612 in 192 and 1993 respectvely. In addition, future university
admissions will be derived by taking Into account: number of secondary school leavers;
capacity of the universities to take additional students; availability of natona fincil
resources; and the needs of the economy for skilled manpower. At the saws time,
Government will continue to implement its policy whereby the public sctor hbas cesed to bo
the employer of last resort for the university graduates who are unphle to find altenataive
employment. Expansion of other public tertiay institutions will be planned in the credit



Annex I
Page 4 of 12
period, and this together with promotion of private sector tertiary institutions will help diffuse
pressure away from the public universities and also address national manpower imbalances.
Although not well quantified. it is observed that a sizeable numbers of children leave
primary and secondary school before reaching the end or the cycle. This phenomenon is
particularly unfortunate for those who leave school before achieving literacy and numeracy,
and who find themselves marginalized from economic life. Government therefore plans to
undertake a study to determine the courses and extent of primary school drop-outs as a matter
of urgency. Once we know the dimensions of the problem, measures designed to reduce
drop-out rates will be put into place.
(ii) Quality of Education
A second objective of Government policy is to improve the quality of education at all
levels of the system. In order to achieve this at primary and secondary levels greater
emphasis will be placed on in-service teacher training, and the 8:4:4 curriculum, which is
currently considered to be too intense, will be streamlined and harmonized particularly at the
secondary level. To ensure that adequate textbooks are available in schools, limited
public-sector provision of core textbooks to primary school children will resume. The latter
represents a modification of the current policy whereby parents are entirely responsible for the
provision of all school books. The financing of this policy in discussed below. An area of
particular concern is the teaching of science and mathematics at the primnary and secondary
levels. The problem of poor performance in mathematics and science has persisted for many
years, and major new efforts are needed to strengthen this critical area. Government plans to
reorganize and harmonize the mathematics, science and applied science curricula, enhance and
expand in-service courses for mathematics and science teachers, accord greater emphasis to
the preparation of maths and science teachers in diploma colleges and the universities, and
finally, explore the possibility of wide-scale public sector provision of basic mathematics and
science books and equipment.
In addition to restricting university enrollments (discussed above), course offerings across
the four universities will be rationalized, including the amalgamation of programs with small
enrollm.cnts, so thA true "programs of excellence" in relation to stated areas of national
importance can develop. This move will protect and ulmately enhance the quality of
university education and permit teaching staff to develop their skills and professional standing
through research, fuoher study, and interaion with a critical mass of colleagues in their own
areas of concentration.
(iii) EUgail Eta        bdighr
As I madoned above, Kenya has a high level of expenditure on education. In recent
years, public ezpenditure on education has grown faster than other sectors and it now
constitutea about 25 percent of total expenditure (37 percent of recurrent expenditure). It is
the view of Govenmet that this trend cannot be sustained and the time has come to curtail
the growth of the education budget. In order to reduce the rate of growth of the education
recurrent budget, Government has introduced measures that will restrain the growth of the
teaching force and will control the expansion of higher education. Given the anticipated
reduction in primary and secondary teacher costs, some of the resulting savings will be used
to finance bools and materials in the schools, run more in-service training courses for
teachers and headteachers (especially on matnrs relating to the implemewtation of the 844
curriculum), and make investments in equipment and training, needed to improve the teaching
of mathematics and science. By the end of the credit period Government hopes to established
an expenditure flow of no less than 3 percent of te primary education recutrent budget for
school equipmant (including books) and other learning supplies.



Aun    1
-45                                    Page 5 of 12
Restraining the growth of the teaching force at a time of expanding enrollments will
lead to an increase in pupil-teacher ratios, and improve the efficiency with which teach'-rs are
utilized. Government has set the following pupil-teacher ratio targets for the credit period: in
primary education from 31:1 (current) to 34:1   1993; and in secondary education from 21: 1
(current) to 22:1 1993. Achievement of higher pupil teacher ratios over the 2-to-3 year
period will require modification of some of the current policies/practices relating to:
governmnent financing of teachers in small, over staffed schools; the recent decision that GOK
will finance all teachers in the former category of assisted secondary schools; control over the
number of 844 curriculum options offered in small secondary schools; guaranteed
employment of certificate, diploma, and education graduates of the primary teachers colleges,
diploma colleges and universities; the need for annual review of v; ler requirements and
projected output of teachers from the primary teachers colleges, dipioma colleges, and
universities; the proportion of untrained teachers versus new KCSE school leavers taken as
first year entrants into the primary teachers colleges and diploma colleges; deployment of
primary level teachers to schools outside their own home districts; and the curricula of
diploma colleges and education degree programs and, in particular, the need to produce
secondary school teachers prepared to teach two or more 844 subjects.
The other area of the education budget that has witnessed rapid increase in
expenditure is the university sub-sector. In order to contain the universities budget and
protect other levels of education, a ceiling of 20 percent will be set on the universities share
of the recurrent education budget. At the beginning of the 1991/92 academic year
Government will introduce increased cost sharing at the tertiary level. This will involve
introduction of a tuition fee of KShs 6000 per year and changes in the student loan scheme.
However, in order to ensure that no eligible student is barred from admission to universities
through lack of ability to pay fees, Government will introduce a bursary scheme which will
provide up to 20% of students with some financial support, additional to the student loan
scheme. Government has already announced this plan to students and the general public, and
is currently working out implementation details. As you know Kenya has had a student loan
scheme since 1974, but because of administrative constraints, the scheme has not operated
effectively and especially with regard to loan recovery. As mentioned above, the scheme has
been undergoing various reforms in recent years, and further changes are planned for the
credit period. These include: establishment of a Loan Board to run the university student loan
scheme; segregation of the loan find from the Ministry of Education and universities
recurrent budget; charging an interest rate that will change from time to time and which will
enable the fbud to become more self-sustining. Functions of the Loan Board will include
securing of funds, disbursement of loans, management of funds and loans, and recovery of
loans. The loan will continue to be opdonal to all students, up to a maximum amount which
will be fixed from time to time.



-46-                                   AnnL1
Page 6 of 12
(iv) Strenheningseor Management, 2laing. bUdg          inforMation systeMa
The education system is large and complex and although a number of changes have
been made in the years since Independence, management practices and planning capacity have
generally not kept pace with growth. During the ci -dit period Government plans to undertake
actions on three fronts. First, educational managers, administrators, supervisors and planners
will be trained in a variety of areas for more effective management and service delivery.
Second, appropriate and accurate information and data collection systems will be established
in order to facilitate more policy analysis, planning and informed decision making. And
third, in order to coordinate and maximize the benefits derived from the nation's higher
education institutions, both public and private, and to plan centrally for any future expansion
of this sub-sector, the Commission of Higher Education (CHE) will be strengthened and
expanded before January 1993. It is expected that the revamped CHE will be capable of
carrying out the function of overseeing the development and expansion of higher education,
with special reference to coordinating the planning, programming, financing and budgeting of
the public universities. During the interim period, the critical functions of policy formulation
and planning, budgeting and financing, and investment pl&nning will be undertaken by task
groups formed within CHE.
I hope that these details will help clarify for you the main objectives and directions of
the education sector reform program. We are convinced that once we have these reforms in
place we shall have a robust education system that will cater for the needs of all Kenyan
children, will be efficient and effective, and which will continue to develop within the
financial resources of the country. I am delighted that we shall engage in this reform
program with the full support of IDA.
Looking forward to continued assistance and cooperation between us.
Y ours
0-   _.
Profegr a.o4 Sa1k4I. ..
Vice Presidnt r Minister fo Plnance



KENYA: EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT:POLICY MATRIX             July 15, 1991
---------------------------- Policy actions       ----------->
(Sept '491)             (Sept '92)               (Sept '93)
Issums/Problm            Objectives               Actians Already          Before Board             2nd Trunche              3rd Trencbe
Taken                   Presentation             Relee                     "isleam
Investment Plan nd Isu ts
1. Sector Is             To prepare.              An education             Pblisihed                Provisionat              Provisional
curr2ntly                sector                   sector                   Est intes for            actusl recurrent         actual recurrent
without an               i _tnsnt plan            invest ent plan          1991/92 reflect          and developnt             nd devetopient
I,westmnt plan.           nd to Juw both          has been                 educatici                budget outcomes          budget outcoaes
Expicit changes         dmwlomnt and             prepared. 6K             recurrent and            for 1991/92 are          for 1992193 are
in budget                recurrent                has agreed to            developoent              acceptable to            acceptabte to
aitocations are          budgets to               consult with IDA         expenditure              IDA. 992/93              IDA. 1995394
rarely used as           implement policy         on delfelpient           altocations              published                published
tools of policy.        cd e.             ad reurrent                      accepteble to            Estia_tes                Estia_tes
budet                    IDA, *nd IDA hs         reflect                  reflect
aItelctions for          been provided           developoent and          dewelop ent andi
edacation                with an                 recurrent budget         recurrent budqet              t4
sctor.                  assurance that           allocations              atlocations
those key itemc         acceptable to            acceptable to
omitted frem the        IDA. Sector              IDA. Sector
p.M ished               investment plan           investrnnt plen
Estimstes will          has been                 has been
be provided for         upmdted.                 updated.
in the revised
m16 vest
Esti_ tes.
e



KENYA: EDUrTION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT:POLtIC MATRIX
<---- ----- Poticy actions ----------------------------
(Sept '91)               (Sept '92)                (Sept '93)
isdies/Problem           Objectives                Actions Alreadv           8efore Board             2nd Trancrhe              3rd Trench.
Taken                    Presentation               teleae                  Reles
Primarv Education
2. Rapidly                To reduc* rate           No rw UTs                 Nuiher of                New aekissions            New adeissionc
*xpwding                 of growth of              hired *s of               te;hers on                to PTCs have not         to PTCs have not
teaching force           teaching lorce            Jamary 1991.              prim_ry payroll          exceeded 8.000            exceeded 0.000
Is escalating            by Ca) aplying            lae adissions             does not exceed          and include at            wnd include at
education                 the ared                 to PTC& have              175 000,of ihich          least 3.000              least 3,000
rectrrent budget         staffing policy           been decided end          no mwe then              experienced UTs           experiened UTs
*nd sqceezing            of on  teacher            the total does            4.500 are UTs.            nd no more then           nd no mors than
publ ic resources        par elas plua             not exceed                                         S.000 school              S 000 school
for other school         2.SX; (b)                 a.000. *nd                                          leavers. Nhuber          teavers. Number
leluts.                   _ploying no new          includes at                                        of teachers on            of teachers on
untrained                 least 3.000                                       primary payroll           prim_ry payroll
teachers WUTs);          experierncd UTs.                                   does not exceed           does not exceed
(c) rsdocing the         and no more than                                    1Z5.000,of oiich         175S000of ,Aich
total intake to          S.m  scO  ol                                       no more then              no eore then                  4
the PICs but at          leaers.                                            36,000 are UTs.           33.500 are UTs.               o
the mns tim
increasing the
intake of
serving UTs.
3. lnadequate             To increase the          A broad plan             GCK has provided           1992/93                  1993/94
availability of           availability of          an textbook               IDA with an               recurrent                recurrent
essential                 textbooks in             provision has             assurance that           Estimtes                 Est imtes
textbooks in             primary schools           been prepared             the revised              contain an                contain en
noWy prim_ry              by saom  public           ihich adiresse           1991/92                   allocation for           allocation for
scbools.                 provision of              (i) regional              recurrent                 primary school           primary school
books to                 dieparities;              Estimates will            textbooks.               textbooks. An
coaplowmnt               (ii) existing             contain an                                         evaluation of
perental/school          parentat                  allocation for                                     the scheme has
efforts.                   illi  .    s to        primary school                                     been undertaken.
pay; (iii)               textbooks.
f inncial
details; and
Civ)
distribution aid e
storage
comnerns.                                                                                             3D
e                                                        oo =~~~~~3



---- --..------..----...Policy actions  --- 
(Sept 91)                (Sept '92)               (Sept 95)
Issues/Problm            Objectives               Actions slready           Before Board             2nd Tranche              3rd Tranche
Taken                    Presentation             Release                  Release
Se§Mcoary Eduoatiop
4. *qpidly                tulth taending           No new Uts               number of                Nbober of                 uber of
e*unding                 the reqironts             hired as of              teachers on TSC          teachers on TSC           teachers on TSC
teaching force           of the                   Janiary 1991.                         secondary                             secondary
is escalatin             curriculma based                                   payroll has not          payroll has not          p      rolli has not
education                esttabli/lnt in                                    aeaad  32.008.          exceeded 33.000.         exceeded 34.000.
recurrent buatt          sll public                                         uaer of non-             an  mmber of              udwr of non-
and aqsezing             schoolo, contain                                   teaching staff           non-teching              teaching staff
public rources           the growth of                                      on payroll               staff on payroll         on parroll
for otber sdhol          the p_Micly                                        remins at no             rmins at no              r_Ins at no
inputs.                  fued secodar                                       mwre than 4.600.         more than 4.600.          ore than 4.600.
dcool teacwe
by (a) rmpiring
all cla"  to
coprise at
lint 40
students; (b)
reuiring all
teachrs to
teach at a
*inium 2S
periods per
week; (c)
aqploying no new
Uls other than
graduates in
arm of
critical
shortage;
(d) redscing the
intake of
universi ty
students to E Ed
(Arts); and (e)
no Ionr
offering
eqWloVnt to
all university
gradustes with
edwat ion
qial ifications.
I                                                                            \0 o



- ,,,,, - P----------------- -Policy action-                     ------->
(Sept '91)              (Sept '92)               (Sept '93)
Issues/Problem           Objectives               Actions already          Before Board            2ne 7ranche              3rd Trenche
Taken                   Presentation             Release                  Release
Nlgher Education
5. University            To limt future           Final decision           Confirmation of          Adeissions to            Adeissions to
enrollments hav          un.t miv ty              and public               the principles           public                   pulhic
expanied at a            *alona and               aunnouncement of         upon Aich                universities in          universftles In
rate well beyrnd         to *stabNish an          the 1991/92              future public            1992/93 have not         1993%94 have not
the physical xnd          dislons                 student Intake           university               exceeded 10.300          exceeded 10.600
bun capacity             policy that              to the pUlsic            intakes will be          now                      new
of the                          this end.         4.4iversities            based. ad                uwdergraktes.            undergraites.
universities,                                     (not to excee            plwmed numbers
mid are                                           10.000) has              for affission in
demding                                           taken place.             1992 and 1993
unsutaingble                                                               hove been
levels of budget                                                           provided to mid
resources.                                                                 are acceptable
to IDA.
6. University            To ensure that           An ad-hoc                Uder the ChE, a          luplenentation           CUE is
daopment an              future expanion          working grep             task grom,               ha cenmced of            effectively                  0
eApamion in              and financing of         has began to             responsible for          a plan.                  overseeing the
l2cking control          public                   address sc               the ptmming,             acceptoble to            planming,
methaniso  tor           universities             of these issues.         programming,             IDA. Md wiich            progra*ing.
planning,                occurs in a more         A decision ha            budgeting ond            includes                 budgeting and
progrining,              coordinated and          beon taken on            financing of             orgnization,             financing of
finn       and           planod fashion           the institution          puilic                   staffing, budget         public
coordination.            than hitherto,           that will bhaw           universities,            *nd work                 universities.
the following            responaibility          has been                 proorar, for             mid is handling
tasks should be         for the                  established, a           rsstructuring            grants from the
stre_tlined: i)          financrin and           Coordinator,             CUE to wmble it          public sector to
poticy                   davla_nt of              supported with          to handle                universities as
formulation *           pLli qc opprpiate                                 effectively the          well as donor
sector plarming;        uaiversities.             full-tim  staff         plaming,                 assistance. A
(ii) budgeting                                  wa  budget, has           progrming,               comprehensive
finacing; and                                    been Wainted,            bubeting ard             ffiincing -r*
(iii) investent                                  and a work               finaneng of               investmnt plan
and devlopent                                    progrm for               pshlic                   for the public
plaming.                                          1991/92 for the         universities.             universities has
task grosi has                                   been prepred
been prepared,                                    and is
all satisfactory                                 acceptable to
to IDA.                                           ID
I                                                                             gt



------------------ Policy actions ---------------------------->
(Sept '91)               (Sept '92)               (Sept '93)
lssues/Problem           Objectives               Actions already           Before Board             2nd Tranche              3rd Tronche
Taken                    Presentation             Release                  telease
Niaher Education tcont.I
7. A student             Estabtlshmant of         Some improvement          A student loan.          For acadmic              For ceademic
loan schae has           an effective              in loan recovey          available to all         year 92/93. *ll          year 93/94, all
existed since            student loon              rate has been            qyelifying               new and                  new and
1974. but has            schome, as mell          achieved. The             students, has            returning                returning
failed to                as ash more               review of the            been capped at           students have            students have
function as              diret ctcot               *dinistration            K.Sh.21.50  per         paid a direct            paid a direct
such. with               raeovery, to              of the Student           student, of              charge of                chare of
rapid expansion          raduce the                Loan Schew  has          ihich no more            K.Sh.6,000,              K.Sh.6,000,
in student               finwncial burden         started. The              than K.Sh. 5,000         minim-a and up           minim  and up
nusbers, greater         of hiaher                 introduction of          is availeble for         to a maxim  of           to a maxima of
cost                     educatlon an the          direct charges           personal                 20X of students          201 of students
sharing/cost             exchaquer.                for university           expenses.                have received            have received
recovery in                                       atudents and the          Government hs            some finncial            some financial
higher education                                   reform of the            finanl ized               upport to meet          support to meet
is essential,                                     student loan              details for the          this charge. The         this charge. The
schea, both to           iaptc  ntation           student loan             student loon
tak  effect in           of the direct            recmins capped           remains capped
academic year            c e  end the             at K.Sh.21,500           at K.Sh.21.500
1991/92, he"             scholarship              per student, of          per student. LI
been siounsced           fund,  nd is             which no more            evaluation of
by the                   prepaing for             than K.Sh.2,500          new measures to
governWent               their                    is avail-ble for         japrove the rate
introduction in         personal                  of student loan
academic year            expense. Ip ct           recovery has
1991I92.                 of direct                been carried out
student charge           ad further
on university            appropriate
enrollment of            actions to
ecnomically              iqwowe loon
disadvantaged            recovery have
grOeus wd women          been agreed with
has been                 IDA.
monitored. A
review of the
mechan isms to
iqprove the
effectiveness of
the student loan                                I
scheme has been                                 MD
coapleted and a
plan of action
is being
I  ispiemented.



----------------------------    Policy actions  ---------------------------- >
(Sept '91)               (Sept '92)               (Sept *93)
Issues/Probltes          Objectives                Actions already          Before B8Ord             2nd Tranche              3rd Tranche
Tsken                    Presentation             Release                  Release
Curriculus
S. Current S:A:A          strc  ine the            Thorough review          A plan of action          loplementation           A r port an
eurriculm  has           airriculm so              of prim_y a*nd           to implement             of plan of                progress in
so e serious             tot It cmn be             secondary                ne d d                   action is                 iepls_nting
hotcoings -               ffectivelty              curriculun has           revisions  with          undrway.                  reviSed
e.O.aSpectS of            ilemsnted,               been copleted.           targets on in-                                    curricule has
content abvb service teacher                                                                                                  bee  prepard
conceptual lowel                                                            training and                                      and presnted to
of pupils  too                                                              revision of                                        IDA.
m*ch material to                                                            classroom
be covered in                                                               _teriels  has
too little tim.                                                             ben prepared.
9. Educational           Strenthen                 A plan of action          Implementation           Inple ntation            first aimual
growth and                Institutional            for enhancing            of plan of               of plan of                report has been
expwasion has            capacity  nd              the capacity of          action.                   ction,                  prepared
outpeced                  linkages for             MoE in the areas         including in-            including in-             reviewing
existing                 tfficient                 of edcational            srvice training          service training          progress with
-aagem nt and            adUctional                _en gment,               of  Wpropriate           of ppropriate             implewntation
pl=min                   m   a    nt/              pluning, policy          peraonel. has            persormel  is             of plan of
cepecities,  nd            _ qrvislon.             anlysis sn               ben started.             contlining.               action.
reulted in               pluming and               data collection
ineffective              dats/                     ha ben
functional               informtion                prepred.
linkages between           enagemnt.
various NOE
sctions.
Poor Accerss
10. Poor access          Increase access                                    A detailed               A study on               A report
to prim_ry               and perticipatio                                   review of                extent wnd               reviewing
school In some           n in prinry                                        existing data            causes of non-           progress with
res, falling             school; reduce                                     end docu sntatio          nrollment wnd            implementation
participation In         drop-out.                                          n has been               drop-out,                of action plan
other areas,  d                                                             completed, nd            together with an         has been
high rates of                                                               tom for studv            action plan              prep red.
drop-out.                                                                   hav been                 (with targets)
prFeprd.                 for tackling
problem has                                       ba
been completed.



Annex 2
Page 1 of 4
Table 1:  Universitv Admissions 1974/75 to 1990/91
Nairobi    Moi   Eaerton    Kenyatta  JKUCAT   Masenu   TOTAL
1974/75      1711                                                      1711
1975/76      1753                                                      1753
1976/77      1519                                                      1519
1977/78      2098                                                      2098
1978/79      256'.                                                     2565
1979/80      2592                                                      2592
1980/81      2518                                                      2518
1981/82      2598                                                      2598
1982/83         1/                                                        1/
1983/84      2477                                                      2477
1984/85      2470                                                      2470
1985/86      2563        33                                            2596
1986/87      2131       178       142     1047                         3498
1987/88      4204       834       488     3053                         8579
1988189      2854      1178      1202     1967                         7201
1989/90      2794      1173      1890     1062       117               7036
1990/91      6069      4221      4687     3906       948      1617    21448 2/
Source:   Ministry of Education.
Notes:   1. No admissions in 1982/83.
2. The 1990/91 admission comprises 12,243 'A' level, and 9,205 KCSE School leavers
i.e. the final years of both the old and the new school systems.



54-                                          AnumI
Page 2 of 4
Table 2:    Prolected University Admissions. 1990/91 --- 2016117
Total
Science       Undergraduate
Admissigns    Admisalons (%)     Numbers
1990/91       21,448             29.0%         37,838
1991/92       10,000             37.9%         41,731
1992/93       10,302             39.6%         44,954
1993/94       10,613             40.0%         43,967
1994/95       10,934             40.5%         46,547
1995/96       11,264             40.9%         48,017
1996/97       11,606             41.3%         49,389
2001/02       13,470             43.9%         56,784
2006/07       15,635             46.0%         65,380
2011/12       18,147             48.2%         75,396
2016/17       21,065             50.4%         86,980
Source:  Project Preparation Working Group.



Table 3A:  Sub-Sectoral Distribution of Ministry of Education Recufrent Expenditure: 1986187 - 1995196
(Constant 1989 Kenya Pounds)
1986187   1987188   1988/89   1989/90   1990191  1991t92 1992193 1993194 1994195 1995196
Actual                                          Projected 11
Primary Education                265,166   278,443   299,098   287,337   312,453 329,901 340,216 344,002 346,813 349,648
Secondary Education               59,678    65,640    76,693    81,008    82,469  88,016  91,025  94,005  96,940  99,834
University Education              47,151    62,722    79,160    91,930   109,693 111,964 114,477 115,904 126,973 130,782
General Admin. & Planning         22,930    22,061    22,981    20.576    19,459  20,043  20,644  21,263  21,901  22,558
Teachers Education                15,834    15,897    15,854    13,727    11,603  11,951  12,310  12,679  13,059  13,451
Special Schools                    2,292     3,127     3,711      3,592     3,893   4,010   4,130   4,254   4,382   4,513
Miscellaneous                      1,705     1,524     1,936      1,825     1,784   1,838   1,893   1,949   2,008   2,068
Pre-Primary Education               276        339       524       564       643     662     682      703     724     745
Total MOE Gross Expenditure      415,032   449,753   499,957   500,559   541,997 568,385 585,377 594,759 612,800 623,599
Total Govemment
Recurrent Budget                1,335,178  1,380,150  1,497,797  1,374,891  1,443,500
Share of Ministry of Education     31.0%     32.6%o    33.4%      36.4%     37.5%
Soure:  Staff Recurrent Budget Model.
Note:   1. ProJected on the basis of implementation of policy measures supported under
the Education Sector Adjustment Credit and this project.
IV
tw 
O 



Table 3B   Sub-Sectoral Distribution of Ministry of Education Recurrent ExDenditure. 1986/87 - 1995196
(Percent)
1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92 1992193 1993194 1994/95 1995196
Actual                                   Projected 1/
Primary Education              63.9%    61.9%   59.8%    57.4%   57.6%   58.0%    58.1%    57.8%   56.6%    56.1%
Secondary Education             14.4%    14.6%    15.3%    16.2%    15.2%    15.5%    15.5%    15.8%    15.8%    16.0%
University Education            11.4%    13.9%    15.8%    18.4%    20.2%    19.7%    19.6%    19.5%   20.7%    21.0%
General Admin. & Planning        5.5%    4.9%    4.6%     4.1%     3.6%    3.5%     3.5%    3.6%    3.6%      3.6%
Teachers Education               3.8%    3.5%     3.2%    2.7%     2.1%     2.1%    2.1%     2.1%    2.1%     2.2%
Special Schools                  0.6%    0.7%     0.7%    0.7%     0.7%    0.7%     0.7%     0.7%    0.7%     0.7%
Miscellaneous                   0.4%     0.3%     0.4%    0.4%     0.3%    0.3%     0.3%    0.3%    0.3%      0.3%
Pre-Primary Education           0.1%     0.1%     0.1%    0.1%     0.1%    0.1%     0.1%     0.1%    0.1%     0.1%
Ut
Total MOE Expenditure           100%    100%    100%    100%    100%    100%    100%    100%    100%    100%
Source: Staff Recurrent Budget Model.
Note:   1. Projected on the basis of implementation of policy measures suported under the Education Sector Credit and
this Universities Investment Project.
ii=



- 57 -
Amex 3
INTERIM TASK GROUP AND SECRETARIAT
STRUCTURE AND STAFFING
A. THE TASK GROUP STRUCTURE
r TASK FORCE      l
LEGAL & INSTITUTIONAL       PLANNING, PROGRAiiMiING                   PROJECT APPRAISAL              STUDENT LOAN
ORGANIZATION                 & BUDGETING                          & IMPLEMENTATION               SCHEME REVIEW
SUBGROUP                  SUBGROUP                                  SUBGROUP                   COITTEE
The Subgroups will be assisted by specialist panels, resource persons and consulants as necessary.
B. THE SEf.cdTARIAT STAFFING STRUCTURE
COORDINATOR
(CHAIRMAN OF IASK
GROUP)
DEPUTY
COORDINATOR
ASST. COORDINATOR                ASST. COORDINATOR
(PLANNING & PROGRAMMING)         (PROJECT APPRAISAL &                                              SENIOR SYSTEMS
ASST. COORDINATOR                IMPLEMENTATION)                                                       ANALYST
(BUDGETING)
2 ASST. REGISTRARS                SENIOR REGISTRAR
SENIOR CLERICAL OFFICERS          SENIOR CLERICAL OFFICER                                         SYSTEMS ANALYST
SECRETARIAL/CLERICAL              SECRETARIAL/CLERICAL                                            PROGRAMMER
* The Deputy Coordinator will chair the Project Appraiskl and ImpLementation Subgroup.



- 58 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
STRENGTHENING ThE COMMISSION FOR HIGHER EDUCATION
Schedule of Sub-Comoonents and OutPuts
Sub-component                    Actions/Oututs               a
1. Instittional Develonpnt
Establishment of Legal Framework
Review legal provisions          10/91
Prepare revisions                12/91
Process legislation              09/92
Reorganization of CHE
Prepare organizational structure and
staffing                         12/91
Submit proposal to IDA           06/92
Formal adoption of new structure    09/92
Initial implementation of
revamped CHE                     01/93
2. Planning, Programmin.Budgelin
and Financing of Public Universities
2.1 Interim coordination of acadern .c       Review of courses/admissions      ongoing
programs and admissions                   Proposed 1992 admissions           12/91
Proposed 1993 admissions          12/92
2.2 Long-term planning, programming,         Prepn. of guidelines and formats
budgeting and financing                    for plans                         09/91
Identification of unit costs, norms
(staff, utilization of facilities
etc.) and output indicators      12/91
Prepn. by universities of draft plans:
10yr projections
6yr development plans
3yr investment/finance          09/92
Central review of plans and revisions  12/92
Preparation of National Plan for
Public Universities 1993-1999    02/93
Submission of draft to IDA        03/93
Incorporation into National
Development Plan                 06/93
2.3 Annual reviews, and proposals            Annual review of outputs, and plans
for budgets and finance                   and prepn. of recommendations on    regular
admissions and budget            1993-



- 59 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
3. Strengthen Other CHI Functions
3.1 Central Admissions Service                 Services to institutionalize the
Joint Admission Board             01/93
3.2 Coordination of Post-secondary Education   Graduate labor market studies      03/93 &
(a) HRD & Labor Market Aspects            and reviews                       regular
(b) Review Provisions, Outputs,
Standards, etc.                       Reviews                             regular
(c) Award degrees for non-university bodies  Arrangements to be set in place  regular
3.3 Promotion of Private TJniversities
(a) Accreditation of Universities        Continue reviews, visits, etc.     continue
(b) Promotion of Private Universities    Study of feasibility of expansion of
private universities and (OK
interventions                     03/93
3.4 Raising of funds for universities          Approaches to donors, industry, etc
and trust formation               regular



-60-
An-nex 5
STUJDIES
Outline Terms of Reference
-GRADUATE LABOR MARKET STUDY
OJbectives:
(a)    To assess the relationship between supply and demand for graduates in the
economy in order to determine current and future graduate labor balances.
(b)    To identify present and future mismatch in supply and demand, particularly in
different fields of study.
(c)    To collect information about the characteristics of employment of graduates in
the modem sector and about the experience of graduates in self-employment.
(d)    To collect relevant information to guide the planning of university
development including the introduction of new courses of study.
(e)    To contribute to the improvement in the regular collection, analysis and
dissemination of information about the graduate labor market.
Method:
It is expected that the study will include:
(a)    Review of available labor market data.
(b)    Tracer studies of graduates.
(c)    Surveys in selected sectors of the economy.
Estimated Cost:
US$ 220,000
HI.    DEVELOPMENT OF THE PRIVATE UNIVERSITY SECTOR
Objectives:
(a)    To examine the present and future role of the private universities in Kenya.
(b)    To explore the various ways in which the GOK could intervene to assist in
increasing the enrollment in private universities in order to reduce the burden
on public expenditure.
(c)    To examine different models of funding the establishment and operation of
private universities.
(d)    To examine the characteristics of students entering the private universities
compared with those studying abroad and in public universities.
MethQd:
(a)    Examination of private university development in selected countries.
(b)    Examination of various forms of government intervention in private
universities.
(c)    Study of costs and sources of finance of private universities.
(d)    Survey of students in the private universities.
(el    Collection of information from present and potential owners of private
universities.
Estimated Co
US$ 100,000



-61 -
Anngfx 
SUPPORT FOR APPLIED RESEARCH
Criteria for Funding
1.    Funding will be restricted to applied research projects which satisfy the following:
(a)    The topic and planned output is relevant to Kenya's economic
development;
(b)    The university has the necessary staff and accommodation;
(c)    The related basic research has been completed; and
(d)    Funding will not exceed US$ 200,000 for a project.
2.    Proposals will be judged strictly on quality and viability. In addition to the above
criteria, consideration will be given to:
(a)   In the case of projects with potential for revenue earning, their
economic viability;
(b)    Links with industry;
(c)    Actual or potential links with other bodies, including those overseas.
3.    Funding could cover equipment, including pilot plant, materials, staff development
and support staff.



- 62 -                                    Annex 7
Page 1 of 3
UNIVERSITY SIUJBPROJECT SELECTION CRITERIA AND OPERATIONAL INDICATORS
A7. 1        The system for selecting subprojects is designed to achieve two major goals in
assisting the rapidly expanding system of university education in Kenya. The first is the development
of a model for policy making and structured resource allocation at both the level of the university
system as a whole and that of the individual university institutions, based on openness and peer
review. The second goal is to improve the content and delivery of the provision.
A7.2         The goals will be achieved by considering and demonstrating sector planning
proposals and by financing university-wide and departmentally-based investments in all six university
institutions. These interventions will be aimed at improving:
(i)  policy making and management of the sector;
(ii)  university management and administration;
(iii)  curriculum quality, including relevance, in selected science and technology degree
programs targeted at labor market needs;
(iv) curriculum delivery, through staff development and enhanced equipment, facilities and
their use; and
(v)  national development through closer collaborative links between the universities and
local employers.
A7.3         The project is designed to improve the efficiency and relevance of the universities
through the introduction of a policy making and operational framework which will provide the
guidance and support necessary to improve planning and the capacity, quality, and responsiveness of
university education. The open approach to resource allocation, with agreed criteria and procedures
involving peer review and decision making, which has been a feature of project preparation and will
remain throughout implementatior, is essential in leading into the longer term planning and
coordination of the university system which CHE is to take on from 1993 onwards.
A7.4         Each university institution is responsible for the preparation and implementation of its
own subprojects, aimed at improving the quantity and quality of service to the students and
demonstrably conforming with its institutional goals and priorities, including particularly developing
those disciplines for which it is the designated national center of excellence. Subproject selection and
appraisal is done centrally, initially by the ad hoc group, and then by the Project Appraisal and
Implementation Subgroup of the Task Group.
A7.5  Each subproject must first satisfy all of the following overarching requirements:
(a)   It is the only way in which the subproject objective can be met, i.e. that other
resources and sources of funding are not available;
(b)   It conforms with the institutional goals and priorities, principally the objective of
enhancing the disciplines for which each institution is the designated national center of
excellence;



- 63 -                                       Annex 7
Page 2 of 3
(c)    The need for the subproject is urgent; and
(d)    The subproject does not require civil works, including buildings services and facilities
(minor civil works to accommodate equipment, e.g. the provision of stabilized power
supplies, are, of course, not excluded).
A7.6          The appraisal and selection, and later the monitoring, of the subprojects which meet
these four overarching requirements, is then carried out on the basis of the following five criteria and
operational indicators:
Criterion 1: Capacity to absorb and implement the proposed subgroject.
Operational Indicators - the institution's capacity to implement the proposed siibproject will be
measured in terms of the current availability of the following:
(a) Space:                    i)   teaching;
ii)   laboratories and workshops;
iii)    other general and specialized.
(b) Supplies and Services:    i)    water;
ii)   gas;
iii)    electricity;
iv)   drainage;
v)   equipment specific (eg electrical stabilization for
computers).
(c) Personnel:                i)   academic;
ii)   technical support.
(d) Recurrent Costs:          i)   finance (eg external maintenance contract);
ii)   consumables.
Criterion 2: Contribution to improved links with the socioeconomic environment
Operational Indicators
(a) Relevance to labor market:
i)   labor market surveys;
ii)   job vacancies;
iii)    graduate tracer studies;
iv)   institutional advisory bodies.
(b) Collaborative links:      i)    mechanisms for developing links;
ii)   type of link - contracts, training and graduate
placement, curriculum design and delivery.



-64 -                                     Annex 7
Page 3 of 3
Criterion 3: Contribution to improvements in the quality of teachina and learning
Operational Indicators
(a) Undergraduate courses:    i)   directly related to science and technology areas;
ii)   curriculum redesign for KCSE intake
iii)   staff development in key discipline areas identified in
the subproject - discipline and pedagogical oriented;
iv)   increase in practical work;
v)   improvements in internal effficiency e.g. lab usage,
student:staff ratio;
vi)   creation of new course programs related to market
demand
(b) Postgraduate courses:    i)   expected activities related to undergraduate teaching;
ii)   increase in applicable research.
(c) Central facilities:       i)  enhancement of libraries, teaching technology and
computer facilities;
(d) Collaboration with the    i)   curriculum design and development;
world of work:            ii)   joint student projects
iii)   special invited lectures and seminars.
Criterion 4: Contribution to improvement in institutional develogment
Operational Indicators
(a) Financial management:    i)   planned skill improvement;
ii)   proposed equipment enhancement;
iii)   improved planning and policy;
iv)   increased capacity to attract outside resources.
(b) Administrative            i)   planned skill improvement;
management                ii)   proposed equipment enhancement;
iii)   improved systems for personnel, facilities and
students;
iv)   improved skills for procurement and personnel
management.
Criterion 5: Contribution to improvements in maintenance and rpair
Operational Indicators
(a) Schedule availability:    i)    maintenance programs;
ii)   repair programs;
iii)   spare part requirement list.
(b) Skills training provided in:  i)   equipment management;
ii)   equipment maintenance and repair.
(c) Equipment usage:          i)    Reduction in down time;
ii)    Reduction in non-functioning equipment;
iii)    Repair of non-functioning equipment.



UNIVERSITY COMPONENTS: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1991        1992        1993      1994         1995        1996
Package finalization                  0_    __
Package agreement with IDA            09       _
Imnplemenation                                 01             06
Monitoring                                                  01-06
HASEII
Package preparation                                         01-04
Package finalization                                          05                             _ _  = _
Package agreement with IDA                                    06                             _
Implerentation                    _           _               07          12
Monitoring                                                            06-12
PHASE III
Package preparation                                                   06-09
Package finalization                                                    10
Package agreement with IDA                                              11 
Implementation                                                                      01            06
Monitoring                        _           ___          _        _ |                                                            I!



- 66 -
Annex9
Page 1 of 2
PHASE I PACKAGES: TYPICAL QUBPROJECTS
A9. 1        The Phase I packages include two distinct types of subproject. The first is concerned
to improve the overall management and efficiency of the university institution, and the second to
improve the quality, including the relevance, of its teaching and research. Seven typical subprojects
of both type are described in this annex.
A9.2         The university-wide subprojects are mostly aimAd at improving the collection and use
of management information (student data, staff data, funding and other resources) through
computerization, involving equipment purchase and the provision of staff training; and at improving
university telephone and transport systems, which have not kept pace with the rapid geographical and
student expansion of all the institutions, with many more students now at more locations.
A9.3         The second type of subprojects is handled at the departmental level and reflects the
urgent need in most courses to improve the practical component and teaching and learning rmethods.
All the departmental subprojects seek to redress the current, wholly inadequate provision of the basic
equipment necessary to improve delivery, develop appropriate skills and attitudes, and to emphasize
practical applications and rel ^ v ance. The provision of technician training in the proper use and
maintenance of the new equ pment, and the availability of the space and services it requires, were
important factors in the se,ection and appraisal of these subprojects. All departmental subprojects
include some staff development; here the selection and appraisal examined the relevance, availability
and length of the proposed study programs.
A9.4         Egerton University's Department of Agricultural Engineering was originally
created to train students in those aspects of engineering relating to agriculture. Today the remit of the
department has been broadened to include engineering skills and knowledge that will enable the rural
engineer to contribute to the wellbeing of the community, either in traditional engineering
employment or in the informal or Jua Kali sector. In order to achieve this, the engineering
workshops and laboratories have an urgent need for basic tools, instruments,equipment and plant.
The Phase I subproject will provide equipment for a range of basic undergraduate experiments in
workshops and laboratories, none of wihich are currently available and for which students currently
have to travel to institutions in Nairobi. Implementation costs and technician training programs are
included to cover the use, maintenance and safety of the equipment. The department has sufficient
space to accommodate the equipment requested and has produced detailed plans relating to the siting
and servicing of the larger items of equipment.
A9.5         Egerton University's Centralized Education Materials Unit can no longer cope with
the number of students at the university, and particularly with some exceptionally large classes. In
order to improve teaching and learning, the university will acquire additional desktop publishing
coi;.puters - at present there is only one key-in computer for all staff -- and associated printing
equipment. It will also expand the use of audiovisual aids to improve lecture performance and
efficiency. In each case the detailed list of equipment in the subproject is accompanied by appropriate
academic and support staff training.



- 67 -
Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
A9.6          Kenyatta University Library aims to provide more books and journals, equipment,
library automation and staff training. The library can acquire only 10,000 books and 300 journals
annuallv from its own funds and external donors, whereas it needs in each of the next three years at
least 60,000 volumes and 2000 core journals. Very rapid growth in the number of library users has
result'd in increased wear and tear on the book stock. The subproject therefore includes new
rebintding, repair and photocopying equipment. The automation of the Kenyatta University Library
has been discussed at joint meetings of all the university librarians with a recommendation to
implement compatible systems. This will be achieved by acquiring CD ROM technology in a
microcomputer network for operation, access and reference. The subproject will also expand the
library's unique service to blind students, who are currently restricted to studying only four subjects.
A9.7          The University of Nairobi Science Workshop will be upgraded as a subproject, in
order to expand the university's routine maintenance and minor rep tir capacity. The existing
workshop has a number of units covering electrical, electronic and .nechanical engineering,
glassblowing, forming plastic materials and spray painting. Existing equipment is heavily used, and
in some cases needs upgrading. The subproject includes electrical and electronic equipment and a
range of commonly needed spare parts as well as glass rod and tubing and related staff development.
A9.8         The University of Nairobi Biochemistry Department epitomises the difficulty of
reconciling explosive growth with high quality teaching, learning and research. Student numbers have
increased from 100 to 1000 in ten years, in areas such as medicine, veterinary medicine and
agriculture where the development of practical skills is of paramount importance. In addition, the
development of new techniques and the obsolescence of older items and methods requires continuous
updating of equipment and staff. The department has made special arrangements with local experts
for the rep r and updating of some of its equipment. It also has an active link with University
College, London in Britain to train its technicians in routine laboratory practice, maintenance and
minor repairs. Its Phase I subproject ijncludes two major items of equipment along with related staff
development. The items were selected from a larger three year proposal following discussion of the
most urgent needs, the space and resources immediately available and the department's 10 year
development plan.
A9.9          The Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology has centralized its
practical training into a Unit for Production and Innovation. The unit's objectives are to coordinate
and make effective use of limited expertise and equipment; to provide workshops for manufacture and
repair; to strengthen links vith local industry; to encourage entrepreneurship and provide "real world"
student projects and industrial placements. The subproject will expand and improve this facility
through the acquisition of new equipment for manufacturing (including metal machining and shaping),
woodworking, instrumentation and inspection. Space and services are available in the existing
complex with sufficient support staff for maintenance, laboratory prepaiation and research.
A9. 10        Moi University's Computer Center serves all academic disciplines and also the
university administration. At present the center has only 30 personal computers for all students,
including 600 taking computer courses. The goals of the university include the production of
practically oriented students. The subproject aims to provide adequate facilities, access and
experience. The Phase I subproject will treble the number of personal computers and provide
additional software and printers. The computer center subproject is linked to a separate subproject to
enhance the university's central management planning department, which will also supply personal
computers to assist with the collection and presentation of management information. The computer
equipment in both subprojects will be compatible, resulting in efficiencies in staff development,
software and maintenance.



PHASE I PACKAGES: SUMMARY LIST OF SUBPROJECTS
I. UNIVERSITY OF NAIROBI
TITLE                             MAJOR ELEMENTS                          CRITERIA a/                COST (US$)
University-Wide
1. Telephone                     PABX System                              1,2,3,4                   313,044
2. Transport                      6 buses + spares                        1, 3, 5                    417,391
3. Printing                       Desk top publishing equipment           1, 3, 4                    141,600
4. Computer Lab                   Diagnostic Computing Lab                1, 2, 3, 4                 200,000
5. Library                        Staff development equipment, texts      1, 3c                      725,018
6. Health Centre                  Staff development, equipment            i, 4                       371,805
7. Administrative Staff Training  Staff development                       1, 4                        80,000
Departmental
9. Vet. Anatomy                   Staff development, equipment            1, 3a                      107,104
10. Animal Production            Staff development, equipment             1, 3a, b                    35,660
11. Animal Physiol.              Staff development, equipment             1, 3a                       54,144
12. Crop Science                 Staff development, equipment             1, 3a                       57,830
13. Public Health                 Staff development, equipment            1, 3a,b                     66,650
14. Clinical Studies             Surgical equipment, staff development    1, 3a,b                    105,817
15. Soil Science                 Staff development, general equipment     1, 3a,b                     93,723
16. Range Management             Staff development, equipment             1, 3a,b                     47,921
17. Kibwezi Field Station        Equipment                                1, 3a,b                     24,761
18. Vet. Path & Micro            Staff development, equipment             1, 3a,b                     77,403
19. Botany                       Staff development, equipment             1, 3a                       51,961
20. Chemistry                     Staff development, equipment            1, 3b                      334,098
21. Geology                       Staff development, equipment            1, 3a,b                    196,593
a/ Refers to criteria in Annex 7
oIi



TITLE                            MAJOR ELEMENTS                           CRITERIA a/                COST (US$)
22. Mathematics                  Staff development, computers+accessories    1, 3a,b                  61,086
23. Meteorology                  Staff development, equipment             1, 3a,b                     80,570
24. Physics                      Staff development, equipment             1, 3a,b                    114,532
25. Zoology                      Staff development, equipment             1, 3a,b                    109,580
26. Science Workshop             Staff development, maintenance and
production equipment                    1, 3a, 5                   50,424
27. Biochemistry                 Staff development, HPLC, Elisa Reader    1, 3a,b                     86,800
28. Dental Surgery               Staff development, surgical instruments  1, 3a,b                     81,662
29. Human Pathology              Staff development, equipment             1, 3a                      186,100
30. Human Anatomy                Staff development, microscopes, ava      1, 3a                      144,900
31. Architecture                  Staff development, computers+accessories    1, 3a,b                 61,332
32. Civil Engineering             Staff development, equipment            1, 3a,b, 5                 241,294
33. Education Tech.               Staff development, equipment            1, 3a                      100,985
TOTAL             4,127,860
o  0



Eli. MOF UT1ST
TlTLE                           MAJOR ELEMENTS                          CRrrERIA                  COST (US$)
1st Phase
Universitv-Wide
1. Management & Planning        Staff development, computing equipment  1,4                      174,570
2. Computer Centre              Staff development, computing equipment  1, 3,4                    159,800
3  Instrumentation Centre       Staff development, equipment            1, 2, 3, 5                117,700
4. Printing etc.                Staff development, equipment            1, 2, 3, 4                103,150
5. Telephone Services           Equipment                               1, 2, 3, 4               310,000
6. Transport                    Equipment                               1, 3, 4, 5               360,000
Denartmental
7. Environmental Studies        Staff development, equipment            1, 3b                    234,287
8. Elec. & Comm. Technology     Staff development, equipment            1, 3b                    322,500
9. Production Technology        Staff development, equipment            1, 3                     243,380
10. Education Technology        Staff development, equipment           1, 2, 3                    98,650
11. Home Science & Technology   Staff development, equipment            1, 3                      74,512
12. Human Anatomy               Staff development, equipment           1, 3                      177,800
13. Human Physiology            Staff development, equipment           1, 3                      223,898
14. Microbiology                Staff development, equipment            1, 3                     131,750
15. Diagnostic Radiology        Staff development, eqcuipment          1, 3                       73,400
16. Clinical Pharmacology       Staff development, equipment           1, 3                      136,760
17. Social & Preventive Medicine    Staff development, equipment        1, 3                      45,340
18. Dept. of Wildlife Management   Staff development, equipment        1, 2, 3                    62,434
19. Forestry                    Staff development, equipment           1, 2, 3                   161,160
20. Mathematics                 Staff development, equipment            1, 3                      52,178
21. Chemistry                   Staff development, equipment            1, 3b                    398,500
22. Physics                     Staff development, equipment            1, 3                     227,700
23. Zoology                     Staff development, equipment            1, 3                     212,600
24. Botany                      Staff development, equipment            1, 3                      144,627                jW D
25. Technology Education        Staff development, equipment            1, 3, 4                   143,380
TOTAL            4,390,076



E. KENYATTA UNIVITY
TITLE                            MAJOR ELEMENTS                           CRITERIA                   COST (US$)
University-Wide
1. Library Services              Staff development, equipment & texts     1, 3a,c, 5                380,726
2. Science Workshop              Staff development, equipment             1, 3a,c, 5                 160,580
3. Telephone                     Staff development, equipment             1, 3c, 4                   595,997
4. Transport                      Staff development, vehicles             1, 3, 5                    266,516
Departmental
5. Appropriate Technology Centre   Staff development, workshop equipment  1, 2a,2b                    67,204
6. Biochemistry                  Staff development, lab equipment         1, 3a                      162,905
7. Chemistry                     Staff development, lab equipment         1, 3a,b                    345,814
8. Communications & Technology   Staff development, equipment             1, 3a,c                    342,350
9. Computer Project              Staff development, computers,
conversion of rooms                     1, 3a,c, 5                601,000
10. Environmental Studies        Staff development, equipment             1, 3a                     310,019
11. Geography                    Staff development, equipment,
conversion of rooms                    1, 3a                       75,500
12. Physics                      Staff development, equipment             1, 3a                     379,009
13. Zoology                      Staff development, lab equipment         1, 3a                     412,900
14. Botany                       Staff development, lab equipment         1, 3a                      155,352
TOTAL             4,255,872
.-'
-410



IV. EGERTON UNIVERSITY
TITLE                             MAJOR ELEMENTS                          CRITERIA                   COST (US$)
Universitv-Wide
1. Central Administration        Staff development, computerization,      4b                        214,742
transport
2. Library                        Staff development, texts, library equipment   1, 3c                715,977
3. Educational Materials Centre  Audio visual equipment, staff development   1, 3a,c, 5              387,490
Departmental
4. Chemistry                      Staff development, lab. equipment       1, 3a                      329,750
5. Animal Science                 Spectrophotometer + accessories         1, 3b                       13,000
6. Computer Science               Staff development, computers,           1, 3c                      364,970
+ accessories
7. Agronomy                       Staff development, basic equipment      1, 3a,b                    248,100
8. Mathematics                    Staff development, office & ava equipment   1, 3a                   33,100
9. Physics                        Staff development, basic equipment      1, 3a                      188,000
10. Agricultural Engineering     Staff development, lab & workshop equipment 1, 3a, 5              1,242,853
11. Botany                       Staff development, basic equipment       1, 3a                      270,000
12. Zoology                      Staff development, basic equipment       1, 3a                      261,576
13. Animal Health                Staff development, equipment             1, 3a,b, 5                 164,864
TOTAL             4,434,422



V. JOMO KENYATrA UNIVERSrrY COLLWE OF
AGRICULTURE & TECHNOLOGY
TITLE                             MAJOR ELEMENTS                           CRITERIA                   COST aUSS)
University-Wide
1. Library & Publishing           Staff development, equipment & texts     1, 3c                      154,814
2. Institutional Development      Staff development, office & computer
equipment                               1, 4a                      171,674
3. CCTV                           Major renovation, staff development,
equipment                               la,c,d, 3c                  56,000
Departmental
4. Chemistry                      Staff development, basic lab equipment   1, 3a                      453,277                       _,
5. Physics                        Staff development, basic lab equipment   1, 3a                      459,489
6. Botany & Zoology               Staff development, basic lab equipment   1, 3a                      591,830
7. Maths & Computing              Staff development, computers             1, 3a,c                    274,093
8. Practical Training             Staff development, mechanical &          1, 2b, 3a, 5               270,000
(Ag. Eng)                     workshop equipment
TOTAL             2,431,177
a



VI. MASEO UNIVERSY COLLEGE
TITLE                           MAJOR ELEMENTS                          CRITERIA                 COST (US$)
Univesity-Wide
1. Institutional Development    Staff development, equipment           1, 2, 3, 4                170,000
2. Computer Services            Staff development, equipment            1, 2, 3, 4               405,000
3. Tranport                     Staff development, equipment            1, 2, 3, 4, 5            420,000
4. Library                      Staff development, books, equipment     1, 3                     600,000
)epartmental
5. Botany                       Staff development, equipment            1, 3                      83,968
6. Chemistry                    Staff development, equipment            1, 3                      63,853
7. Communication & Technology    Staff development, equipment           1, 3, 4                   141,000
8. Geography                    Staff development, equipment            1, 3                      80,000
9. Home Science & Technology    Staff development, equipment            1, 3                      59,000
10. Physics                     Staff development, equipment           1, 3                       70,000
11. Zoology                     Staff development, equipment           1, 3                      107,373
TOTAL                   2,200,194
-t
q 0



UNIVFRSITI[S INVESTNEUI  PROJECT
Project Components by Year
IXSH. I 000)
base Costs                             Total
91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96           ISH".    IIU$ 00
A. CtEIRAt SERVICES
I  CENTRAlt SERVICES                      42.696   49.481   51.090   51. 198   51.306         245.771       9.092
2. PR0JECT PREPARATION fUND                 9.461         -         -                   -       9.461          350
Sub-total CENTRAI. SERVICES                   52. 15?   49.481   51.090   51, 198   51.306        255.232       9.442
8. INDIVtDU4t UINIVEQSIIIES
1. KtYAIlIA                               39.574   79.338   42.980   43.007   43.034          247.934       9. 172
2.  AIRI081                                39.547   79.311   42.196   42.223   42.223         24SS.01       9.082
3. MCI                                     39.574   79. 338   42. 115   42. 169   42.223      245. 420      9.079
4. EGERTOII                                39. 01   79. 284   42.710   42.737   42. 764       247. 096       9. 141
5. JAUCAI                                  19. 409   38, 817   21.815   21. 85   21.842        123. 697      4.576
6. IASENl                                  19. 787   39. 628   21.301   21. 355   21. 409      123. 480     4.568
Sub-lotal INDIVIDU3t. UNIVERSlitS            197.493  395.716  213. 117  213.306  213.496   1.233. 128         45. 18
lotal ASEt IR  COSIS                          249.65i  445.197  264. 207  264.504  264.802   1.488.360          55.060
Price Contingenc. s                           fi.948   30.892   29.314   40.072   54.237         161. 463      5.973
..~~~~~.           .   .   ..   .  ..  . ...... ...... .. . . .   . .   ..   . .   ..  . .. ... ......
lotal PROJECI COSTS                            256,598  476.089  293.521  304.576  319.039   1.649.823           61.033
forign Exchange                             21f,460  428. 461  236. 636  243. 776  254. 726   1.3S0.058      51. 054
July 25, 1991  13 35
1-;
II



5(N7*
iEvtEsilIltS  ItlISIKII  PllWECi
Project Cipoenents by T"r
Ws  *0001
Bass Costs                           lotal
91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95   95/95    US S    l)S S  0001
A. CEUl1AI StWICIS
1. £ni1t8l SIRVICES                         1.580    1.831    1.890    1.894    1.B98    9.092           9.092
2. PIOIICI MPPR*1I UN FUD                      350                                            350            350
Sub-loIa# C£51t3l SERVICES                      1.930    1.831    1.890    1.894    1.898    9.442           9.442
8. IIDIVIIIUII IUVlIRSliltS
1. 8ElutIl*                                 1.464   2.935    1.590    1. 591    1.592    9. 172           9.172
2  UIEU8I                                   1. 463   2.934    1.561    1.562    1.562    9.082            9.082
3. 110                                      1. 464   2.935    1.558    1.560    1.562    9.079            9. 079
4  E(GSIIt                                  1. 4615  2.933    1.580    1. 581    1.582    9.141           9. 141
5. M1C1I6                                      73t8   1.436      80?      807       808    4.576          4,576
6. 115E11                                      732    1.466      788       790      792    4.568          4.568
......   ... ......  .........   ....... ..   .... ....  ..  ......   .... .........
Sub-1041 INDIVIDUAL IUlIVERSIIIIS              7,306   14.639   7.8U4    7.891    7.898   45.618           45.618
......   .... ....   .... ...   .. . ...  .. ..........  .... . ..   .......... .. .
lotil MISEl E  COSIS                              9.236  16.470   9.774   9.785   9.?96   55.060               55.060
Price Cont secuss                                257   t 143    1.084   1t482   2.006    5.973               5.973
lote) PgIICI COSIS                                g,493   17.612  10M8AU   11.267  11.802    61,033            61.013
loreipg  [&chengm                              8.008   15.850   8.754   9.018   9.423   Si. 054            51.054
-- - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - - -  - -   --- ---  ---  ---  --- ---  ---  --- ---   ....  ....  ......   ........   ....  ..  .................  . 
Mly 25. 1991  13 39
-U-



UNIVERSITIES INVEShH6K4  PROOECt
Projct Compoents by Ts.r
lotals Including Coantingnci.s                               lolals Including Conl irgenies
UISH. '0001                                                  WS$ '0001
91/92    97293    93/94        94/9;      95(96      lol;al       I/92   92/93   93/94   94/95   95/96  tolal
A  CutuimI surlRcus
.. .... . . .  . .
1. CN141U   SERVICES                         44.480   55.329   60.415   63.666   67.029           290.920    1.645   2.047   2.235   2.355   2.480   10.762
2. PROJICI PIMPARAIION I118D                  9.461                     -         -                  9.461       350        -                           -      350
........ --------   . --------   -------- . --- ---   -------...--  ......   ........  ...... . ..... .... .  ....... . .......     .....   
Ssh-IotIl Cf'4R1t SERVICES                      53.941   55.329   60.415   63.666   67.029            300.381   1.995   2,047   2.235   2.355   2.480  1l. 112
8  IKOiVlIuiM t11V1F9tSliltS
........................
I     milttAtl                               40.582   64.180   46.659   48.119   50.291    269.838    1.501   3.114    . 1726    1. 780    1.861   9.982
2  NAIRi81                                   40.594   84.416   46.411   48.018   50.203           269.643    1.502   3. 123    1. 77       . 776    1. 857   9.975
3  ElI                                       40.6 45   84, 602   46. 476   48. S17   50. 423    270. 304    1 504   3. 130   1. 1t9   1. 782           865  tO 000
4  EGER108                                   40,607   84. 106   46.655   48. 189   50.393         269.950    1. 502   3. III   t. 726   t. 783    1.864   9. 984S
5.   UCattI                                  19.913   41.256   23.676   24.400   25.521            134. 766      737    1.526      876      903       944   4.985
6. RISEtn                                    20.314   42.199   23.229   24.027   25.172            134.941      751    1.561       859      889       931   4.992
S.b-lotIl I3NIVlO(u*t UNI VERSITIES            202.656  420.759  233.106  240.910  252,010   1.349.442    7,497   15.565   8.623   8.912   9.323  49.921
.. . ...   .. . . .     . . ...     . .....   .. . ...   .. . . . .  . ...     .... ..   . ......     ..... . .....     .     .... .
TlWt Pl0D1fCI COSIS                              296.598  476.089  293. 521  304.576  319.039   1.649.823   9.493   17. 612  t0.858   t. 267  11.802  61.033
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                  ..  ..   .  ......    ......  .. ....... ........ ..............    .. ....... . ..
July 25. 1991  13:35
-J
Go



WlnttSililS ltoSlilat tECI
PgOitCI COSI S_3Wt
5t58  I000)                     tSs  000 I                        total
. ------------------------    -    ----------------------    I   Foregn   Base
tocal    foreign       SolaI       ota   foreign total    [.chnge    Cosis
A. CtulS1 SERVICES
1. CEIIIUI StUnlS                         133.520    112,251    245. "   4.539   4.153   awM                   46        17
2. P021CI M?IIPARAIlt lUDt                  9.461            -       9.4E1      350        -      350           -         I
Ss4-loSaS CIKlIl SElttlCtS                    142.981    112.251    255.232   5.289   4.153   9.442               44         17
.   oivgolWi oiugtuSitus
1. 16IA8116                                 6.236    241.698    247.934         231   8.941   9 .72            97        It
2. lUitJS                                  19.449    226.052    245.501         719   8.3t3  9q.032            92        16
3. IEt                                     24.032    221.337    245.420         891   S.1on    9.079           90        16
4  (G69I30                                 10.E507    236.489    247.0ff        m      R.149   9.141           95        17
5. aIcI"U                                   3. 998     is.19 9    123.i19       148   4.428   4. 576           97         8
6. R35EI10                                  E,877      116.604    123.480       254   4.314   4.568            94         8
Sih-totel IUPIIIUAI 331VE05111S                7I.250  I.161.818  1.233. 128   2. 63E   42. 82  45.658            94        83
total BASE611E COSTS                           214.231  1 274. 29  1. 48. 3l0   7.925  71.35  S5.060                8S       0oo
Price Contingwc iSs  5 1.533                             105.929    151.443   2.054   3.919   5.973              66        13
.. ......      ............ . .. . ...     .. ... .. ...  -- --   ------   ------  -- - - -
Total Pt.CI COStS                              269.164  1.380.058  13.49.823   9.9810  51.054  61.033               84        III
........ ........... ..... ........... .............. .....  ------  ..... ....... . ... .. .... ..    -- - -- - -- -  .......  ....... . 
July 25. 1991  13 SS
II



U!tlt£RSIli£S 1111S,ll1i WKIRtC
S%vry Akco.mts by Test
MS"ls  oomt
am  CoIs                             Foreigm lschang.
91112    92f13    8t3194    9415    SS/96        loSal        I           t
I  limsltl£tl CoS15
...a .11s..   a . ..
A toSXtivltlolt 01111tal"l0Pl111
.. .. ...........
I  lIS3IIIalatilt 0,tIWtltP i                             2.054    4.136   11. 786   11.813   11.814       41.683   500        20.84I
2  cWUsuiLIUIs                                             1.243    1.210       405      405       405       3.710   70.0       2.633
..  ..  .  ...   .    ....  ---   -- -- -   -- -- -   --- ---   -- - -- -  -- - . . - - -
Sub-lotal IUS3IIUI3UIaI DtViIOP2IVT                           3.298    5.406   17.191   12.218   12.29M        45.413  5I 6       23.453
6  Staff OIVEtLWPEUI. SItNISARS. 8 3t8l3l3tG
1. Siil oTviIlaml                                       14.840   79.816   27. 113   27. II3  27. 140    176.021   60 0        75. 613
2  stall IR36t811G                                         8.245    8.2745    8.082    8.082    8. 364      40.118   t0 0       4.082
1  SItNhARS AND WUMSIOPS                                  2.757    2.757    2.595    2.62?    2.627          3. 354    0 0          0
Stit-lotal SWAll DiVEIitOPMI. SFUINAIS. S  M1ININSG          25.842 g 40.818   37. 0    37.81   317.925    180. 93   44 7         79.695
C  IQUIIPKINI AN0 IURUIIURI                                 130 482  247. 150  l05.3 lS   05.4 23  105.450    693.820  1000    693 870
0  SIUDI£5                                                    6.03S    6.015    2.298    2.298    2 298        18.922   so0        9.463
F  IIa B73.679   35.411   38.109   38.799   38.736    369.245  300 0    169.245
1. IE1P3a3                                                   13.1 462   27. 0F6    S. 363    6. 363    6. 663  s9. 037  3000 o    59.037
G  IRttSPDtti                                                12.840   25.1761   15.41   IS. 8       5. s6      86. 177 M   go0 0   s. I77
a  PsuimliN                                                   6.185 I  33.97    8.380    8.407    8.434        45.602  500 0      45.602
I . co£t3 ING6                                              15. 300   30. 735   20. 490   20.544   20.571    3o0. 640  3oo0 0     07. 640
J  pPI                                                        9.461                  -                          9.463    00            0
......  ....   .........  .  ..  ..... ..   . .... ..  ...   ......     ......   .   ...  - ..    ..  .. ..                                          I
Total  ImSINIUI Cots01                                         243. 362  431.978  247. 377  247.447  247.745  1.415.50   90. 0  3.274. 129
11. RCERAUIG COStS
I. SIMss                                                 4.055    4.055    5. 40      5.406    5.406       24.328    00            0
2. las. GPs                                                   -    2.027    2.103    2.703    2.703        30. l37    00           0
3. 033119                                                          2.703    4.487    4.514    4.534        16.219    0 0           0
....   ..    .. ..  ....  ..   .  . -   . . . --- ---   -- -- -   -- - -- -  .  ...  ............  .. ....
S-& Io0l3  OPER9*V3G COSIS                                   4. 05    8.1785   12.597   37. 674    2. 624     50.684    0 0           0
a3flE31Ia130U                                                4.431    4.633    4.433    4.433    4.433        27. 368    0 0          0
loSeS MtC£I3IOU  COS0S                                           8.488   13.218   37.030   17.057   17.057        72.850    0 0           0
lo3l 89571331 COSIS                                            24. 650  445. 197  264.207  264.504  7U2.807  1.488.360   85 6  1.274. 329
Prece tCan.sngcwes                                             6.948   30.8S2   79.314   40.072   54.237    165.463   65 6    305.979
Intel PROtICI COSIS                                             756.598  476.089  293.s27  304.576  319.039  3.649.823   83 6  1.380.058
loreg  EuxcIung                                              236.460  428.461 236. 636  243.776  254.726  3. 380.058    0 0              0
...    ...   ..  .....  ......   . ..   .   ...         ..     .   .   ..   ..   .   ..   .  ....  ......  ..  ......... ................ .... 
duly 25  199   13: 35
to
00



tl4vt3SIlfS IMWSIESNI PUJtCI
Surn.'y Accounts by lear
totls Includsng Cont ntupncbes                            lotals Includ.gng Contngenc es
(IS"1  I000)                                               1)151 '0001
91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96          lotal      91/97   92/93   93/94   94/95   95/96  IOtat
I  ItJ1Slt1t1l COSIS
..    ..  ...    ....  .    
I  IS1I5 UltJllA8    ClvlOPNiNI                             2. 139    4.606   13.823    14.543   15.375        50.488       79      170      Sill     538      559   1.868
2  CoKS1iIAtliS                                              t.287    1.387        460       480       503       4.11,       48       SI       17       is       19      152
Sub lotal INSIIIUIIGI114  OivrbOPrnNI                           3.426    5.993    14.284   15.023    15.878        54 604       127     222      527,     556      587   2.020
8  Slttil DtVEtO   im.l  SINIAmRS. A IRAINItNG
.   ... ......................  ..... .
I Stall DESttoPtlEI                                         15.404   32.883   31. 291   32.725   34.360    146.664          570   1. ?16   1. 158   1.211    1.271   5.426
2  SllAI  IRAIItIG                                          8.592    9.540   10.086    10.731    11.424        50.473      322      353      373      397      423   1 867
3. SEM8INARS AND WDORtSHOPS                                  2. 916    3.220    3.287    3.545    3.739         16.707      too      119      122      131      138      618
Sub total StAfI OEVEIOPMIOII. SlEMINARS. 8 i1RA8IIN            27.012   45.643   44.665   47.001   49 523    211 844           999   1 689   1 652   1.739    1.832   7 911
C  fQUtIPPtiN  *0 IIURlIIIURt                                 131. 744  261. 843  113.641   117.067  122,261    748.555   4.948   9 687   4 204   4. 331   4.523  27. 692
0  SlUDtES                                                      C 263    6.698    2 695    2.829    2 970          21 455       712      2.8      100     IOS       110     794
f  lIBRAlRt                                                     18. 121   37 517   41.769   42 985   44 911        18S 103      670   t 388   I 545   l.590   1.661   b.85S
I  tEtiPHOttf                                                  13 798   28.696    6.650    6.844    7 146          63. 134      510    1 062     246      253      264   2 336
G  IRANSPORI                                                    13. 161   27.293    17,093   17 620   18 397       93.564       487    1 010      Ell      652     681   3.461
II PRINTING                                                     6.955    14.405    9.042    9.335    9.778          49.516      257      533      315      345      362   1 832
t  CONPU I ING                                                 15. 682   32. 562   22.110   22.813   23.850        117.018      580   1.20S      838      844      882   4 329
a  PPi                                                          9.461                                                9.t1      350                                         3S0
lotal INVISINlNIl COSIS                                          247.622  460.650  271.949  281.518  294.715  1,556.454   9, 160  17. 041  10.060  10 414  t0.903  57.579
It  RECUIRENIT COSIS
A. OPIRAtING COSIS
I  SIltlf                                                   4.288    4.736    6.848    7.309        7.710      30.890      159      175      253      270      285   1.143
2  IASI CPS                                                           2.368    3.424      3.654     3.8S      13. 301               8S      127      135      143      492
3  0OIHE                                                              3 1S7    5.584    6. 103    6.437        21. 381              117      210      226      238      791
S.b-IoIal 0PERA111NG COSIS                                     4.288    10 261   IS 956   17.066   16.002         bS 573       159      380      590     631      666   2 426
a  IIIPItINIIIUIlOt                                            4.688    5, 178    5.616    5.993    6 322          27.796      113      192      208      222      234   1.028
Oetal RECURREtI COSIS                                              8.976   IS 439   21.572   23.059   24.324           93.369      332      571      798      853      900   3.454
.   -   - -   -:  -   : -   -   . .   .   -   :  -   : ~~~~~~~~~~r-:   :    :   :  :  .... : ::   :_ :   -   ---:
tolol PROJECI COSIS                                                256.598  476.089  293.521  304.576  319.039   1 649.873   9.493   17,612  10.858  11.267  11.802  61.033
..J.  .....y.. .............. ..                                                                                                                         ..     ....    ..... ....
July 25, 19S1  13 35
00 



KENYA
uWltRSlIIfS ,mVts:iti  MtJECI
SUNlIAR, ACCOurIs COSI SuWi,IAR
IN5". 10001                       tuSS '000)                        1 lolal
.... .... .... .... .... ....  - .. .... ...   .   - 1 2   oreigns  Base
tocal    foreign         ;o;al      local  to0e.gn  tolal    Elc6, nge    Costs
1. ItutSiUu1 CostS
..... ...........    ....
*a  ltSIlIlullo4  DIVYLIOPIINI
-1 .. ... .... ........ . - .
I  ItSlluIOUaIt  OvEtOPloltil                                  20.84.       70.84i       41.683        771      771    1.542            50          3
2. CONSUIJINIS                                                      t119      2.611        3.730        41       91       138           70          0
S.b-1ol6a   IiSIltiUltONI OiVI6O1: tPINI                           21.960       23,453       45.413       812       858    1.680            5?          3
8  SliSi   WVIIlOPP110.  SE"INARS. 8 IRA 1titG
.  .... . . . . . .   .. .   ..   ...
I  STA54     06VE0OPllNl                                       50. 409      75. 613      126.021    1, 865   2. 797   4.662             60          a
2  STAFF  1681N1MG                                              36. 36        4.082       40.818    1. 359        56    1. 510           10         3
1  SfINNRAS MA  iISiOPS                                          3. 354                   13. 354      494         -      494                       1
S5A lotal SIAFI WIVElOPIINI.  SilNiaRS. a IRNIN6IIG                100.498      79.695       180. 193   3.718   2.948   6 666               44         12
C  EOUIPiIINI AND IURNIIURRI                                                   693.820      693.820          -  25.667  25.667             300        47
0  SIUDIES                                                          9.461         9.461       18.922       350      350       700           JO          I
t  tLiBARY                                                                      169.245      169.215              6.261   6.261            100         It
I  Illti lOI                                                                    59.037       59.037               2. 184   2. 184          100          4
C  IRaUSPORl                                                                    86. 177      86. 177              3. 188   3. 188          100          6
N  P911308                                                                      45.502       45.602              3.687    1.687           100          1
I  C lPttIING                                                                  107.640      107.,40               3.982    3.982           100          7
J. P9F                                                               9.461                     9.461       350                350                       1
,. ........ ..........  -- - --  -     ----    --- --    ------ . . . .  .  
total IIVISINtiN  COSIS                                               141. 381  1,274. 129  1.415.510   5.230  47.135  52. 365                 90         95S
11  RtSU!tNINI cstOS                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
A  OPERTEING COSIS
..............
I  SIall                                                      24.328                    24.328       900                900                        2
2  IASI ces                                                    10W1l                     10.137       375                375                       1
3. 018R                                                        16. 219                   16. 219      600                6 50                      I
Sub-lotal  PtR811t0G ttSIS                                        50.684                   50.684    1.875               I.875                        3
8  INPItEdI6UAlalo                                                22. 166             -     22. I66      820                820
, ...  ...  .......... .....   ..............  . .......   .......  ...... .......   ...........  .... . .
Iladl R11CtiJMI  OSIS                                                  72.850                    72.850   2.695              .2695                         5
lotal UASElitE cOSIS                                                   214.231  1.274. 1?9  1.488. 360   7.925  47. 135  55.060                 85        100
Price Comingiges                                                    55.533       t05.929      16. 463   2.054   3. 919   5.973               66         1I
lotal tttCI COSIS                                                      269.,64   1.380.058   1.649.823   9.980    o,O054  61.033                84        iIl
J- 2..       1- -3 -. 3-----
Jult 23. 1991 11.35
to
00 



tmtlvtBSiliS IttwSl;lt pu£tl
S   ry   ccount by Project Cowent
Stt   0001
CINIRAL SERVICES
Phys caI
PRWtCt                      InD1IV1DtA  umTlfuSMiMS                                         £ti ngeni
t6I   PPRItP4JU£O  --------------                                       .  -
SRVICFS       ItPID      6W111*  3iR£131         "at      tCERIOU      JKUC*I    8*5630       lolal        2       t
I  hKmslffl CosiS
A ItSIIIUII£t4t (l 018101216911
............    ............. I              ......._
I  lnstIiIUllu At i t vianottll                                  -                    3. 109     4.622      3.319    16.976       6.352       7.244       41.t683    00         0
2. C(JS01812IS                                               3.730              -          -          -                                                    3. 710    00         0
Sb-lotaI IM$lII0hilI*tI OfittOVliUN                            3. 130-                   3.109      4.622      3.379    16. 976      6.352      7.244       45.413    0 0          0
B  SiAlf OIVE&I££I11  SEMINARS. 8  MININHG
.   -  -..... ............. .........   ....... .....
I  SlAfl DtWtlOPtWII                                             -                       705    42.845    55.982       5.298      2.054      6. 137      126.021    0 0         0
2  SlAF IRAINIHC                                           40.818                         *                     -                                        40.818    0 0         0
3  SttINIRS AND ttlDPS                                      13.354                                                                                 -      11.354    00          0
Siu lotiol SlFf1  D1tiot   Ni . stInimAS. 8 toAlmlntG         54 1                      I 11 705    42.845    55.982      5 798      2.051      8 137       180. 19     00         0
C  209IPWMI Of A   FO311IURI                                   S6.097                  114. 857    98. 665   123. 859   130 544   106. 775    22. 923       693. 82     00         0
D  SIUDI0S                                                     18.922                                                                                         18.922    00          0
E  118*RAR                                                                              54.98       29.221           -    37.493      6.082    41.466        169.245    00          0
f  il£1P7ltDIE                                                                     -    22. 761     13.516    22.761                                  -      59.037    00           0
G  (RftSPORI                                                                             11.542     17.273     17. 354    19.949                20 057        86. It7    00         0
I  PRI9IIG.                                                                                    -     9.245     13.971     14. 813     2.433      5. 190       45.602    0 0         0
I  COPU I I                                                                        -G   28.978    30. 1         8. 164    21.921                 18. 463     107.640    0 0         0
J  PW2                                                                        9.461                                                                            9.461    00          0
o108  IIiV[$111211 COSIS                                          172.921         9.461   247.934   245.501   245.420   247.096    123.697   121.480   1.415.510    0 0                0
11  RE1URR0 It WSIS
A 081a5l*21 coSIS
I   15141                                                 24. 328                                                                                -       24.328    00          0
2  2AS  GPS                                               10.137              -          -                     -                                         10.117    00          0
3  OIH£R                                                   I5.219                         -                                                               16.219    00          0
s5d,101o1 OPR8 tI9tC COStS                                    50.684                                                                                         50.684    0C          0
6  lltItEtl2IAIIb6 22.166                                                                                                                                   022.26      00         0
lotal R1CU19t53  tt0515                                           72.850                                                                                 -       72.850    0 0         0
total 8c5£118f Ct7SIS                                             245. 771         9.461   747.934   245.50t   245.420   247.096   123.697   123. 480   1. 488. 360    0 0              0
Price Contiltc   ses                                            45. 149                   21.904    24. 142    24.884    22.854        11. 069    11.461      161. 463    00         0
lot&t PgttJE21 CosIs                                             720.920           9.461   269.838   269.643   270.304   269.950   134.766   134.941   t.649.823    0 0                  0
: ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~  ~   ~  ~ ~ ~   -  -- -.      -- :       - : -- =     :   :          = :  
foreign Exchasnqe                                               122. 114                 261.804   244.592   239. 477   255.974   129. 765   126.312   1. 380.058    0 0              0
..   ..  .  .. ...  ......................      ..............     ..3---------------------      --             .5....          .....      .....   ...  ......  -------------------
My( 25. 1991 13. 35
CID



- 83 -
Annex 12
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE REQUIREMENTS
(Person-months)
i_____=_________-    ______    Foreign     Local       Total        - F/Il/
CENTRAL              CHE: Information System           4          9         13    |    F
COMPONENTS                         __
CHE: Legal Analysis               -          3          3          1
CHE: Org & Mgmt Analysis    .                3          3          I
CHE: Prog & Budget               6          12         18          I
CHE: Miscellaneous               3          12         15         Ff1
Loan Scheme: Info system         2           9         11          F
Loan Scheme: Impact
evaluation                       3          14         17          F
________________  Loan Scheme: Collection             I         10         11          I
Loan Scheme: Miscellaneous        3         12         15         F/I
Studies: Labor Market            6          18         24          F
Studies: Private Univs           4          14         18          F
Studies: Univ Access             4          12         16          F
Studies: Project Evaluation       -          8          8          F
Studies: Future                  8          24         32          F
Total                            44         160        204
UNIVERSITY           Institution Planning                        12         12          F
COMPONENTS                                                          . . . .
Management and                              16         16          F
Administration
Finance                          4          16         20          F
Procurement                       -          5          5          F
.   Information Systems               6          10         16          F
Miscellaneous                    10         15         25         F/I
Total                            20         74         94
TOTAL PROJECT                   .                     64         234        298
11     F=firms       I=individuals



- 84 -
Annex I
ESTIMATED IDA DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Cumulative       Cumulative
Disbursements      Cumulative       Disbursements     Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year     During Semester     Disbursements     This Project    Country Average
and Semester        (US$ million)      (US$ million)        (%)               (%)
1992
1st                     0.3 (PPF)           0.3              1                 0
2nd                     8.1                 8.4              15                 3
1993
1st                     7.6                16.0             29                 6
2nd                     7.5                23.5             43                 14
1994
1st                     5.1                28.6             52                 22
2nd                     5.4                 34.0             62                30
1995
1st                     5.1                39.1              71                42
2nd                     5.4                44.5              81                54
1996
Ist                     5.1                49.6              90                62
2nd                     5.4                55.0              100               70



- 85 -
Annex 14
Page 1 of 2
IMPLEMENTATION RESPONSIBILITIES OF CHE AND THE PIU
I.    Commission for Higher Education (CHE1:
CHE, initially through the Coordinator, would oversee, review and report to the
Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Education on the following functions related to project
implementation:
(a)    Preparation of Work Program for project implementation.
(b)    Preparation of an Action Plan with detailed Implementation Schedule by project
element to execute the Work Program.
(c)    Staffing and management of the secretariat to ensure efficient implementation of
the project.
(d)    Coordination and evaluation of appraisal of remaining subprojects for the six
Universities and College Institutions and for Applied Research Funding.
(e)    Review and appraisal of proposals for studies; monitoring the conduct of the
studies; reviewing them and arranging final publication with recommendations for
action.
(f)    Preparation of equipment, furniture and vehicles procurement schedule.
(g)    Coordination and lFaison on equipment, furniture and vehicles procurement by the
PIU.
(h)    Preparation of Staff Development and Related Training Progam (SDRT) together
with detailed implementation schedule of SDRT and sundry seminars, workshops,
study tours etc.
(i)    Coordination and liaison with the PIU as required to follow World Bank
procedures on recruitment/procurement for the SDRT.
(j)    Liaison with government and other agencies, including IDA.
(k)    Relevant data collection and analysis as necessary.
(I)    Liaison as required with the PIU which is responsible for accounting and auditing
of project accounts together with disbursements.
(m)   Preparation, as required, liaison and cooperation with periodic supervision
missions from IDA and with the World Bank office in Nairobi.



- 86 -
Annex 14
Page 2 of 2
(n)    Preparation of half-yearly progress reports on project implementation for
transmission to IDA for review.
(o)    Yearly updating of the Work Program, Action Plan and Implementation Schedule.
II.    Project Implementation Unit (PMI):
The PIU would be responsible for:
(a)    Undertaking equipment, furniture and vehicle procurement in accordance with
CHE procurement schedule and liaison accordingly with Liaison Officers for the
six university institutions.
(b)    Providing support on recruitment/procurement for the SLRT, in liaison with CHE
and the Liaison Officers.
(c)    Maintaining project accounts, organizing annual audits of accounts, and
undertaking disbursements for justified project expenditures.
(d)    Providing input as required for CHE preparation of half-yearly progress reports
on project implementation, well as for yearly up-dating of the Work Program,
Action Plan and Implementation Schedule.



- 87 -
Annex 15
IDA 9JPERVISION PLAN
A15.1        IDA Supervision InDijnto Key Activities. The staff input indicated in the
table below is in addition to regular supervision needs for the review of progress reports,
procurement actions, correspondence, etc. (estimated to require 10 staffweeks of Washington-
based staff in the first year and 8 staffweeks per year thereafter, higher than normal because
of the need to review complex scientific procurement packages). In addition, another 8
staffweeks per year of long-term consultant time in the Bank's Nairobi office will he required
for regular supervision.
A15.2         Borrower's Contribution to Supervisiorn.
a)     Progress reports are to be submitted as follows:
i)    in the form to be discussed during the first IDA supervision
mission;
ii)    at the end of January and July of each year; and
iii)   by CHE (initially the Coordinator), with input from the P[U
and other appropriate bodies, such as that handling the Student
Loan Scheme.
b)    CHE and the Ministry of Education will be responsible for
coordinating arrangements for Bank supervision missions and for
providing information tequired by missions;
c)     During supervision missions, initial briefing and final wrap-up
meetings will normally be chaired by the Permanent Secretary of the
Ministry of Education.
Date                Activity                   Skills               SW
03/92            Project Launch            Task Manager               6
Impl. Spec
Science Eqpt Expert
09/92            First Review              Task Manager               8
Higher Educ Spec
Science Eqpt Exp- t
Loan Scheme Expert
03/annual        Regular Supervision     | Task Manager            |4
_  Science Eqpt Expert    I
09/annual        Regular Supervision       Task Manager               4
Science Eqpt Expert
09/94            Second Review             Task Manager               8
(coincide with                             Higher Educ Spec
supervision                                Science Eqpt Expert
mission)                                   Loan Scheme Expert



- 88 -
Annex 16
Page 1 of 2
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
WORKING PAPERS
1.    Central Components: Details on consultancies, staff training, seminars and workshops,
and annual operating costs.
2.     University Components: Detailed Tables for Phase I subprojects.
3.     Project Cost Tables: Detailed Tables, including university-by-university.
4.    Implementation: Strengthening the PIU to handle procurement under the project.
GOVERNMENT PROJECT PREPARATION DOCUMENTS
General
i.    Commission for Higher Education, University Education in Kenya: Trends and their
Implications for Costs. Financing and Occupations, November 1989.
2.     Ministry of Education, University Education in Kenya: Reguest for World Bank
Credit, June 1991.
Investment Plans
3.     Universities Investment Plans: Ongoing and Proposed Proiects, August 1991.
4.     Commission for Higher Education, Ongoing Projects and Proposed Projects, August
1991.
Equipment Lists
5.     Consolidated Master List of Phase I Equipment, August 1991.
6.    Consolidated Master List of Equipment Specifications: Phase 1, September 1991.



- 89 -
Annex 16
Page 2 of 2
Implementation
7.    Implementation Schedule for Phase 1, August 1991.
Central Components
8.      Laniversities Central Services Programme, August 1991.
9.    Commission for Higher Education, Proiected Comnputerisation Requirements, August
1991.
University Components
10.   University of Nairobi, Project Document, July 1991.
11.        , Books for the Library, May 1991.
12.        , Technical Specifications for Computer Equipment, August 1991.
13.   Moi University, Proiect Documentn, August 1991.
14.        , Computers, August 1991.
15.   Kenyatta University, Project Document, August 1991.
16.        , Books and Journals Specifications, August 1991.
17.         , Computer Requirements and Specifications, August 1991.
18.   Egerton University, Proiect Document, July 1991.
19.        , Technical Specifications of Computer Equipment, August 1991.
20.   JKUCAT, Proiect Document, July 1991.
21.         , Books for the Library, August 1991.
22.   Maseno University College, Proiect Document, July 1991.
23.   __, Computers, August 1991.



SUDAN
t7  \                                                                ~~~KENYA
To Kpoel.                                                                                                              UNIVERSITIES
IJONCC   Unoersty of No,robi Campus Collelses ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ T Adis hb
5                   ~~~~~~RIF  4   EASTERNgdsru
UGANDA   \)rD
)    VALLEY                                             >+                                                                           
S                  /              \           /                                          <            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WAJIR 
WESTERC   ColgeA                             \ En   Mo C
^    j\   \       \                                 h                                          >                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~SOMALIA
g  \    /  KiTALE   X   s                                 1s                                     _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Te  oldBn'ssalecasel
T. .1.f                                       ;ENEGdo
Bt                         QY A Nm T 0 
j CHSU9UEA                                                   I  l
*   FURICAE UNIVEE TIES               9E                                                                                                                                             \A       Word B    Go T  G-
UOAN      Unnerul   EstenAteo.Boiraob,ninb 4QLE~or an enosCn or AccepTa\ c
KU- B     KenaHgrano ndsbe   Colege K enho                                                                                                                                                     of sort ba   ore0
EU   Egeton Unrvnrfy. N KroP_ABET                          EJ 
MUC       MScnTenolog.col College. Macaoseo -  
CKUCAT    CaJomo   H.genro  Inwesd tu Ree of oes Afr,ca,n NonrJ ehoogbu  o,h                                        eV                  
DMCC      DaMto Unrney CtypCollegeopu. Na rjob,Crn                                      0           CI\E AN   TO N                                                                  MAtDIT Fo.
ELAC      EaertoAnUma Thoogal College.  arrob.    DyhnneTnornsNorso                                        Js Saloon_.,
UNCCS  Nmyarryob ENaneroli GrodpsoateSrool o_ TheologNY. NarobJ
CAST  Na  Cob llegerntoio Sgchl e of nrJgy Nabnrob, SrJes                                     PROViNC CEADusARTERS
CBCPa  FS,a Cfrnlaegeo Cololege. on.  abscl' lne.Clrm   o  u                                            l                                                             KLF                 hsrtohsb        n
CHU ntdS Clates nernaleol SUn.ens.5s NeWos ob onlcs.o  Nob                                    NAIOA   CAIA                                                                               fos2 r thc orrnnreofn
CHSSlr    Colie4e.l ln*llonafo Humres boadl bonedI Scenersl Edo ati n Cmu                                                                                                              n  serls. o  h   r
us ~     ~      EE                                                                                     ROADSEu00nnEtmltde   ktCmu                                  \                               ¢o  jWthOEt-sdi
rr                        KILAMETERS                                               .
0  50       100                                                                                                                                                                                    0-'4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0KfU
.°UT                         MIL FJU S md0'ogclClee  mr             
CHliONA  Unn C o f h olkc Hlgher Inshttde obi f Eostern AfricADO 
DUC-    Mosencr Unversdry College, Msnoro  Cmu                                                      CIISADTW So                                         ,_t                                                  rot 
JKUATC    Jo,Ano The.W logU-e  College Nof Agc.Dh-                                                                                         Esd Techrwomy Jul
NIST     AA.ob U.-tymdo Chepko  oleTi C npus, El .rot                                                                                                                                MAPRVNCLHtDQNDIS  t c x
UOACC    Pmrmyo f NAfrc o b hsio College C.olee                                                                 WUNDANY
CAEu           Cotl lege of Arcdinluecm ri,ondob En -                                         NAIOALAPTA C'p.  T.                                                                                   9N
CoPlcrUsrlege Iofs Hwlh Sh                                                                                                                oThe Woroolybd Uamsstf; s,erlsy Eu00   
rn~~~~~CE    Co L OMETER of Ed*a .-d Ex.-a SRIVERS Kikuy Conpu,                                                                                                                                                -
g   |   |   |   |          |                                         .'ROVINCE BOUNDARIES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KAL                                        do noN't 'py             ^ the pat%
PrVAo50100ITERNTOA BUNDAERSIES                                                                                                                                                                   Wol  cmkGop-  uenr
_  MILES                                                                                                                                   <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o th1ea status of on _ tett
UE_    ~           myo ate,Ano  ot                                                                                                                                                                 or an,r  rsmMoacpac



