Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.:    19976
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
UNIVERSITIES INVESTMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2309-KE)
December 22, 1999
Africa Human Development 1
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Kenya Shilling
Appraisal: US$ I = KSH 28
Project Closing:    US$ I = KSH 68
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July I -June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB                           African Development Bank
ASALs                          Arid and Semi-Arid Lands
CHE                            Commission for Higher Education
CTB                            Central Tender Board
DCA                            Development Credit Agreement
DO                             Development Objectives
EdSAC                          Education Sector Adjustment Credit
ERIAC                          Equipment Receipt, Inspection, and Acceptance Committee
GDP                            Gross Domestic Product
GOK                            Government of Kenya
HELB                           Higher Education Loans Board
ICB                            International Competitive Bidding
ICR                            Implementation Completion Report
IDA                            International Development Association
IP                             Implementation Progress
JAB                            Joint Admissions Board
LCB                            Local Competitive Bidding
LSP                            Letter of Sector Policy
MoE                            Ministry of Education
MTB                            Ministerial Tender Board
NMR                            Nuclear Magnetic Resonance
PIU                            Project Implementation Unit
PPTG                           Policy and Planning Task Group
PTTC                           Primary Teacher Training College
SAR                            Staff Appraisal Report
SBD                            Standard Bidding Document
SDR                            Special Drawing Rights
SLS                            Student Loan Scheme
STEPS                          Strengthening Primary and Secondary Education
UIP                            Universities Investment Project
Managers and Staff Responsible
Vice-President:                                Callisto Madavo (AFRVP)
Country Director:                              Harold Wackman (AFC05)
Sector Manager:                               Dzingai Mutumbuka (AFTH I)
Task Team Leader:                              Bruce N. Jones (AFTHI)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Kenya
Universities Investment Project
Implementation Completion Report
Table of Contents
Preface
Evaluation Summary
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
A. Project Background and Objectives ...............................lI
B. Achievement of Input Objectives ................................2
C. Achievement of Development Objectives ................................7
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project ...............................1  1
E. Borrower Performance ................................                                  1
F. Bank Performance ...............................                                      13
G. Overall Outcome ...........................                                           14
H. Sustainability, and Future Operation ...........................                      14
I. Key Lessons Learned ...........................                                       15
Part II: Standard ICR Tables
1. Summary of Assessments
2. Related IDA Credits
3. Project Timetable
4. Credit Disbursements, Estimated and Actual
5. Key Indicators of Project Implementation
6. Key Indicators for Project Operation
7. Studies Included in the Project
8A. Project Costs
8B. Project Financing
9. Economic Costs and Benefits
10. Status of Legal Covenants
11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
13. Bank Resources: Missions
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Appendices
Appendix A: Implementation Completion Mission Aide-memoire
Appendix B: Borrower's Perspective
Summary of Borrower's Evaluation Report
Borrower's Comments on the ICR
Appendix C: Public University Financing
Appendix D: Accounting and Audit Experience
Appendix E: Procurement Details
Table: Performed Contracts
Table: Contracts Declined, Cancelled, and Withdrawn
Table: Tenders Left Out
Map



Kenya
Universities Investment Project
Implementation Completion Report
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Universities Investment
Project in Kenya, for which Credit 2309-KE in the amount of SDR 41.3 million (US$ 55.0
million equivalent) was approved on November 14, 1991, and became effective April 29,
1992.
The Credit was closed on April 30, 1999, as compared with the original Closing Date
of December 31, 1996. The last disbursement took place on September 30, 1999, bringing
total disbursements to $54.7 million. About $3.0 will be cancelled.
The ICR was prepared by a team consisting of Messrs. Bruce Jones (senior economist
and task manager) and David Court (higher education specialist) from the Headquarters staff;
Messrs. James Kamunge (education advisor), Gituro Wainaina (education economist), Dahir
Warsame (procurement specialist), and John Ogallo (financial management specialist) from
the World Bank Country Office, Nairobi; and Professor Shem Wandiga (consultant science
higher education specialist). The implementation completion mission took place during
August 9-27, 1999. The report is based on materials in the project file, the Borrower's
Evaluation Report, and site visits and discussions during the completion mission, including
attendance at a workshop organized by the Commission for Higher Education. The ICR was
reviewed by Mr. Harold Wackman, Country Director and Mr. Dzingai Mutumbuka, Sector
Manager, AFTHI.
The Executive Summary of the Borrower's Evaluation Report is attached as Appendix
B.



Evaluation Summary
Project Background and Objectives
I.   Original project. The Universities Investment Project (UIP) was conceived in 1990 as an
investment-oriented complement to the Education Sector Adjustment Credit (EdSAC) in supporting
Kenya's education sector adjustment program. The objectives were:
(a) rationalizing and strengthening the institutional framework for higher education in both the
public and private sectors;
(b) limiting the growth of the Borrower's budgetary resources devoted to the public
universities by promoting cost sharing and improved investment planning (the Letter of Sector
Policy set a ceiling of 20% of the Ministry of Education recurrent budget to be devoted to the
universities); and
(c) improving the quality of teaching and research at the public universities.
The project included improving teaching, research, and administration at the universities by providing
equipment and related staff development; strengthening the Commission for Higher Education; and
reforming the Student Loan Scheme
2.   PTTC component. After the IDA Credit in support of the previous project in the education
sector closed at end-1994, it became apparent that there were incomplete civil works and substantial
pending bills for which financing was not immediately available. The Government requested the
Bank to amend the UIP Credit ($55 million) to enable some of the funds to be devoted to completion
of Primary Teacher Training College (PTTC) civil works and payment of pending bills, and
eventually $7.7 million was reallocated for this purpose.
Achievement of Input Objectives
3.   The project was implemented more slowly than originally planned, essentially because of
difficulties encountered in the equipment procurement process. The three extensions granted by the
Bank, for a total of 28 months, enabled the Government to ultimately withdraw $46 million from the
Credit for the universities and related central functions, and $8 million for PTTCs.
4.   Original project. Almost $12 million was spent for university computerization, and all of the
beneficiary universities except one were satisfied with supplier performance. Expenditures on library
materials were about 90% of the original plan. Expenditures on scientific and engineering equipment
were only about half the amount originally planned, due to procurement delays, and expenditures
greater than originally planned on computer systems and staff development. Printing and
reprographic equipment, and a number of vehicles, were also procured. About six hundred university
staff were trained, mainly at master's degree, diploma, and certificate levels.Eight Applied Research
projects shared the funds that had been allocated for this purpose, with five already generating
reasonable income. The Higher Education Loans Board (HELB) was assisted with 62 computers and
related printing and networking equipment, enabling its operations to be computerized, and five
vehicles. The Commission for Higher Education benefited from study tours and training, but missed
out on computerization because the Government did not finalize the contract with the winning bidder.
The three planned studies on the graduate labor market, private universities, and socioeconomic
access were completed.



ii
5.   PTTC component. Twenty contracts relating to the PTTCs received financing ($8.0 million
in total) from the Credit: 6 main civil works contracts; 8 minor civil works contracts; 3 contracts for
furniture and equipment; and 3 contracts for professional services. However, because the allocation
of GoK funds lagged behind the schedule promised to the Bank in 1996, there were periodic
stoppages of work at the two PTTCs where civil works have not yet been completed. At this time, the
main civil works contract at the Taita Taveta PTTC is 89% complete, while the 'main civil works
contract (not being financed from the Credit) at the Garissa PTTC is 95% complete. The sum of
pending bills and incomplete civil works has been reduced by 87%, instead of being reduced to zero.
Achievement of Development Objectives
6.   Original Project: Strengthening the Institutional Framework. During the UIP period, the
Commission for Higher Education (CHE) began to perform new functions of serving as the channel
for Government grants to public universities, and successfully coordinating the financing and
development plans of the public universities. It coordinated important analytical work on unit costs.
The legislation drawn up to revise and harmonize the CHE Act and each of the university acts was
not passed; updating and harmonization of these laws is still needed.
7.   The Higher Education Loans Board (HELB) was created by an Act of Parliament in 1995. The
Act grants enhanced legal powers for recovery of student loans. HELB administers bursaries in
addition to means-tested loans. HELB has successfully computerized loan processing and loan
recovery functions, becoming much more efficient than the former Student Loan Scheme Unit of the
Ministry of Education. The percentage of loanees with mature loans who are repaying has increased
from 10% in 1995, to 38% in June 1999. HELB recognizes that it needs to develop a medium-to-
long-term financial strategy to respond to expected increases in need for financial aid to students.
8.   Original Project: University Financing. The stated objective was to limit the growth of the
Government budget devoted to the public universities through cost sharing and improved investment
planning, with a ceiling of 20% on the share of the MoE Recurrent budget devoted to university
education. The objective as stated did not adequately recognize the importance of university solvency,
which became an important issue. The MoE budget share actually decreased to 12% during the UIP
period. In 1995, it was announced that means-testing would be employed to determine eligibility for
student loans, and that food and accommodation would be charged at cost. However, during a decade
in which the real value of both Recurrent grants from the Government and tuition paid by students
were eroded by inflation, the policies announced in 1995 have been insufficient to enable the
universities generally to balance their budgets, with the more science-oriented institutions
experiencing the greatest financial difficulties. Recently the universities have calculated the unit
costs of various degree programs, and have begun to place more emphasis on raising their own
revenues, including by enrolling "parallel" students who are not sponsored by the Government.
Despite the accomplishments in establishing cost-sharing, an adequate system for financing education
at the public universities is not now in place.
9.   Original Project: Quality of Teaching and Research. Where delivered, the laboratory
equipment has improved the quality of learning by increasing the access of students to hands-on
experience, enabled the development of new research programs and income-generating possibilities,
and boosted morale and institutional commitment. The computers supplied, organized into Local
Areas Networks, have roughly doubled or tripled the number of computers on each campus, with
significant upgrades in capability with up-to-date software. The provision of computers to academic
units previously lacking them, and for computer labs for student instruction and student use, has had a
transforming effect upon academic quality and administrative capacity. The library books supplied
under the Project have substantially expanded the collections; there are varied reports on increased
readership. Staff development activities have been appropriately balanced among academic,



iii
managerial, and technical categories and levels, and the retention rate has been high. Overall the
Project investments have led to significant improvements in the quality of teaching and research,
especially but not limited to science-based programs.
10.  PTTC Component. The seven PTTCs initiated under the Sixth Education Project, and also
receiving funds from the UIP Credit, account for about 30% of the total teacher training capacity in
Government institutions in Kenya. The six of these colleges that are operating have helped to enable
the replacement of untrained teachers, such that there are no longer any untrained teachers employed.
However, the number of primary teachers has reached a saturation point in relation to current primary
enrollments. Issues of utilization are expected to be addressed in the forthcoming report of a
Presidential Commission on Kenya's education system, and the Bank will continue to engage in
dialogue with GoK on teacher issues in the context of the next lending operation.
11.  Overall Outcome. In view of the lack of indicators for Development Objectives, and the fact
that for all three Development Objectives the accomplishments were partial, it is not easy to arrive at
an Outcome rating in this case. Positive aspects include the receipt and utilization of computers,
science and engineering equipment, and library materials; the institutional innovation represented by
HELB and its steady improvement of loan recovery performance; greater coordination of public
universities by CHE, and the creation of a culture of planning; the establishment of cost-sharing; and
the applied research projects. Disappointments include the lack of revision of the legal framework;
the dropping of some of the planned tenders; and, most importantly, the continued unsatisfactory
financial condition of the public universities. The outcome is evaluated asUnsatisfactory.
Borrower Performance
12. The Borrower's performance in preparing the Project is evaluated as Satisfactory, as a
participatory approach was adopted, and rational criteria were used to scale back the universities'
wishes to match the resources that would be available. Implementation experience was strongly
influenced by the somewhat complicated implementation arrangements, with the Policy and Planning
Task Group and later CHE responsible for policy coordination, and the Ministry of Education's
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) responsible for procurement, Withdrawal Applications, and
accounts. Although staff development and Phase I library materials proceeded on schedule,
equipment procurement experienced substantial delays. The following factors played adverse roles:
approval by the Bank of Phase I tender documents which were vague in some respects, contributing
to the need to re-tender; the need for re-evaluations because of weaknesses in evaluation reports;
delays in the GoK system beyond the PIU; delays in opening Letters of Credit and making initial
payments; deficiencies in supplier performance. The Government did not make budgetary releases for
the PTTC component according to the schedule promised. Audit reports were never submitted by the
agreed due date, and were qualified. The Borrower's implementation performance was Deficient.
Bank Performance
13.  The Bank's performance at the identification and preparation assistance stages is evaluated as
Satisfactory. The appraisal team reached agreement with the Government on appropriate detailed
policy conditionality, and on high-priority investments. The appraisal did not investigate the structure
of revenues and expenditures of the universities as self-accounting organizations, and their unit costs.
The appraisal did not establish monitorable indicators for the Development Objectives, but this was
not normal practice for appraisals in 1991. The experience of the Fifth and Sixth projects was not
reflected in the appraisal, and the risk assessment was deficient as it omitted the procurement
capacity/performance risk. The implementation period chosen of 4.5 years was overoptimistic in
relation to MoE experience and the diversity and complexity of the equipment procurement.
Appraisal is evaluateq as having been Deficient.



iv
14.  Over the seven-year implementation period, there were supervision missions every 6 months
on average. Most missions included a science higher education specialist, and one included a
computer systems specialist. After equipment deliveries had begun, missions included site visits to
the six beneficiary public universities. Problems were identified and discussed with the implementing
units, and remedial action agreed upon, although not always with adequate follow-through by the
Borrower. In the earlier years, attention to procurement methodologies and Project accounts was less
than it should have been. There was insufficient follow-up with the Government concerning the
slippage in GoK funding for the PTTC component. Progress was accurately reported, and ratings
were realistic. Supervision is evaluated as having been Satisfactory.
Sustainability and Future Operations
15.  Sustainability needs to be addressed at two levels: policies on university financing to enable the
universities, especially the more science-oriented ones, to address their current solvency problems;
and at the level of departments or sites where equipment or books have been delivered. Tuition paid
by Government-sponsored students should be increased substantially, with Government financial
support for education at the public universities more sharply targeted to assisting needy students. At
the "site" level, some university institutions have initiated user fee systems for computers, instrument
usage, and consumables; there is need for wider application of this principle. Broader opportunities
for enhanced revenue generation can be found in the commercial application of research, and
increasing the number of parallel students. The PTTCs need to diversify their programs and revenues.
Sustainability is evaluated as Uncertain.
Key Lessons Learned:
Lessons of general applicability: (a) Placing procurement and accounting responsibility in a multi-
Project PIU has disadvantages of diminished focus and accountability to stakeholders; (b)
Monitorable indicators for Development Objectives are needed; (b) Experience of previous and
ongoing projects should be taken into account; (d) Procurement and financial management capacity
should be assessed thoroughly at appraisal; (e) Technical Merit points should be avoided in most
cases, and where they are appropriate should be based on measurable improvements in functionality;
(f) Institutional continuity and institutional memory are important factors for successful
implementation.
Lessons for university projects: (a) Project design should provide for an appropriate balance between
decentralization of responsibilities to universities, and central coordination; (b) Lending operations in
support of universities should investigate at appraisal the structure of revenues and expenditures of
the beneficiary institutions; (c) It is important to have clear procedures and responsibilities for receipt,
inspection, and acceptance testing of equipment; (d) It is possible to administer means-testing for
student financial aid, and to recover loans from persons working in the formal sector; (e) Full
engagement of Vice-Chancellors is an important factor for project implementation and policy reform;
(f) The universities are now complex organizations with an increased market orientation,
necessitating greater attention to managerial training at all levels.






Project Implementation Assessment
A. Project Background and Objectives
1.   Objectives of Original Project. The Universities Investment Project (UIP) was the seventh
Bank-supported investment project in the education sector, but the first to address university
education. It was conceived in 1990 as an investment-oriented complement to the Education Sector
Adjustment Credit (EdSAC), in supporting the Government of Kenya's education sector adjustment
program. It was appraised and negotiated in tandem with EdSAC: EdSAC was appraised in March
1991 and negotiated in July 1991, while UIP was appraised in May/June 1991 and negotiated in
September 1991. The two lending operations shared a common Letter of Education Sector Policy
(LSP), and Policy Matrix of planned measures. 1
2.   The objectives of UIP as originally negotiated were to support the sector adjustment program
by:
(a) rationalizing and strengthening the institutional framework for higher education in both
the public and private sectors;
(b) limiting the growth of the Borrower's budgetary resources devoted to the public universi-
ties by promoting cost sharing and improved investment planning (the LSP set a ceiling of
20% of the Ministry of Education recurrent budget to be devoted to the universities); and
(c) improving the quality of teaching and research at the public universities.
3.   Following the rapid expansion of enrollments in the 1980s, which strained available facilities,
these objectives responded to important needs. However, objective (b) was stated in a way which
did not adequately recognize the importance of the financial solvency of the universities, which
turned out to be a major issue. A Development Objective statement along the lines of
"Establishing an adequate, efficient, and equitable system for financing education at the public
universities" would have been preferable.
4.   As originally designed, UIP consisted of two Parts: Part A, central components, such as
strengthening the Commission for Higher Education (CHE) and reforming the Student Loan
Scheme; and Part B, university "subprojects" consisting of equipment and related staff development
for strengthening teaching, research, and administration at the six public university institutions. The
IDA Credit in support of UIP was for SDR 41.3 million (US$ 55.0 million equivalent at 1991
exchange rates).
5.   Objectives of Primary Teacher Training Colleges (PTTC) Component Added by
Amendment. At the time UIP was negotiated, the Sixth Education Project, which had been
approved in 1986, was ongoing. Constructing and equipping seven PTTCs was the major
component of the Sixth Education Project. The IDA Credit in support of this Project closed at end-
December 1994, and was fully disbursed. The ICR carried out in May 1995 found a financing gap
of $15 million after the final Credit disbursement, consisting of unpaid bills of $11 million and
incomplete civil works of $4 million, and reflecting inadequate monitoring of escalating Project
costs by the Ministry of Education and the Bank. 2
' The third and final tranche of EdSAC was released in December 1994, about one year later than originally
planned. This Credit closed, after one extension, on March 10, 1995. The ICR (Report No. 15065) evaluated
the outcome of EdSAC as satisfactory overall. See Appendix (Part II) Table 2 for more information.
2Report No. 15129.



2
6.    The Government requested the Bank to amend the UIP Credit to enable some funds,
especially the Unallocated amount, to be devoted to meeting the Sixth Education Project financing
gap. In making this request, the Government pointed out that initial experience with UIP equipment
costs was that bids were turning out to be lower than expected at the time of appraisal. Also, the
U.S. dollar value of the UIP Credit had increased somewhat, due to depreciation of the U.S. dollar
with respect to the SDR. Eventually the Bank and Government agreed that the financing gap of
$13.3 million as of February 1996 (some payments had been imade since the Sixth Education ICR)
would be met by SDR 5.3 million ($7.7 million) from the UIP Credit, and KSh 312 million ($5.6
million) to be paid by the GoK over the five quarters ending June 1997.
7.   The Memorandum to the Board recommending approval of the Amendment placed the
justification in the context of the Government's objective of universal primary enrollment, to be
achieved by focussing on improving access and quality in those areas with low enrollment, which
are mainly Arid and Semi-Arid Lands (ASALs). The two Colleges to be completed, Taita Taveta
and Garissa, are located in Coast and North Eastern Provinces, respectively, both ASAL areas with
low enrollment rates and poor quality of primary schooling. The completion of the two facilities
would enable pre-service training of local teachers as well as continuous in-servicing, thus
contributing to improving the quality and equity of primary education. Clearance of arrears to other
suppliers and contractors was justified as a matter of fairness, and would have been difficult for the
Government to accomplish alone in view of its fiscal situation. Following approval by the Bank's
Board in October 1996, the Amendment became effective in November 1996. The intention was to
complete the outstanding civil works by the (then established) Closing Date of December 31, 1997.
B. Achievement of Input Objectives
Overview of Implementation Experience
8.   As indicated in project documents, the Project was expected to be completed by June 30,
1996, and the Credit Closing Date was set at December 31, 1996. With Credit effectiveness
planned for early 1992, implicitly a project implementation period of about four-and-a-half years
was assumed. This shorter-than-normal implementation period was based on the lack of civil works
in the Project.
9.    The Project was implemented more slowly than originally planned. The prolongation of the
implementation period was due to difficulties in equipment procurement, which are discussed later
in Section E, Borrower Performance. By end-June 1996, only $17 million (31% of the Credit) had
been disbursed. The Closing Date was extended three times - twice for 12 months, and a third time
for 4 months, yielding a final Closing Date of April 30, 1999. Thus, from Credit effectiveness in
May 1992, the project implementation period turned out to be roughly seven years.
10.  UIP first became rated within the Bank as a "Problem Project" after the supervision mission
of October 1994, with ratings of Unsatisfactory for both Implementation Progress (IP), and progress
toward achievement of Development Objectives (DO). This reflected not only delays in equipment
procurement, but also delays in reforming the Student Loan Scheme and in revising and
harmonizing laws relating to the universities and CHE, and concern over the financial condition of
the public universities. Looking at the supervision ratings from October 1994 onwards, the IP rating
was Unsatisfactory three out of eight times, while the DO rating was Unsatisfactory seven out of
eight times.



3
11.  The three extensions granted by the Bank gave the Government more time than originally
planned to procure and install the equipment, and to address the institutional and policy issues. The
extensions enabled the Government to eventually draw $54.7 million from the Credit, with about
$3.0 million to be cancelled when the Credit account is finally settled by the Loan Department. (At
this time, the value of the Credit is about $57.7 million, reflecting depreciation since 1991 of the
U.S. dollar against the SDR.) The utilization of the funds by the Government is illustrated in Table
1, and the experience with delivery of Project inputs for the various components is described
immediately thereafter.
Table 1: IDA Disbursements, Originally Planned and Actual
(in millions of U.S. dollars)
Actual
Original    Original      IDA
Project Costs IDA Credit Disburse-
(SAR)  Allocation     ments
Part A: Central Components             9.5         6.4        5.7
Part B:University Subprojects         45.6        43.6       40.6
Original Project - Subtotal           55.1        50.0       46.3
Part C: PTTCs                 (not included)         -        8.0
Unallocated                                        5.1          -
TOTAL BASE                            55.1
COSTS
Price Contingencies                    6.0
Total projected cost including        61.1
contingencies
IDA Credit - Total                                55.0       54.4
Note: The expected GoK contribution of about $6 million would be for minor civil works
to accommodate equipment, and GoK's share of project administration costs.
Note: Project administration (CHE and PIU incremental operating costs) is included
under Part A.
Original Project (universities and related central functions)
12.  Equipment and staff development for university teaching and research. As originally
planned, science and engineering equipment would have accounted for almost half of Part B
(university subprojects) expenditures. Delays in processing of tenders, award of tenders to
incompletely performing suppliers, and greater expenditure on staff development and procurement
of computers (for which the bidding documents were prepared in 1996) at the request of the
universities resulted in lower-than-planned expenditures for science and engineering equipment.
Several of the originally planned science equipment tenders, such as medical, forestry, geological,
and some physics, were ultimately dropped, as the Credit ran out of both time and money. (See
Annex E for details.) This resulted in variation in the numbers of equipment received by various
disciplines.



4
Table 2: Composition of Part B Expenditures
(millions of U.S. dollars)
Actual
Original   Original       IDA
Base Costs IDA Credit Disburse-
(SAR)  Allocation     ments
Staff development                       6.2         6.2       9.4
Equipment and library materials        39.4       37.4       31.2
Science and engineering equip.         22.1                  11.4
Library materials                       6.3                   5.6
Telephone systems                       2.2                     0
Vehicles                                3.2                   1.5
Printing and reprographic equip.        1.7                   1.1
Computer systems                        4.0                  11.6
TOTAL                                  45.6        43.6      40.6
Note: The IDA Disbursement Percentages were 100% for both Staff Development, and
Equipment and Library Materials. The difference betweeni the Base Costs and the original
IDA Credit allocation reflects minor civil works to accommodate equipment, financed by GoK.
13.  Supply of computers was satisfactory in all institutions except one where a supplier did not
perform to the full satisfaction of the end user. Most equipment supplied have been installed and
commissioned except for some workshop heating equipment whose site preparations have been
slow to complete, due to scarcity of funds for civil works sourced by the universities. Within the
tender for vehicles, most vehicles supplied were according to specification, while the buses
delivered were reconditioned and not according to specification, and were rejected.
14.  Supply of library books and other library materials such as CD-ROMs was largely achieved.
However, there were some considerable delays in the processing by the of library books tenders by
the Ministry of Education. This resulted in some of the requisitioned books not being supplied due
to having become unavailable. Actual expenditures on library materials were 89% of the amount
indicated in the SAR.
15.  Six hundred and thirty five staff were trained during the project implementation. originally
only 22 Ph.D. trainees were anticipated in the SAR, but 35 were trained. there were no limit set for
other categories of trainees at the beginning, and the project trained 132 at masters, 6 at first degree,
55 at higher national diploma, 124 at diploma, 173 at certificate and 68 at non-certificate levels. the
initial budget was exceeded by $ 3.2 million at the end of training. The majority of trained staff
have resumed their duties except for a few who are finishing their studies, some have transferred to
other universities in the country, a few died or left the service. the staff trained included academic,
administrative, finance and technical. therefore, the original staff development objectives were
generally met. Except for delays in remission of fellowship funds by PIU, the majority of trainees
and department chairmen were very well satisfied with this aspect of the project.
16.  Applied Research. All funds allocated for applied research (US $1.5 million) were
disbursed. Eight applied research projects were supported, and funds provided have been used for
staff training, purchases of equipment, consumables, vehicles, computers and payment of support



5
staff salaries. All applied research projects have potential for success, with five already generating
reasonable income, the sixth is likely to market its product soon and the remaining two will do so in
the near future. Five projects have impacted on teaching and research, while three need closer
supervision (Papaya, Biomass, and Walking Tractor).
17.  Student Loan Scheme. Disbursements for the SLS subcomponent were negligible during
the first three years of implementation. The Higher Education Loans Board (HELB) was created by
an Act of Parliament in 1995, and significant expenditures on improving the administration of the
student loan program began thereafter. HELB officers and staff were enabled to make a number of
study tours to learn about student loan programs, some involving commercial banks, in Europe,
North America, and East Asia and the Pacific. HELB acquired 62 personal computers and related
printers and networking equipment, and five vehicles, financed by the Credit. Training in computer
utilization was financed from the Credit. Loan recovery records have been computerized, and
computerization has also made loan processing and disbursement more efficient. Ultimately, about
$800,000 was disbursed for this subcomponent.
18.  Commission for Higher Education. Following reorganization of CHE and the appointment
of additional senior staff, staff capacity was developed through training and visits to gain
experience from higher education in other countries. The Credit financed preparation of a Report
on the Review and Harmonization of the Legal Framework. CHE's intended computer procurement
collapsed when the Government decided not to sign the contract with the winning bidder, because
of the firm's blacklisting by the Government following adverse comments, in the Report of
Parliament's Public Accounts Committee, on the firm's prior performance.
19.  Studies. Three studies were planned: (a) the graduate labor market; (b) the development of
the private university sector; and (c) gender and socio-economic factors affecting university
enrollment and subsequent performance. Commissioned and supervised by CHE, and carried out by
consulting groups, the studies were intended to generate information that would support policy
formulation and planning within CHE and the universities, in respect to institutional rationalization,
curriculum reform, degree patterns, course design and admissions policy. The conduct of the
research was hampered by liaison problems between CHE and the PIU over progress monitoring
and payment procedures, with resulting delays and consultant frustration. Although the studies took
longer than anticipated, they were all completed in 1996, with comprehensive and relevant
recommendations. The studies have yet to be absorbed or applied by the universities themselves,
evidently reflecting inadequate dissemination to the universities and other relevant groups such as
employers. As a result of the Borrower's project evaluation process, it has been agreed that
dissemination will now be undertaken.
PTTC Component
20.  Following the effectiveness of the Amendment, an exercise was carried out in March/April
1997, with the assistance of a firm of consulting engineers, to review the pending bills. Site visits
were made to Muranga PTTC (completed and operational) and the incomplete Taita Taveta PTTC.
At these two colleges, invoiced goods were found to be there, and the civil works were found to be
in accordance with specifications. The outcomes of the review were as follows:
No issues were identified in the contracts for goods or minor civil works (landscaping,
playing fields), and the Bank communicated in April 1997 its willingness to disburse against
these contracts.



6
For the main civil works contracts, there was an issue with regard to the reflection of the high
rate of inflation in Kenya in the percentages of contract values to be paid in U.S. dollars.
Following agreement between the Ministry of Education and the Bank on principles of
contract interpretation, the Ministry of Education reached agreements in August 1997 with
the contractors on corresponding revision of Payment Certificates for six out of the seven
main civil works contracts (all except Garissa), following which the Bank began to disburse
against these contracts.
The existing professional services contracts were for periods of time which had expired, and
therefore needed to be renegotiated, with no-objection to be obtained from the Bank. This
was subsequently done.
Thus, a number of months elapsed between July 1996 when the Government fulfilled the last of the
Board presentation conditions (commitment of GoK funds; compliance with audit covenants), and
the actual availability to the Government of funds from the Credit.
21.  A total of 20 contracts relating to the PTTCs received financing from the Credit as amended:
6 main civil works contracts; 8 minor civil works contracts; 3 contracts for furniture and equipment;
and 3 contracts for professional services. As compared with the IDA allocation of $7.7 million
planned at the time of amendment, actual IDA disbursements for Part C were $8.0 million. GoK
payments for the PTTC component were as follows: KSh 13 million in the fourth quarter of
1995/96; KSh 177 million in 1996/97, KSh 52 million in 1997/98, and KSh 70 million in 1998/99.
Thus, the promised amount of KSh 312 million ($5.4 million at contemporary exchange rates ) was
eventually provided, but over thirteen quarters ending in June 1999, instead of five quarters ending
in June 1997. The Government's failure to make funds available on the schedule promised in 1996
resulted in delays in the main civil works contract at Taita Taveta, and the minor civil works
contract at Tambach.
22.  The current status of accounting and payments for civil works financed from the Credit is as
follows:
For the main civil works contracts at Baringo, Bondo, Muranga, Narok, and Tambach, all of
which were completed no later than 1994, final accounts have been issued, and all bills have
been paid;
The main civil works contract at Taita Taveta is 89% complete. The outstanding works will
be funded from the Government from its own resources; however, the Government has
allocated only KSh 6.6 million (about $90,000) in its .1999/2000 budget for this purpose.
The minor civil works at Bondo, Baringo, Muranga, and Narok were completed and handed
over in 1998, and all payments have been made. Some playing fields are yet to be completed
in Tambach PTTC. This was occasioned by delays in payment to the contractor, which was
caused by internal regulations of the Borrower. The pending bills include KSh 37 million
($500,000) for landscaping and playing fields at Garissa.
23.  As a result of the implementation delays, the sum of pending bills and incomplete civil
works, instead of being reduced to zero as was the intention, has been reduced by 87%.
3At the time of Amendment, the exchange rate was KSh 56 per U.S. dollar. The average exchange rate for
1997/98 was KSh 62/US$, and the average exchange rate for 1998/99 was KSh 63/US$.



7
C. Achievement of Development Objectives
Original Project (universities and related central functions)
24.  Rationalizing and strengthening the institutional framework for higher education.
Within this objective, the two key priorities set out in the Letter of Sector Policy were:
strengthening of CHE, which previously had concentrated on accreditation of private universities,
for coordination of the planning, programming, financing and budgeting of the public universities;
and establishment of a Loan Board to administer the student loan program (especially loan
recovery) more effectively.
25.  The organizational structure of CHE was revamped through the appointment of more senior
staff and their capacity developed through training, tours and visits to gain experience from other
higher education. In July 1994, CHE took over the responsibilities of the former Policy and
Planning Task Group (PPTG) for coordinating the planning, programming, and financing of public
universities, and its trained staff and equipment. The appointment of the CHE's Secretary (chief
executive) as officer accounting for public funds to public universities enabled the Commission, for
the first time, to coordinate the preparation of public universities annual budgetary estimates, and
for the government to channel Recurrent grants for the universities through the Commission. CHE
also successfully coordinated the preparation of development and financial plans, and proposals unit
cost-based financing of public universities. (This work did not result in restoration of financial
health at the universities, but this was due to factors beyond CHE's control.)
26.  Early during UIP, it was recognized that the CHE Act and each of the individual University
Acts needed to be revised, to enable CHE to perform its intended functions for coordination of
public universities effectively over long term. Bills to revise the Acts were published in 1997, but
were never enacted by Parliament. All education legislation is being reviewed by a Presidential
Commission on the future of the Kenyan education system.
27.  Notwithstanding the lack of legislation to update the laws governing CHE and the
universities, CHE today is performing a coordination role that it was not performing in 1991. The
deficiencies in public university financing reflect the inability of parties beyond CHE to reach
agreement on the specifics of reform, rather than any lack of analysis and advocacy by CHE.
28.  With regard to the student loan program, the EdSAC ICR found that improvement in
student loan collections by the Ministry of Education had been negligible through 1995. The
Higher Education Loans Board (HELB) was organized following the passage of the Higher
Education Loans Board Act in 1995. The Act grants enhanced legal powers for loan recovery,
including mandatory payroll deductions for loanees working in the formal sector, and also gives the
Board the power to determine interest rates on student loans. It enables the Board to make loans to
students in private as well as public tertiary institutions. The administration of bursaries in addition
to loans was given over to the Board.
29.  In 1995, the interest rate on student loans was raised from 2% to 4%. Since student loans
carry such a low interest rate, the demand far exceeds the supply, and HELB has had the
responsibility of administering means-testing in this environment. HELB officers seek to verify
information on loan applications in order to screen out non-needy applicants.
30.  The value of collections has increased from about KSh 25-30 million annually during the
EdSAC period, to KSh 281 million in 1998/99 - an increase by a factor of ten. This reflects
HELB's efforts to locate and bill loanees, which have been quite successful for those loanees
working in formal sector organizations, especially the public sector. Out of about 65,000 loanees



8
who should be repaying, about 25,000 (38%) are currently repaying (as compared with 10% of
loanees repaying in 1995). HELB has announced that defaulters who do not commence repaying by
July 1, 1999, will have the interest rate on their loans escalated to the current market rate, and
expects that this policy will encouraging more loanees to repay without special efforts to search
them out. It has also been holding discussions with a private credit bureau about sharing of credit
information among financial institutions including credit-card issuers. HELB is hoping to increase
the percentage of repayers to 70% by the end of 1999.
31. In sum, HELB has made substantial progress during its four years of existence. It will need
to further improve loan recovery performance and diversify funding sources in order to meet future
expected needs for financial aid to students.
32.  Limiting the growth of the Borrower's budgetary resources devoted to the public
universities by promoting cost sharing and improved investment planning. The LSP set a
ceiling of 20% of the Ministry of Education recurrent budget to be devoted to the universities. As
noted earlier, the ICR team considers that, in addition to the Government budget, university
solvency needs to be taken into account, and that a Development Objective statement along the lines
of "Establishing an adequate, efficient, and equitable system for financing education at the public
universities" would have been preferable.
33.  In the actual event, the MoE budget share decreased during the UIP period to only 12%. (See
Appendix C for detail on public university financing). The value in real terms of the Government
budget allocation to the public universities decreased during the early 1990s, increased during
1994/95 and 1995/96, and has been on a decreasing trend subsequently. Together with the limited
mobilization by the universities of other revenues, the consequence was that the public universities
incurred substantial deficits and accumulation of debts, with this problem being more severe at the
institutions with a greater percentage of students pursuing science-based programs, which are more
expensive to teach.
34.  With regard to cost-sharing, as part of the adjustment program in 1991 a "direct" tuition
charge of KSh 6,000 was added to the longstanding Student Loan Scheme disbursement for tuition,
also KSh 6,000, making the total tuition charge KSh 12,000. In 1995, the total tuition charge was
increased to KSh 16,000, of which KSh 8,000 was "direct". At the same time, automaticity of
student loans was replaced by means-testing. This was an important reform, going beyond the
commitments in the LSP (which said that loans "will continue to be optional to all students"). The
credibility of deferred cost recovery through student loan repayment has been enhanced by HELB's
steadily improving loan recovery performance. However, during the decade the real value of
student tuition was eroded by inflation. and presently recovery of academic costs from Government-
sponsored students at the public universities is only the range 6-13%, which is too low.
35.  With regard to "investment planning", there has not in the 1990s been any repetition of the
1 980s experience of insufficiently planned expansion of university enrollment, without regard for
the market demand for graduates. Relatively few new courses have been offered in the 1990s, and
these have been in response to market demand.
36.  In sum, "direct" cost-sharing is well established, and "deferred" cost-sharing is becoming
progressively better established as the credibility of loan recovery by HELB is increased. However,
the level of cost-sharing from Government-sponsored students for academic costs, in the range 6-
13% (Table C2), is too low. Additionally, the distribution of Government financial support needs to
be reformed to recognize the reality the science-based programs are more expensive. Despite the
accomplishments in establishing cost-sharing, an adequate system for financing education at the
public universities is not now in place.



9
37.  Improving the quality of teaching and research. Assessment improvements brought about
by the inputs of science and engineering equipment is made difficult by the fact that the bulk of
delivered equipment arrived during the last two years of the project, and very recently in some cases
some conclusions can be made now with relative certainty. The laboratory equipment received is
very much appreciated by the academic staff. It has improved the quality of learning by increasing
the access of students to hands on experience. In some institutions, it has led to the development of
new courses and research programs, involving undergraduate and postgraduate students and staff.
In some cases (including but not limited to the applied research projects), the availability of
laboratory equipment has provided new income-generating possibilities. More broadly it has
enlarged the scope and improved the style of teaching, and enlivened the academic environment.
While delays, cancellations and partial provision of equipment have caused understandable
disappointment in particular departments, in others morale has been boosted and institutional
commitment enhanced.
3 8. The biggest challenge with regard to the equipment is that of maintenance and sustainability.
Several instances were encountered of equipment lying idle because of the absence of relatively
cheap but indispensable accessories to the larger machines. The project assigned responsibility for
the provision of such accessories to the universities themselves, but their intervening financial
decline has made it more difficult for them to meet these recurrent costs and created an
unexpectedly serious problem of under-utilization. One positive aspect of the universities' response
to the problem of under-utilization is the extent to which the presence of specialized equipment at
different institutions has strengthened the need and willingness of all to share facilities, as is
occurring with the shared use and cost of the Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) equipment.
39.   Computer provision to the universities is perhaps the biggest single most beneficial
contribution of the project. In all universities, the computers doubled or tripled, and significantly
upgraded, overall computing capacity. The provision of computers to academic units previously
lacking them, and for computer labs for student instruction and student use, has had a transforming
effect upon academic quality and administrative capacity. It is now possible for students and staff
to become computer literate, the universities are insisting on it, and most are already around the
80% mark. Local area networks are already in place and full institutional networks are being
developed within and between campuses and universities. In the academic domain, quality has been
improved by the accelerated production of documents and proposals, by greatly enhanced scope for
scientific research and by wider access to journals. There is now some Internet access at each
university, and there are plans for Internet accessibility to be expanded in the near future.Printing
and reprographic equipment is also being intensively utilized.
40.  Computers in university administration have enhanced managerial capacity through
application to payroll, accounts, transcripts and examinations. Most of the universities are poised to
go beyond these routine measures, but comprehensive management information system remains at
an early stage of development.
41.  Maintenance and sustainability are being addressed through charges for paper, e-mail,
Internet access, and continuing and extension courses for individuals and groups outside the
university. Throughout the universities the provision of computers has had an almost palpably
positive effect upon staff morale because of their ability to rapidly enhance previously depressed
professional competence, commitment and productivity, on the national and international scenes.
42.   The use of library books provided under the project reflects in large measure the
achievement of the intended development objective with regard to improved teaching and learning.
However this general conclusion has to be qualified by observed variation between the universities
in their capacity to process received volumes, by inconsistent reports about increased readership



10
levels, and by an apparent slowness in computerization for the specific needs of the library despite
the provision of computers.
43.   The training component of the project has been important for the improved quality of
teaching and learning, in providing the capacity to operate and utilize available equipment, and
bringing back new energy and vision to the academic enterprise. The spread of training across
academic, managerial and technical categories and levels, and between local, international and
factory training has been particularly important. In most universities, an appropriate balance
between types has been struck, and the return rate has been high in comparison with similar
fellowship schemes. Particularly notable is the success of the training of trainers ideal, and the
prospect of developing training courses in equipment maintenance that would serve all the
universities as well as communities outside them.
44.  The most evident shortfalls in achieving timely impact on the quality of teaching and research
have been: a) slow installation of received equipment in a minority of cases; b) delayed processing
of library books at some universities; c) limited consideration or implementation of the findings of
the research studies for planning and management in the universities. Overall, the Project
investments have already led to significant improvement in the quality of teaching and research,
especially but not limited to science-based programs, and this impact can be expected to deepen in
the next couple of years.
PTTC Component
45.  In the Memorandum to the Board, two different types of higher-level objectives were
identified. One objective was "fairness" to suppliers and contractors, and the funds provided by the
Credit have certainly assisted the Government to clear the unpaid bills to private businesses, which
were burdened by the Government's arrears. The other higher-level objective was improving
primary education in two low-income, semi-arid regions. The aide-memoire of the Midterm Review
mission had pointed out that "MoE still needs to resolve questions about the need for additional
teacher training capacity in the aggregate. Conversion to other purposes of some older PTTCs in
well-provided areas of the country may be appropriate."
46.  Of the seven PTTCs initiated under the Sixth Education Project and also receiving funds from
the UIP Credit, five have been graduating teachers for several years. A sixth (Garissa) began in
1998 to graduate new teachers and provide in-service training to serving teachers, even though
works are still under way at that site. The Garissa PTTC has begun to make an impact on teacher
training in North Eastern Province, especially training of Kenyans of Somali origin. It is expected
that Taita Taveta will begin to enroll students in the near future. These seven PTTCs account for
about 30% of the total teacher training capacity in Government institutions in Kenya. The increase
in trained teachers has enabled replacement of untrained teachers, such that there are no longer any
untrained teachers employed.
47.  However, contrary to expectations/plans when the PTTC expansion program was drawn up in
the mid-1980s, primary enrollments have stagnated in the 1 990s, and both gross and net enrollment
ratios have been falling, reflecting deteriorating economic conditions. The number of primary
teachers has reached a saturation point in relation to current primary enrollments, and the
Government has discontinued guaranteeing of employment to PTTC graduates. In this context, the
justification for conversion to other purposes of some older PTTCs in well-provided areas is
probably even stronger today than when this issue was raised by the Bank in 1996. These issues are
expected to be addressed in the forthcoming report of a Presidential Commission on Kenya's
education system. The Bank will be continuing dialogue with GoK on teacher issues in the context
of the forthcoming Strengthening Primary and Secondary Education (STEPS) project.



11
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project
48.  No major factors affecting the project that were beyond the Government's control were
identified.
49.  The weak performance of the Kenyan economy in the 1990s was a major factor affecting
the project. Due to output growing more slowly than population, real Gross Domestic Product per
capita fell by 10% from 1991 to 1998. This had adverse consequences for the university subsector:
the availability of real resources from the Government budget decreased; the number of students
from poverty backgrounds and thereby needing financial aid increased; and the labor market for
graduates weakened. According to the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Kenya, the weak
performance of the economy in the 1990s was due to poor economic governance by the Government
of Kenya.4 Another major factor was the Amendment for the primary teacher training colleges
at the Government's initiative. This complicated the Project, and added to the agenda of
implementation by the Borrower (although the PTTC problem would have been a distraction to the
Ministry of Education in some form even without the Amendment), and supervision by the Bank
50.  The factors lying more specifically within the Ministry of Education's control - the
coordination within the Ministry; the capacity for procurement, contract management, and financial
management; oversight by the Permanent Secretary - are discussed in the following section.
E. Borrower Performance
51.  Identification and Preparation. The concept of a Project to strengthen university education
in Kenya originated with the Government. Universities prepared the initial project document
submitted to the World Bank. It proposed an investment of about US$ 800 million to finance
mostly civil works as well as teaching and learning equipment, computers, books, staff
development, vehicles. This was intended to address the crisis arising from rapid expansion of
public university enrollments following two double intakes, the bigger one being in 1989/90 when
universities admitted 20,000 students, as a result of two secondary school cohorts graduating
simultaneously following a change in the duration of secondary education from 6 years to 4 years.
52.  In consultations with the Bank it was to decided to drop the costly civil works component,
and the project was scaled down to US$ 61 million. A project planning group comprising
representatives from each of the six public university institutions and relevant government
ministries was formed to prepare the project, undertake wide consultation and to build consensus on
and commitment to the critical higher education reform policies to be implemented under EdSAC
and UIP. Appropriate criteria were applied in scaling back the universities' wishes to match the
resources that would be available. The Borrower's performance in preparing the project is evaluated
as Satisfactory.
53.  Implementation. Implementation performance was strongly influenced by the somewhat
complicated implementation arrangements agreed upon at appraisal. Responsibility for planning
and institutional reform relating to university education was initially vested in a temporary Policy
and Planning Task Group (PPTG), headed by a Coordinator, and then with CHE beginning in July
1994. Responsibility for procurement, Withdrawal Applications, and accounts was given to the
existing MoE Project Implementation Unit (PIU), which was already implementing the Sixth
Education Project and an AfDB-financed project. In due course, the ICR for the Sixth Education
Project found the PIU's performance in implementing that Project to have been unsatisfactory.
4ReportNo. 18391-KE (September 1998).



12
54.  As noted earlier, the repeated extensions of the Credit were necessitated by thedelays in the
equipment procurement program. During 1992 and 1993, the university staff development
program and the Phase I library materials procurement proceeded on schedule. However, the Bank
declined to accept the bid evaluations submitted for the first fourteen equipment tenders, on the
grounds that the process had been "flawed", and called for re-tendering. The bidding documents for
these 14 tenders, which had been approved by the Bank, included Technical Merit points but were
vague as to how they would be awarded, and were vague on grouping of items into Lots. (It was
subsequently agreed that Technical Merit points would not be employed in bid evaluation formulae,
except for computer systems, and with reliance to be placed on technical responsiveness
specifications to ensure the adequacy of equipment.) The first 14 tenders were re-advertised in
1994, and awarded in 1995. In some cases, there were delays at the Central Tender Board stage.
Deliveries began in 1996 - originally planned to be the last year of the Project.
55.  The Ministry's procurement performance deteriorated significantly in 1997. In some cases,
excessive time was taken between award recommendations being made by the PIU and being sent to
the Bank, due to delays at the MTB or CTB stages, and resulting in the need for extensions of bid
validity. In a number of cases, lower-priced bidders were rejected on slender justifications that were
questioned by the Bank; upon re-evaluation, awards went to the lower-priced bidder, resulting in
significant cost savings. Initial award recommendations for computer systems (ICB) departed from
the bid evaluation methodology set out in the bidding documents, and the Bank therefore called for
re-evaluation. The Ministry's procurement performance improved dramatically in 1998, and this
led to the burst of disbursements ($27 million) in 1998/99.
56.  In addition to the difficulties and delays in making awards,contract management
encountered difficulties and delays in some cases. There were some delays in opening Letters of
Credit and making initial payments to suppliers, sometimes because of GoK budget ceilings. Some
winning bidders declined to enter into contracts, and some suppliers performed only partially. The
Bank advised re-tendering in those cases where suppliers had not performed, but this was not done.
When equipment deliveries began, it became apparent that there was a need to clarify acceptance
procedures and improve liaison between the universities and PIU; this was done through creation of
an Equipment Receipt, Inspection, and Acceptance Committee (ERIAC) at each university.
Because many tenders were for more than one Lot, at times there were as many as 60 contracts
under implementation. The backloading of most of the work of equipment procurement and
contract administration into 1996-98 placed a heavy burden on the relatively small number of staff
in the PIU. In 1997 the Bank urged MoE to ensure that PIU had adequate staff capacity in these
circumstances, but in the Bank staffs opinion the Ministry did not follow through adequately.
57.  CHE was not vigilant in monitoring the PIU's work and the procurement process beyond the
PIU, as a guardian of the universities' interests. The division of responsibilities between PPTG and
subsequently CHE, and the PIU, created a situation in which the interest taken in the Project by the
incumbent Permanent Secretary, MoE, was an important factor. During the life of the Project, there
were four Permanent Secretaries of MoE, and considerable variation among them in their degree of
interest and involvement in UIP. In particular, the keen interest taken by the Permanent Secretary
from 1998 onwards was an important factor in the dramatic improvement in 1998 of the Ministry's
procurement performance.
58.  With regard to Part C, the Government did not make budgetary releases according to the
schedule promised in July 1996. As a result of this deficiency, the objectives of completing the civil
works, and clearing all existing arrears and avoiding new arrears, were not fully achieved.



13
59.  As indicated in Annex D, audit reports were never submitted to the Bank within the agreed
deadline of six months after the end of the financial year. Most audit reports have been qualified, an
indication of deficiencies in the ability of the implementing agency to maintain records and
accounts to reflect the operations, resources, and expenditures in respect of the Project. The
Government's unsatisfactory performance in this area with respect to UIP is not exceptional; almost
all Bank-financed projects in Kenya display weaknesses in accounting and audit performance.
60.  Despite the improvement in the Ministry's procurement performance toward the very end, on
the basis of the entire record the Borrower's implementation performance is evaluated asDeficient.
F. Bank Performance
61.  Identification and Preparation Assistance. The project concept originated with the
Government, and was appropriately sharpened through the Bank/Government dialogue. The Bank
proposed and reached agreement with the Government on a set of objective, appropriate criteria, for
scaling back the universities' wishes to match the resources that would be available5 The Bank's
performance at the identification and preparation assistance stages is evaluated asSatisfactory.
62.  Appraisal. The appraisal team reached agreement with the Government on appropriate
detailed policy conditionality, building upon EdSAC, and on selection of high-priority investments.
In the area of university financing, the appraisal should have gone beyond the issue of the MoE
budget share, to investigate the structure of revenues and expenditures of the universities as self-
accounting organizations, and their unit costs (as is done for electric power projects and water
supply projects, for example). The appraisal did not establish monitorable indicators for the
Development Objectives, but this was not required or normal practice for appraisals in 1991.
63.  At the time of appraisal, the Fifth Education Project, which had been approved in 1981, wAas
nearing completion; it finally closed in September 1991 after five extensions. The ongoing Sixth
Education Project, which had been approved in 1986, was clearly headed toward multiple
extensions in view of its disbursement lag. In this context, the decision at appraisal to assign
responsibility for procurement, Withdrawal Applications, and Project accounts to the existing MoE
PIU was risky. The alternative of establishing capacity for procurement and project financial
management in PPTG and then CHE would also have entailed risk, but in the opinion of the ICR
team would have been preferable, in view advantages of greater focus and greater accountability to
stakeholders. The SAR made no mention of the implementation experience of the Fifth and Sixth
projects. The Ministry's procurement capacity (or the performance of the GoK procurement system
more broadly), which in view of experience should have been an obvious risk, was not mentioned in
the risk assessment section of the SAR, which therefore was deficient.
64.  The appraisal chose an implementation period of 4.5 years, well below norms for education
projects in Africa. This was based on the change in the object of procurement from civil works to
equipment. While it was reasonable to expect acceleration of the Ministry's implementation pace as
compared with the experience of the Fifth project, the magnitude of acceleration implicitly assumed
was overoptimistic, in relation to the number of items of equipment to be procured, their diversity,
and the technical complexity of some of it. If an implementation period closer to Africa Region
norms - for example, 5.0 years or 5.5 years - had been chosen, then the subsequent phenomena of
disbursement lag and multiple extensions would have been of smaller magnitude.
65.  Weighing the various positive and deficient aspects, appraisal is evaluated as having been
Deficient.
5 The criteria are reflected in Annex 7 of the SAR, and Schedule 5 of the DCA.



14
66.  Supervision. During the seven years of implementation, there were eleven supervision
missions, one Midterm Review mission, and two special-purpose missions (one on higher education
financing, one on PTTC pending bills) (Part II, Table 13). Thus, over the period as a whole, there
were missions every 6 months on average. Missions were more frequent during the earlier years
1993-95, but involving fewer persons and shorter periods of time. During the final years 1997-99,
the frequency of missions stretched to once every 9 months. Task management responsibility
changed between appraisal in 1991 and initial supervision in 1992, and again in 1995. Thus, over
the seven years, there was adequate continuity. Most missions included a science higher education
specialist, and one included a computer systems specialist. After equipment deliveries had begun,
missions included site visits to the six beneficiary public universities. In the earlier years, attention
to procurement methodology and Project accounts was less than it should have been. Implementa-
tion progress was accurately reported, and ratings were realistic. Problems were identified and
discussed with the implementing units, and remedial action agreed upon, although not always with
adequate follow-through by the Borrower.
67.  The supervision team supported repeated extensions as a calculated gamble that the procure-
ment constraints would be overcome, especially to enable faculty and students to have adequate
access to computers and Internet, and more science equipment, and that adequate university
financing would be achieved through higher and differentiated unit costs. There was payoff to this
gamble on procurement, but not on university financing as far as Government-sponsored students
are concerned.
68.  Following the intensive review of PTTC pending bills in March/April 1997, supervision was
inclined more toward the universities rather than Part C. Site visits were made to Taita Taveta
which was the only main civil works contract being financed from the Credit; for the other colleges
where minor civil works were being completed, reliance was placed on reports from the PIU. There
was insufficient follow-up with the Government concerning the GoK funding for Part C.
69.  Supervision is evaluated as having been Satisfactory overall.
G. Overall Outcome
70.  In view of the lack of monitorable indicators for Development Objectives, and the fact that
for all three Development Objectives the accomplishments were partial, it is not easy to arrive at an
Outcome rating in this case. Positive aspects include the receipt and utilization of computers,
science and engineering equipment, and library materials; the institutional innovation represented
by HELB and its steady improvement of loan recovery performance; greater coordination of public
universities by CHE, and the creation of a culture of planning; the establishment of cost-sharing;
and the applied research projects. Disappointments include the lack of revision of the legal frame-
work; dropping of some of the planned tenders; and, most importantly, the continued unsatisfactory
financial condition of the public universities. The outcome is evaluated asUnsatisfactory.
H. Sustainability, and Future Operation
71.  Original Project. Sustainability needs to be addressed at two levels: policies on university
financing to enable the universities, especially the more science-oriented ones, to address their
current solvency problems; and at the level of departments or sites where equipment or books have
been delivered.
72.  All the parties that have been engaged in the dialogue recognize that current unit revenues for
Government-sponsored students are much too low to cover true unit costs for science, engineering,
agriculture, medicine, and other science-based programs. Unit revenues must be raised to cover unit



15
costs. Tuition paid by Government-sponsored students should be increased substantially. Govern-
ment financial support for education at the public universities needs to be more sharply targeted to
assisting needy students through bursaries and loans. In this regard recent measures that have
substantially increased loan recovery are to be commended and should be intensified and should
plans for the establishment of a revolving loan fund. For any remaining component of Government
financial support for undergraduate education which is not means-tested, Government funding
should be reallocated relatively more toward the more expensive science-based programs.
73.  At the "site" level, some university institutions have initiated user fee systems for computers,
instrument usage, and consumables. There is need for wider application of this principle to generate
sufficient funds to pay for full cost of maintenance and replacement. The universities will need to
consider how to finance continued acquisition of library books to keep the library collections up to
date. Opening up the library for public use and charging for the privilege is one possibility being
considered. Broader opportunities for enhanced revenue generation can be found in the commercial
and industrial application of the applied research projects, the sale of maintenance services, the
renting out of large scale equipment and increasing the number of parallel students. The fruits of
improved financial management are evident in the just announced targets for staff retrenchment.
74.  PTTC Component. At this time, it is unclear when civil works at the Taita Taveta and
Garissa PTTCs will be completed. With regard to their current operations, PTTCs are short of
financial sustainability because of declining Government grants, and need to diversify their
programs and revenues. The Government needs to encourage more rational use of the national
capacity of these institutions.
75.  Sustainability is evaluated as Uncertain.
=. Key Lessons Learned
76.  At the workshop organized by CHE to discuss the UIP experience, participants from tte
universities and the Ministry of Education agreed that UIP had been a valuable learning experience.
Following are significant lessons derived from the UIP experience:
Lessons of general applicability:
Placing procurement and accounting responsibility in a multi-Project PIU has disadvantages of
diminished focus and accountability to stakeholders, as compared with placing these responsibilities
in a Unit or Coordination Office devoted to a single focus.
Monitorable indicators for Development Objectives are needed.
Implementation experience of previous and ongoing projects should be reflected in design and
appraisal.
Procurement and financial management capacity should be assessed thoroughly at appraisal.
In tender documents, Technical Merit points should be avoided in most cases, with reliance placed
on the specifications for technical responsiveness to ensure that equipment will be adequate for the
purposes intended. In those small number of cases where Technical Merit points are appropriate,
they should be based on measurable improvements in functionality.
Institutional continuity and institutional memory are important factors for successful
implementation.



16
Lessons for university projects:
Project design should provide for an appropriate balance between decentralization of responsibilities
to universities, and central coordination.
Just as with power projects and water utility projects, lending operations in support of a small
number of universities which are self-accounting organizations should investigate at appraisal the
structure of revenues and expenditures of the beneficiary institutions, and their unit costs. The
Progress Reports should routinely monitor these aspects.
It is important to have clear procedures and responsibilities for receipt, inspection, and acceptance
testing of equipment.
It is possible, although not easy, to administer means-testing for financial aid to university students.
It is possible to recover student loans from persons working in the formal sector.
Full engagement of Vice-Chancellors is an important factor for project implementation and policy
reform.
The universities are now large-scale, complex organizations with an increased market orientation.
This requires correspondingly greater attention than before to managerial training at all levels.



Table 1 Summary of Assessments
Snbstantial     Partial       Neggible    Not applkiable
A. Achievement of Objectives
Macro Policies                                                                  X
Sector Policies                                  x
Financial Objectives                             X
Institutional Development                        X
Physical Objectives                              X
Poverty Reduction                                                               x
Gender Issues                                    x
Other Social Objectives                          X
Environmental Objectives                                                        X
Public Sector Management                         X
Private Sector Development                                                      X
____________.________              Likely        UacerUai        Unlikely
B. Project Sustainability                            X
Highly        Satisfac          Deet
.        ~ ~Satif cory      ._ _ _ _ _ _ -______-_.____
C. Bank Performance
Identification                                   x
Preparation Assistance                           X
Appraisal                                                       X
Supervision                                      X
D. Borrower Performance
Preparation                                      x
Implementation                                                  x
Covenant Compliance                                             x
:;H-  ; -  i- 0-:--: ig0-H*h    .         -     hly
Satisetory                      a               Highlry
E.Assessmentof Outm e,                                        ___
E. Assessment of Outcome                                            X



Table 2 Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit0    ;i-            XPurpose^    0             ; Yearbf;:l            0: 000        000                         l:l e70 of 
Preceding
Operations
Sixth Education    The specific project objectives were to      1986     The credit was extended three times by a total of two-and-a-half years,
Project           improve the equity and quality of Kenya's              eventually closing December 31, 1994. Following Credit closing, a
education systems and to promote                      financing gap of $15 million was identified, consisting of unpaid bills ($11
institutional development through                     million) and incomplete civil works ($4 million).
strengthening the Government's capability to
effectively plan and mange educational
expansion at all levels.                              Overall, the project objectives were partially achieved and the general
To achieve these objectives, the project was          outcome was not satisfactory. The project did not sufficiently enhance
to: (a) construct sevennewprimaryquality and equity of the education system. Cost and time control was
training colleges (PTTCs)o  ( coe nstruct three       inadequate. The AZSs and PTTCs were over-designed, over-specified and
new aind zone primary schools (AZs) in                over-supplied with furniture and equipment. Insufficient attention was paid
remote locations; (c) provide the Kenya               to sustainability or beneficiaries' needs when specifying requirements for
Institute of Education (KIE) with equipment,          physical works: these have inherited problems of maintenance and
specialist services and training to support the       sustainability. The AZSs are under-enrolled and the facilities of both the
development of educational materials                 PTTCs and the AZSs are underused. The institutions are not sustainable:
delivered by the Educational Media Services           poor children's access to schooling in the arid zones remains low because
(EMS); (d assist KE in prepring andof learning-related costs such as boarding fees; and the PTTCs are not
(EMS); (d) assist KIE in preparing and                financially sustainable with limited cost-sharing.
testing new curricular materials for
secondary and technical education; (e)
strengthen the capacity of the Planning Unit
(PU) of MOE and the Teachers Service
Commission (TSC).



Loanicredit                    Purpose                    Year of                                Status
Title                                                Approval
Preceding
Operations
Education Sector   The principal objective of the credit was to  1991    The third and final tranche was released in December 1994, about a year
Adjustment Credit  support the Kenyan Government in the               later than originally planned. The Credit Closing Date, after one extension,
(EDSAC)           implementation of its education sector              was March 10, 1995.
reform program which sought: (a) to reduce          Overall, the objectives of the credit were partially achieved. Achievement
the rate of growth of the education recurrent       of the budgetary stabilization was substantial, and the slower growth of
budget; (b) to expand access to education and       teachers and university enrollments undoubtedly contributed to his result.
increase retention at the primary and
increase rlevels,ont hespecimaly f idr             It is important to note, however, that (i) budgetary achievements were
from disadvantaged areas; (c) to enhance and        modest relative to targets in the Letter of Sector Policy (LSP), particularly
from disadvantaged areas; (c) to enhance and       if the accumulation of arrears by public educational institutions is taken
improve the quality and relevance of                into account; (ii) sustaining an appropriate budget share will depend on the
education at all levels; and (d) to strengthen      Government's ability to introduce deeper reforms in the areas of teacher
sector management, planning and                     recruitment and training, and to successfully implement financing
information systems.'
mechanisms for university education. Contrary to the access objective,
primary gross enrollment rates declined substantially. The quality objective
Specific actions supported by the credit        was not defined in terms of output indicators and therefore achievement of
Speclfic actlions supported by the credit          this objective cannot be assessed. Achievement of the strengthening of
included: limiting the growth of the primary        sector management, planning and information systems was partial.
and secondary teaching forces, limiting new 
admissions to the public universities,              The most difficult reforms were in the area of higher education fnancing.
introducing a direct charge on all public           Prior to the adjustment program, there were no direct charges to students at
university students and reforming the loan          public universities. A direct charge of KSh. 6000 was introduced for the
scheme, re-introducing the public financing         first time at the beginning of the program, and a bursary scheme introduced
of textbooks to primary schools,                    to assist poor students in meeting it. As a result of high inflation, however,
strengthening the Ministry of Education's          the direct charge represented about 5% of unit costs by the end of the credit
Planning Unit, and strengthening the                period. Progress on loan scheme reform was negligible during the Credit
Commission for Higher Education to oversee          period. The Government announced revised cost-sharing policies in July
the development and financing of public             1995. According to these, "non-needy" students could pay up to 42% of
universities.                                       the direct costs of university education which includes the full cost of food
and boarding. With the enactment of the Higher Education Loans Board
Act on July 21, 1995, the functions formerly carried out by the SLS unit in
the MOE are being transferred to the new Loans Board.



Table 3 Project Timetable
Step  inl Project Cycle '          ~t Plalfte                          Pat LculL s Estimate
Identification
(Executive Project Summary)           July/August 1990                  July/August 1990
Preparation                           November 1990                     November 1990
Appraisal                              May/June 1991                    May/June 1991
Negotiations                           September 1991                   September 1991
Board Presentation                    November 11, 1991                 November 11, 1991
Signing                                n.a.                             December 11, 1991
Effectiveness                         March 1992                        April 29, 1992
Major Reviews'                         Sept. 1992 and Sept. 1994        February 1996
Project Completion                    June 30, 1996                     April 30, 1999
Credit Closing                   T    December 31, 1996                 April 30, 1999
The original plan was for two major reviews. As indicated in the SAR, "The first will be in the second half of 1992 to
ensure smooth transition to project management by CHE; the second in the 1994 to evaluate progress in the achievement
of project objection in general, and the functioning of the restructured CHE in particular, in advance of Phase III for the
University components." In the actual event, there was only a single major review (Midterm Review), in February 1996.



Table 4 Credit Disbursements - Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY92   FY93    PY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    F               FY9       FYOO
Appraisal         8.4    23.5      34.0    44.5      55.0       n.a     n.a.       n.a.
Estimate
Actual              .4     4.1       7.6     9.2      16.9    24.1    29.3        56.1     56.1
Actual as % of    4.8    17.4       22.4    20.7      30.7
Estimate
(cumulative)
Date of Final Disbursement: August 1999
lAs of October 1999. Includes $1.7 Special Account (Revolving Fund) advance, not yet recovered. After the
Special Account advance has been refunded to the Bank, disbursements from the Credit will finally amount to
$54.4 million.



Table 5 Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Indicators                                     Etu'   at '                                    Actual
1. Rationalizing and Strengthening The Institutional
Framework of Higher Education
Establishing appropriate Legal Framework  Review of existing laws, to be followed by revisions   Revised Acts for CHE and each of the
ifjustified.                                   universities drafted & tabled in Parliament
but never passed.
Re-organization of CHE                   Staff development, management re-organization, and  Capacity enhanced, but no computers or MIS
equipment provision to achieve full coordinating role
Planning, Programming Budgeting of Public   Three-year financing plans and six-year development  Prepared by universities, 1994-1995
Universities                             plans.
Student loan scheme                      To be re-structured for improved efficiency & loan    HELB established 1995; specialized staff,
recovery                                       computerization; 700% increase in loan
recovery
Studies                                  Three projected: Graduate labor market; Private  Three completed
universities; Socio-economic access
2. Improve Quality of Teaching and Research
2.1 Science Equipment
Laboratory and Workshop Equipment        $21.2 million                                  $9.3 million
Library Materials                        $6.3 million                                   $5.6 million
Printing & Publishing                    $1.7 million                                   $1.06 million
Telephone Systems                        $2.2 million                                   Re-allocated
Vehicles                                 $3.2 million                                   $1.88 (135 vehicles)
Computer Systems                         $4.0 million                                   $11.58 million



Indicators                                     Estimated at Apprraisal                         Ahtual
2.2 Applied Research Projects                  $1.5 million                                    $1.5 million (8 funded)
2.3 Staff Development
PhD.                                     22                                              35
MA/MSc                                   No limit                                        132
BA/BSc                                   No limit                                        6
Higher National Diploma                  No limit                                        55
Diploma                                  No limit                                        124
Certificate                              No limit                                        173
Non-Certificate                          No limit                                        68
Total                                                                                          593
3. Limiting Growth of Budgetary Allocation to
Public Universities
Decreased Budget Allocation              20% of MOE budget                               Decreased to 11.8%
Cost Sharing                             Fee increase                                    Fees raised from 12,000 to 16,000
Limited Growth of University Admissions  Projected ceiling 10,000 per year               Kept to 9000



Table 6 Key Indicators for Project Operation
eSTiC     4lctor   A;iee Une the Projec                                         Act4ouX 0  i .V .0f to9Xf beXA Take
Rationalizing and Strengthening the
Institutional Framework of Higher
Education.
Revised legal framework to      Harmonization Bills drafted but never passed  Legislation is still needed to govern
harmonize & coordinate                                                   public & private universities & enhance
interrelationships of universities and                                  implementing authority of CHE
CHE
CHE re-organized                Staffing and managerial capacity of CHE  CHE seeking to obtain computers &
enhanced but no legal authority given.  develop MIS system needed to realize
managerial potential & new Act to
provide legal authority.
Universities Produced Development  3 and 6 year plans developed by each  Universities plan to revise & update as
Plans                           institution                              flexible planning tools.
Student Loan Scheme Established    A well-staffed & equipped HELB was    HELB is now seeking to intensify loan
brought into being & has achieved a     recovery rate and capitalize a revolving
considerable improvement in loan recovery.   fund
The three projected Studies     Studies provided information to CHE &    CHE & universities intend to publicize
completed                       universities, which was especially useful to    & discuss study findings more fully with
CHE in its relationship with private    employers, NGO's agencies & amongst
universities & maintaining momentum on  themselves.
female access.



Indicators                    Achieved Under the PMjOt                 Actions to be Taken
2. Improve Quality of Teaching and
Research
Science equipment improved quality  Premature to judge impact on teaching but    Universities should make special
of teaching & research          beneficial impact on graduate research and  provision for maintenance & efficient
faculty morale.                         utilization
Library Materials in Use        Bulk of books tendered for supplied, most  Complete processing & inform students
processed & available                   other universities & public of new titles
Vehicles used for academic Purposes 135 vehicles delivered: Intensively used for   Universities attention to maintenance
field work and outreach activities      facility essential if full utilization to be
achieved.
Computer systems improved       Computer order increased three folds.
academic & administrative       Transformed undergraduate teaching &
functioning                     graduate & faculty research & enhanced
efficiency of administration. Most important
single project element.
Exploited academic and commercial  Five projects well established; already used    Universities intending to intensify
potential of applied research projects  for teaching and being developed for  income-generating gains of & bring to
commercial & industrial purposes        full potential the 3 less mature ones.
Staff Developed. Training achieved  Balanced mix of academic, technical &  Universities will need to insure retention
improved teaching and learning  administrative capacity achieved in allocation  of staff through diversified salary
of scholarships. Most returned to roles for    structure & maintenance of a
which training intended and contributed to    professional work environment, through
improved quality of teaching and research.    financial & intellectual incentives.



Ibifilo!rs                     A0i~e ud-eir='- the;PWoieet                Ac 0 *tion to lxte akXe
3. Limiting growth of Budgetary
Allocation to Public Universities
Limit the share of MOE recurrent    The budget share has remained well below  Continued attention by HELB to
budget devoted to the public      20% reaching a level of only 12% in recent    increasing loan recovery & by
universities to 20%               years                                     universities to income generating
possibilities. In order to achieve
financial viability at current levels of
Gok support, universities will need to
earn more revenue from other sources,
including higher tuition fees.
Fees increased                    lncreased from Shs 12,000 to 16,000 during    Diversified and cost-related fee structure
project period                            should be introduced at universities
Ceiling of 10,000 per year on     Admissions ceiling kept to 9000           GOK should ensure that this ceiling for
admissions to public universities                                           public universities is maintained.



Table 7 Studies Included in the Project
Study                 Consultants               Status                            Iwp34t
Graduate Labor Market       Deloitte and Touche    Completed September      The study, although delayed in completion
1996              produced findings which were significant and
relevant to university planning. However, their
impact was slight because they were never
Cost US$ 188,795       implemented nor discussed, publicized or
disseminated. Their consideration would still be
useful although they need up-dating.
Private Universities        Deloitte and Touche    Completed February       This study has helped CHE improve its internal
1996              organization and operation in relation to its most
active area of responsibility--private universities.
The findings helped CHE to streamline
Cost US$ 88,800         communication with the private universities most
notably in matters concerning accreditation
Socioeconomic Access        British council        Completed May            Extensive and valuable information was produced
1996               but was never adequately communicated to the
universities, with the result that it was never
adequately discussed internally or with other
Cost US$ 121,448        relevant constituencies. The impact was therefore
limited to providing information to CHE on socio-
economic and gender factors in relation to
university access.



Tables 8A and 8B, Project Costs and Financing
The amendment of the Credit in November 1996 created some conceptual issues for
"project costs". The amendment added "Construction and equipping of seven new primary
teacher training colleges" to the Schedule 2, Description of the Project. Did this mean that
the estimated costs (about $50 million) of the seven colleges since 1987 should be added to
the costs of UIP as conceived and estimated at appraisal, making a project of more than $ 100
million?
To avoid such a situation, the Bank's task team obtained the agreement of the Ministry
of Education during the supervision mission of November 1996 that Part C would be
accounted for and audited separately from the original project. (This was reflected in the
agreed aide-memoire; however, there were no corresponding amendments to the accounting
and audit covenants of the DCA on this particular point.) In effect, for purposes of project
accounts, the amendment would be treated as creating a subtraction of IDA Credit funds
available for the original project. In effect, Part C would be accounted for as a new project of
$13 million, consisting of payment of pending bills and completion of civil works.
Since the amendment became effective during fiscal year 1996/97, the audit reports for
1996/97 would have been the first ones to be affected by this understanding. However, only
a single Project Accounts audit report on the combined project (the original project plus the
new Part C) for 1996/97 was received by the Bank, in May 1998. Similar practice was
followed for the 1997/98 audit report, received in June 1999.
It is, however, possible to separate out Part C on the basis of available data, and this
has been done in the tables presented here.



Table 8A: Costs of Parts A and B (Universities and related central components) -
Appraisal Estimate, and Actual
(in millions of U.S. dollars)
Appraisal    Actual Of which: Of which:
Estimate   Expend.       IDA        GoK
Part A - Central Components                       9.4        6.2        5.7        0.5
Al. Strengthening CHE (PPBF functions)           5.0        1.7       1.6        0.1
A2. Studies                                      0.7       0.5        0.5
A3. Applied Research Projects                    1.5       1.5        1.5
A4. Reforming the Student Loan Scheme            1.5       0.8        0.8
Project Administration                           0.8       1.7        1.3        0.4
Part B - University Components                   45.6       44.6       40.6        4.0
Equipment and library materials                37.4       31.2       31.2
Staff development                                6.2       9.4        9.4
Minor civil works and furniture                 2.0        4.0                   4.0
BASE COST                                        55.1       50.8
Contingencies                                     6.0
TOTAL INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                    61.1
Financing: IDA Credit                            55.0       46.3
Financing: GoK                                    6.1        4.5
Note: This table utilizes IDA disbursement values from the Bank's Loan Department, and GoK
expenditures as reported in the Borrowers Evaluation Report. The IDA disbursement values
in the Borrower's Evaluation Report differ slightly; presumably this reflects use of slightly
differing exchange rates by the PIU as compared with the Bank's Loan Department in valuing
transactions in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.



Table 8B: Costs of Part C (Primary teacher training colleges cornponent) -
Amendment Estimate, and Actual
(in millions of U.S. dollars)
Cost estimate at Midterm Review (Feb. 1996); Amendment financing plan:
Pending bills (civil works, furniture, equipment, and        11.4
professional services) and claims
Civil works to be completed - Taita Taveta and Garissa        1.6
Minor civil works (landscaping, playing fields) to be         0.3
completed - five other Colleges
Total                                                        13.3
Financing: IDA Category 6-A (civil works)                     6.6
Financing: IDA Category 6-B (equipment and furniture)         0.5
Financing: IDA Category 6-C (professional services)           0.7
Financing: GoK (including all interest and claims)            5.6
Actual expenditures through end-June 1999:
IDA       GoK       Total
Civil works                  6.5        5.0       11.5
Furniture and equip.         0.5        0.3        0.8
Professional services        1.0        0.1        1.1
Total                        8.0        5.4       13.4
(Note: IDA disbursement data are utilized here.)
Remaining liabilities as of end-September 1999
Unpaid bills                            0.8
Outstanding civil works                 0.5
Other claims                            0.3
Total                                   1.7



Table 9 Economic Costs and Benefits
No attempt was made at appraisal to estimate a Net Present Value (NPV) or an economic rate
of return, and therefore there is no baseline. The objectives of the ICR mission did not
include attempting to apply NPV/rate-of-return methodology to a project of this type,
focussing mainly on quality improvement.



Table 10 Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement: 2309KE Credit Number: IDA  -23090
DCA                 Desrption orC Coeat                    ovenant  Present  Original   Actual                    Comments
Section                                                      Type      8tatus     Date       Date
3.01(a)   (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due  05      CP        N/A        N/A     The Bank has taken the position that
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with                                             unsustainable university financial deficit
appropriate financial, administrative and higher                                            are not appropriate financial and higher
education practices.                                                                        education practices. Balanced university
budgets have not yet been achieved.
3.02      Procurement of goods and services required for the   10         C        N/A        N/A    In compliance.
project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
3 to the Agreement.
3.03      The Borrower shall limit undergraduate admissions at  10        C        N/A        N/A    In compliance.
the public universities to 10,300 in 1992, 10,610 in
1993, 10,930 in 1994, 11,260 in 1995 and 11,600 in
1996.
3.04      The Borrower shall (a) through 1993, cap student     10         C        N/A        N/A    In compliance.
loans at KShs. 21,500 per student; (b) eliminate the
personal expense element from the student loan
program; (c) maintain a direct student charge of at
least KShs. 6,000 per annum; and (d) operate bursary
scheme for needy students.
3.05      The Borrower shall: (a) by June 1992, furnish a      05        CD       January     July    Implemented (July 1994) after some
proposal for restructuring CHE with effect from                          1993      1994    delay.
January 1993; and (b) by January 1, 1993, have
commenced implementation of said proposal.
4.01 (a)   (a) The Borrower shall maintain adequate records and  01      CP        N/A        N/A     The most recent audit report has found
accounts.                                                                                   inadequacies relating to Part C.



DCA                 Description of Covenants              Covenant  Present  Origitaal   Actual                    Comments
Section                                                       Type      Status     Date       Date
4.01 (b)   (b) The Borrower shall have the records and accounts  01       CD        N/A        N/A      Audit reports have always been submitted
including the Special Account for each fiscal year                                          later than the due date.
audited. Furnish to the Association, as soon as
available, but in any case no later than six months
after the end of each such year a certified copy of the
report by said auditors.
5.01 (a)   (a) The Universities Act shall have been amended,    05         C        N/A        N/A    In Compliance
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of CHE to
perform any of its obligations under the project.
4 (1)      The project shall be implemented by CHE.             05         C        N/A        N/A    In Compliance.
4 (2)      The Borrower shall by March 1, 1993 furnish to the   05        CD       March       1994    Furnished
Association for its review and comments, a draft                         1993
Public Universities development plan for 1993
through 1999.
4 (3)      The Borrower shall by March I in each year furnish to  09       C       March I              In Compliance.
the association for its review and comments proposals                  each year
for: (a) project implementation schedule (b) CHE's
work program; (c) CHE's recommendations on
university budgets; (d) student loan scheme work
program
4 (4)      The Borrower shall, commencing August 1992,          01         C      February              In Compliance.
furnish to the Association by February I and August I                     and
in each year, progress reports.                                         August
each year
4 (5)      5. The Borrower shall ensure that the Studies under  10         C        N/A         N/A    In Compliance.
Part A.2 of the project are carried out in accordance
with a timetable satisfactory to the association
4 (6)     The Borrower shall submit to the Association for its  10         C        N/A         N/A    In Compliance.
approval the first three applied research proposals
under Part A.3 of the project satisfying the criteria
expressed in the DCA and SAR.



OC                    Desriptn of Covenants                   COvenant  Present   Original    Actual                     NComet
Section~ ~                                             e,Type           Staltus       ate       Date       XtV;V        m eAs000t
4 (7)      The sub-projects under Part B of the project shall be     10         C         N/A         N/A      In Compliance.
prepared in accordance with the criteria specified in
Schedule 5.
4 (8)      8. The Borrower shall carry out with the Association      10        CD      Sept. 1992  February  The two reviews were combined into a
two reviews of the project, in September 1992 and                              and        1996    single Midterrn Review, held in February
1994, respectively.                                                        Sept. 1994              1996.
Covenant type:                                                                Present status
I = Accounts/audit                         10 = Project implementation                          C  = covenant complied with
4 = Counterpart funding                    II = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budget or other resource  CD = complied with after delay
5 = Management aspects of the project or        allocation                                      CP = complied with partially
executing agency                       12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/   NC  not complied with
9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting          institutional action                             N/A= not applicable



Table 11 Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Project complied with all applicable Bank Operational Manual statements



Table 12 Bank Resources Staff Inputs
Weeks         US$ ('000)     Weeks         US$ ('000)
Preparation - Appraisal                                 60.6           154.4
Negotiations - Board                                    10.6            19.4
Supervision                 94.7         206.8         272.0          619.2
Completion                   6            16.8          24.4            60.5
Total                      100.7         223.6         367.6           853.5



KENYA UNIVERSITIES INVESTMENT PROJECT
Table 13 Bank Resources - Missions
St.g. at,    MaantWr        ber  Da,                                  'i-          "' ' ''obl.m
Implement.   Develop.
Progress    Objectives
Identification    July/Aug.  12       19   Economics, Education
1990
Pre-appraisal   Nov. 1990
Appraisal      May/June       6            Economics, Education,
1991                      Science Education
Supervision    March 1993     4       10   Architect, Education,      I           I       Phase I library books were being distributed. Phase I
Science Education,                            equipment bids were being evaluated. Work program for
Economics                                     1993/94 includes "starting the procurement of Phase II
equipment".
June 1993     2        5    Architect, Education      NR          NR      Finalization of Legal Harmonization report was delayed.
Phase I bids had been evaluated by MTB and were with CTB
for fnal approval. Lagging disbursements. Problem of
continued subsidization of student meals.
Oct. 1993     2       12   Architect, Education      NR          NR       Bank had advised MoE on Sept. 21 that the Phase I equipment
evaluation process had been "flawed", and that re-tendering
would be needed. Phase II equipment lists and specifications
had been sent to the Bank for comment.
Feb. 1994     3       10   Architect, Education,      2            1      Documents for Phase I equipment re-tenders and Phase II
Science Education                             equipment tenders were being prepared. Need for action on the
recommendations of the Legal Harmonization report. Audit
report overdue. Implementation rating downgraded to 2.
6Performance ratings for some of the supervision missions were not given, hence not rated (NR).



t 0 -~~~~~~prson    Fiel:d
Discussions     June 1994       3        9    Division chief,             NR            NR       University deficits and arrears are not appropriate financial
on higher                                      Economics, Education                              practices. The institutional framework has not been
education                                                                                        performing adequately. The real value of cost sharing has
(EdSAC/UIP)                                                                                      been on a decreasing trend since 1991, and the credibility of
the Student Loan Scheme as an instrument of cost sharing has
not been established. There is not yet evidence of improved
investment planning. Compliance has not yet been achieved
with covenants relating to appropriate financial practices, CHE
restructuring, and the 6-year public universities development
plan.
Supervision     Oct. 1994       3        15    Architect, Education,       U            U        Procurement of Phase I and Phase II science equipment,
Economics                                        vehicles, and computers had been organized into 34 packages.
The Bank had approved tender documents for the first 15 of
these packages. Bids for the first 4 of these packages had been
received at the PIU. Preparation of Phase III specifications
and documents would commence in 1995. CHE had taken
over the activities of PPTG in July 1994. Need for action on
Legal Harmonization. Good progress on university financial
____________________ ._____________________   plans (EdSAC  third  tranche  condition).



Stage cf    Monthlyear  Number  Days   Spe.ilize4l staff skills    Performance Rating -               Findings; Types of Problems
projeetvyele      .         of:  .i             eprstd
persons   Fietd
Jan./Feb.     3       12   Economics, Architect,      U           U       Audited accounts of the universities, requested by the Bank,
1995                      Education                                     were overdue. University deficits still being incurred.
Acceptable university fmancing plans (EdSAC third tranche
condition) had been submitted to the Bank in November 1994.
Enhanced cost recovery should be put into place before
commencement of 1995/96 academic year. 6-year
development plans submitted to the Bank in January 1995.
Need for data on repayment performance of SLS loanees (not
merely aggregate values). Harmonization legislation expected
to be tabled in March 1995.
Evaluations on first 4 equipment packages with CTB for final
approval. Bids for 6 packages had been received in December
and were being evaluated. Bids for 4 packages were due
February 6. Another 20 packages planned. Very little of SLS
component had been spent.
Project Accounts deficient: do not reveal expenditure on the
various components; omit GoK contribution; too low in
relation to IDA disbursements. Audit report overdue.
Graduate Labor Market study reveals significant graduate
unemployment (12% overall; 15% for class of 1992), and
dissatisfaction of graduates and employers.
(Notice of                                                                                Banks sends letter July 11 stating intention to suspend on
Intention to                                                                              August 18 in the absence of adequate action on university
Suspend)                                                                                 financing. Ministry of Education issues Press Release on
enhanced cost recovery on July 25. Bank refrains from
suspension (letter dated September 5) in view of progress
reported by August supervision mission.



Supervision   Aug. 1995              7    Economics, Education       S          U       Audited accounts of universities overdue. New student
financing package "welcome". SLS interest rate increased
form 2% to 4%. Enactment of Higher Education Loans Board
(HELB) Act. Harmonization legislation expected to be
submitted to Parliament in session commencing October.
Technical meeting held on Project Accounts.
Phase 11 library books, vehicles, and microscopes had been
ordered. For other packages, action by CTB had been delayed.
Mid-Tern       Feb. 1996             22   Economics, Education,      S           S      Universities: Government commitment in PFP to present
Review                                     Science education,                           harmonization legislation to Parliament by June 1996. HELB
Student loan specialist,                     dealing with the new task of means-testing for student loan
Architect                                    eligibility. Universities's share of MoE recurrent budget down
to 16.6%.
Only 20% of expected Project expenditures had been made.
All components lagging, except for staff development. The
first 14 equipment packages had all been awarded. "The
universities, CHE, and PIU now need to monitor the arrival,
commissioning, and use of the equipment."
PTTCs: Mission agreeable to recommending to Bank
management an amendment for PTTCs. Need to address "the
total problem of incomplete civil works and unpaid bills".
GoK would write to Bank concerning size of reallocation to
PTTCs. ""MoE still needs to resolve questions about the need
for additional teacher training capacity in the aggregate.
Conversion of other purposes of some older PTTCs in well-
provided areas of the country may be appropriate."



Stage of    Monthlyear  Number  D)ays   Specialized stiff skills  Performantce Rating                 Findings; Types of Problems
project cycle               of      in         reproeented
persons   Field
Nov. 1996              17   Economics, Education,      S          U       Delays in the implementation of ongoing equipment contracts.
Science Education,                           Draft bidding documents often returned for more work. Need
Financial management                          to: follow SBD for Goods; group items appropriately; have
achievable technical spec's; avoid Technical Merit Points, or
clarify their use in terms of functionality. Two officers had
attended Advanced Procurement course in September 1996.
Revised procurement timetable to be submitted March I
"Thin" informnation on university finances in the Progress
Report. University indebtedness worsening at some
universities. Need for better data on SLS recovery.
Monitorable Project indicators to be developed.
Project Management: Project Steering Committee to be
chaired by P.S. to be created. Need for two full-time
Coordinators, one in PIU and one in CHE.
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Special        Mar. 1997              12
mission on
PTTC bills



Aug. 1997             21   Economics, Education,       S          U       Universities: Mission welcomes publication of Harmonization
Science Education.                           bills. Information on university finances better "but still
requires improvement". Overdue audits on HELB and its
predecessor. About 22,000 out of 100,000 loanees are
repaying. Experience represents departure from the university
Three-Year Financial Plans. Stock of recurrent debt has gone
up instead of down. True unit costs not adequately financed.
Incomplete "de-linking" of food and accommodation.
Universities' share of recurrent budget down to only 12.6%.
Agreement that differential unit costs for academic programs,
and food and accommodation, will be put into place for
1998/99.
"Less than 10% of planned equipment has been delivered and
accepted." Some contracts have been cancelled, and need to
be re-tendered. Twenty buses did not meet specifications; "re-
tendering will take place shortly". Excessive time taken (6
months or more) by GoK in some instances to submit award
recommendations to Bank. Variation among universities in
their attention to delivered equipment. Agreement to have an
Equipment Committee (ERIAC) at each university.
Emergence of potential Project "financing gap", due to
magnitude of recently opened computerization bids, over-
expenditure on staff development, and the reallocation to
PTTCs. MoE will apply to MoF for GoK funds for science
equipment in 1998/99 budget
PTTCs The issue of interpretation of the main civil works
contracts had been resolved, as reflected in a letter from MoE
to the Bank dated August 27. The forthcoming audit report on
Part C should enable verification of GoK commitment to
paying overdue bills (letter from Ministry of Finance dated
July 25, 1996).



Stage of    Month/year  Number  Dlays   Specialized stsff skills  Performance Rati                    Findigs, Types of Problems
project cycle               of      In         represented
persons,  Field
Apr./May              21    Economics, Education,     U           U       Universities: The Harmonization legislation had not been
1998                      Information systems                           tabled in the Seventh Parliament before it adjourned for
elections. Agreed that "Attorney General will re-publish and
tables the bills" to enable Parliament to enact the legislation by
end- 1998.
Percentage of loanees who are repaying up to 32%, from 10%
earlier. Continuing university financial deficits. MoE had
presented to Treasury six "degree clusters", each with its own
academic unit cost. Mission disappointment that GoK had not
adhered to agreed timetable (August 1997 supervision) for
adoption and dissemination of higher and differentiated unit
costs. Essential to have action for 1998/99 academic and
fiscal year. GoK to informn Bank by June 30, 1998.
Expenditure thus far on university equipment and library
materials only 27% of the amount originally planned. Failure
to re-tender when suppliers have defaulted. Need for re-
evaluations in some cases. Delays in opening LCs. Need for
more effective contract management. CHE computer contract
frustrated by MoF blacklisting. HELB procurement
(computers, vehicles) finally under way.
Dissatisfaction with Project Accounts as reported in Progress
Report. Audit report 4 months overdue.
Disappointment that Project Steering Committee has met only
once.
Next Progress Report will report on university subprojects.
PTTCs: Work at Taita Taveta re-commenced only November
1997. Inadequate provision in GoK budget; this problem
addressed in Supplementary of April 1998. Adequate
provision would be made to enable college to be completed by
December. MoE will submit quarterly reports to the Bank on
the PTTC component, including the plans for utilization of the
Garissa and Taita Taveta PTTCs.



Nov. Dec.      6       16   Science education,         S           U       Universities: Harmonization legislation referred to
1998                      Education, Economics                           Presidential Commission of Inquiry into the Education
System. Need to build capacity in CHE.
HELB financing issue: tap the Revolving Fund to supplement
annual GoK budget allocation?
Universities' share of MoE recurrent budget down to only
11%; continued unsatisfactory financial condition. "The
universities are faced with enormous problems". Part-time
and parallel courses. MoE is seeking for Cabinet approval for
universities to effect unit costs for all students in the
1999/2000 academic year.
Improvement in the quality of teaching "has been achieved in
some areas".
Disbursements had increased from $25.4 million at end-1997
to $41.8 million as of November 1998 - $16 million in only 11
months. Support for a third extension (by 4 months) of the
Closing Date.
PTTCs: Taita Taveta civil works now about 85% complete.
The "major and critical" works will be completed by the
Closing Date. There is currently a freeze on hiring more
teachers, and the Colleges may become more diversified, with
teacher training being only one of their activities.
Completion     Aug. 1999                    Economics, Education,
Science education,
Higher education,
Financial management



Appendix A
Page 1 of S
Kenya
Universities Investment Project, Cr. 2309-KE
Implementation Completion Mission
Aide-Memoire on Parts A and B
August 27, 1999
Introduction
1.  A World Bank team consisting of Messrs. Bruce Jones (senior economist) and David
Court (higher education specialist) from World Bank Headquarters, Messrs. James Kamunge
(education advisor) and Gituro Wainaina (economist) from the Resident Mission, and Prof.
Shem Wandiga (consultant science and higher education specialist) carried out an
Implementation Completion mission on the Universities Investment Project (UIP) during
August 9-27, 1999. Mr. John Ogallo (financial management specialist), Mr. Dahir Warsame
(procurement specialist), and Ms. Margaret Olale (disbursement analyst) participated in the
mission' s work for part of the time. The mission visited each of the beneficiary public
universities, and also attended a workshop organized by the Commission for Higher
Education (CHE) on the implementation experience and way forward. The work of the
mission benefited enormously from the excellent Borrower's Evaluation Report prepared by
the Commission for Higher Education. The mission wishes to express its thanks to the
Ministry of Education for the excellent cooperation.
2.  Information on Part C (Primary Teacher Training Colleges) is still being gathered and
analyzed, and therefore a separate aide-memoire on Part C will be prepared by the Bank staff
and discussed with the Ministry of Education in the near future.
3.   The Bank's ICR team largely concurs with the findings and assessments contained in
the Borrower's Evaluation Report, and we therefore expect that the themes and lessons
derived in the Bank's ICR will be broadly similar.
Implementation Experience
4.  Implementation experience was strongly influenced by the somewhat complicated
implementation arrangements agreed upon at appraisal, with the Policy and Planning Task
Group and later CHE responsible for policy coordination, and the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) responsible for procurement, Withdrawal Applications, and accounts. Although
staff development and Phase I library materials proceeded on schedule, equipment
procurement experienced delays and difficulties. At various points in time and in various
cases, the following factors played an adverse role: approval by the Bank of Phase I tender
documents which were vague in some important aspects, contributing to the need to re-tender
the first 14 equipment tenders; the need for re-evaluations because of weaknesses in
evaluation reports; delays in the GoK system beyond the PIU; delays in opening Letters of
Credit and making initial payments; nonperforryiance or incomplete performance by
suppliers.



Appendix A
Page 2 of 5
5.  Notwithstanding the difficulties encountered, the additional time allowed by the three
extensions ultimately enabled about $48 million to be disbursed for Parts A and B. However,
the composition of actual Part B expenditures (university subprojects) differed somewhat
from the original plan, with more expenditure on staff development and especially computer
systems, and less on science and engineering equipment. Some of the originally planned
science equipment tenders were dropped when the Credit ran out of both time and money.
Progress toward Achievement of Development Objectives
6.   Strengthening the Institutional Framework for Higher Education. During the UIP
period, CHE was reorganized and recruited additional senior staff. Capacity was enhanced
through training and study tours. CHE began to perform new functions of serving as the
channel for Government grants to public universities, and coordinating the financing and
development plans of the public universities. In the mission's view, CHE should have
monitored the work of the PIU on behalf of the universities more closely, and should have
done more to encourage reflection of the findings of the studies in policies and programs.
The legislation drawn up to revise and harmonize the CH4E Act and each of the university
acts was not passed; updating and harmonization of these laws is still needed.
7.   The Higher Education Loans Board (HELB) was created by an Act of Parliament in
1995. The Act grants enhanced legal powers for recovery of student loans. HELB
administers bursaries in addition to means-tested loans. HELB has successfully
computerized loan processing and loan recovery functions, becoming much more efficient
than the former Student Loan Scheme Unit of the Ministry of Education. The percentage of
loanees with mature loans who are repaying has increased from 10% in 1995, to 38% in June
1999.
8.   University Financing. The stated objective was to limit the growth of the Govern-
ment budget devoted to the public universities through cost sharing and improved investment
planning, with a ceiling of 20% on the share of the MoE Recurrent budget devoted to
university education. The objective was stated in a way which did not adequately recognize
the importance of university financial solvency, which became an important issue during
implementation, and remains so today. The MoE budget share actually decreased to 12%
during the UIP period. In 1995, it was announced that means-testing would be employed to
determine eligibility for student loans, and that food and accommodation would be charged at
cost. However, during a decade in which the real value of both Recurrent grants from the
Government and tuition paid by students were eroded by inflation, the policies announced in
1995 have been insufficient to enable the universities generally to balance their budgets, with
the more science-oriented institutions experiencing the greatest financial difficulties.
Recently the universities have calculated



Appendix A
Page 3 of 5
the unit costs of various degree programs, and have begun to place more emphasis on raising
their own revenues, including by enrolling "parallel" students who are not sponsored by the
Government and pay full fees.
9.   Quality of Teaching and Research. Where delivered, the laboratory equipment has
improved the quality of learning by increasing the access of students to hands-on experience,
enabled the development of new research programs and income-generating possibilities, and
boosted morale and institutional commitment. The computers supplied, organized into Local
Areas Networks, have roughly doubled or tripled the number of computers on each campus,
with significant upgrades in capability with up-to-date software. The provision of computers
to academic units previously lacking them, and for computer labs for student instruction and
student use, has had a transforming effect upon academic quality and administrative capacity.
The library books supplied under the Project have substantially expanded the collections;
there are varied reports on increased readership. Staff development activities have been
appropriately balanced among academic, managerial, and technical categories and levels, and
the retention rate has been high. Overall the Project investments have led to significant
improvements in the quality of teaching and research, especially but not limited to science-
based programs.
10. Overall Outcome. In view of the good progress toward the Development Objective of
improving the quality of teaching and research, and the progress made, especially the
institutional innovation represented by HELB, toward the other two Development Objectives,
the ICR team considers that an overall outcome rating of "Satisfactory" is appropriate.
Sustainability
11.  Sustainability needs to be addressed at two levels: policies on university financing to
enable the universities, especially the more science-oriented ones, to address their current
solvency problems; and at the level of departments or sites where equipment or books have
been delivered.
12. All the parties that have been engaged in the dialogue recognize that current unit
revenues for Government-sponsored students are much too low to cover true unit costs for
science, engineering, agriculture, medicine, and other science-based programs. Unit
revenues must be raised to cover unit costs. Tuition paid by Government-sponsored students
should be increased substantially. Government financial support for education at the public
universities needs to be more sharply targetted to assisting needy students through bursaries
and loans. For any remaining component of Government financial support for undergraduate
education which is not means-tested, Government funding should be reallocated relatively
more toward the more expensive science-based programs.



Appendix A
Page 4 of 5
13.  At the "site" level, some university institutions have initiated user fee systems for
computers, instrument usage, and consumables. There is need for wider application of this
principle to generate sufficient funds to pay for full cost of maintenance and replacement.
The universities will need to consider how to finance continued acquisition of library books
to keep the library collections up to date.
14. Among the possible ICR ratings for Sustainability of "Likely", "Uncertain", and
"Unlikely", the mission considers that a rating of "Uncertain" is appropriate for UIP.
Equipment Shortfalls
15.  In view of cancelled tenders and partial performance in some awarded tenders, requests
were made in the Borrower's draft Evaluation Report, and reiterated orally, for a Universities
Investment Project Two. The Bank's team explained that the Bank's lending program for
Kenya is in a "low case" of two new IDA Credits annually, until there have been
demonstrable improvements in economic governance. As determined in consultations
between the Ministry of Finance and the Bank, the next four projects, planned to be approved
in 2000 and 2001, are for primary and secondary education, health, rural roads, and water
supply. Financing of additional university equipment from an IDA Credit is therefore not a
realistic possibility in the near future.
Key Lessons Learned
16. Following are significant lessons derived from the UIP experience:
Placing procurement and accounting responsibility in a multi-Project PIU has disadvantages
of diminished focus and accountability to stakeholders, as compared with placing these
responsibilities in a Unit devoted to a single focus.
Project design should provide for an appropriate balance between decentralization of
responsibilities to universities, and central coordination.
Just as with power projects and water utility projects, lending operations in support of a small
number of universities which are self-accounting organizations should investigate at
appraisal the structure of revenues and expenditures of the beneficiary institutions, and their
unit costs. The Progress Reports should routinely monitor these aspects.
In tender documents, Technical Merit points should be avoided in most cases, with reliance
placed on the specifications for technical responsiveness to ensure that equipment will be
adequate for the purposes intended. In those small number of cases where Technical Merit
points are appropriate, they should be based on measurable improvements in functionality.



Appendix A
Page 5 of 5
Full engagement of Vice-Chancellors is an important factor for project implementation and
policy reform.
Institutional continuity and institutional memory are important factors for successful
implementation.
If a project has an objective of educational quality improvement, there should be indicators to
monitor this.
The universities are now large-scale, complex organizations with an increased market
orientation. This requires correspondingly greater attention than before to managerial
training at all levels.
Borrower's Views
17. The Bank's ICR aide-memoire is expected to summarize the Borrower's views in
addition to the views of the Bank team. As the most convenient means of doing this, the
Executive Summary of the second draft of the Borrower's Evaluation Report is attached.
Audit Reports
18.  The audit report on the 1997/98 Project Accounts was submitted to the Bank on June
14, 1999, more than five months later than the due date. The report included queries on Part
C (PTTCs), but not on university components of the Project. An audit opinion on Statements
of Expenditure for 1997/98 is still awaited.
19. The audit reports for 1998/99 are due December 31, 1999. The mission urges the
Ministry of Education and the Office of the Controller and Auditor-General to take all
necessary steps to submit the 1998/99 audit reports by the due date.
Next Steps
16. The Bank's ICR is expected to be finalized and circulated to the Board within six
months of the Closing Date, which implies end-October for UIP. Accordingly, the following
schedule is agreed:
Bank's aide-memoire on Part C to be given to Ministry of Education for discussion -
September 15;
Bank's draft ICR to be sent to Government for review and comment - October 1;
Final version of Borrower's Evaluation Report to be sent to Bank - October 15.



Appendix B
Page 1 of 5
Executive Summary of the
Borrower's Evaluation Report on the
Universities Investment Project
The Government of Kenya undertook the Universities Investment project (UIP) Cr. 2309-KE
in order to support the education sector adjustment programme as it pertains to the
universities.
The project was expected to take five years. The cost of the goods and services was based on
June 1991 prices (excluding taxes). The total cost was estimated as US$ 61.1 million of
which US$ 6.1 million and US$ 55.0 million were to be contributed by the Government of
Kenya and the World Bank, respectively. The total amount disbursed for Central and
Universities components was US$ 47.968 million while US$ 6.997 million was re-allocated
to complete the outstanding civil works in the Primary Teachers Colleges under the 6th
Education project Cr. 1673-KE.
This support for the education sector focused on key areas of university education, namely
staff development, provision of laboratory equipment, library books, telephone, transport,
computers, photocopying facilities and applied research activities. Other areas included, the
strengthening of the Commission for Higher Education (CHE) and the reforming the Student
Loans Scheme.
The project was evaluated by the Borrower, and the beneficiaries, namely: the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), the Public Universities, Commission for Higher Education
(CHE) and the Higher Education Loans Board (HELB). The evaluation was done during the
month of July, 1999.
The strengthening of CHE was not fully achieved partly due to the failure to amend both the
Universities Act, 1985 and the individual Universities' Acts.
The students Loan Scheme was restructured and reformed through the establishment of
HELB in July 1995. This has increased loan recovery from Kshs.3 to 4 million per month in
1995 to Kshs.30 million per month by June 1999.
Four consultancy studies were commissioned and undertaken by Deloitte and Touche and the
British Council under the supervision of CHE.
During the project period, the Government reduced the recurrent budgetary allocation to
public universities from 19.9% of the Ministry of Education and Human Resource
Development budget in 1991/92 to 11.8% in 1999/2000 financial year. This has had adverse
financial consequences to the public universities.
The public universities limited their undergraduate admission to less than 10,000 per year
during the project period.



Appendix B
Page 2 of 5
The universities staff development was considered to have had reasonable achievement. The project
trained 629 staff out of the 920 nominated from all the public universities, CHE, HELB and PIU,
representing 75% achievement.
The universities acquired various laboratory equipment, ranging from single equipment to
more sophisticated equipment such as Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR). Out of the
number requested, 62% were received. Out of the total allocation of US$ 22.1 million to
procure laboratory and workshop equipment, only US$ 9.3 million was utilised.
Library books and journals were also procured. Many new editions requested for were not
always available, instead earlier editions were supplied. The universities received 61 % of
their requests. Out of a total allocation of US$ 6.3 million, US$ 5.6 million was spent on
library supplies.
The transportation facility was not fully achieved. Out of 116 vehicles, 84 were supplied of
the universities, but 20 buses and 12 wagons did not meet tender specifications and were
rejected.
Computer supply to universities performed better than other equipment because the tender
was awarded per institution.
CHE, however, did not receive computers from both the Local Competitive Bidding (LCB)
and International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
Several problems were encountered during implementation. There were complaints of
procurement of some substandard and outdated equipment.
Procurement of equipment, vehicles and library books was hampered by a number of
constraints leading to non-procurement of some equipment and vehicles for not meeting
tender specifications.
A number of tenders were cancelled due to non-responsiveness of the bidders. However,
there was no mechanism put in place to have the non-performing bidders replaced. A total of
17 tenders were not floated due to financial shortfalls in the credit.
The payment up front of 90% created a major problem in the suppliers tended to neglect
certain quality and installation requirements for the equipment.
The establishment of Equipment, Receipt, Inspection and Acceptance Committee (ERIAC) at
each university improved implementation of the project. However, the Borrower's and the
Bank's bureaucratic process of procurement slowed down the implementation process.



Appendix B
Page 3 of 5
The universities also received funds to support eight applied research projects. Three of
these are already self-sustaining.
The introduction of new conditionalities by the Bank during the project period, such as
differentiated unit cost per programme at public universities, was considered unfair by the
Borrower.
A number of key lessons were drawn from the project, but the critical one was that
procurement capacity and procedures of the govermment need to be thoroughly assessed and
provisions be made in future for the universities to handle procurement through their tender
system.
A number of recommendations made by the Borrower and the beneficiaries include inter alia:
*  That in future less bureaucratic mode of procurement should be put in place for donor
funded projects, and that universities should wherever possible be directly involved in
implementation of projects that benefit them.
*  That the Government should make efforts to assist the public universities to balance
their operating budgets and settle the pending bills as a first step towards
improvements of the universities financial performance.
*  That there should be a Universities Investment Project Two:
-  to procure the equipment not supplied under the current project.
-  to provide funds for setting up a revolving fund for HELB.
-  to provide for a central maintenance unit for the universities.
-  to provide for networking of Management Information System in the university
sub-sector.
-  to provide for implementation of findings of the consultancy studies
In general the achievement of the UIP CR.2309-KE was evaluated to have enhanced the
teaching and research at the public universities. However, the financial difficulties facing the
public universities are yet to be rectified.



Appendix B
Page 4 of 5
Commission for Higher Education
P. 0. Box 54999, Telephone: 228753,224938,335790/1 Nairobi, Kenya
Fax: 222218 Nairobi
Telegrams: COMHIGH, Nairobi
OurRef:CBE/20/36/15.                         15'" December 1999.                V
World Bank
Hill Park                                /       CEtVr.  y
Upper Hill Road                                  4AflXNs       -> "
P.O. Box 30577                                          Da,
NAIROBI, Kenya.
Attention: Mr. James Kamun2e
RE: UNIVERSITIES INVESTMENT PROJECT
CREDIT 2309 - KE
COMMENTS ON DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION
COMPLETION REPORT
The Commission has carefully studied the draft UIP Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) forwarded by your office through the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of
Education, Science & Technology. On the basis of the overall assessment of UIP as
unsatisfactory. the Commission has the following comments and observations:
(i)   that the rating scale should be provided in quantifiable terms;
(ii)  that from 1994 onwards, meaning upto the end of the project, the ratings of UIP
were as follows:
* Implementation Progress (IP) = 62.5% satisfactory
* Development Objectives (DO) = 12.5% satisfactory
*  Overall                    = 37.5%
Statistically, 37.5% is more of a borderline case than unsatisfactory. The outcome
should therefore be evaluated as Deficient rather than unsatisfactory.
(iii) that the project encountered procurement delays and the cancellation of some
tenders for which the Borrower and the Bank share equal blame. In this case, if
the performance of the Borrower and the Bank was Deficient, then logically the
project should also be rated Deficient



Appendix B
Page 5 of 5
(iv)  that the computers, laboratory equipment and the books have improved teaching,
research and students loan recovery. The accrued benefits to the participating
institutions can not therefore be rated unsatisfactory.  Indeed, the benefits
outweighed the, problems encountered by the projects; and
(v)   that it appears that the overall unsatisfactory rating of UIP was based wholly on
DO. The uncontrolled factors that affected DO included depressed economy
during the project period and the stakeholders' unfavorable reactions to the 1997
CHE's and the Universities Bills. These were project risks that were envisaged at
the inception and should not, therefore, be used to negate the project
achievements and performance.
Given the magnitude of the project and the lessons learned, the intended
objectives were achieved and the Commission therefore appeals to the Bank to upgrade
the rating of the overall outcome.
Thanks.
Yours sincerely,
Prof. Ezra . Maritim
For: Commission Secretary



Appendix C
Page 1 of 7
Public University Financing
1.  In the area of university financing, the stated objective of UIP was to limit the growth
of the Government's budgetary resources devoted to the public universities by promoting
cost sharing and improved investment planning. Specifically, the Letter of Sector Policy said
that a ceiling of 20% would be set on the universities' share of the Ministry of Education
recurrent budget. The Staff Appraisal Report said that public expenditure on the universities
"should now stabilize at around 20 percent of the overall recurrent budget for education".
2.   Before the education sector adjustment program supported by EdSAC and UIP, there
were no direct charges to students at Kenya's public universities. The only cost recovery for
academic costs was a KSh 6000 tuition component of the Student Loan disbursement (which
also supported student's food and accommodation expenses). At that time, the Student Loan
Scheme, administered by the Ministry of Education, had such a low interest rate (only 2%)
and poor collection performance that it was grant-like in practice.
Developments During UIP: University Finances
3.   Developments through 1994/95. In 1991, as part of the adjustment program, the
Government introduced a "direct charge" of KSh 6000, so that the student's total tuition
expense became KSh 12,000. At the same time, it introduced a bursary scheme to aid needy
students in meeting the direct charge. Throughout the UIP period, admissions to the public
universities remained below the limits (10,300 in 1992, rising to 11,600 in 1996) agreed
between the Government and Bank. The share of the MoE recurrent budget devoted to
university education, which had been 21.6% in 1990/91, fell to 17.4% in 1992/93 and 15.3%
in 1993/94.
4.   The early 1 990s were a period of substantial inflation in the Kenyan economy, with
prices increasing 90% on average during the four years from 1990/91 to 1994/95, reflecting
various problems in economic management. This inflation had the consequence of reducing
the real values of Government grants to the universities and of the student's tuition payments
(Table C 1). The universities, in addition to owing Development debt to contractors arising
from building projects (many of them stalled), began to incur substantial Recurrent deficits.
In addition to tuition remaining fixed in nominal terms, food prices charged to students
remained fixed at below-market levels, so that catering services incurred deficits.
5.   The Bank and Government discussed this situation in the context of the both EdSAC
and UIP.  Eventually, the Bank found the Three Year Financing Plans for 1994/95 through
1996/97 satisfactory, in relation to the EdSAC third tranche condition relating to this matter.
These plans provided for increased cost-sharing by beneficiaries, promotion of income-
generating units, rationalization of academic programs, and retrenchment of excess staff.
These measures were expected to result in clearance of the Recurrent arrears by June 1997.



Appendix C
Page 2 of 7
Table Cl: Nominal and Real Values of Government Recuirrent Expenditure on University Education, and Tuition Due from Students
1990/91    1991/92    1992/93    1993/94    1994/95    1995/96    1996/97    1997/98    1998/99    1999/00
Actual     Actual     Actual     Actual     Actual      Actual     Actual      Prov. Approved       Budget
(in millions of Kenya pounds, in nominal terms)
Sub-vote 318                           123.5       97.9       125.0      142.0      199.9      235.5      223.7       257.5      254.7      265.8
Comm. For Higther Education                                               1.2        1.3        3.1        3.3                    4.0        4.2
Student Loan Scheme (HELB)                                               37.2       53.1       49.0       49.3                   37.1       37.5
Grants to universities                                                  103.6      145.5      183.4       171.1                 213.6      224.1
Ministry of Education - Total          571.0      608.3       719.4      927.4     1224.6     1391.6      1478.2     2121.7     2200.3     2216.5
Sub-vote3l8/MoETotal (%)              21.6%       16.1%      17.4%      15.3%       16.3%      16.9%      15.1%      12.1%       11.6%      12.0%
(in real terms)
Sub-vote 318 in realterms              123.5       84.8        89.0       84.6      105.1      112.8       95.1        96.6       87.8        n.a.
(in Kenya shillings, in nominal terms)
Tuition charge                         6,000      12,000     12,000     12,000     12,000     12,000      16,000     16,000     16,000      16,000
(in real terms)
Tuition charge in real terms           6,000     10,390       8,541      7,147      6,309      5,747      6,803       5,999      5,515        n.a.
Memorandum item:                         100       115.5      140.5      167.9      190.2      208.8      235.2       266.7      290.1        n.a.
GDP Deflator (1990/91=100)
Note: Expenditure on university education was unusually low in 1991/92 because some of the universities were closed after student demonstrations,



Appendix C
Page 3 of 7
6.  Reforms and Temporary Recovery, 1995/96. There was a delay in announcing
enhanced cost recovery measures, and the plans were therefore revised and rolled over into
Plans for 1995/96 through 19997/98, with the Recurrent debt to be retired by June 1998. The
Minister of Education issued a Press Release in July 1995 concerning university financing,
making the following points:
The Government had determined that the unit cost of educating a student at the public
universities was KSh 120,000 per year, of which KSh 86,000 was the unit cost of
instruction, with the remainder being for food, accommodation, and books.
The tuition charge to students was being'increased from KSh 12,000 to KSh 16,000 (of
which KSh 8,000 was "direct"), with effect for the 1996/97 academic year.
The remainder of the instructional unit cost would be met by Government grant of KSh
70,000 per student.
Food and accommodation would be charged at cost.
The maximum annual student loan disbursement was being increased to KSh 42,000.
However, instead of loans being granted automatically to all students, means-testing
would be employed to determine eligibility.
7.  These policies were expected to enable the universities to balance their operating
budgets. In addition, the Three Year Plans for 1995/96-1997/98 provided that the Ministry of
Finance would give the universities additional allocations to enable their existing Recurrent
arrears to be progressively cleared by June 1998, and this was actually done for 1995/96. In
this year, the share of the MoE budget devoted to university education rose back up to
16.9%, and the real value of Government expenditure on university education was greater
than in any other year following 1990/91.
8.  Renewed Financial Deterioration from 1996/97. However, after 1995/96, the real
value of university revenues began to decline once again, and their financial condition
generally deteriorated once again. This reflected the following factors:
The share of the MoE budget devoted to university education declined to 12.1 % in
1997/98 and only 11.6% in 1998/99, yielding a substantial decline in real terms.
The real value of student tuition had been eroded by inflation to only half the level of
1991/92.
The instructional unit cost of KSh 86,000 announced in 1995 had been based on the
most recent audited accounts of public universities at that time, which were for
1991/92. Because of the high inflation of the early 1990s, this unit cost was already
too low when announced. A particular problem was that the uniform unit cost did not
provide for the substantially higher costs of teaching science-based programs.



Appendix C
Page 4 of 7
University catering services charged food prices which covered the raw material food
costs, but not the costs of labor, electricity, and water involved in food preparation;
thus, implementation of the policy announced in 1995 was incomplete.
Although excess non-teaching staff had been identified, the funds necessary to pay
them severance benefits as part of retrenchment were not available.
In some cases, lack of seed capital was constraining ideas for income-generating
activities from become launched.
9.   As a result of these factors, in the late 1990s a majority of the public universities,
especially those with relatively greater enrollment in science-based programs, were
experiencing financial difficulties. For example, the Report of the Auditor-General
(Corporations) on Egerton University for 1996/97 reported that the university had incurred a
deficit of KSh 27 million, that its current liabilities had increased from KSh 186 million at
June 1996 to KSh 319 million at June 1997, and that it had been unable to remit various
payroll deductions (Income Tax Department, NSSF, NHIF, etc.). The audit report on the
Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (JKUAT) found the university to
be "technically insolvent" due to Net Current Assets of negative KSh 51 million. As of
August 1998, the Recurrent and Development indebtedness of the six institutions stood at
Kenya Pounds 72 million and Kenya Pounds 42 million, respectively.
10.  Higher and Differentiated Unit Costs. In 1997/98, the universities under the
coordination of CHE carried out an exercise to identify the unit costs of instruction for
various degree programs. The numerous degree programs have been grouped into a small
number of "clusters". The currently proposed unit costs as a basis for university financing
are illustrated in Table C2. As can be seen, the unit revenue to the university is roughly
adequate for an Arts degree (humanities or social science or education), but substantially
inadequate for science-based degrees.
11.  In 1998, the Ministry of Education conveyed to the Ministry of Finance the unit costs
for various degree programs, as a basis for financing of public universities. The Ministry of
Finance replied that it would not be possible to increase the resources from the Government
budget devoted to university education, but that within this envelope it had no objection to
reallocation of funds according to unit costs (which implies more budgetary funding for
science-based programs and less for non-science programs). However, thus far, including in
the 1999/2000 budget, GoK budget allocations to the universities have remained level per
student, regardless of degree program.
7 Interministerial Committee on Unit Costs for Public Universities, "A Report on Unit Costs for Public
Universities", December 29, 1998.



Appendix C
Page 5 of 7
Table C2: Coverage of Academic Unit Costs by Unit Revenues, in Degree Clusters
(in shillings)
C1                  C3          C4
Social       C2   Natural Engineering        C5
Sciences Humanities  Sciences Applied Sci.  Medicine
Unit Cost                      127,000    135,000   183,000    188,000   256,000
Unit Revenue                   126,000    126,000   126,000    126,000   126,000
Government grant             110,000    110,000   110,000     110,000   110,000
Tuition paid by Government-   16,000     16,000    16,000      16,000    16,000
sponsored student
Percentage of Cost Covered      99.2%      93.3%     68.9%      67.0%     49.2%
Percentage of Cost Recovered    12.6%      11.9%      8.7%       8.5%      6.3%
from Government-sponsored
Student
12. Introduction of parallel programs. In order to raise more tuition funds, some of the
universities have recently initiated so-called "parallel" programs for students who are not
admitted through the Joint Admissions Board and are not supported financially by the
Government. These "parallel" programs include, for example, medicine and law at the
University of Nairobi, law at Moi University, and programs to upgrade the credentials of
teachers. In some cases, parallel programs are offered in the evenings, on weekends, or
during school vacations; in other cases, "parallel" students are taught alongside regular
"JAB" students. At Moi University, parallel students are charged the KSh 86,000 unit cost
announced by the Minister of Education in 1995; at Nairobi, parallel students are charged full
unit cost as estimated by the universities and CHE in 1997/98, including about KSh 450,000
for medicine. Because HELB recently has found it difficult to meet the financial needs of
eligible "JAB" students, parallel students do not receive financial assistance from HELB.
The funds raised by parallel programs go partly to additional remuneration the teaching staff,
and partly to the university.
Developments During UIP: Student Loan Scheme
13. The EdSAC ICR found that, during the EdSAC period (through 1995), improvement in
student loan collections by the Ministry of Education had been negligible.
14. The Higher Education Loans Board (HELB) was organized following the passage of
the Higher Education Loans Board Act in 1995. The Act grants enhanced legal powers for
loan recovery, and also gives the Board the power to determine interest rates on student
loans. It enables the Board to make loans to students in private as well as public tertiary
institutions. The administration of bursaries in addition to loans was given over to the Board.



Appendix C
Page 6 of 7
15.  In 1995, the interest rate on student loans was raised from 2% to 4%. Since student
loans carry such a low interest rate, the demand far exceeds the supply, and HELB has had
the responsibility of administering means-testing in this environment. In the Kenyan context
where income other than wage and salary income is often important, this is a challenging
task. In some cases, HELB follows up with secondary school headmasters or makes
household visits to check on the validity of applications, and complaints about fraud in
applications and inequity in loan awards have diminislhed.
16. The value of collections has increased from about KSh 25-30 million annually during
the EdSAC period, to KSh 281 million in 1998/99 - an increase by a factor of ten. This
reflects HELB's efforts to locate and bill loanees, which have been quite successful for those
loanees working in formal sector organizations, especially the public sector. Out of about
65,000 loanees who should be repaying, about 25,000 (38%) are currently repaying (as
compared with 10% of loanees repaying in 1995). HELB has announced that defaulters who
do not commence repaying by July 1, 1999, will have the interest rate on their loans escalated
to the current market rate, and expects that this policy will encouraging more loanees to
repay without special efforts to search them out. It has also been holding discussions with a
private credit bureau about sharing of credit information, so that other financial institutions
including credit-card issuers would be aware of an applicant's HELB situation (repayer or
defaulter). HELB is hoping to increase the percentage of repayers to 70% by the end of
1999.
17. Repayments to HELB (including the former Higher Education Loans Fund which
HELB inherited from the Ministry of Education) are not returned to the Treasury, but instead
are retained by HELB as a sort of endowment which is invested in liquid assets. HELB
refers to its accumulated capital as its "Revolving Fund", now amounting to about KSh 600
million.
18. As indicated in Table C 1, the annual Parliamentary appropriation to HELB for loans to
students has been decreasing recently. HELB intends to begin tapping its Revolving Fund
for loan disbursements to students, in view of the reduced grant to HELB from the Treasury.
19. In looking at HELB, it may be useful to think of the ways it has been functioning or
potentially could function in terms of three "models":
In the Agency model, the student loan body acts as an agent of the Government. On
behalf of the Government, it makes loans to students, with any repayments accruing
back to Government as nontax revenue.
In the Endowment model, the student loan body has a fund which is something like the
endowment of a private university or a charitable foundation. The capital is invested in
high-yielding liquid assets; the current income from capital can be invested in risky and
relatively low-yielding student loans, but the capital itself is not placed at risk and
therefore is preserved.



Appendix C
Page 7 of 7
In the Financial Intermediary model, the student loan body obtains funds from financial
markets, which it onlends to students.
17. In actual practice, HELB has been following a mixture of the Agency and Endowment
models. It is not pure Agency because HELB retains the repayments (instead of passing
them to Treasury as nontax revenues) to build up its Endowment. HELB has not tapped
financial markets thus far.
University Financing Including Student Loans: the Way Forward
18. University finances. The public universities need to be placed on a stronger financial
foundation in order to provide the quality of teaching and research that Kenya needs,
especially in view of the shift in student enrollment relatively more toward science-based
programs. Presently, the universities derive about 80% of their revenue from the
Government grant, with the remaining 20% coming from tuition paid by students and
income-generating activities. The revenues of the universities must be increased
substantially. It is known that the public universities will not, in the aggregate, be receiving
much more funding from the Central Government budget.
19. As indicated in Table 2, recovery of instructional costs from Government-sponsored
students at the public universities ranges from 6% to 13%. This percentage of cost recovery
is too low, in the context of fees paid by "parallel" students at the public universities,
students attending private universities in Kenya, and Kenyan students studying at universities
in other countries. Tuition paid by Government-sponsored students should be increased
substantially. Government financial support for education at the public universities needs to
be more sharply targetted to assisting needy students through bursaries and loans. For any
remaining component of Government financial support for undergraduate education which is
not means-tested, Government funding should be reallocated relatively more toward the more
expensive science-based programs.
20.  Student loans. Pursuant to higher fees for Government-sponsored students at the
public universities, and the desirability of making HELB loans available to parallel students,
there is a need to expand the volume of student loans and bursaries. In view of limits on the
annual Parliamentary appropriation to HELB, HELB will need to either enlist commercial
banks in student loans in some way (for example, financing the final year of a student's
degree program), or else tap financial markets itself and begin to function as a Financial
Intermediary. In the latter case HELB would be, for the first time ever, onlending high-cost
funds. HELB could follow this option sustainably only if its average weighted cost of funds
(including cost-free funds provided by GoK) were less than the sum of its average return
derived from low-yielding student loans (taking into account not only the interest rate but
also the repayment performance) and higher-yielding financial market investments, and
HELB's administrative expenses. In order to consider such issues, HELB should prepare a
number of alternative scenarios for its sources and applications of funds.



Appendix D
Page 1 of 2
Accounting and Audit Experience
Submission of audited project financial statements lagged behind the submission due
dates throughout the life of the project, as reflected in the table below. In addition, most
project audit reports have been qualified, an indication of deficiencies in the ability of the
implementing ministry to maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the project. Response to audit queries by the
implementing ministry has also been less than satisfactory, as in most cases follow up actions
have been prompted by the Bank.
Table: UIP Audit Reports Submitted to IDA
Fiscal   Due date  Date        Currency of  Auditor   Type of    Remarks
Year               Submitted    Accounts             Report
1991/92  12/31/92              SDR         Githongo  PA
1992/93  12/31/93   March 1995  US$        C & AG   SA          Unqualified
1992/93  12/31/93   April 1994   SDR       Githongo  PA         Qualified
1993/94  12/31/94   July 1995    US$       C & AG   SA          Unqualified
1993/94  12/31/94   June 1995    SDR       Githongo  PA/SOE    Qualified
1994/95  12/31/95   March 1996  US$        Githongo  PA/SOE    Qualified
1994/95  12/31/95   05/07/96   US$         C & AG   SA          Unqualified
1995/96  12/31/96   03/18/97   US$          C & AG   SA         Qualified
1995/96  12/31/96   03/18/97   KC & AG   PA                     Qualified
1995/96  12/31/96   04/11/97   KC & AG   SOE                    Qualified
1996/97  12/31/97   04/28/98   US$         C & AG   SA          Unqualified
1996/97  12/31/97   05/1198    KC & AG   PA                     Qualified
1997/98  12/31/98   06/17/99   K           C & AG   PA          Qualified
1997/98  12/31/98   06/14/99   US$         C & AG   SA          Qualified
1997/98  12/31/98   Pending    K          C & AG   SOE
Project Account and Special Account audit reports for fiscal year ended June 30, 1998
contain unresolved audit queries. The ministry's attempt to address the issues during and
after the audit has been less than satisfactory, and the mission recommends that the
outstanding audit issues be resolved, to the satisfaction of the Bank, not later than September
30, 1999. SOE audit report for fiscal year ended June 30, 1998 is still pending, and the
mission recommends that this report be finalized and submitted to the Bank not later than
September 30, 1999.
Audit reports for fiscal year ended June 30, 1999 are due on December 31, 1999, and
the mission urges the implementing ministry to aim at submitting the audited financial
statements by the due date. The last audited project financial statements under this project,
for fiscal year ending June 30, 2000, will cover disbursements made during the grace period
to August 31,1999. These reports should be submitted to the Bank not later than December
31, 2000.



Appendix D
Page 2 of 2
It is noted that universities, as beneficiary institutions and participating implementing
agencies have not been routinely submitting their audited financial statements as
communicated to CHE in April 1995. Financial viability of the universities was vital to the
success of the project; and one of the objectives of the project was to improve the
institutional capability of the institutions, particularly in financial management.
The borrower did not submit separate project audit reports for the PTTCs component as
agreed during the Mid Term Review mission The purpose of requiring separate audited
financial statements was to enable the Bank to confirm that GoK expenditures for the seven
PTTCs have been consistent with commitments made to the Bank regarding payment of
Education VI pending bills. A schedule presented to the Bank in respect of direct payments
made pursuant to the government's undertaking shows that a total of KES 296,613,165.45
was paid by the GoK between 1996 and June 1999. In the absence of separate audited project
financial statements for Part "C" it is not possible to confirm whether the government
fulfilled its commitment.



Appendix E
Page 1 of 7
TABLE PT2
QNWERSmES INVESTMENT PROJECT .PROCU MEENr OF EQUPMENr. UBRARY BOOKS & SUPPUJES. VEHICLES ANO COMPU TERS:
1. PERFORMED CONTRACTS
1                   - 2                    3                 4                 5                 S
1                              ~~~~~~~AMOUNT
TENDER                SUPPLIER              B8D                US$               K.SHS.         DISaURSED
________________   ___________CURRENCY      EQUIVALENT        EQUIVALENT           IN US$
UBRARY SOOKS    |1. SMI Overseas           StgE 1,0t2,143.31   1,687,87.12       58,833,866.32     1,687,887.12
20                                 1        
OSCILLOSCOPES    | . Joh Achelis & Sohne  DM 630,11S.20            345,505.25       17.730.937.64       345,505.25
21                                                                     I   
(A). J.Y 148.248,400                      64,;21,731.40
VEHICLES        I1. Lonhro motors     (B). J.Y 41'.203.100+    2,841,382.61                        1.332,116.02
Ura 1,400,000,000                         56.367,098.29
1. 8aker and Taylor    lus S 1,440,974.51  T  1,440,974.51      61,172,606.60       886,549.65
-22           2. B.H. Slackwed      Stg.E 208,831.46          347;416.98      14,2C6,511.86       212,923:94
BOCKS          I_________   ________                       _____
Stg.0 37,544.37   ..         ,
3. Fabrications & Sales   US S 127,847.27       192,079.79       8.069,204.40       125,892.'31
IKShs.93.750-00                                _
4. Research Periodicals  uss 668,677.34         668,677.84      28.355,283.B0       526,900.45
S. SMI Overseas Ltd    IStgE 59,538.00           95,503.11       4,050,286.80        22.164.15
23                                    L_ I_|                                  -   
MICROSCOPES        1. Jencons Sdlentific    (a) Stg 830,791.97     134.765.64T      5.500,714.58       134,765.64
2. Joh Achelis & Sohne   OM 31,164.04            20,679.90        876,931.15         20,79.90
3. Leica Microscopie   IUSS 356,750.94    j     356.750.94      15,128.023.47 |     356.750.94
4. Agita GMBH         SigE 73,547.00            122,580.57 |     5,003.299.04        122,680.57
1. Bibby Steriin     SIg9 103.843.09            173.216.16|      7.355.046.35        1 173,216.16
24~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                  i                                   -0TI
2411
GLASSWARE         2. 3alton OP LUd.     Stg.E 28.155.15            34,210.18       1.444,853.75         34,210.18
3. F& SAssociates     Stg. 37,761.75            60,317.25 !     2725,935.64          60.317.25
1 . Balton CP Ltd.   Stg. 54,376.55             90,703.17       3.851,376.80         90,703.17
25
CENTRIFUGES        2. Joh Achelis & Sonne   DM 95,635.00            52.438.90       2,860.448.25         52,438.90
ANO SHAKERS       I__                 I__                           __        I       __   _      _I
3. Lile Sciences      Slg.5 14.34700    {        23.931.61       1,016,187.90         23,931.61
cienL  s1.z 177 0



Appendix E
Page 2 of 7
1                     2                    3                 4                 5                 6
TENDER                SUPPUER                BID               US S             K.SHS.           AMOUNT
CURRENCY         EQUIVALENT        EQUIVALENT         DISBURSED
IN USS
OM.83,334.00
26           1. Fuji (K) Ud.      J.Y. 458.800.00             94,609.61       2.649,524.35        94,609.61
PFfOTOGRAPHIC                            US 5 89S.00
EQUIPMENT
1. Laborama          SFR.16.938.00              12.783.90         577,746.70        12,7a3.90
27                                                             _
BALANCES         2. Baltan CP Ltd.    Stc.E 74.081.30            123.571.81       5.247.022.80       123.571.8a
CHROMATOGRAPHS   1. S.M.M. Instruments   US108,989.00                108,989.00       4,925.572.50       108,989.00
AND                                                                    _ _
EL1CTROPHORESIS
2. F:sons Sdentific Ltd.  Stg.' 11,044.74        17,930.17        81'0;323.55        17,930.17
3. Joh Achelis & Sohne   GM 168.321 .78          92,294.33       4,853,221.90        92,294.33
29                                [                          1                 ,
OCMESTIC         1. P & S Assoc5atas   Stg. 99,326.00           165,681.40       6,435,051.70       t65.681.41J
EQUIPMENT                           ._I
2. Adees & Co.       USS 9.104.32       f         ,104.32         411,454.27,         9,104.32
30           _
SPECTROPHOTOMETERS 1. Fisons Saentific       Stg.  54,607.00            91,087.57       3,792.931.00        91,G87.57
CALORIMETERS                             _
2. S.M.M. Instruments   US S 86.034.00           86.034.00       3.825,407.00        86.034.00
3. Balton CP Ltd.    Stg.  106,249.20          177,229.69       7,379,931.00       177,229.89
31           1. Tradezone Ltd.     US  276,099.75           276.100.00      12.276.471.88       276.100.00
ATOMIC ASSORPTCON  |                                                   7                 2
iSPECTROPYOTOMETER                                                           . I                                     1
AND FLAME         2. Balton CP Ltd.    Sig.  158,179.75         126a53.21 |      10,986,959.00       263,853.21
PHOTOMETERS    |                                            _                  _______
42           1. Skoda Export Co.    uS s 997,351.00          997,351.00      65,669,978.18        997,351.00
WORKSHOP HEATING            (Lot 2 &3)
I  EQllIPMENT                                                                                     j
LOT 2 & 3
j43                                                                   _                         ''
NUCLEAR MAGNETiC   Sherwood Export Hold.  US5522.600                 522,500.00       34.410,283.44       522,00.00
RESONANCE (NMR)  !_j________  
44
CARBON HYDROGEN   1. ExeterAnalcal Inc. US S199.560.00               199,560.00       11,652.188.66       199,560.00
NITROGEN (CHN)
ELEMENTAL ANALYSERS
45          fXerox (K) Ltd. (Lot 1)    us$ 1,061,118.00     1.061,118.00    69,668.678.04|     1,061,118.00
PRINTING L REPROGRA. 
PHIC EQUIPMENT                                             I U $                                 I
2



Appendix E
Page 3 of 7
.   t    .-    .    Z                   3                4                  5                 6 _
TENDER               SUPPUE                 BID               US S             K.SHS.            M
CURRENCY         EQUIVALENT        eQIUIVALENT        cisD URSED
______________________________ -_______________            IN USS
48           1.Phywe Systeme      CM. 4,852.617.74        2.a55.527.54     188.020.497.48     z2,855,27.54
PH4YSiCS (ELECTRICITY, GMI6HILot t)
MAGNETISM, ATOMIC &..._
NUCLEAR)        7.Geest Overseas L:d   Slg 582.82             992.176.99      65,329.298.13        99Z17.99
EQUIPMENT         (Lot 41     -                                          _______
PHYSICS EQUIPMENT  1. saiton C? Ud.        Stg_ 137,991.70          Z30.11798        12.286.091.08       230.117 98
(THERMODYNAMICS                                                 _        __  _._                :
ANO SOUNCS)                                
2. PIywe Systems GM8H OM.25.894.75              17,476.S6       1,0z0,445.60         17,476.56
3 SEPU                usS 31,958.00             8.57-8.00      1,084,769.421        18,578.00
52          1. Salton CPLtd.(Lot4)  STG   406.315.73        591,69s.6       45.543.930.18       691,690.2
LABORATORY HEATING
1. Balon C?. -t,      Stg a 16807.t1   I        280,365.49      11,574,471.60       28038.6.49
APPUED PHlYSICS                                      
5aUIFMNr      |S rsgd.3.ntemadnal   Sst  28.846.25             48.117.18       2,003.623.03 T       tS.17.1S
56
| ANALSi_R |1 Hon_ba France _          FRF.145.992.     I        23.aas.13 |      1,225.719.64 |      23,886-13 j
I   e5  CTR OOSS &   __  _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _ ._          _  __  _ _    ___|    _ __     I                 I
|   .H. MeTERS      {_.                                        
2. Iaiton C? ULz.     S1g.5 86.809.79          144,803.65       5.029.695.,s5       144,803.65
65          1. ilaltan C Ud.(Lt 1)  SSTG -0 51,227 40     1,023,489.00     67,391.018.82       1.023.489.00
BI9LOG;CAL SC:E.NCE;
EQUIPMENT
71          1. a        kazineC4. nc.  IUS S 3,830.035.85  3.sss.947.23    216.578,993.86 |    2059909.28
LIBRARY BOOKS                            Kst.s. 3.075.363.00                 _
2. 9 & S Consaurn.    Slq. _ 391.881.55        631,183.12       35,178.296.70 |      442952.49 i
3



Appendix E
Page 4 of 7
1                     2                   3                4                5                 6
TENOER               SUPPULER              BID               US $            KSHS.            AMOUNT
CURRENCY        EQUIVALENT        EQUIVALENT        OIN3URSES
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _iN   U S $
72
VSIHICLES TO HELS      Mitsubish Corporation  J.Yen 6,487,101.00      55,794.59       2.982.z40.00        55.794:59
73
COMPUTERS TO HELS    Kenya MicroComputers        usS 399,704.00      399,704.00      26,318270.06        399,704.00
LCS 2         1. Maaiifa Computer    US S 191,322.00 +      223,117.59      12,344,114.44       223,117.59
COMPUTERS TO         Ltd.               Ksahs. 1,759.110.00
JKUAT
LC8 3         1; NCR (K) Ltd.      US 5 97623.00             97,623.00       5,395,675.18        97,62.00
COMPUTERS TO
KENYATTA UNIVERSITY
LC8 5         1. NCR (K) Ltd.      US S 170,190.50          170,190.50       9,415,891.53       170.190.50
COMPUTERS TO
MOI UNIVERSITY
IC8l4/96-97
COMPUTERS TO EGERTO Kenya MicroComputers  [   USS1,728,991.20       1,728,991.20 |    3,474,969.94     1.728,991.20
ics/5196-97i-
COMPUTERS TOJKUAT   Ashford Intematonal INC       USS 1,135.876     t,13576.0U       61,409,204.95     1,.135876.00
(LOT     1')   I__    _  _  _    I__    _  _ _                        _  _ _  _  _
Maonfa Computers (Lot 2     USS 189,421       192,84Z.68      10,425,711.34       192,842.68
2 Ksh. 184.987 00
IC916/98-97               C                     .
COMPUTERS TO KENYAT1 Digital/Copy Cat Ltd      USS 1,636208,00      1,636.208.00     88.458,803.97     1,636,208.00
IC&87196-97 ~-   l-~
OMPUTERS TO MASENO|Kenya MicroComputers |  U   2.591,916.90|      2.591,916.90     140.127,580.94     2.591,916.90
ICB18196-97   --
COMPUTERS TO MOI    Ashford International INC    USS 1.884,436.00   1,S84,436.00    101,878,828.79     1,884;436.00
iC8&9/96.97
COMPUTERS TO UON    The Copy Cat Ltd (Lot 2) T  USS 1,368,91Z00     1,368.912.00     7 .007,90o.12     1,366.912.00
The Copy Cat Ud (Lot 3)   USS 5-9,669.00      549.669.00      29,716,920.04       549,6690
!TOTAL            |  3S.867,672.13 11,913.766,646.30 1  31,373,921.73
4



Appendix E
Page 5 of 7
2. CONTRACTS DECLINED-, CANCELLED AND WITHDRAWN
TENDER                   SUPPLIER                   BIDKS-H-S.US$                                                 REMARKS
Oscilloscopes   . A.NS Export            StgP 175.946.40             11,969,387.27          293,488.S7. Contract withdrawn
2. John Laing [nter     -Kt7gP 8,776.94                  597,082.93          1`4,080.48  Contract cancelled
Microscopes    . A.N.S Export Ltd.       (a) US$ 664,625.l10         2 -T8.181,562.22       6~64,625.10. Conmtracwithdrawn
(b)USS  3,738.8              3.550,943.76           83,738.80  Contract withdrawn
24                                                                 _ _  _ _ _  _ _   _ _  _ _  _ _  _     _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _ _
Glassware          I. A.NS. Export -Ltd.     USS 31,328.95                1,415,858.64           31,328.975 -Contract with~drawn
Ccntrifuges &       I. Mangt Agencies          KShs.6,865,696.00            6.865.696.00          151,918.45, Contract cancelled
Shakers                                                          I   _ _ _ __ _ _
2. Alfavet        F___ 30,273,27   ___            254,147.10             5,623.55  Contract cancelled
photographic        1.TaeZn  td.              2sP.2.246.25                 1.516,880.20           37,07.59  Contract withdrawn
Balances       ,j . TFrade Zone Ltd.,       DM. 157,009.38       f ~4,527,051.26                100,I70.85  Contract withdrawn
2. l4ospital Engineering  DM. 1,065.00         I          30,4333.23              673.4  Contact cancelled
Chromatographs &       I. T.MB. international   .~StgP 555,962.10            39f762  5927,376.31  Contract withdrawn
Electrophoresis   -
Domestic          1. T.M.. I__mtioa_ tgP 45,38 _2                      IT0,286,l105 2T          242,265.42  Contract withdrawn
Equipment______                                           ____
2. Kenya Kochlightt Ltd.  US$ 67,78 1.00               3,063.247.-35-i        67,781.01  Contract witltdrawn
r301                                            _  _  _ _  _ _  _ _       _ _  _ _  _ _                         _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _
Spectrophoromcter     I. T-rade Zone Ltd.        USS 1.293,66 1.73           57,521,264.00         1,293.66 1.75  Contract withdrawn
Atomic Absorption      1. Multi-line Ltd.        StgP 41,493.20               2,882.063.73           64,818.06  Contract cancelled
Spectrophotometers
& Flame Photometer___                                                                 __                  ___
Phsics Equipment     1. Muti-line Ind. Ltd.   Sg   1151                     ,7,7.5                47.53733   Contract wifthdrawn
(Thermnodvma.oct                                                     I ________             ________
Sc Sound)         4.Joh Achelis & Sohne      USS 17,995.20                1,050,728.94           17.995,1 0  __tract_withdrawn _
Applied Physics      1. T7MB. Intemnational     LYSS-6 601,80.25            23.762.410.25          601.809.25   Contract withdrawn
Analysers. elctErodes   I. .M.B. Intemnational    StgP 6,106.77                 424,168.31             9,539.61  Contract withdrawn
& P.R. Meters        ___ _____
_________________ 2. Apricot Apple            USS4,105.70                    182,555.60            4,105.70   Contract=canelled
3. S.E.P.U.               StgP 54,058.00               3,754,798.39        8--4-,446.00  -Co-ntract withdrawn
LCBD                                                                                 I
computers to Egerton  , I. computer Appl. Ltd.    US$ 99,108.00                5,477.639.             99,108.00   Contract cancelled
LCB 4__
Computers to Maseno  T  . Computer AppI. Ltd.     USS$ 230,296.004 +344843                           242,290.45  Contr act cancelled
____ ____ ____ ____   T__ ____ ____ ____ ___ KShs.  663600.00   r_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
LCB     6        _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _   _  _  _   _  _   _            _   _  _      _   _  _  _
computera to CHE       I. Computer AppI. Ltd.    US55 185,75~9.00 +          f 0.967.916.13         196,435.58  Contract cancelled
I                    ~~~~~~KShs. 590,688.00  _________
TOTAL          28800.4               5,281.925,3)   ___________



Appendix E
Page 6 of 7
TABLE PT4
3. REPORT ON TENDERS LEFT OUT
A. TENDERS ADVERTISEDEVALUATEDADJUDICATED,
SENT TO THE BANK FOR 'NO- OBJECTION' TO AWARD BUT
NOT APPROVED
Value in USS
1. Tender No. EDU/MDA2JIP/42197-98
Workshop Heating Equipment Lot 1                                    3,046,921.00
2. Tender No. EDUCflAAffP52I97-98
Laboramtoy Heating Equipment Lot 2,3 & 5                         867,525.59
3. Tender No. EDUC=AIPU/65/97-98
Biological Science Equipment Lot 2 & 4-                          1,937,906.00
B.  TENDEZSX DVERTISED, BCT CANCELLED DUE TO LACK
OF FUNDS INmTHE CREDIT
1. Tender No. EDUC/DAJTIPI49/95-96
Physics Equipment (Optics & Sound)                               600,000.00
2. Tender No. EDUCIDA/U2l55/95-96
Forestry Equipinent                                              640,000.00
3. Tender No. EDUC/(A/UM/51/94-95
Mechanical Engineering Equipment                                 700,000.00
4. Tender No. EDUCIIAAJ1P/S4/94-95
Physics Equipment (X_Ray Diffintometers, X-Ray Flouresence Angle
and X_Ray Scaltering)                                            300,000.00
5. Tender No. EDUC /IDAJU/66194.95
Biological Equipment                                             600,000.00
6. Tender No. EDUC/DA/JUIP/41194-95
Workshop Equipment(Machine Tools, Ceramics & Textiles)          600,000.00
C. TENDERS PROCESSED AND SENT TO THE BANK FOR
"NO-OBJECTION" TO ADVERTISE BUT NOT APPROVED
1. Tender No. EDUC/IDA/JUIPI46/94-95
Audio Visual Equipment                                           650.000.00



Appendix E
Page 7 of 7
2.Tender No. EDUCIDAIUI/ 67/94-95
Elecuic and Electronic Equipment                                    870,000.00
3. Tender No. EDUTC/IAIJI/60/94-95
Medical Equipment                                                  900,000.00
4. TenderNo. EDUCIQDA/IP!61/94-95
Medical Equipment                                                  900,000.00
5. Tender No. EDUCIGDAUIP/62194-95
Medical Equipment                                                  400,000.00
6. Tender No. EDUC/IDAJIJP/5894 95
Hydraulics and Environmental Equipmenr                             870,000.00
7. Tender No. EDUCJDAJfTJ157/94-95
Civil Engineerng Equinrment (Material Testing)                     900,000.00
8. Tender No. EDUCIDAX2J/47194-95
Workshop Hand and Power Tools                                      710,000.00
9. Tender-No. EDUCIDAIU2/70/94-95
Boats                                                               400,000.00
10. Tender No. EDUCIDAiJrP/59194-95
Surveying,Geology r.awing and Model Stuctre                       640.000.00
D.  TENDER NOT GIVEN A "NO-OBJECTION" BY THE BANK
DUE TO LACK OF TENIE
1. Tender No. EDUC'lDA/UIP/74/94-95
Management Ti3formation System for C-E                             400,000.00
2



Note concerning Map: The Map included in this report was prepared in 1991. At that
time, the Jomo Kenyatta University College of Agriculture and Technology (JKUCAT)
was a constituent college of Kenyatta University. Subsequently, this college became a
free-standing university, the Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology
(JKUAT).






SUDAN
K. Ki                        i                                                    KENYA
UNIVERSITIES
Y                      ~~~~~~~TURKLMANA @                                                                                  2     
RIFT   i   EASTERNJ
tMARSABIT                                        NORTH
UGANDA                                        VALLEY
WESTERN
)    /   VALLEY  /           Y                                               S              wux p                                         1~~~~~SOALI
~~~~~~~~~~~KABARNE ; 7C  ATER 
. NIVESSATA CAMPUS COLE    GES KERCHC\
' NYANZkffl <n X \ M~~~~~~~~~~~~1URANG   
MCC       W                                   RlUFT                  CAE d.5IC5n5LKITUI,|                                                                        HOrHt
OPUBLC  UNmenIy   SIEeS  Cene CnI'ennnt                                                         \9                                                                                \           c>@ 
CAE    ClA~g efpSine  nndEn(eAnFT              C- r~e
CAPUveSlho  CAeoA,ekeeeendPAneelhonseso                                                                                             f      CC   O    A ~S T S                     Thi et\   Ie bs,~rpeeS
M      eU Mol ~  e efveW   Aldo rnA.es,KneSlAnedte /,q   Nt\e                                                                                                                     Th Worl BsnA' e _I ecls
KU  K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wenyolte  Unsdereh  o    
vUNNEwSITYCOLLEGES                           o                     \                         \                                     /    .-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OL
ChCT Jm   -ANS   CmA=S  y Cf llen,e, of s-rd Snellu SFneee M3hn  Ce-'s  To                                                                                                        endsh exleier (e th 'n _,
MCC      M  Unnnees[np   Chepkolen l Copsnnddo =l,J                                                                                                                                     en the AfALe Ioe e' ' e  erie
ELC      Lgerone fL ehends Y.Ljele CeA, 'legee Cppu.                                                                                                                                       eehkrueempnp VodNs0doee.6z
fUONCA UPietsi Scr  SNeleg Cpmpu Celleas V UNAeNYIreVO 
AC AnsCrMSegn Cr1 MeoAss Mrclu delee  nyonfjsd  aps-D 
ESNEe       CH55 C n ls.-b    f un.tenn ArL C d                                                                                                                                     S LAIN T
CAO  EES Ofe ASelegjee CA 'eeue,i =1dedsee UiA  ku   ops_<                                                                                               r                         h  eopahn  Eda 
NnAv~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ \eA> See 'nnAe                                                                                          MOgEASSAe etTeeceea Neeenn hyp,,*
SAS      S PRVAEU'is lntrTIEr Sehe nI Thelge Alen                                              POVNC   HADUATES                                           -oeeyyrrh
KHBC     Kenyu  Srnrtnrs Bible ClleAe. esr n,Ne                                                 NAIOA   CAIA                                     Ae
P                                                                                               RIVESR COLLE GES 
DKUCA'J,.K              LetrmspCl--e, alhRel-eC=pu %-< --hf
en    IE     Cg h      0          150gernttuedEar  ASSl-   55 mbh r_                                                                                                                              -         0
DUC'                   INDAN5E
PS T E               5 hcd                                                                  INTERNAIN AL BOUNDAR IES E                                                                 2         I -       p   LfdL       AM
PACC  PbnAlilxsnCllrabJnCollese,Nullob                                                                                                )       f         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I     0
PriMILL -i                                                                                                O SIi-
Mo            D    h.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Mo IT N IA  B  \ f   .-N
Duc          MI LE u<i-.   kAViB -,i



