CREDIT NUMBER 2309 KE
Development Credit Agreement
(Universities Investment Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                 / , 1991


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2309 KE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                    iie'e_ e  /  , 1991, between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a)   "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education;
(b)   "CHE" means   the  Commission  for  Higher   Education
established pursuant to the Universities Act, Chapter 210B of the
Borrower's laws;
(c)   "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit in MOE;
(d)   "Public  Universities"  means   the  Borrower's   four
universities and two constituent colleges, namely, the University
of Nairobi, Moi University, Kenyatta University, Egerton University,
Jomo Kenyatta University College of Agriculture and Technology, and
Maseno University College;


﻿(e)   "Task Group" means the Task Group established under the
Project within CHE for the coordination and budgeting of the Public
Universities and to supervise implementation of the Project;
(f)   "Student Loan Scheme" means the Student Loan Scheme
established by the Borrower for university students;
(g)   "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year commenc-
ing July 1 and ending June 30;
(h)   "KSh" means Kenya Shilling, the Borrower's currency;
(i)   "Pr.ject  Preparation  Advance"   means  the   project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to a letter dated July 29, 1991, from the Association and
confirmed by the Borrower on August 14, 1991; and
(j)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-one
million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
41,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.


﻿(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing
May 1, 2002, and ending November 1, 2031. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on November 1, 2011, shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national prodact per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph-(a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due


﻿-5-
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
financial, administrative and higher education practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall limit undergraduate admis-
sions at the Public Universities to 10,300 in 1992, 10,610 in 1993,
10,930 in 1994, 11,260 in 1995 and 11,600 in 1996.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) through 1993, cap
student loans at KSh 21,500 per annum per student and at a level
satisfactory to the Association, during 1994 through 1996; (b) eli-
minate the personal expense element from the student loan program
by 1993; (c) until completion of the Project, maintain a direct
student charge of at least KSh 6,000 per annum; and (d) operate a
bursary scheme for needy students not to exceed 20% of student
enrollment.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) by June 30, 1992,
furnish to the Association for its review and comments a proposal
for restructuring CHE with effect from January 1993; and (b) by
January 1, 1993, have commenced implementation of said proposal,
taking the Association's comments into account.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.


﻿-6-
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in-any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of suh audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)    furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
the Credit Account or payment out of the Special
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)    enable  the Association's   representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv)    ensure  that such   records  and accounts   are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of


﻿-7-
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall from July 1, 1994, fully fund
the operating budget of CHE, at a level satisfactory to the
Association.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the Universities Act shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of CHE to perform any of its obligations under
the Project; and
(b)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of CHE or for the suspension of the operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence,
satisfactory to the Association, that in academic year 1991/92 it
has (i) collected the direct charge of KSh 6,000 per student, (ii)
operated a bursary scheme for needy students, not to exceed 20% of
student enrollment, and (iii) capped student loans at KSh 21,500 per
student with no more than KSh 5,000 available for personal expenses;


﻿-8-
(b)   the Borrower has    (i) commenced  implementation of
arrangements satisfactory to the Association concerning the
staffing, accommodation, work program and budget of the Task Group
referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and
(ii) appointed the Deputy Coordinator and the Liaison Officers at
the Public Universities referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement, all with qualifications and experience satisfactory
to the Association; and
(c)   the Borrower has furnished to the Association, a work
program, action plan and implementation schedule for the Project
for 1991/92 including a staff development and related training
program.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister at the time responsible for Finance
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General C4nditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P. 0. Box 30007
Nairobi, Kenya
Cable address:                 Telex:
FINANCE                   22921
Nairobi                   MINFIN-KE


﻿-9-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By Al
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/V              V.       1/. 0-4/CIO
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Equipment, library                         100% of foreign
supplies and                               expenditures,
vehicles:                                  100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 80%
of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(a) for Parts A.1           800,000
through 3 of the
Project
(b) for Part A.4            600,000
of the Project
(c) for Part B of
the Project:
(i) the first        14,300,000
phase
(ii) the second        8,300,000
phase
(iii) the third         5,500,000
phase


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Cate-gry               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(2) Consultants                                 100%
services, studies
and training:
(a) for Parts A.1         1,700,000
through 3 of
the Project
(b) for Part A.4            500,000
of the Project
(c) for Part B of
the Project:
(i) the first         1,400,000
phase
(ii) the second        1,900,000
phase
(iii) the third         1,300,000
phase
(3) CHE incremental              500,000        100% until June,
operating costs                            1994
(4) PIU incremental              400,000        60%
operating costs
(5) Refunding of                 300,000        Amounts due
Project                                    pursuant to
Preparation                                Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                    of this Agreement
(6) Unallocated                3,800,000
TOTAL                41,300,000


﻿- 12 -
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that. of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
(c)   "CHE Incremental Operating Costs" means the costs
incurred by CHE related to the implementation of the Project,
including staff, operation and maintenance of vehicles and office
equipment, and staff travel; and
(d)   the term "PIU Incremental Operating Costs" means the
incremental costs incurred by the PIU related to the implementation
of the Project, including the operation and maintenance of vehicles,
office equipment, and staff travel and consultant services.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement; (b) payments made for
expenditures under Categories (1) (b) and (2) (b) until the Borrower
has commenced implementation of an action plan acceptable to the
Association for reforming the Student Loan Scheme; (c) payments made
for expenditures under Categories (1) (c) (ii) and (2) (c) (ii)
until the Association has been furnished with evidence that the
subprojects were appraised according to the criteria set out in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement and in the light of experience gained
during implementation of the first phase of Part B of the Project;
and (d) payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (c)
(iii) and (2) (c) (iii) until the Association has been furnished
with evidence that the subprojects were appraised according to the
criteria set out in Schedule 5 to this Agreement and in the light
of experience gained during implementation of the previous phases
of Part B of the Project.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower's
education sector adjustment program as it pertains to the univer-
sities by: (i) rationalizing and strengthening the institutional
framework for higher education in both the public and private
sectors; (ii) limiting the growth of the Borrower's budgetary
resources devoted to the Public Universities by promoting cost
sharing and improved investment planning; and (iii) improving the
quality of teaching and research at the Public Universities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Institutional Strengthening
1.    Strengthening CHE to enable it to undertake the task of
planning, programming and budgeting for Public University develop-
ment.
2.    Carrying out studies including:
(a)   a graduate labor market study;
(b)   a study of the future development of the private
university sector; and
(c)   a socio-economic study of access to the universities
and of subsequent performance, particularly in respect of equity
and gender issues.
3.    Carrying out selected applied research projects relevant to
the Borrower's economic development.
4.    Reforming the Student Loan Scheme.
Part B:     Public Universities
Carrying out at the Public Universities of sub-projects in
three phases, involving: (1) institutional development, including
the establishment of management information systems; (2) staff
development in key areas for academic, technician, administrative


﻿- 14 -
and service staff; and (3) the acquisition of teaching and related
equipment including computers, laboratory and workshop equipment,
books and journals, telephone systems and vehicles.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Kenya may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures '
1.    Items or groups of items for the library, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from at least
three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in
accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof).
2.    Items or groups of items for equipment estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $900,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Items or groups of items for equipment and materials estimated
to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $100, 000 may be procured under


﻿- 16 -
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guide-
lines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.    Contracts for library books and journals may be awarded after
direct negotiations with publishers, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 17 -
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.    The Project shall be implemented by CHE, for this purpose
the Borrower shall maintain within CHE until CHE has been restruc-
tured, a Task Group. The Task Group shall be headed by a fulltime
Coordinator with experience and qualifications acceptable to the
Association, to be responsible for the implementation of the
Project. The Coordinator shall report to the Permanent Secretary of
MOE. The Borrower shall also appoint a Deputy Coordinator within CHE
and six Liaison Officers for the Public Universities. The Borrower
shall also establish four subgroups under the Task Group for the
following purposes:
(a)   review of legal and organizational arrangements relating
to CHE and the Public Universities prior to the restructuring of
CHE;
(b)   planning, programming and budgeting of the universities;
(c)   review of the long-term development of the Student Loan
Scheme; and
(d)   implementation of the Project.
2.    The Borrower shall by March 1, 1993, furnish to the Associa-
tion for its review and comments, a draft Public Universities
development plan for 1993 through 1999.
3.    The Borrower shall by March 1 in each year furnish to the
Association for its review and comments proposals for the following
Fiscal Year, as follows:
(a)   a Project work program, action plan and implementation
schedule, including a staff development and related training
program;
(b)   a work program and a budget (including staffing) for
CHE (initially including the Task Group);
(c)   commencing in 1993, CHE's draft recommendations on
university admissions and budgets; and


﻿- 19 -
(d)   a work program and a budget (including staffing) for
the body responsible for the Student Loan Scheme.
4.    The Borrower shall, commencing August 1992, furnish to the
Association by February 1 and August 1 in each year, progress
reports as follows:
(a)   in February on Project activities within the preceding
July through December period; and
(b)   in August on
(i)    Project activities during the preceding January
through June,
(ii)    CHE's activities during the previous financial
year,
(iii)    the activities of the body responsible for the
Student Loan Scheme during the previous financial
year, and
(iv)    the use of the applied research funds during the
previous financial year.
5.    The Borrower shall ensure that the studies under Part A.2 of
the Project are carried out in accordance with a timetable satisfac-
tory to the Association and that each study is submitted to the
Association for its review and comments within three months of its
completion.
6.    (a)   The Borrower shall submit to the Association for its
approval the first three applied research proposals under Part A.3
of the Project, satisfying the criteria set forth in paragraph (b)
below, which are accepted by the Task Group together with the
experts' evaluation and the Task Group's assessments.
(b)   Applied research proposals shall satisfy the following
criteria:
(i)    the topic and planned output shall be relevant
to the Borrower's economic development;
(ii)    the university has the necessary staff and
accommodation;


﻿- 20 -
(iii)    the related basic research has been completed;
(iv)    funding shall not exceed $200,000 per project;
(v)    economic viability of projects with potential
for revenue earning;
(vi)    links with industry; and
(v)    actual or potential links with other institu-
tions.
7.    The Sub-projects under Part B of the Project shall be carried
out in three phases, each lasting about eighteen months. The lessons
gained during implementation shall be incorporated in the prepara-
tion of the subsequent phases. The Sub-projects shall comprise both
university-wide facilities and specific academic discipline areas.
Each Sub-project shall be prepared in accordance with the criteria
specified in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
8.    The Borrower shall carry out with the Association two reviews
of the Project, in September 1992 and 1994 respectively. The first
such review shall examine the proposals for restructuring CHE,
progress in reforming the Student Loan Scheme, and the preparation
of Phase II of Part B of the Project. The second review shall review
overall progress in implementation of the Project and shall include
proposals for possible reshaping of the Project prior to implementa-
tion of Phase III of Part B of the Project.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 5
Criteria for the selection of Subprojects
under Part B of the Project
1.    Each subproject must first satisfy all of the following
requirements that:
(a)   it cannot be funded from other sources;
(b)   it conforms with the institutional goals and priorities,
principally the objective of enhancing the disciplines for which
each Public University is the designated national center of
excellence;
(c)   the need for the subproject is urgent; and
(d)   the subproject does not require civil works, including
buildings services and facilities.
2.    The appraisal and selection, and later the monitoring, of the
subprojects which meet the abovementioned requirements, shall be
carried out on the basis of the following five criteria and
operational indicators:
(a)   Criterion 1: Capacity  to absorb  and  implement  the
proposed Subproject
The institution's capacity to implement the proposed
subproject shall be measured in terms of the current
availability of the following:
(A)    Space                  (i)   teaching,
(ii)   laboratories and
workshops, and
(iii)   other general and
specialized.
(B)    Supplies and           (i)   water,
Services               (ii)  gas,
(iii)   electricity,
(iv)   drainage, and
(v)   equipment spe-
cific.


﻿- 22 -
(C)    Personnel               (i)  academic, and
(ii)   technical support.
(D)    Recurrent Costs         (i)  finance (eg.
external main-
tenance con-
tract), and
(ii)   consumables.
(b)   Criterion 2: Contribution to improved links with the
socioeconomic environment
(A)    Relevance to            (i)  labor market
labor market                  surveys,
(ii)   job vacancies,
(iii)   graduate tracer
studies, and
(iv)   institutional
advisory bodies.
(B)    Collaborative           (i)  mechanisms for
links                         developing links,
and
(ii)   type of link -
contracts,
training and
graduate place-
ment, curriculum
design and
delivery.


﻿- 23 -
(c)   Criterion 3. Contribution to improvements in the
Quality of Teaching and Learning
(A)    Undergraduate          (i)   directly related
courses                      to science and
technology areas,
(ii)   curriculum re-
design for the
Kenya Certificate
of Secondary
Education intake,
(iii)   staff development
in key discipline
areas identified
in subproject -
discipline and
pedagogical
oriented,
(iv)   increase in
practical work,
(v)   improvements in
internal effi-
ciency e.g. lab-
oratory usage,
student - staff
ratio, and
(vi)   creation of new
course programs
related to market
demand.
(B)    Postgraduate           (i)   expected acti-
courses                      vities related to
undergraduate
teaching, and
(ii)   increase in
applicable
research.
(C)    Central                      enhancement of
facilities                   libraries,
teaching tech-
nology and com-
puter facilities.


﻿-24 -
(D)    Collaboration with     (i)   curriculum design
the world of work            and development,
(ii)   joint student
projects, and
(iii)   special lec-
tures and
seminars.
(d) Criterion 4: Contribution to improvement in
institutional development
(A)    Financial              (i)   planned skill
management                    improvement,
(ii)   proposed equip-
ment enhance-
ment,
(iii)   improved plan-
ning and policy,
and
(iv)   increased
capacity to
attract outside
resources.
(B)    Administrative         (i)   planned skill
management                    improvement,
(ii)   proposed equip-
ment enhance-
ment,
(iii)   improved systems
for personnel,
facilities and
students, and
(iv)   improved skills
for procurement
and personnel
management.


﻿- 25 -
(e)   Criterion 5: Contribution to improvements in
maintenance and repair
(A)    Schedule               (i)   maintenance
availability                 programs,
(ii)   repair programs,
and
(iii)   spare part
requirement
list.
(B)    Skills training        (i)   equipment
provided in                  management, and
(ii)   equipment main-
tenance and
repair.
(C)    Equipment usage        (i)   reduction in
down time,
(ii)   reduction in
non-functioning
equipment, and
(iii)   repair of non-
functioning
equipment.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the  term  "Authorized Allocation" means an    amount
equivalent to $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.


﻿- 27 -
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which replen-
ishment is requested. On the basis of each such
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amount as
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
have been shown by said documents and other
evidence to have been paid out of the Special
Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such paymeit was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding  the provisions   of  p'ragraph  3 of   this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Arti-
cle V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02
of this Agreement; or
(b)   once  the  total unwithdrawn   amount  of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall


﻿- 28 -
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


