Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18028
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
WAT1ER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
(LOAN 3102-BR)
June 12, 1998
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit
Country Management Unit 5
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Year Average Rates
USD1.00 = Cz$ 95.27 (Cruzado) (1988)
USD1.00 = NCz$ 1.03 (Cruzado Novo) (1989)
USD1.00 = NCz$ 24.84 (Cruzado Novo) (1990)
USD1.00  Cr$ 147.86 (Cruzeiro) (1991)
USD1.00  Cr$ 1641.09 (Cruzeiro) (1992)
USD1.00 = CR$ 32.16 (Cruzeiro Real) (1993)
USD1.00  R$ 639.30 (Real) (1994)
USD1.00 = R$ 0.91767 (Real) (1995)
USD1.00  R$ 1.0051 (Real) (1996)
USD1.00 = R$ 1.1078 (Real) (1997)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNH                   Banco Nacional de Habitagao (National Housing Bank)
CEF                   Caixa Econ6mica Federal
CMG                   Comunidades de Medio e Grande Porte (Medium and Large Cities)
CPP                   Comunidades de Pequenho Porte (Small Towns)
DAEE                  Departamento de Agua e Energia Eletrica do Estado de Sao Paulo
(Water and Energy Department of the State of Sao Paulo)
FAE                   Fundo de Agua e Esgoto (Water and Sewerage Fund)
ICB                   International Competitive Bidding
ICR                   Implementation Completion Report
IDB                   Inter-American Development Bank
IDC                   Interest During Construction
lPC                   Indice de Preco do Consumidor (Consumer Price Index)
IRR                   Internal Rate of Return
LCB                   Local Competitive Bidding
lcd                   Liter per capita per day
PAHO                  Pan American Health Organization
PLANASA               Plano Nacional de Saneamento (National Water and Sanitation Program)
RMSP                  Regiao Metropolitana de Sao Paulo (Sao Paulo Metropolitan Region)
SABESP                Companhia de Saneamento Basico do Estado de Sao Paulo
SAR                   Staff Appraisal Report
SEAIN                 Secretaria de Asuntos Internacionais (Secretariat for International Affairs)
SEPURB                Secretariat of Urban Policy
SWC                   State Water Company
Vice-President                            Shahid Javed Burki
Country Management Unit Director          Gobind Nankani
Sector Management Unit Director           Danny Leipziger
Task Manager                             f Franz Kriegler



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE                                                                                                              .i
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                                                                     .11
PART I - IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT..1
A.  Background ...................................................I
B.  Project Objectives and Description ..................................................4
C.  Project Design ...................................................6
D.  Project Implementation ..................................................6
E.  Project Results ...................................................9
F    Project Sustainability ..................................................                                      13
G.  BankPerformance ..................................................                                             13
H.  Borrower Performance ..................................................                                         14
I    Bank-Borrower Relationship ................................................................. 14
J Assessment of Outcome ..........................                                                                  15
K   Future Operation ..........................                                                                     15
L. Lessons Learned ..........................                                                                       15
M  Consulting Services ..........................                                                                    17
N. Project Documentation and Data ..........................                                    ,                   18
0. The Challenges Ahead ..........................                                                                  18
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1 Summary ofAssessments.. ... ...............                                                         ... ...19
Table 2  Related Bank Projects.... ....................... 21
Table 3 Project Timetable .......................... 22
Table 4 Project Scope.... .....................                                                                  .. 23
Table 5   Project Implementation Schedule and Procurement Method ........................... ... 26
Table 6 Investment Cost ..... 29
Table 7 Project Financing ............................ .. 30
Table 8   Loan Disbursement Schedule ........                                               ..........          .. 31
Table 9  Allocation of L oan Proceeds.... ............................ 32
Table 10 Monitoring Indicators ...............................                                                     33
Table 11 Financial Statements of SABESP ...............................                                            34
Table 12 Rate of Return.... ............................ 37
Table 13  Studies Included in the Project.... ............................ 39
Table 14 Bank Resources... ...                                             .... ........... 40
Table 15 BankMissions.... ............................ 41
Table 16 Statvs ofLegal Covenants ........................... .. .. 42.
APPENDIX A: Mission's Aide-Memoire ............................                                                        46
APPENDIX B: Comments from  the Borrower .......................47 .................................... 47
Map IBRD 21459
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.                                -                        



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
(LOAN 3102-BR)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Water Sector P'roject
in the State of Sao Paulo, for which Loan 3102-BR in the amount of USD280 million was
approved on June 28, 1989, and became effective on July 6, 1990. The Borrower was the
Companhia de Saneamento Basico do Estado de Sao Paulo, SABESP.
After three extensions of the closing date by a total of three years, the loan was
closed on June 30, 1997, fully disbursed.
The ICR was prepared by Franz Kriegler, Sr. Financial Analyst, and reviewed by
Abel Mejia, Water Cluster Coordinator for Brazil, and Maria Victoria Lister, Quality
Assurance Support Unit, LCSFP. The Task Manager for project appraisal was Emilio
Rodriguez, Principal Sanitary Engineer, assisted by Guillermo Yepes (Water/Urban Unit
Chief), Carlos Velez (Economist), Mary Sheehan (Consultant, Financial Analyst), and Tim
Campbell (Principal Urban Planner). Emilio Rodriguez also was Task Manager during
implementation. The Division Chiefs were Mohan Munasinghe (1989), Gobind T.
Nankani (1990-9 1), and AsifFaiz (1992-97).
Preparation of this ICR began in October 1997. It is based on materials (SAR,
Legal Agreements, progress reports by the Borrower, audit reports by the external
auditors, Bank supervision reports, correspondence, and internal Bank documents) in the
project files. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by submitting
technical and economic data, but did not provide financial data and comments to this ICR
to be included as Appendix B.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
(LOAN 3102-BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.    The project had five main objectives: (i) to help optimize the allocation of scarce
resources through better investment planning and marginal cost analysis and pricing; (ii) to
increase SABESP's operational efficiency; (iii) to improve environmental and health
conditions in the urban areas of the state of Sao Paulo through the extension of water
supply and waste water disposal services; (iv) to help develop new strategies to improve
SABESP's ability to implement projects with high social importance but not necessarily
high financial returns; and (v) to support government efforts towards decentralization by
the commitment of financial resources from the state of Sao Paulo and SABESP.
2.    The project was defined as the equivalent of one third or USD600 million of
SABESP's investment program for the five year period 1989 - 1993 with a total volume
of USD1,783 million. While there was an initial tentative agreement on parts of the
physical scope of the project, it was designed to be detailed step by step on the basis of
subprojects which had to be individually studied and presented to the Bank to become
eligible for financing.
Project Implementation
3.    The project, appraised in February 1989, was approved by the Board in June 1989,
and the loan became effective in July 1990. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) estimated
that the project would be implemented during 1989-93. While project implementation
proceeded normally during the first two years, in 1992 and 1993 the pace slowed down,
and in 1994 almost came to a standstill. At the request of the government of the state of
Sao Paulo, SABESP had increased the investment program by including a series of big
sewage treatment plants without assuring adequate financing. It then resorted to short-
term borrowing which caused its financial position to become even more precarious. The
prevailing hyperinflation made planning almost impossible, and a freeze on rates caused a
further deterioration of SABESP's finances. As a result, suppliers did not get paid on
time and suspended their contracts. At the original Closing date on June 30, 1994 the
Bank seriously considered canceling the balance of the loan, but in the end reluctantly
extended the Closing date by another year. After state elections at year end 1994, a new
government took over which brought in a new management at SABESP that quickly
turned the company around. The economy also improved as a result of a successful



iii
stabilization program. After agreeing with SABESP on specific benchmarks to be met,
and a return to satisfactory implementation progress, the Bank extended the Closing date
two more times, with the final Closing date on June 30, 1997. The Loan was fully
disbursed. Construction of two groups of works which had not ended at that time, has
been concluded financed with SABESP's own resources.
4.    At appraisal the project was estimated to cost USD600 million, of which 25% in
foreign exchange. Final project costs stayed at USD600 million (16% in foreign
exchange). As at appraisal and in the Loan Agreement the project scope was only
partially determined in physical terms - because of its nature as a program - a comparison
between planned and actual costs is of only limited value. In real terms, the investment
volume of USD3 82 million was 28% below the planned level of USD532 million. The
implied much higher expenditures for cost increases due to inflation were caused by the
60% longer implementation period, the hyperinflation prevailing in the early years of
project execution, and the concentration of expenditures in the later years.
5.    Actual financing of the project turned out to be quite different from the
assumptions in the SAR. Originally, 43% was supposed to be financed by debt (the Bank
Loan), 37% by SABESP's internal cash generation, and 20% by paid-in capital increases
from the State of Sao Paulo. A Shareholder Agreement between the State of Sao Paulo,
DAEE and the Bank, and a Performance Agreement between the State of Sao Paulo and
SABESP were concluded to secure the State's contribution. However, the permanent
financial crisis of the State pushed this obligation to a low priority level, and no transfers
were made until year end 1994. In 1995, this obligation with the Bank's consent was
replaced by rate increases which allowed SABESP to cover the shortfall from internal
sources. In the end, internal cash generation financed 55% and debt the remaining 45%.
Project Results
6.    Most of the stated project objectives were met. SABESP's physical operational
efficiency as measured by labor productivity increased, and it has become less dependent
on resources from the central government, in accordance with the objective of
decentralization. Environmental and health conditions for the beneficiaries improved,
although no exact figures for the situation with/without project are available. The project
was instrumental in introducing a mechanism for selecting projects to be financed out of
the Loan proceeds according to a cost recovery criterion. However, one of the objectives
of the project, the introduction of marginal cost analysis and pricing did not advance
beyond the execution of the respective study whose recommendations were never
implemented. Project selection criteria were only applied to projects in small and medium
cities; for the projects in the RMSP, the evaluation was limited to the Master Plan. Also,
no new strategies and instruments for serving low income segments of the population like
those developed under the PROSANEAR program were introduced.



iv
7.    Due to the nature of the project as part of a time-slice investment program with an
exactly defined physical scope in the project description of the Loan Agreement only for
the institutional development component, a direct comparison between planned and
actually executed works and services has to rely on the data made available by the
Borrower and contained in parts of the SAR. On that basis, actual executed work
quantities exceeded the targets in most categories. The main exception was the
cancellation of the scheme in the Southwest to increase raw water supply for the RMSP
by 3 m3/s. In spite of these increases in physical terms, actual expenditures in real terms
for water supply investments in the RSMP and for sewage in the interior and coastal
regions were slightly below plan, while for investments in water supply outside of the
RMSP less than half of the programmed amount was spent.
8.    SABESP operational and financial performance during the execution period has
been mixed, with the ups and downs mainly related to the political cycle in the state of Sao
Paulo and the changing macroeconomics environment in the country. Most physical
indicators, after deteriorating sharply in the early nineties, show a clear improvement.
Nevertheless, in spite of considerable efforts by the company, the reduction of
unaccounted-for water and accounts receivable did not materialize to the extent expected.
The operating cost of providing the service (USD0.58 per m3 in 1996) increased almost
every year. The company's financial position has recovered from near insolvency to
achieving a modest rate of return. In terms of cash flow, progress has been more limited
because of SABESP's unsatisfactory performance in bill collection which also affected
negatively its debt service coverage and self-financing capabilities. The overall
improvements enabled SABESP to gain limited access to international capital markets; the
more recent reevaluation of emerging markets may have put those achievements into
serious doubt.
9.    Within the PLANASA system, which used a top-down approach to establish
investment priorities, and made loan financing available for investments, tariffs were based
on cost recovery policies. Since the collapse of that system, tariffs are determined by the
states, with limited monitoring from the central government. However, the Departamento
de Agua e Energia Eletrica (DAEE) for the State of Sao Paulo has not yet developed its
own tariff policy. The tariff categories are still based on the concepts developed under
Planasa. At first, rates were set quite low, independent of economic and financial
considerations. A State decree issued in December 1996 allows SABESP to set its own
rates. At presen., the average rate level seems to be fixed according to SABESP's
financing requirements as determined by its expansion program, limited possibilities of
external resource mobilization, high debt service needs, and operating costs, rather than on
economic terms. After the financial crisis of SABESP, a steady increase in rates took
place which resulted in average rates of USD-cents 91 per rn3 water and USD-cents 99
per m3 sewerage in 1997, a high price even by international standards. Cross subsidies
between service areas and customer categories and within them are still widespread.



v
10.   The economic revaluation is based on the impact of the total investment program
of the company in the time slice 1989 - 1997. The revised long-run marginal cost, at a
discount rate of 10%, is estimated at USD-cents 71 (1988) per m3 water and USD-cents
74 (1988) per m3 sewerage. The main reasons for these relatively high costs which exceed
those in the SAR (USD-cents 34.5 per m3 and USD-cents 28.7 per m3 respectively for
small connections in the RMSP) are: (i) higher operating costs; (ii) higher unaccounted-for
water; and (iii) higher investments. Operating expenses per m3 in 1996 were USD-cents
58 per m3 compaied to USD-cents 34 in the SAR. According to the SAR, unaccounted-
for water should have come down to 22% in 1995, when it actually increased to 40%. In
the SAR, total capital investment was assumed at USD1,502 million. Actual investment
volume during the period amounted to USD2,289 million, the difference was mainly
caused by the additional investments in sewage treatment. Using rates as a proxy for
benefits, the rate of return has been reestimated at 7% for the entire 1989-1997
investment program, as compared to 12% in the SAR. This lower rate of return, in
addition to the explanations given for the higher costs, is due to the lower water sales,
especially in the years of the investment period. Total water sales actually were 16%
below forecast in 1997, and are presently estimated to remain 12% below the SAR value
during the entire life of the project. In addition, while in the SAR all incremental sales are
attributed to the time slice investments, in the reevaluation only a portion which increases
over the years is being assumed as caused by the capital investment program. As rates
reflect only part of the benefits of water supply and sewage disposal services to society,
total benefits will exceed the level resulting from this calculation.
11.   Although the project, according to its objectives, was not explicitly targeted at the
urban poor, it is safe to say that the improvements to the water supply system and the
construction of major sewer networks had and continue to have a positive impact on the
lives of the low-iitcome population in the RSMP, and the interior and coastal regions of
the state of Sao Paulo. Although between 1989 and 1997 more than 1,225,000 new water
connections (283,000 within the project) were installed, water supply coverage increased
only from 89% to 94%. The extension of the sewerage networks lifted coverage from
57% to 73%, through a total of 1,244,000 new connections (87,000 within the project).
These connections translate into a total of 10.7 million beneficiaries of the investment
program. This shows the enormous challenge that population growth presents to
SABESP. Recent studies performed by SABESP concluded that 49% of the population in
the municipalities served belonged to the poor (defined in the SAR as the lower income
groups earning a minimum of three salaries or less). While the SAR had expected that
2.4 million new poor clients for water services and 1.1 million for sewerage services
would benefit from the investment program, the actual figure of 3.8 million exceeded that
estimate. As the distribution networks were designed for 30 years, they allow to connect
additional consumers which are not included in the above figures.
Project Sustainability
12.   SABESP staff is fully qualified to adequately operate and maintain the new
facilities, given its proven track record. From the institutional and operational point of



vi
view, the lack of a sound legal and regulatory framework keeps the sector and the
company exposed to the potential policy swings resulting from changes in governmient.
The absence of a competitive market structure permits services to be provided inefficiently
and with insufficient attention to consumer interests. The existing tariff with its built-in
cross subsidies between regions and customer categories works as a disincentive for
SABESP to provide the same quality of service to all consumers. It remains to be seen if
the failure to involve the communities in the planning and execution of the project in areas
mainly populated by the poor will cause them to neglect their responsibilities towards their
in-house installations and SABESP. While the city of Sao Paulo implemented some
drainage works in parallel with the project (financed in part by IDB), integrating the
operation of the water supply and sanitation installations with other municipal services,
such as drainage and solid waste management, remains a challenge.
Bank Performance
13.   Project preparation lasted more than two years, partly due to a shift in project
definition, and major institutional change in Brazil's water supply and sanitation sector.
Supervision concentrated mainly on the physical progress, while often omitting
institutional and sectoral issues. Overall, Bank performance is rated moderately
satisfactory.
Borrower Performance
14.   Performance of SABESP, the biggest water utility in South America, was
acceptable in the earlier years of project execution, then deteriorated sharply, and finally
recovered after 1994. Overall, Borrower performance is qualified as satisfactory
Assessment of Outcome
15.   The overall outcome is considered satisfactory. The physical objectives were fully
and the financial and institutional objectives partially achieved. Project sustainability is
highly likely.
Future Operation
16.   Responsiuility for the operation and maintenance of the Project facilities remains
with SABESP. The installations financed with the Loan use conventional technology as
already applied in previous projects in other service areas for which SABESP's staff has
provided adequate operation and maintenance. The company's improved financial
position will help to accomplish this task. The constraints and risks are located mainly
outside the Borrower's sphere of influence, in the frequently changing political
environment.



vii
Lessons Learned
Policy lessons
17.   Limiting rationalproject selection criteria to the Bankproject is insufficient. The
Bank strategy for introducing rational project selection criteria was limited to the Bank
project. The rationality of other investment projects was to be achieved through the
execution and application of a marginal cost and pricing study, a limit on increasing the
investment program by more than 20%, and the assumption that the same selection criteria
would be applied on the remaining components of the investment program as well.
Although SABESP after some delay executed the marginal cost study, it never applied its
recommendations. The ceiling on additional investments was easily circumvented by
presenting some optimistic forecasts. The projects that passed the Bank's eligibility test
became part of the project financed by the Bank loan, while the rest were financed with
other resources. The Bank should make sure from the outset that the Borrower applies
rational investment criteria over its whole investment program.
18.  In the case of time-slice investment financing, the project scope should be defined
by value instead ofphysical composition. In standard investment projects, the physical
scope defines the design and content of the project which in turn define its cost. In the
type of project like the one financed under this loan, this definition is not meaningful; it
was replaced by a value, which was set at USD600 million. However, the project
description in the Loan Agreement does not include this amount, but rather defines the
project as consisting of eligible subprojects and institutional development. Thereby the
Borrower's obligation to carry out the project is lacking content. In a further
consideration, th- project content should be defined in terms of constant currency, not
current currency, to avoid the erosion of the scope through inflation.
19.   Setting absolute ceilings on the cost of a connection per beneficiary is preferable
to cost recovery criteria. The water projects in the medium-sized cities were selected if
expected revenue covered at least 75% of the cost in cities with a population of more than
50,000; the threshold was set at 60% for water projects in smaller towns and all sewage
projects. By increasing rates this criteria can easily be fulfilled. Its meaningfulness is
further limited as it is based on average rates while the actual rates in these areas are much
lower. In the future, if a social orientation is to be achieved it is preferable to introduce
cost ceilings per connection in absolute terms which can be brought about only through
the application of low cost technology.
20.   Level and structure of rates for water and sanitation services should be included
in the Loan Agreement. The SAR discusses at length the level and structure of rates in
Brazil and at SABESP, but draws no conclusions for the implementation of the project
beyond the preparation of a marginal cost study. In the present uncertainties in the sector,
future projects should include covenants about the principles and targets to be achieved by
a Borrower, both for the level and the structure, including the criteria to determine the
level, applicabilit;, and financing of a social tariff.



viii
21.   Political interference should be reduced. The long-term and sustained
performance of a utility with competent staff like SABESP can be safeguarded only by
separating the utility from the political administration and introducing competition and
private participation within the context of proper regulation.
Project design and implementation
22.   Matching description ofproject design and cost. The SAR presents the
description of the project in the interior and coastal regions according to investmernt type
(water and sewage) and town size, whereas in the cost scheme the information is provided
based on type of demand (due to natural growth, housing program, etc.). This use of a
different approach for each description makes an analysis of the implications of a change
in scope impossible.
23.   Overoptimistic assumptions about the capacity of the borrower to implement the
project. The SAi was based on a five year project implementation period. This was two
and a half years shorter than what was to be expected according to the disbursement
profile for the sector. Had that been used, no extension of the closing date would have
been necessary. The Bank should strictly apply the results of the disbursement history of
other projects to avoid overoptimistic assumptions creating artificial problems thereafter.
24.   Consistency of basic assumptions for financial and economic evaluation.
The assumptions on water and sewage billed differ considerably between the financial and
economic evaluation. At the end of the project investment period in 1993, the volume of
water billed was expected to reach 1,669 million m3 according to the financial forecast,
while the corresponding figure in the economic analysis is 1,757 million m3 or 5.3% more.
Similar differences can be detected in the annual investment volumes. SAR chapters
should use the same set of figures to avoid inconsistencies.
25.   Calculation of the self-financing ratio. The formula used for the calculation of the
self-financing ratio according to the Loan Agreement does not include the variations in
working capital. It therefore presumes all amounts which are billed as revenue are also
collected which in the case of companies facing serious arrears results in an overestimate
of their internal cash flow generation. Future self-financing covenants should be designed
accordingly.
26.   Calculation of accounts receivable indicator. The accounts receivable covenant
in the Loan Agreement is based on the net figure, i.e. after deducting provisions for
uncollectible accounts from the gross amount of accounts receivable. By defining the
indicator in this way it measures the efforts to provision for the amounts that can not be
collected instead of determining how much care the company takes in collecting its bills.
In the future, this indicator should be based on the gross value of the accounts receivable.



ix
27.   Calculation of economic rate of return. The calculation of the economic rate of
return attributes all additional sales from year one of project execution to the project. This
implies that all systems are operating at full capacity. This is obviously not a reflection of
reality and led to an overestimate of the rate of return. In the future, a different distinction
between the situation with and without project should be made by attributing only the
additional capacity effects to the project
28. Bundling of procurement of civil works and goods for smaller and medium
distribution works. If at all possible, goods and civil works for smaller and medium
distribution works should be procured together because it facilitates their implementation.
29.   Progress reports should also include information on development impact and
financial and sector development. The Bank has accepted progress reports from the
Borrower which concentrated practically only on measuring progress in procurement,
construction, and payments but omitted all information on the development of the
company in organizational and financial matters. This caused the Bank to have only
limited information on the Borrower during the years when supervision missions were very
rare and/or no financial specialist participated. More care should be taken to define with
the Borrower an acceptable content for the progress reports including development
impact, financial and sector information.



1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
(LOAN 3102-BR)
PART I - IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Background
General
1.   In 1989, the year the project was approved, Brazil's had an estimated population
of 138 million, growing at 3 % per year on average in the previous 10 years; the
urban/rural ratio tood at 76/24. With 30.3 million, the state of Sao Paulo was the most
populous of the country and the city of Sao Paulo (estimated population 9.4 million) its
biggest urban agglomeration. The level of urbanization (28.4 million or 94%) in the sta'
was even higher than at the national average. The state's economic development as
measured by its contribution to the national GDP exceeded its share of the population by
far.
Sector Objectives and Organization
2.    When the project was prepared and appraised, the new federal constitution of
1988 had already been adopted, but its specific implications for the federal - state
relationship, and for the objectives and instruments in the sanitation sector had not yet
been elaborated. Project preparation was therefore based on the framework that had
existed over the previous twenty years. In view of the implications for public health and
productivity, in the late sixties the GoB had decided to invest heavily in water and
sanitation infrastructure to increase coverage of water service from 45% to 90% and
sewerage from 24% to 50% by 1985. The Ministry of Housing, Urban Development, and
Environment (later the Ministry of Social Action) was made responsible for establishing
and implementing water and sanitation policies including tariffs, and for extending
sanitation programs to the urban poor. As the main instrument it created PLANASA,
which used a top-down approach to establish investment priorities, set tariffs based on
cost recovery policies, and made loan financing available for investments. To build and
operate the systems, it relied on existing state water companies (SWCs) and facilitated the
creation of new ones in those states were none were available. Financing was obtainable
by municipalities which signed concession contracts with their SWC. Since 1986, the
investment financing part of PLANASA was administered by the Caixa Econ8mica
Federal (CEF), a Government-owned savings and loan bank. To extend water and
sanitation services to low-income urban areas, the GoB initiated PROSANEAR which
provided financing to municipal water utilities left out of PLANASA.



2
3.    As a result, service coverage expanded rapidly although it remained below the
ambitious targets. In 1988, urban water coverage stood at 82.6%, while sewerage-
limited mostly to the core of metropolitan areas - reached 37.8% of the urban
population, and 20% of collected sewage was treated. In the late eighties, however, the
drawbacks of this heavy centralized system became increasingly apparent. As residential
rates were based on cross subsidies for the poor, only a small part of the low-income
urban population benefited from service expansion. Many of the SWCs had developed
into big entities snowing the negative features often associated with publicly owned
companies like low labor productivity, unstable and politically motivated management
appointments, investment programs well beyond their financial capabilities, and lack of
commercial orientation and attention to customers needs. In the early nineties,
hyperinflation and the various unsuccessful macroeconomics stabilization programs eroded
water and sewage rates in real terms and undermined the financial position of the SWCs.
4.    The new constitution required the devolution of many responsibilities from the
federal to the state and municipal level. It made the local governments responsible for
providing local services including water supply and sanitation. If they decide not to
furnish the service within their own administration, they can conclude concession or
licensing contracts. Today, the main federal agency overseeing water and sanitation is the
Secretariat of Urban Policy (SEPURB), created under the Ministry of Planning in 1995.
The sector is becoming increasingly decentralized, with SEPURB's role limited to (i)
developing and promoting a national sector policy framework; (ii) coordinating sector
activities with federal institutions and state and local governments; and (iii) setting
guidelines and criteria for federal funds to be applied in the sector and monitor their
implementation. The definition of investment programs, tariff policy and financing
mechanisms is left to the states and municipalities few of which have made progress on
this front.
5.    In recent years it has become increasingly apparent that the existing model has
limited potential in improving the efficiency of sector operations and is unable to
guarantee the sustainability of any advances achieved. In line with its augmented reliance
on market forces and competition, the GoB's public sector reform strategy includes a
larger role for private sector participation in water supply and sanitation. This strategy
requires the design and implementation of an explicit regulatory framework. A key
element of that regulatory reform is the 1995 Concession Law (Law 8987), which
stipulates that all expiring concession contracts be renewed through public bidding.
However, the required by-law for the water and sanitation sector has not yet been
approved. The main agents continue to be the SWCs which provide service to about 76%
of the country's population under long-term (25- or 30-years) concessions from the
municipalities. Many of these concessions were signed in the late sixties and early
seventies and have already expired or will do so within the next five years. The rest of the
population is served by municipal water agencies. So far, only a few reform-minded states
have initiated actions for private participation in their water utilities. Other actions have
generally been limited to increasing the level of rates without dealing with the tariff
structure.



3
6.   In 1989, in the state of Sao Paulo the population living in the service area of the
state water company SABESP reached 66.5% of the total urban population of which 90%
received water and 64% had their sewerage collected, well above the national averages.
The rest was served by municipal utilities/departments. This sector organization remained
largely unaltered during the execution of the project. As the federal government's role
was drastically reduced, the formulation of the sector policy was left to the Secretariat for
Water Resources, Sanitation and Works, while its implementation was the responsibility of
SABESP. The state of Sao Paulo has yet to make a serious attempt to establish a
regulatory framework, introduce increased private sector participation in the sector, and
modernize the existing tariff structure. Some isolated cases of privatization occurred at
the municipal level which have had limited success. As SABESP is the only state agency
in charge of investment and operations in the sanitation sector, its position is much
stronger than the mere distribution of responsibilities would suggest.
Bank Sector Lending
7.    Bank assistance for water and sanitation projects in Brazil supports the GoB's
efforts to improve the efficiency and equity in the provision of water and sewerage
services through institutional and regulatory reform and extension of basic sanitation to
the urban poor, and to address public health and environmental pollution problems arising
from inadequate sewage disposal in large urban areas. Since 1971 the Bank has made
eighteen loans to the sector. The Bank was partially financing seven additional projects
during the execution of the project subject of this ICR:
a) The Water Sector Project for Municipalities and Low-Income Areas (Loan 2983-
BR), designed (i) to extend water supply and sanitation services to poor urban
communities through the PROSANEAR program, and (ii) to increase the water
supply in the city of Campinas, SP, financed by a specific part of the loan;
b) The Water Sector Modernization Project (Loan 3442-BR), for strengthening
sector institutions and for specific investments by the three SWCs in the states of
Bahia, Santa Catarina, and Mato Grosso do Sul;
c) Three Water Quality and Pollution Control Projects in the states of Sao Paulo,
Parana, and M.inas Gerais (Loans 3504-BR, 3505-BR, and 3554-BR) whose main
purpose is to reduce the impact of pollution on water quality;
d) The Espirito Santo Water and Coastal Pollution Management Project (Loan 3767-
BR), which aims to improve the efficiency of the SWC and control pollution; and
e) Atechnical assistance project (Loan 3503-BR) that the federal Government is
executing to prepare water quality projects in large metropolitan areas.



4
B.    Project Objectives and Description
Project Objectives
8.    The stated objectives of the project were: (i) to help optimize the aliocation of
scarce resources through better investment planning and marginal cost analysis and
pricing; (ii) to increase SABESP's operational efficiency; (iii) to improve environmental
and health conditions in the urban areas of the state of Sao Paulo through the extension of
water supply and waste water disposal services; (iv) to help develop new strategies to
improve SABESP's ability to implement projects with high social importance but not
necessarily high financial returns; and (v) to support government efforts towards
decentralization by the commitment of financial resources from the state of Sao Paulo and
SABESP.
Project Scope
9.    The project was based on SABESP's five year investment program for the period
1989-1993 which had a total volume of USD1,783 million. Out of this, the investments
mentioned below with total costs of USD600 million (plus IDC of USD46 million) were
provisionally selected and defined as the project; their final acceptance, before
implementation could begin, depended on the results of the marginal cost analysis and/or
least cost analysis reaching the following thresholds. The water projects in the medium-
sized cities were selected if expected revenue covered at least 75% of the cost in cities
with a population of more than 50,000; the threshold was set at 60% for water projects in
smaller towns anrd all sewage projects. If these minimum criteria were not fulfilled,
exceptions could be made under certain circumstances. By region, in RSMP only water
supply facilities in an amount of USD197 million were considered, while in the interior and
on the coast both water supply and sewage facilities formed part of the program, their
ratio being USD136 million to USD76 million. Table 4 contains a detailed description of
the project scope.
I.    Sao Paulo Metropolitan Region
Water Supply
(a)   Construction of the first stage of the South West Water Supply System to
increase raw water supply by 3 m3/s. This stage consisted of (i) three dams (Alto y
Medio Capivari and Embura) to form two impounding reservoirs with about 214
million m3 storage capacity; (ii) an outflow control structure and channel at
Embura; and (iii) a pumping station to transfer 5 m 3/s water from Medio to the
Alto Capivari reservoir.
(b)    Improvements to the water treatment installations in four systems (Rio
Grande, rlabucu, Guarau/Cantareira and Alto Cotia).



5
(c)   Construction of about 2,000 km of water transmission and distribution
pipelines, storage tanks for treated water with an aggregate capacity of about
100,000 mi3, and 200,000 water connections.
II.    Interior and Coastal Regions. For operational purposes, SABESP had
subdivided its investment program for the interior and coastal regions in five subprograms,
i.e. investments resulting from (i) regular population growth; (ii) service expansion in
medium-sized cities; (iii) service expansion in small towns; (iv) new services due to public
housing programs; and (v) a special program to improve the sewerage services in the city
of Sao Jose dos Campos. In the aggregate, the scope for water and sewerage investments
was expected to be as follows.
Water Supply
(a)   Construction, extension and/or improvement of water systems in about 50
medium-sized cities and about 200 small towns.
Sewage Collection and Treatment
(a)   Construction and/or extension of sewage systems and sewage treatment
facilities in about 19 medium-sized cities and 50 small towns.
(b)   Construction of 2 km of interceptors, a sewage pumping station and a
1.8 m 3/S sewage treatment plant in the city of Sao Jose dos Campos.
III.  Institutional Development
(a)   Technical assistance, materials and works for an unaccounted-for water
reduction program; other improvements in operational and commercial systems
such as of the user's cadastre and metering.
(b)    An Assessment of and a program for financing appropriate investments in
municipal water pollution on a state wide level.
(c)    Staff training.
T! e expected distribution of the investment cost was 43% for RMSP, 46%
for the interior and coastal regions, and 11% for non-localized institutional
development. By subsector, 73% was to be invested in water supply measures,
16% for sewerage services, and 11% for institutional development. However, this
was only a tentative expectation, not a firm commitment to execute an investment
program as mentioned above.



6
C.   Project Design
Conceptual Framework
10.   The SAR's basis for project design was SABESP's five year investment program
(1989-1993) which the appraisal mission considered carefully prepared. The project cost
was defined as one third of that investment program. However, the Bank apparently was
not fully satisfiec with the selection process, and therefore required the carrying out of
marginal cost studies before subprojects could be included in the project. The project thus
was on the one hand conceived as financing part of a time slice of a pluriannual investment
program, while on the other hand subprojects were not accepted without further
technical, economic and environmental analysis. To mitigate the risk that the company's
viability would be endangered by the remaining two thirds of the investment program, the
assumption was that the same tools for planning and selection would be applied on a
company wide basis.
Project Preparation and Appraisal
11.   The project changed its shape considerably during preparation. First it was
conceived as a program that would be executed simultaneously in the two states of Sao
Paulo and Parana by their SWCs; the loan to SABESP was supposed to be USD230
million and to SANEPAR USD70 million. CEF was expected to be the technical agent for
the project, and to perform overall control and supervision of the project. After the
project had already been appraised, the GoB decided to withdraw the Parana component
because of its low priority in the state's investment program considering its heavy debt
load. The role of CEF was also eliminated. The loan amount for the Sao Paulo part was
increased to USI;280 million. Board presentation was delayed by almost one month
because the Ministry of Finance wanted two issues pertaining to Bank projects in Brazil in
general to be resolved within the context of this loan. In the end, the GoB only subjected
the signing of the Legal Documents to Senate approval, as required by article 52 of the
Constitution, and the project was approved by the Board on June 28, 1989, its last session
of FY89.
D.   Project Implementation
Project Start-up
12.   The two unresolved generic issues caused approval by the Senate to be delayed;
the Legal Documents were finally signed seven and a half months later, on February
16,1990. To declare the Loan effective took another five months. The first version of the
legal opinion received in May 1990 was considered unsatisfactory which required an
extension of the date for declaration of effectiveness which in the end took place on July
6, 1990, more than one year after Board approval.



7
Project Implementation Schedule and Procurement
13.   Despite the delays in signing and effectiveness, preparations for implementation
proceeded normally. Standard bidding documents for LCB and ICB of civil works were
agreed in January and for LCB of goods in February 1990. There was a steady flow of
subprojects during the years 1990 and 1991. Of a total of 18 subprojects in medium sized
cities, 15 were approved during 1990 and 1991. Progress for the other subprograms
initially was also swift.
14.  In the following two years the pace of project implementation slowed down
considerably. In 1994, the project was in serious trouble. At the request of the
government of the state of Sao Paulo, SABESP had increased its investment program by
including a series of big sewage treatment plants (financed in part by IDB) without
assuring complete funding at adequate terms. It then resorted to short-term financing
which made its financial position even more precarious. Further difficulties arising in this
period included macroeconomics conditions in Brazil (hyperinflation and a freeze on tariffs
as a result of the Cruzado Plan), and sector disarray resulting from the dismantling of the
National Sanitation Plan system and frequent changes in and politicization of leading
sector institutions. Invoices of suppliers and contractors remained unpaid for excessively
long periods which caused them to increase prices for new supplies and civil works if they
bid at all. Execution of ongoing civil works was in many cases suspended. At the original
Closing date of the loan on June 30, 1994, the Bank seriously considered asking the
Borrower to cancel the balance of the loan, but in the end reluctantly extended the closing
date by another year. After state elections towards year end 1994, a new management
was brought in at SABESP, which quickly tackled the financing problems by reducing
investment and operating costs, rescheduling the accumulated arrears, capitalizing debt
and increasing rates. The macroeconomic situation also improved due to a successful
stabilization program. Project implementation begun to pick up again, and in 1995 and
1996 project execution was faster than envisaged in the SAR for the peak years. In light
of this turnaround, the Bank extended the Closing date two more times, first to June 30,
1996, and a last time to June 30, 1997, not without agreeing with SABESP on specific
benchmarks to be met. Two group of works had not been concluded at the Closing date,
a sewage collector in the RMSP (which became operational in March 1998) and the
sewage treatment plant, pumping station and collector in Sao Jose dos Campos
(completed in November 1997).
15.   The project had to bear a heavy procurement load. The Loan Agreement called
for packaging contracts under ICB for civil works in amounts exceeding USD5 million
and for goods higher than USD0.25 million. However, SABESP procured numerous
small works in the interior and RSMP under LCB, for which the Loan Agreement
contained no restrictions. This resulted in a large number of bidding documents that had
to be prepared and contracts administered. Contracts with a combined value of USD419
million equivalent were concluded on the basis of ICB (table 5). While during the first half
of the life of the project, SABESP bid supplies and civil works separately, during the
second half it changed this modality to jointly contracting supplies and civil works for the



8
same location which reduced the work load and sources of possible conflict, increased
implementation speed and brought about cost savings. Various conflicts arose during ICB
when foreign bidders felt they were discriminated against. Procurement of water meters
proved especially contentious. Local bidders succeeded at the first level of State Courts in
their claim that Brazilian regulations prevailed over the Bank's procurement procedures,
and therefore the award to a supplier from China should be nullified. Given the judicial
system's independence, not even an intervention from the Minister of Finance could
resolve the issue. In the end, the plaintiffs withdrew the lawsuit only after SABESP had
awarded them other contracts for water meters not procured under the Loan. A similar
"solution" was found in other cases. The State's Controllers office also questioned the
legality of the Bank's guidelines for procurement of consulting services which caused
more delays. Modifications to the Bank's standard procurement documents required
SABESP to change already completed bidding documents and were another reason for
delays.
Project Costs
16.   At appraisal, project costs were estimated at USD600 million of which 25% in
foreign exchange (table 6). Price contingencies were calculated to amount to 13% over
base cost plus physical contingencies. Because of its nature as a program, at appraisal and
in the Loan Agreement the project scope was only partially determined in physical terms.
Therefore, a comparison between planned and actual costs is of only limited value. The
final outcome is estimated at USD600 million, of which USD94 million (16%) in foreign
exchange. In real terms, however, the investment volume of USD382 million reached less
than three quarters of the USD532 million planned at appraisal, without a significant
reduction in scope. The implied much higher expenditures for cost increases due to
inflation are caused by the 60% longer implementation period, the hyperinflation
prevailing in the early years of project execution, and the concentration of expenditures in
the later years.
Project Financing
17.   Actual financing of the project turned out to be quite different from the
assumptions in the SAR (table 7). Originally, 43% was supposed to be financed by debt
(the Bank Loan), 37% by SABESP's internal cash generation, and 20% by paid-in capital
increases from the state of Sao Paulo. A Shareholder Agreement between the state of Sao
Paulo, DAEE and the Bank, and a Performance Agreement between the state of Sao
Paulo and SABESP were concluded to secure the state's contribution. However, the
permanent financial crisis of the state pushed this obligation to a low priority level, and no
transfers were made until year end 1994. In 1995, this obligation with the Bank's consent
was replaced by rate increases which allowed SABESP to cover the shortfall from internal
sources. In the end, internal cash generation financed 55% and debt the remaining 45%.
18.   As is to be expected from the three-year delay in project implementation,
disbursements lagged the appraisal estimates (table 8). As they also run behind what the



9
Bank's disbursements profile indicates as long run averages, the SAR estimates on speed
of project execution and disbursements have to be considered unrealistic. The low point
was reached in the second quarter of CY95 when actual disbursements amounted to only
50% of profile disbursements. After that, payments improved steadily. The faster pace
was also due to the Bank increasing its financing percentage for civil works from 43% to
70% of local expenditures during FY96; this percentage was reduced to 30% in the
following year. In the end, the Loan was fully disbursed, with the last disbursement made
on July 8, 1997. It thereby even exceeded the total according to the disbursement profile,
which includes a cancellation of 0.3% at the end.
19.   The allocation of Loan proceeds by category (table 9) was slightly altered in favor
of a higher percentage for civil works at the expense of supplies. However, this is more a
reflection of the shift in procuring civil works and the pertaining equipment together than
any actual higher expenditures for civil works (see para. 15 above).
E.    Project Results
Project Objectives
20.   The stated project objectives were mostly met. SABESP's physical operational
efficiency as measured by labor productivity improved, but unaccounted-for water
remained at unsatisfactory levels. Environmental and health conditions for the
beneficiaries also improved, although no exact figures for the situation with/without
project are available. The company has increasingly become less dependent on resources
from the central government, in accordance with the objective. The project was
instrumental in introducing a mechanism for selecting projects to be financed out of Loan
proceeds according to a cost recovery criterion. However, the selection process agreed in
the Loan Agreement was applied only to subprojects in medium-sized cities and small
towns, while for those included in the subprograms to cover service extension for the
RSMP in general, the evaluation was limited to the Master Plan. One of the objectives of
the project, the introduction of marginal cost analysis and pricing did not advance beyond
the execution of the respective study whose recommendations were never implemented.
Also, no new strategies and instruments for serving low income segments of the
population like those developed under the PROSANEAR program were introduced.
Physical Results
21.   Due to the nature of the project definition as part of a time-slice investment
program with no exactly described physical scope in the project description of the Loan
Agreement but for the institutional development component, a direct comparison between
planned and actually executed works and services has to rely on the data made available
by the Borrower, and partially contained in chapters of the SAR (table 4). On that basis,
actual executed work quantities exceeded the targets in most categories. The main
exception was the cancellation of the system to increase raw water supply by 3 m3/s for
the RMSP by building three dams in the Southwest with a combined storage capacity of



10
214 million m3, which had to be abandoned due to conflicts with legislation protecting
indigenous people and the environment. Increases of water treatment capacity at the other
locations totaled 6.7 m3/s versus 2.2 m3/s planned. Investments in water transmission
pipelines and distribution networks reached 2,566 km (planned were 2,820 km), and
283,000 house connections were built (the target was 300,000), while storage capacity for
treated water was augmented by 233,000 m3 (SAR 107,000 m3). Regarding sewage
collection and treatment, 87,000 house connections (against 55,000 in the SAR), 1,078
km secondary and 17 km main collectors have been constructed (the respective figures in
the SAR were 660 km and 8 km). Sewage treatment facilities with an additional capacity
of 2.7 m3/s were installed (planned were 2.4 m3/s). In institutional development, the main
weight was put on the installation of macro and micro meters, four other measures were
implemented within the planned range, one was with the Bank's consent canceled as a
similar study was already executed by DAEE, one was executed with SABESP's own
funds, and one was replaced by another study. In spite of these increases in physical
terms, actual expenditures for water supply investments in the RMSP and for sewage in
the interior and coastal regions were slightly below plan, while for investments in water
supply outside of the RMSP less than half of the programmed amount was spent.
22.   SABESP's operational performance during project execution has been mixed, with
ups and downs mainly related to the political cycle in the state of Sao Paulo and the
changing macroeconomic environment in the country (table 10). At the end of 1997, 94%
of the population in the service area of SABESP had access to piped water supply as
compared to 90% in 1989. Although water production increased from 64 m3/sec to 77
m3/sec during the period under review, average sales per connection declined from 36 m3
per month in 1989 to 30 m3 in 1997, and residential consumption per month to 160 lcd,
reflecting continuing water shortages and consumer reaction to higher rates.
Unaccounted-for water, measured as the ratio of metered consumption over volume
produced (at plant exit), at the beginning of the project stood at 25%, and had been
assumed in the SAR to be reduced to 22%. Instead it increased gradually, first to over
30%; since 1994 it has consistently oscillated around 40%, showing no signs of reacting
to the various attempts of the company to reduce it. The rate of coverage of the
population by sewage services increased from 57% in 1989 to 73% in 1997, and 59% of
sewage is now being collected. The biggest progress can be registered in the treatment of
sewage, which advanced to 50% in 1997 as the Tiete sewage treatment plants started
operating (in 1989, only 18% was treated). Labor productivity has been raised from 3.7
employees per 1,000 connections in 1989 to 2.6 more recently, and from 109,700 m3 of
water and sewage billed per employee per year in 1989 to 134,500 m3 in 1997, although
comparisons are of limited value due to different degrees of outsourcing during the period.
In the end, total costs per m3 billed are the final yardstick, and SABESP has not managed
to achieve any economies of scale: While in 1989 it spent USD-cents 27/m3 for operation,
maintenance, administration and sales, these expenditures reached USD-cents 58/m3 in



11
1996 (the year 1997 is unsuitable for comparison purposes because of the increase in
sewage treatment). These are relatively high values compared with other developing
countries, even if the possible overvaluation of the local currency is taken into account.
SABESP's Financial Performance
23.   SABESP does not prepare its financial statements according to international
accounting standards but follows those issued by the Comissao de Valores Mobiliarios,
the Brazilian Securities Commission. Comparison between annual statements is difficult,
because the company does not apply the same principles consistently. As SABESP's
financial department has provided only part of the requested information for the ICR, the
analysis is complemented with the information available in the Bank and the audit reports.
SABESP's financial position has fluctuated considerably in the past, from satisfactory to
near insolvency and back to achieving a modest rate of return, again mainly due to
political interference by the state government and the economic situation of the country.
The financial indicators therefore have been swinging within a wide range - far from the
steady improvenr-'nts assumed in the SAR - and returned to acceptable levels only in 1996
(details are provided in table 11, the calculation of the financial indicators is included in
table 10). After reaching 86% in 1994, the operating ratio had been brought back to 65%
in 1996, (similar to the 61% in 1989), and the rate of return on assets in operation
increased to 1.9%, quite below the target in the SAR. In terms of cash flow, even in the
more recent past, SABESP has been hampered by its limited ability to collect its bills,
both from residential and public sector customers, and the municipalities which buy water
en block. SABESP had to increase its provision for uncollectible amounts, but has so far
abstained from writing them off. The accounts receivable position (gross) increased
steadily, from 47 days billing equivalent in 1989 to 137 days in 1997. The debt service
coverage ratio, in part thanks to capitalization of debt owned to the state, improved to 2.8
in 1997 (1.3 in the SAR) and the self-financing ratio to 50% (vs. 35% in the SAR).
Overall, these improvements were sufficient to allow SABESP to gain - although limited -
access to international capital markets, thereby reducing its cost of financing. The recent
reevaluation of investments in emerging markets may have put these achievements into
serious doubt. Audit reports were provided, although normally with delay and of limited
scope.
Economic Reevaluation
24.   Originally, based on Planasa and the National Tariff Law, rates were designed to
achieve financial equilibrium and social equity. After the collapse of that system, the state
of Sao Paulo assumed the task of determining the rates, with limited monitoring from the
central government. However, the Departamento de Agua e Energia Eletrica (DAEE) for
the State of Sao Paulo has yet to develop its own tariff policy. At first, rates were set
quite low, independent of economic and financial considerations. To compensate for the
increases in operating costs described in para. 22, rates were raised almost each year, from
USD-cents 43/m3 water in 1989 to USD-cents 91/m3 in 1997, and from USD-cents 47/i3
sewage in 1989 to USD-cents 99/m3 in 1997. State Decree No. 41,446 of December 16,



12
1996 allows the company to set its own rates. The economic criteria used to set them are
unknown; it appears that they are based on SABESP's financing requirements as
determined by its ambitious expansion program, limited possibilities of external resource
mobilization, high debt service needs, and operating costs. Cross subsidies between
service areas and customer categories and within them are still widespread.
25.   The ecor.,mic reevaluation is based on all investments made by SABESP in the
time slice 1989-1997, comparable to the approach in the SAR. In the reevaluation, it is
assumed that the capacity created by the new investments will be fully utilized twelve
years after completion. Incremental sales have been determined proportionally to the
addition to total new connections that were built during the investment period. The
project life was assumed to be 25 years. The revised long-run marginal cost, at a discount
rate of 10% (the same as in the SAR), is estimated at USD-cents 7 1/m3 for water supply
and USD-cents 74/m3 for sewage (expressed in 1988 USD), while in the SAR the values
(for small connections in the RMSP) were USD-cents 34.5/m3 and USD-cents 28.7/m3
respectively. The reasons for the higher costs as a result of the reevaluation are: (i) higher
operating costs; (ii) higher unaccounted-for water; and (iii) higher investments.
Operating expenses per m3 in 1996 were USD-cents 58 compared to USD-cents 34 in the
SAR. According to the SAR, unaccounted-for water should have come down to 22% in
1995, when it actually stood at 40%. In the SAR, total capital investment was assumed
at USD1,502 million. Actual investment volume during the period reached USD2,289
million, the difference was caused mainly by the additional investments in sewage
treatment. Although not expressed in terms of same year value, the average 1997 rates of
USD-cents 91 per m3 water and USD-cents 99 per m3 sewage seem to exceed the costs
determined through the above calculation. Using rates as a proxy for benefits, the rate of
return has been 1 -estimated at 7% for the entire 1989 -1997 investment program as
compared to 12% in the SAR. This lower rate of return, in addition to the explanations
given for the higher costs, is due to the lower water sales, especially in the years of the
investment period. Total water sales actually were 16% below forecast in 1997, and are
presently estimated to remain 12% below the SAR value during the entire life of the
project. In addition, this reevaluation follows a different approach from the one in the
SAR to determine the sales attributable to the project by not equalizing sales volume
"after the project" with sales volume "with the project". While in the SAR all incremental
sales are attributed to the time slice investments, here only a portion which increases over
the years is being assumed as caused by the capital investment program. As rates reflect
only part of the benefits of water supply and sewage disposal services to society, total
benefits will exceed the level resulting from this calculation. Table 12 provides details for
both water and sewerage.
Impact on the Poor
26.   Although the project, according to its objectives, was not explicitly targeted at the
urban poor, it is safe to say that the improvements to the water supply system and the
construction of major sewer networks had and continue to have a positive impact on the
lives of the low-.',-come population in the RSMP, and the interior and coastal regions of



13
the state of Sao Paulo. Although between 1989 and 1997 more than 1,225,000 new water
connections (283,000 within the project) were installed, water supply coverage increased
only from 89% to 94%. The extension of the sewerage networks lifted coverage from
57% to 73%, through a total of 1,244,000 new connections (87,000 within the project).
These connections translate into a total of 10.7 million beneficiaries (calculated at 3.4
people per household and 1.27 households per connection) of the investment program .
This shows the enormous challenge that population growth presents to SABESP. Recent
studies performed by SABESP concluded that 49% of the population in the municipalities
served belonged to the poor (defined in the SAR as families earning a monetary income of
three regional minimum salaries or less). During the seven year implementation period of
the investment program, about 3.80 million poor (540,000 per year) obtained new water
and 3.75 million poor (535,000 per year) new sewerage services as compared to 2.4
million new poor clients for water services (480,000 per year) and 1.1 million new poor
clients for sewerage services (220,000 per year) expected in the SAR. About 75% of all
new connections benefited the poor. As the distribution networks were designed for 30
years, they allow to connect additional consumers which are not included in the above
figures.
F.    Project Sustainability
27.   SABESP staff is fully qualified to adequately operate and maintain the new
facilities, given its proven track record. From the institutional and operational point of
view, the lack of a sound legal and regulatory framework keeps the sector and the
company exposed to the potential policy swings resulting from changes of government.
The absence of a competitive market structure permits services to be provided inefficiently
and with insufficient attention to consumer interests. The existing tariff with its built-in
cross subsidies between regions and customer categories provides a disincentive for
SABESP to provide the same quality of service to all customers. It remains to be seen if
the failure to involve the communities in the planning and execution of the project in areas
mainly populated by the poor will cause them to neglect their responsibilities towards their
in-house installations and SABESP. While the city of Sao Paulo implemented some
drainage works in parallel with the project (financed in part by IDB), integrating the
operation of the water supply and sanitation installations with other municipal services,
such as drainage and solid waste management, remains a challenge.
G.   Bank Performance
28.   Overall, Bank performance was moderately satisfactory. The Bank's project
preparation, involving about 131 staff-weeks and six missions, lasted more than two years
from identification to Board presentation due to the shift in project definition mentioned in
para. 11, and major institutional changes in Brazil's water supply and sanitation sector at
the time. To declare the Loan effective took another twelve months, due in part to
insufficient recognition of the problem potential of some misunderstandings during loan
negotiations.



14
29.   Bank supervision comprised 129 staff-weeks. Twenty-four Bank missions visited
the project (see tables 14 and 15). However, the frequency of those visits was very
erratic, with no clear relationship between project progress and the number of visits per
year. While in 1990 four and in 1993 five supervision missions took place, in 1991 and
1992 there was only one for each year. The Bank failed to supervise SABESP's financial
management and performnance on a continuous basis: between September 1990 and April
1995, there were a total of 14 supervision missions, but only two in July and September
1993 included a Financial Analyst. This certainly contributed that the Bank became
somehow belatedly aware of the financial crisis developing at SABESP. For the same
reason, it accepted progress reports by SABESP which focused exclusively on
procurement and works progress, but omitted any information on the development of the
company as a whole and its financial and commercial management. There was a
remarkable continuity in the person of the task manager.
30.   In 1995, when the project was still in crisis, the Bank - before taking a decision on
canceling the Loan - decided to perform a supervision similar to a mid-term review
although the Loan Agreement did not provide for such a step. That mission permitted the
Bank to correctly assess the new management and the profound changes it would bring
about for the company. When SABESP faced a severe shortage of counterpart funds, the
Bank temporarily raised its disbursement percentages. Likewise, it did not object to the
replacement of the state's equity contribution by a higher internal contribution by
SABESP through increased rates.
H.   Borrower Performance
31.   SABESP is the biggest water utility in South America. As described in more detail
in preceding paragraphs, its overall performance was acceptable in the earlier years of
project execution, then deteriorated sharply, and finally recovered after 1994. Continuity
of the project coordinator at SABESP helped overcome to the extent possible the
problems resulting from these institutional instabilities. The project initially had a high
priority for the company, then fell back in its ranking, but was later returned to the front
place. The borrower showed respect for the clauses of the Loan Agreement and complied
with most of the covenants (table 16). Two financial covenants were not met, referring to
unaccounted-for water and the accounts receivable position.
I.    Bank-Borrower Relationship
32.   The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower was generally cordial. If
there were disturbances, they were caused by outside actors like the new laws on local
procurement introduced in 1993 and 1994, and the questioning of the Bank's guidelines
for contracting consultants by the state Tribunal de Contas.



15
J.    Assessment of Outcome
33.   The overall outcome is considered satisfactory. The physical objectives were fully
and the financial and institutional objectives partially achieved. Project sustainability is
highly likely, while Borrower performance is qualified as satisfactory and Bank
performance moderately satisfactory.
K.   Future Operation
34.   Responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the Project facilities remains
with SABESP. The installations financed with the Loan use conventional technology as
already applied in previous projects in other service areas for which SABESP's staff has
provided adequate operation and maintenance. The company's improved financial
position will help to accomplish this task.. The constraints and risks are located mainly
outside the Borrrmwer's sphere of influence, in the frequently changing political
environment.
L.    Lessons Learned
35.   The main lessons learned from this project are as follows.
Policy lessons
(a)   Limiting rational project selection criteria to the Bank project is insufficient. The
Bank strategy for introducing rational project selection criteria was limited to the Bank
project. The rationality of other investment projects was to be achieved through the
execution and application of a marginal cost and pricing study, a limit on increasing the
investment program by more than 20%, and the assumption that the same selection criteria
would be applied on the remaining components of the investment program as well.
Although SABESP after some delay executed the marginal cost study, it never applied its
recommendations. The ceiling on additional investments was easily circumvented by
presenting some optimistic forecasts. The projects that passed the Bank's eligibility test
became part of the project financed in part by the Bank loan, while the rest were financed
with other resou- -es. The Bank should make sure from the outset that the Borrower
applies rational investment criteria over its whole investment program.
(b)   In the case of time-slice investment financing, the project scope should be defined
by value instead ofphysical composition. In standard investment projects, the physical
scope defines the design and content of the project which in turn define its cost. In the
type of project like the one financed under this loan, this definition is not meaningful; it
was replaced by a value, which was set at USD600 million. However, the project
description in the Loan Agreement does not include this amount, but rather defines the
project as consisting of eligible subprojects and institutional development. Thereby the



16
Borrower's obligation to carry out the project is lacking content. In a further
consideration, the project content should be defined in terms of constant currency, not
current currency, to avoid the erosion of the scope by inflation.
(c)   Setting absolute ceilings on the cost of a connection per beneficiary is preferable
to cost recovery criteria. The water projects in the medium-sized cities were selected if
expected revenue covered at least 75% of the cost in cities with a population of more than
50,000; the threshold was set at 60% for water projects in smaller towns and all sewage
projects. By increasing rates this criteria can easily be fulfilled. Its meaningfulness is
further limited as it is based on average rates while the actual rates in these areas are much
lower. In the future, if a social orientation is to be achieved it is preferable to introduce
cost ceilings per connection in absolute terms which can be brought about only through
the application of low cost technology.
(d)   Level and structure of rates for water and sanitation services should be included
in the Loan Agreement. The SAR discusses at length the level and structure of rates in
Brazil and at SABESP, but draws no conclusions for the implementation of the project
beyond the preparation of a marginal cost study. In the present uncertainties in the sector,
future projects should include covenants about the principles and targets to be achieved by
a Borrower, both for the level and the structure, including the criteria to determine the
level, applicability, and financing of a social tariff.
(e)   Political interference should be reduced. The long-term and sustained
performance of a utility with competent staff like SABESP can be safeguarded only by
separating the utility from the political administration and introducing competition and
private participation within the context of proper regulation.
Project design and implementation
(a)   Matching description ofproject design and cost. The SAR presents the
description of the project in the interior and coastal regions according to investment type
(water and sewage) and town size, whereas in the cost scheme the information is provided
based on type of demand (due to natural growth, housing program, etc.). This use of a
different approach for each description makes an analysis of the implications of a change
in scope impossible.
(b)   Overoptimistic assumptions about the capacity of the borrower to implement the
project. The SAR was based on a five year project implementation period. This was two
and a half years shorter than what was to be expected according to the disbursement
profile for the sector. Had that been used, no extension of the closing date would have
been necessary. The Bank should strictly apply the results of the disbursement history of
other projects to avoid overoptimistic assumptions creating artificial problems thereafter.
(c)   Consistency of basic assumptionsforfinancial and economic evaluation. The
assumptions on water and sewage billed differ considerably between the financial and



17
economic evaluation. At the end of the project investment period in 1993, the volume of
water billed was expected to reach 1,669 million m3 according to the financial forecast,
while the corresponding figure in the economic analysis is 1,757 mnillion m3 or 5.3% more.
Similar differences can be detected in the annual investment volumes. SAR chapters
should use the same set of figures to avoid inconsistencies.
(d)   Calculation of the self-financing ratio. The formula used for the calculation of the
self-financing ratio according to the Loan Agreement does not include the variations in
working capital. It therefore presumes all amounts which are billed as revenue are also
collected which in the case of companies facing serious arrears results in an overestimate
of their internal cash flow generation. Future self-financing covenants should be designed
accordingly.
(e)    Calculation of accounts receivable indicator. The accounts receivable covenant
in the Loan Agreement is based on the net figure, i.e. after deducting provisions for
uncollectible accounts from the gross amount of accounts receivable. By defining the
indicator in this way it measures the efforts to provision for the amounts that can not be
collected instead of determining how much care the company takes in collecting its bills.
In the future, this indicator should be based on the gross value of the accounts receivable.
(f)    Calculation of economic rate of return. The calculation of the econoimic rate of
return attributes all additional sales from year one of project execution to the project. It
implies that all systems are operating at full capacity. This is obviously not a reflection of
reality and led to an overestimate of the rate of return. In the future, a different distinction
between the situation with and without project should be made by attributing only the
additional capacity effects to the project.
(g)   Bundling ofprocurement of civil works and goods for smaller and medium
distribution works. If at all possible, goods and civil works for smaller and medium
distribution works should be procured together because it facilitates their implementation.
(h)   Progress reports sholuld also incluide information on development impact and
financial and sector development. The Bank has accepted progress reports from the
Borrower which concentrated practically only on measuring progress in procurement,
construction, and payments but omitted all information on the development of the
company in organizational and financial matters. This caused the Bank to have only
limited information on the Borrower during the years when supervision missions were very
rare and/or no financial specialist participated. More care should be taken to define with
the Borrower an acceptable content for the progress reports including development
impact, financial and sector information.
M.   Consulting Services
36.   The SAR had made provisions for consulting services for supervision of
construction and institutional development. SABESP preferred to execute the supervision
of construction with its own personnel, and implemented about half the six planned kinds



18
of institutional development services. Most prominent were studies on sectorization of the
water distribution systems and for the design of telemetering and automatization (table
13). Added were studies for the reorganization of SABESP. The Bank's participation
from the outset had been limited to financing a modest 10% of the total cost, which was
also the actual outcome, compared to the 14% higher cost in total. The performance of
the consultants was generally satisfactoty. The recommendations of all but one study
were implemented; the long run marginal cost study was shelved. Of a total of 23 studies,
only two were performed by foreign consultants. Most consultants were contracted in
accordance with the short list procedure.
N.   Project Documentation and Data
37.   Given the situation at the time of preparing the SAR, it was adequately prepared
with the exceptions mentioned in other parts of this report and provided useful
information for the preparation of the ICR. The aide memoires, supervision reports, and
general correspondence in general provided a summarized record of the issues
encountered during implementation; however some supervision missions did not result in
supervision reports or even BTO-reports. Monitoring indicators were rarely updated.
Progress reports submitted by SABESP lacked information on the financial situation of the
Borrower. SABESP submitted data on the engineering and economic aspects of the
project that were used in the preparation of this report; however it did not provide
acceptable financial information. It also did not send comments on this report to be
included as appendix B.
0.   The Challenges Ahead
38.   The Bank's cooperation with SABESP within the traditional sector environment
has been well justified by the outcome. The challenge ahead consists in making the
successful transition from the traditional model of the state owned company covering most
of the state to a decentralized structure which provides for sufficient competition and
private sector involvement without foregoing the achievements up to date. The Bank has
begun a dialogue with the sector institutions towards such cooperation with a view to
arrive at a common approach. At present, considerable differences of opinion remain.



19
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
LOAN 3102-BR
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives          Substantial        Partial          Negligible        Moderately      Not applicable
Satisfactory
Macro Policies
Sector Policies                                        E l                                                    R
Financial Objectives                   O                                  E                                   El
Institutional Development
Physical Objectives                                                                         fl
Poverty Reduction                                      E                 E                  El
Gender Issues
Other Social Objectives                a                                                    El
Environmental Objectives               ar oo]
Public Sector Management                                                                    ID El  []
Private Sector Development            E                E                 E                  E3
Other (specify)                       L                El                                   []
B. Project Sustainability          Likely                   Unlikely                   Uncertain
(/)   ~E (E)(



20
Table 1: Summary of Assessments (continued)
C. Bank Performance               satisfactory           Satisfactory              Moderately       Deficient
Satisfactory     Deic
Identification                 ol                                                                   LO
Preparation Assistance         L                                                                    LI
Appraisal                      L                          I                                         LI
Supervision                   LI                        i                                           III
Higl
D. Borrower Performance        satisfactory              Satisfactory           Moderately          Deficient
(/)                      (V')                Satisfactory
Preparation                    n                                                                 Lo
Implementation                                                                  LI
Covenant Compliance
Operation (if applicable)                               L                       L                 LI
Highly                                             Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome           satisfactory    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
LI)                               LI)             (L)(



21
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
Loan 3102-BR
Table 2: RELATED BANK PROJECTS
Project name                                Purpose                         Amount  Year    Status
(Loan number)                                                                 USD        appr.
million
Sao Paulo Water Supply   (757-  Water storage and distribution                           22.0  1971      Closed
BR)
Sao Paulo Pollution Control (758-  Sewage collection and disposal                        12.0  1971      Closed
BR)
Greater Sao Paulo Sewerage      Sewage collection and treatment                          52.5  1978      Closed
Collection and Treatment (1525-
BR)
Water Supply and Sewerage       Water and sewage improvements                           302.3  1983      Closed
Sector (2249-BR)
Water Project for Municipalities    Water supply and sanitation services for poor urban  80.0  1988      Closed
and Low-income Areas   (2983-  communities
BR)
Water Sector Modernization     Institutional strengthening of the water and sewerage    250.0  1992      On-
Project (3442-BR)               sector; specific investmnents in the States of Santa                     going
Catarina, Mato Grosso do Sul and Bahia
Water Quality and Pollution     Project preparation for water quality and pollution control  9.0  1992   On-
Control - Federal (3503-BR)     projects                                                                 going
Water Quality and Pollution     To ensure that the Guarapiranga reservoir is a reliable  119.0  1992     On-
Control - Sao Paulo (3504-BR)   source for the Sao Paulo Metro area                                      going
Water Quality and Pollution     Promote cost effective approach to water pollution      117.0  1992      On-
Control - Parana (3505-BR)      control and reduce the pollution, and maintain water                     going
supply for project area.
Water Quality and Pollution     Pollution control and rehabilitation of urban water     145.0  1993      On-
Control - Minas Gerais  (3554-   systems                                                                 going
BR)
Espirito Santo Water and Coastal   Improve efficiency and sewerage and water supply     154.0  1994      On-
Pollution Management Project    systems of CESAN, the state water company                                going
(3767-BR)                                                                                   _



22
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
Loan 3102-BR
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle  Date Planned  Actual Date
Identification           May-87        May-87
Preparation I            Jul-87        Jul-88
Preparation 11                         Oct-88
Pre-Appraisal            Sep-87        Nov-88
Appraisal                Oct-87        Jan-89
Negotiations                           4/24/89
Board Presentation       Jul-88        6/28/89
Signing                                2/16/90
Effectiveness                          7/6/90
Project Completion       Dec-93        6/30/97
Loan Closing             Jun-94        6/30/97



23
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
Loan 3102-BR
Table 4: Project Scope Summary
Type       Unit      SAR    Actual
SAO PAULO METROPOLITAN REGION                                      Estimate
1. Water Supply
Treatment
Southeast
Alto Capivari Dam                        Stor. Vol. Million m3 }   4.5
Embura Dam                               Stor. Vol. Million m3 }
Medio Capivari Dam                      Stor. Vol.  Million m3    210.0
Pumping Station                        Throughput       m31s       5.0
Treated Water Supply                      Volume        m31s       3.0
Rio Grande                                  Volume        m3/s      0.5       1.5
Cabucu                                      Volume        m3/s      0.3         -
Guarau/Cantareira                           Volume        m31s      0.3       1.3
Alto Cotia                                  Volume        m31s      0.6       1.3
WaterTransmission and Distribution Pipelines  Length         km     2,000    1,335
Treated Water Storage Tanks                  Volume          m3  100,000  203,000
House Connections                              Units    Number  200,000  165,000
2. Sewerage Collectors                          Length         km         -       6.4
INTERIOR AND BAIXADA SANTISTA
1. Water Supply
Water Treatment Plants                       Volume         m3/s      0.5      2.6
Water Transmission Pipelines                  Length         km        30       83
Treated Water Storage Tanks                  Volume          m3    7,000   30,100
Water Distribution Pipelines                  Length         km       790    1,148
Water House Connections                         Units    Number  100,000  117,681
2. Sewerage
Sewage House Connections                        Units    Number   55,000   87,385
Sewage pipelines                              Length         km      660    1,078
Sewage main collectors and interceptors       Length         km       6.0     11.8
Sewage pumping stations                      Volume         m3/s      0.6     1.54
Sewage treatment plants                      Volume         m3/s      0.6     1.54
Sao Jose dos Campos
Sewage Main Collector                       Length         km       2.0       5.1
Sewage pumping station                      Volume        m3/s      1.2       1.2
Sewage treatment plant                      Volume        m3/s      1.8       1.2
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Macro and micro meters                          Units    Number  250,000  369,866
Pitometry                                     Length         km     4,112    5,195
Consumer services and cadastre                 -          -          Yes        No
Planning and operational control                Units    Number        10       15
Billing and collection                         -          -          Yes        No
Overseas training of professionals            People    Number         15       10
Domestic waste water pollution assessment      -          -          Yes        No
Rehabilitation works                          Length         km       40        38
Reorganization study of SABESP                                        No       Yes
Note: The scope of the works in the interior and coastal regions (except Sao Jose dos
Campos) is based on information provided by the Borrower.



24
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
Loan 3102-BR
Table 4: Detailed Project Scope (continued)
Type       Unit       SAR    Actual
SAO PAULO METROPOLITAN REGION                                      Estimate
1. Water Supply
Treatment
Southeast
Alto Capivari Dam                        Stor. Vol. Million m3 }   4.5
Embura Dam                               Stor. Vol. Million m3 )
Medio Capivari Dam                       Stor. Vol.  Million m3    210.0
Pumping Station                        Throughput        m3Is      5.0
Treated Water Supply                      Volume         m3/s      3.0
Rio Grande                                  Volume        m31s       0.5      1.5
Cabucu                                      Volume        m3/s       0.3
Guarau/Cantareira                           Volume        m3Is       0.3       1.3
Alto Cotia                                  Volume        m3/s       0.6       1.3
Water Transmission Pipelines                   Length        km       800       148
Treated Water Storage Tanks                   Volume         m3  100,000  203,000
Water Distribution
Pipelines                                   Length        km      1,200    1,187
House Connections                            Units    Number  200,000  165,000
2. Sewerage Collectors                           Length        km          -      6.4
INTERIOR AND BAIXADA SANTISTA
1. Water Supply
Water Treatment Plants
Vegetative Growth                           Volume        m31s        -         -
Medium Sized Cities                        Volume         m3/s      0.5       2.3
Housing Program                            Volume         m3/s        -         -
Small Cities                               Volume         m3/s        -       0.3
Water Transmission Pipelines
Vegetative Growth                           Length         km         -         -
Medium Sized Cities                         Length         km      27.0      75.0
Housing Program                             Length         km         -         -
Small Cities                                Length         km       3.0       8.0
Treated Water Storage Tanks
Vegetative Growth                          Volume          m3         -         -
Medium Sized Cities                        Volume          m3    6,500   29,100
Housing Program                            Volume          m3         -         -
Small Cities                               Volume          m3       500    1,000
Water Distribution Pipelines
Vegetative Growth                           Length         km       712      630
Medium Sized Cities                         Length         km         -       87
Housing Program                             Length         km        78      398
Small Cities                                Length         km         -       33
Water House Connections
Vegetative Growth                             Units    Number   76,000   85,983
Medium Sized Cities                           Units    Number         -    2,442
Housing Program                               Units    Number   20,000   28,500
Small Cities                                  Units    Number    4,000       756



25
Table 4: Detailed Project Scope (continued)
2. Sewerage
Sewage House Connections
Vegetative Growth                            Units    Number   35,000   54,023
Medium Sized Cities                          Units    Number         -    4,235
Housing Program                              Units    Number   20,000   28,500
Small Cities                                 Units    Number          -     627
Sewage pipelines
Vegetative Growth                           Length        km       575      680
Medium Sized Cities                         Length        km         -       41
Housing Program                             Length        km        85      325
Small Cities                                Length        km          -      32
Sewage main collectors and interceptors
Vegetative Growth                           Length        km          -        -
Medium Sized Cities                         Length        km        6.0     11.8
Housing Program                             Length        km         -         -
Small Cities                                Length        km
Sewage pumping stations                      Volume        m3Is
Vegetative Growth                          Volume        m3/s         -        -
Medium Sized Cities                        Volume        m3/s       0.6      1.5
Housing Program                            Volume        m3/s         -        -
Small Cities                               Volume        m3/s         -     0.04
Sewage treatment plants
Vegetative Growth                          Volume        m3/s         -        -
Medium Sized Cities                        Volume        m3/s       0.6      1.5
Housing Program                            Volume        m3/s        -         -
Small Cities                               Volume        m3/s         -     0.04
Sao Jose dos Campos
Sewage Main Collector                       Length         km       2.0      5.1
Sewage pumping station                      Volume        m3/s      1.2       1.2
Sewage treatment plant                      Volume        m31s      1.8       1.2
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Macro and micro meters                         Units    Number  250,000  369,866
Pitometry                                     Length        km     4,112    5,195
Consumer services and cadastre 1)                                    Yes       No
Planning and operational control               Units    Number        10        15
Billing and collecting 2)                                            Yes       No
Overseas training of professionals            People    Number        15        10
Domestic waste water pollution assessment 3)                         Yes       No
Rehabilitation Works                          Length        km        40        38
Reorganization study for SABESP                                       No      Yes
1) Financed with SABESP's own resources
2) Replaced by reorganization study
3) Done by DAEE as part of its State Water Resources Plan



BRAZIL                  2 6
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
Loan 3102-BR
Table 5: Project Implementation Schedule and Procurement Method
Bid       Contract   Completion  Procurement
Invitation   Award                   Method
- Month/Year -
SAO PAULO METROPOLITAN REGION
1. Water Supply
Production
Southeast
Alto Capivari Dam
Planned                                       12/92       03/93       06/94         ICB
Actual
Embura Dam
Planned                                       12/92       03/93       06/94         ICB
Actual                                            -           -           -
Medio Capivari Dam
Planned                                       12/92       03/93       06/94         ICB
Actual
Pumping Station
Planned                                       12/92       03/93       06/94         ICB
Actual
Rio Grande
Planned                                       12/89       07/90       06/94         ICB
Actual                                        03/90       08/90       06/97         ICB
Cabucu
Planned                                       08/91       01/92       03/93         ICB
Actual
Guarau/Cantareira
Planned                                       11/89       04/90       09/91         ICB
Actual                                        11/89       04/90       06/92         ICB
Alto Cotia
Planned                                       12/89       07/90       06194         ICB
Actual                                        03/90       08/90       06/97         ICB
Water Transmission Pipelines
Planned                                       10/89       07/90       06/94    ICB/LCB
Actual                                        03/90       10/90       06/97    ICB/LCB
Treated Water Storage Tanks
Planned                                       11/89       04/90       06/93    ICBILCB
Actual                                        11189       04/90       06/93    ICBILCB
Water Distribution
Pipelines
Planned                                     12/89        07190       06193    ICB/LCB
Actual                                       03/90       08/90       01/96    ICB/LCB
House Connections
Planned                                     12/89        07/90       06/93    ICB/LCB
Actual                                       03/90       08/90       01/96    ICB/LCB
2. Sewerage Collectors
Planned
Actual                                           06/95       09/95       03/98        LCB



27
Table 5: Project Implementation Schedule and Procurement Method (continued)
INTERIOR AND BAIXADA SANTISTA
1. Water Supply
Water Treatment Plants
Planned                                        03/90       07190       06/94    ICB/LCB
Actual                                         03/90       09/90       06/97    ICB/LCB
Water Transmission Pipelines
Planned                                        07/91       10/91       06/94    1CB/LCB
Actual                                         10/91       04/92       06/97    ICB/LCB
Treated Water Storage Tanks
Planned                                        01/91       07/91       06/94    ICB/LCB
Actual                                         01/91       08/91       06/97    ICB/LCB
Water Distribution Pipelines
Planned                                        06/90       09/90       06/94    ICB/LCB
Actual                                         06/90       01/91       06/97    ICB/LCB
Water House Connections
Planned                                        06/90       09/90       06/94    ICB/LCB
Actual                                         06/90       01/91       06/97    iCB/LCB
2. Sewerage
Sewage House Connections
Planned                                        06/90       09/90       06/94    ICB/LCB
Actual                                         06/90       01/91       06/97    ICB/LCB
Sewage collectors and pipelines
Planned                                        03/90       07/90       06194    ICBILCB
Actual                                         03/90       08/90       06/97    ICBILCB
Sewage treatment plants and pumping stations
Planned                                        02/92       12/91       06/94    ICB/LCB
Actual                                         02/93       07/92       06/97    ICB/LCB
Sao Jose Dos Campos
Sewage Main Collector
Planned                                       08/91       11/91       12/93        ICB
Actual                                        06/95       09/95       11/97        ICB
Sewage Pumping Station
Planned                                       08/91       11/91       12/93        ICB
Actual                                        06/95       09/95       11/97        ICB
Sewage Treatment Plant
Planned                                       08/91       11/91       12/93        ICB
Actual                                        11/95       04/96       11/97        ICB
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Macro and Micro Metering
Planned                                        01/89       10/89       06/94        LCB
Actual                                         06/89       10/89       06/97        LCB
Pitometry
Planned                                        01/92       05/92       04/93    ICB/LCB
Actual                                         01/92       07/92       06/95    ICB/LCB
Consumer Services and Cadastre 1)
Planned                                          n.a.        n.a.        n.a.        n.a.
Actual
Planning and Operational Control
Planned                                        11/90       03/91       02/93    ICB/LCB
Actual                                         11/90       04/91       01/96    ICB/LCB
Billing and Collection
Planned                                          n.a.        n.a.        n.a.        n.a.
Actual
Overseas Training of Professionals
Planned                                        06/90           -       06/94        ICB
Actual                                         06/90           -       09/96         ICB
Domestic Waste Water Pollution Assessment 2)
Planned                                        03/91       09/91       09/92        ICB
Actual
Rehabilitation Works
Planned                                        09/90       01/91       07/92    ICB/LCB
Actual                                         09/90       01/91       02/96    ICB/LCB
Reorganization study for SABESP
Planned
Actual                                         03/95       05/95       11/97        LCB
1) Executed with SABESP's own resources
2) Cancelled in consent with the Bank as DAEE was
executing a similar study



28
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
Loan 3102-BR
Table 5: Procurement Methods by Disbursement Category (continued)
- In USD Million -
ICB       LCB        Other      Total
Civil Works
Planned                               203.5      230.6        0.0      434.1
Actual                                296.5      167.9        0.0      464.4
Equipment and Materials
Planned                               146.8       11.8        0.0      158.6
Actual                                122.8        0.0        0.0      122.8
Engineering and Technical Assistance
Planned                                 0.0        0.0        7.3        7.3
Actual                                  0.0        0.0       12.8       12.8
Total
Planned                               350.3      242.4        7.3      600.0
Actual                                419.3      167.9       12.8      600.0



29
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
Loan 3102-BR
Table 6: Investment Cost
- In USD Million -
SAR Estimate                     Actual            % Change
Local    Foreign    Total     Local    Foreign    Total
SAO PAULO METROPOLITAN REGION
1. Water Supply
Treatment
Southeast                                    n.a.      n.a.      29.8         -         -         -   -100.0
Rio Grande                                   n.a.      n.a.       8.3      18.9       0.1      19.0    128.9
Cabucu                                       n.a.       n.a.      5.2         -         -         -
Guarau/Cantareira                            n.a.       n.a.      5.6       4.1       0.5       4.6    -17.9
Alto Cotia                                    n.a.      n.a.      3.0       4.7       0.5       5.2      73.3
Subtotal Treatment                           n.a.      n.a.      51.9      27.7       1.1      28.8    -44.5
Transmission                                   n.a.      n.a.      68.9     107.1         -     107.1     55.4
Storage                                        n.a.      n.a.      11.5      18.7         -      18.7     62.6
Distribution                                   n.a.      n.a.     65.1       28.3       0.4      28.7    -55.9
Subtotal WaterSupply                          148.1     49.3      197.4     181.8       1.5     183.3     -7.1
2. Sewerage                                         -         -         -       4.4         -       4.4        -
3. Total Sao Paulo Metropolitan Region          148.1      49.3     197.4     186.2       1.5     187.7     -4.9
INTERIOR AND BAIXADA SANTISTA
1. Water Supply
Vegetative Growth                             n.a.      n.a.     73.0      11.4       0.6      12.0    -83.6
Medium Sized Cities                          37.7      12.6      50.3      43.1         -      43.1    -14.3
Housing Program                              n.a.      n.a.       2.3       1.4       0.3       1.7    -26.1
Small Cities                                  7.6       2.5      10.1       1.1         -       1.1    -89.1
Subtotal Water Supply                       101.8      33.9     135.7      57.0       0.9      57.9    -57.3
2. Sewerage
Vegetative Growth                            n.a.       n.a.     25.0       1.2       7.3       8.5    -66.0
Medium Sized Cities                          14.2       4.8      19.0      36.5       4.0      40.5    113.2
Housing Program                              n.a.      n.a.       3.4       1.3         -       1.3    -61.8
Small Cities                                 10.1       3.3      13.4       4.0         -       4.0    -70.1
Sao Jose dos Campos                          n.a.      n.a.      15.4      15.9         -      15.9       3.2
Subtotal Sewerage                            57.2      19.1      76.3      58.9      11.3      70.2      -8.0
3. Total Interior and Baixada Santista          159.0      53.0     212.0     115.9      12.2     128.1    -39.6
TOTAL WATER SUPPLY WORKS                        249.9      83.2     333.1     238.8       2.4     241.2    -27.6
TOTAL SEWERAGE WORKS                             57.2      19.1      76.3      63.3      11.3      74.6     -2.2
TOTAL WORKS                                     307.1     102.3     409.4     302.1      13.7     315.8    -22.9
SUPERVISION OF CONSTRUCTION (1)                  25.2       8.4      33.6       0.3         -       0.3    -99.1
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                       40.5       13.5      54.0      36.1      25.4      61.5     13.9
TOTAL BASE COST AT 1213111988 PRICES            372.8     124.2     497.0     338.5      39.1     377.6    -24.0
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                           26.1       8.7      34.8       4.0         -       4.0    -88.5
TOTAL GROSS COST AT 12/31/1988 PRICES           398.9     132.9     531.8     342.5      39.1     381.6    -28.2
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                              51.2      17.0      68.2     163.8      54.6     218.4    220.2
TOTAL GROSS COST AT CURRENT PRICES              450.1     149.9     600.0     506.3      93.7     600.0      0.0
INCLUDED TAXES AND IMPORT DUTIES                40.0         -       40.0      13.9         -      13.9    -65.3
INTEREST DURING CONSTRUCTION                       -       46.0      46.0         -      23.5      23.5    -48.9
TOTAL PROJECT COST TO BE FINANCED               450.1     195.9     646.0     506.3     117.2     623.5     -3.5
(1) In actual cost included in cost of works



30
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
Loan 3102-BR
Table 7: Project Financing
- In USD Million -
SAR Estimate                 Actual           Change
Local   Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign   Total     %
Bank                 190.5     89.5    280.0   186.3    93.7    280.0        0.0
State of Sao Paulo    65.6     60.4    126.0    -       -        -        -100.0
SABESP               194.0     46.0    240.0   320.0    23.5    343.5       43.1
Total                450.1    195.9    646.0   506.3   117.2    623.5       -3.5



31
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
Loan 3102-BR
Table 8: Loan Disbursement Schedule
- In USD million -
Bank Fiscal Year       Appraisal Estimate              Actual                     Profile             Actual as % Actual as %
and Quarter Ending                                                                                    of Appraisal of Profile
Quarterly   Cumulative     Quarterly   Cumulative     Quarterly   Cumulative    Estimate
Disbursement Disbursement   Disbursement Disbursement   Disbursement Disbursement
FY 1990
30-Sep-89          24.0         24.0            0.0         0.0            0.0         0.0           0.0       0.0
31-Dec-89           6.4         30.4            0.0         0.0            0.0         0.0           0.0       0.0
31-Mar-90           8.3         38.7           0.0          0.0            4.2         4.2           0.0       0.0
30-Jun-90           8.7        47.4            0.0          0.0           4.2          8.4          0.0        0.0
FY 1991
30-Sep-90           10.2        57.6           16.5        16.5            9.8        18.2          28.6      90.7
31-Dec-90           12.2        69.8            5.4        21.9            9.8        28.0          31.4      78.2
31-Mar-91          13.2         83.0           5.2         27.1            5.6        33.6          32.7      80.7
30-Jun-91          14.0        97.0            6.5         33.6           5.6         39.2         34.6       85.7
FY 1992
30-Sep-91           16.0       113.0            4.0        37.6           11.2        50.4          33.3      74.6
31-Dec-91          17.0        130.0            7.3        44.9           11.2        61.6          34.5      72.9
31-Mar-92          18.0        148.0           5.3         50.2            5.6        67.2          33.9      74.7
30-Jun-92          19.0       167.0            1.9         52.1           5.6         72.8         31.2       71.6
FY 1993
30-Sep-92          21.0        188.0            6.4        58.5            5.6        78.4          31.1      74.6
31-Dec-92          21.0        209.0           10.0        68.5            5.7        84.1          32.8      81.5
31-Mar-93          18.0        227.0           5.0         73.5           11.2        95.3          32.4      77.1
30-Jun-93          16.0       243.0            6.1         79.6          11.2        106.5         32.8       74.7
FY 1994
30-Sep-93           14.0       257.0            4.8        84.4           22.4       128.9          32.8      65.5
31-Dec-93           12.0       269.0            5.5        89.9           22.4       151.3          33.4      59.4
31-Mar-94           8.0        277.0            5.3        95.2           16.8       168.1          34.4      56.6
30-Jun-94           3.0       280.0            3.3         98.5          16.8        184.9         35.2       53.3
FY 1996
30-Sep-94                                       7.3       105.8            5.6       190.5          37.8      55.5
31-Dec-94                                       5.6       111.4            5.6       196.1          39.8      56.8
31-Mar-95                                       2.4       113.8           22.4       218.5          40.6      52.1
30-Jun-95                                      6.5        120.3          22.4        240.9         43.0       49.9
FY 1996
30-Sep-95                                       6.0       126.3           11.2       252.1          45.1      50.1
31-Dec-95                                       9.2       135.5           11.2       263.3          48.4      51.5
31-Mar-96                                      34.5       170.0            5.6       268.9          60.7      63.2
30-Jun-96                                     41.4        211.4           5.6        274.5         75.5       77.0
FY 1997
30-Sep-96                                      36.0       247.4            2.8       277.3          88.4      89.2
31-Dec-96                                      11.6       259.0            1.9       279.2          92.5      92.8
31-Mar-97                                      11.2       270.2            0.0       279.2          96.5      96.8
30-Jun-97                                      9.2        279.4           0.0        279.2         99.8      100.1
FY 1998
30-Sep-97                                       0.6       280.0            0.0       279.2         100.0     100.3



32
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
Loan 3102-BR
Table 9: Allocation of Loan Proceeds by Disbursement Category
- In USD million -
Category  Appraisal Revised  Revised   Final   Change
Feb-90   Jun-95   Aug-96   Jul-97      %
Civil Works    165.40   180.00   203.00   212.22     28.3
Goods          77.20    55.00    70.00    61.41     -20.5
Services        5.30     5.30     6.90      6.33     19.4
Training        0.20     0.20     0.10      0.04    -80.0
Unallocated   31.90    39.50      0.00      0.00   -100.0
Total         280.00   280.00   280.00   280.00       0.0



BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
Loan 3102-BR
Table 10: Monitonng Indicators
1989         1990         1991        1992         1993        1994         1995         1996         1997
Unit         SAR  Actual SAR  Actual  SAR  Actual SAR  Actual SAR  Actual SAR  Actual SAR  Actual SAR  Actual SAR  Actual
Operational
Water Connections Year End                        1,000         3,288  3,386 3,384  3,474 3,477  3,475 3,573 3,695 3,672 3,790 3,785  3,992 4,060  4,101 4,422  4,174 4,489  4,601
Population Served Water                            %             90.0  89.0  90.0   90.0  90.0  90.0  90.0  90.0  90.0  90.0  90.0  89.0  87.0  91.6  93.0  94.0  93.0  94.0
WaterTreated                                     m3/sec          62.6  64.4  63.8   66.3  65.1  66.3  66.3  69.8  67.6  70.5  66.9  77.1  80.0  81.0  79.9  79.0  79.4  77.0
Water Sold                                      m3 million      1,500  1,446  1,541   1,520 1,585  1,555 1,627 1,534 1,669 1,556 1,708  1,554  1,739  1,618 1,734  1,707  1,817  1,632
Unaccounted-for Water *                            %              25    31    24      33    24    32    23    30    22    33    22    40    39    41    35    42    31         42
Water Consumption of Residential Users          I/cap/day                                                                              159   186   155   182   165   187   160
Sewerage Connections Year End                     1,000         2,038  2,045 2,154   2,216 2,228 2,357 2,276 2,480 2,324 2,623 2,324 2,760 2,840  2,865 3,051  2,921  3,148  3,277
Population Served Sewerage                         %             64.0  57.0  66.0   60.0  67.0  61.0  67.0  63.0  67.0  64.0  67.0  64.0  63.0  66.0  67.0  73.0  68.0  73.0
Sewage Collected                                   %              46    52    47      57    48    58    49    59    50    53    51    58    51    58    60    58    60    59
SewageTreated-                                     %              20    18   21       19    22    17    23    20    24    21    25    26    26    26    27    34    23    50
Sewerage Billed for                             m3 million       813   774   862    854   895   924   917   920   938   920   956   904   975   951  1,017   980 1,068   941
Employees/1,000 Water and Sewege Connections 1   number           4.7   3.7   4.5    3.6   4.4   3.4   4.3   3.4   4.3   3.3   4.2   3.1   3.8   2.9   3.5   2.7   3.4   2.6
Financial
Average Water Rate per m3 billed             Current US-Cents      33    43    34      58    36    54    37    65    39    85    40    76    42    74  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.
Constant US-Cents 12194                                                                              70    76    71    83    73    91
Average Sewage Rate per m3 billed            Current US-Cents      33    47    34      63    36    55    37    66    39    81    40    70    42    87  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.
Constant US-Cents 12/94                                                                             63    84    64    93    65    99
Average Operating Expenses per m3 w & s billed  Current US-Cents   17    27    16      28    18    37    18    44    18    49    19    65    36    52    34    58    34    82
Share of Personnel Expenses
of Total Operating Expenses                       %              65    61    64      53    64    44    65    49    64    34    64    31    59    31    58   n.a.   58   n.a.                         LO
Operating Ratio '                                  %              67    59    61      46    59    66    57    64    56    59    56    86    66    65    64    65    62    79
RateofRetumronAssetsinOperation                    %             12.0  10.0   8.0   15.0   9.0   8.4  10.0   2.4  11.0   3.4  11.0   1.8   6.9   2.0   6.9   1.9  6.9    1.2
Rate of Retum on Total Assets                      %                                                                                    0.1   4.5   2.5   4.8   0.1   5.2   2.7
Rate of Retum on Equity                            %                                                                                   (0.2)  4.2  (0.7)  5.1  (0.1)  5.2   0.1
Debt/(Debt+Equity)                                 %            63/37  75/25 61/39  30/70 59/41  24176 56/44 24/76 53/47 23/77 50/50  33/67 60/40  31/69 60/40  32/68 60/40 31/69
Accounts Receivable Comparator (gross after 1994)  days equivalent  95    47   92     48   84    51   78    61   70    53   65    109    95   115    85   123    75   137
Net Internal Contribution to Capital Expenditures  %              13    60    15    118    17   132    18    92   20    56    25          0    25    46    35    34    35    50
Debt service coverage ratio                                                                                                             2.9   1.3   2.0   1.3   2.8   1.3   2.8
Annual Total Capital Expenditures        Constant USD Million 12/94                                                                    376   452    440   815   713   678   914
Annual Capital Expenditures for
SABESP - World Bank Program             Constant USD Million 12/94                                                                     31   420    68   770   148   626  270
Annual Capital Expenditures for
Guarapiranga Program                    Constant USD Million 12/94   -  -    -      -     -      -     -     -     -      -     -      2.0   3.1   8.0  26.3  32.0  20.2   84.0
Average Gross Investment per Connection     Constant USD 12/94                                                                        1,432  1,399  1,517  1,472  1,280  1,505  1,263
1) The Method of calculation for actual figures was changed to employees per 1,000 connections of water and sewerage
* Original monitoring indicator
The number and scope of indicators was changed as a condition for the second extension of the closing date; for those indicators, SAR and actual values prior to 1994 are given for information purposes only.



SABESP
Table 11: INCOME STATEMENTS
-In Current USD Million -
1991               1992                1993                1994                1995           1998      1997
SAR      Actual    SAR       Actual    SAR      Actual     SAR      Actual     SAR      Actual    Actual    Acual
Operating Revenues
vVaterRevenues                               565.2    845.5    604.1       991.0    645.2   1,315.8     687.1   1,120.0    728.3   1,201.2   n.a.        n.a.
Sewerage Revenues                            319.2     509.2     340.6    607.8     362.4    742.2      384.8     583.4    408.6      826.6
Other Revenues                                23.7      38.5      28.5     48.0      35.6      66.4      38.7     115.6      46.8      73.9
Taxes and Services                                                                             -55.1                                  -58.9
Total Operating Revenues (Net)              908.1   1,393.3     973.2   1,646.8   1,043.2   2,069.3   1,110.6   1,819.1   1,183.7   2,042.9   2,384.1   2,659.2
Operating Expenses
Personnel                                   -284.6   -404.9    -296.3    -550.9    -308.5    -707.7   -321.1    -625.7    -334.3    -629.6
Chemicals                                    -13.6    -11.7     -14.7     -19.9     -15.8     -18.8     -17.0    -24.6      -18.4     -28.2
Power                                        -54.7    -52.8     -56.9     -61.9      62.0     -38.5     -62.0     -86.7    -62.0    -105.4   n.a.       n.a.
Malntenence                                 -15.9     -14.8     -16.6     -25.1     -17.4     -23.7     -18.2    -27.8    -19.0       43.7
Private Contractors                         -64.0   -144.0      -66.6    -192.4     -69.3    -197.8     -72.2    -207.3    -75.1    -173.1
Depredation and Provision                   -95.6    -278.2    -105.5    -216.6    -117.4    -217.7    -123.6    -240.7    -129.3    -353.2
Other                                        -8.8    -15.3       -8.8     -19.1      -8.9     -15.9      -8.9    -79.9       -9.0      -1.8
Total Operating Expenses                   -537.2    -921.8    -565.4  -1,085.9    -599.3  -1,220.1    -623.0  -1,292.7    -647.1  -1,334.9  -1,551.1  -2,105.7
1%4          4       _      X                 370.9    471.5      407.8     560.9    443.9    849.2       487.6    526.4    536.6      708.0      833.0     553.4
Financial Revenues (net)                   -119.8      82.2    -135.7      48.0    -151.2  -1,120.9    -157.7    -293.2   -162.2    -596.2     423.0       97.4
Financial Expenses                                    -218.0             -443.9
Non-Operating Revenues (net)                -14.0      -80.6    -12.0       1.5      -9.0      18.8      -9.0      -2.7     -9.0      -26.6      -4.9     -88.2
Infationary Adjustment                        0.0    223.9        0.0    -47.5        0.0     42.3        0.0    468.9       0.0   n.a.       n.a.      n.a.
sw  3ims 110-4,3E13,i   2,  -133.8  27.6    -147.7    -441.9    -160.2  -1,144.4    -166.7    -764.8    -171.2    -822.8    -427.9       9.2
IncomebeforeTaxes                             237.1     499.1     260.1     118.9    283.7   -295.1       320.9    -238.4    365.4      85.2    405.1      562.6
Income Taxes                                  -71.2    -34.6      -78.0      -3.9     -85.1      -1.2     -96.2      0.0    -109.6      -58.9     41.9     -42.8
; } e-z^ i  165.9    464.5     182.1     115.1     198.6    -296.3    224.7    -238.4    255.8       26.3     363.2     519.9



SABESP
Table 11: FLOW OF FUNDS (continued)
- In Current USO Million -
1991               1992                1993                1994                1995           1996      1997
SAR      Actual    SAR       Actual    SAR      Actual     SAR      Actual     SAR      Actual    Actual   Pres. Fcst.
Net Income                                    165.9               182.0     115.1     198.6    -296.3     224.7    -238.4     255.8      26.3
Depredabon                                     87.2                97.2     195.0    109.4      188.5     115.7     221.9     121.5     249.5
Finandal Expenses                             119.8               136.7    443.9      151.2   1,120.9     157.7     293.2     162.2     213.7
Inflabonary Adjustments                         0.0                 0.0      47.5       0.0      42.3       0.0    468.9        0.0       0.0
Cash Dividends                                  0.0                 0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Gross Intemal Cash Generaton                  372.9       n.a.    415.9     801.5    459.2   1,055.3      498.1     745.6     539.5     489.4     853.7    842.3
Debt Service
Amortization                                -107.1              -123.3             -140.7              -160.0              -174.0
Interest                                    -119.8             -136.7              -151.2              -160.0              -165.0
Total Debt Service                          -226.9      n.a.    -260.0     -97.0    -291.9      n.a.    -320.0     n.a.    -339.0    -475.7       n.a.      n.a.
Net Intemal Cash Generabon                    146.0       n.a.    155.9    704.6      167.3      n.a.     178.1      n.a.     200.5      13.7      n.a.       n.a.
Working Capital Needs Other Than Cash           4.0       n.a.    -17.7    -190.7    -45.3       n.a.      17.0      n.a.      56.0     193.1    -109.2    -342.9
Assets and Liability Needs Other than Investment  -71.8   n.a.     -50.1      n.a.    -32.4      n.a.     -16.3  -1,347.8     -77.6      n.a.    -490.7      n.a.
INTERNAL-CONTTFftlBTIOTO INVESTMENT            78.2       n.a.     88.1     513.9      89.6      n.a.     178.8    -602.2     178.9     206.8     253.7    499.4
Physical Capital Investments                 -389.0              -383.3              -378.4              -371.0              -371.0
Contributed Capital Investments                 0.0                 0.0                 0.0                 0.0                 0.0
Interest during Construction                   -12.3              -18.5               -24.3                -5.0                -5.0
TOTAL INVESTMENT COST                         401.3       n.a.    401.8    -560.4   -402.7       n.a.    -376.0    -376.3    -376.0    -452.2    -754.2    -989.6
RuirExte0all.F'teri-cftg       .             323.1       n.a.    313.7      46.5    313.1       n.a.     197.2     978.5     197.1     245.4     500.5    490.2
Capital Increases                             110.0       n.a.    110.0       8.9     100.0      n.a.     100.0      75.8     100.0       9.7       0.8      28.5
Contributions And Grants                        0.0       n.a.      0.0       0.0       0.0      n.a.       0.0      n.a.       0.0       0.0       0.6       4.8
Local Borrowing                               140.0               120.0       0.0     159.0               100.0               100.0     147.3                                     Ln
Foreign Borrowing                              75.5                86.2      26.7      56.7                 0.0                 0.0     168.7
Total Borrowing                               215.5       n.a.    206.2      26.7    215.7       n.a.     100.0     873.0     100.0     316.0     507.5    507.1
TOTAL.EX,TEIM0A. F,INANGIN .                  325.5       n.a.    316.2      35.6    315.7        n.a.    200.0     948.8     200.0     325.7     509.0    540.3
CHANGE IN CASH                                  2.4      28.9       2.5     -10.9       2.6       2.3       2.8     -29.7       2.9      80.3       8.5      50.2
Cash Beginning of Year                         43.4      12.8      45.8      41.7      48.3      30.8      50.9      33.1      53.7       3.4      83.6      92.1
Cash End of Year                               45.8      41.7      48.3      30.8      50.9      33.1      53.7       3.4      56.6      83.6      92.1     142.4



SABESP
Table 11: BALANCE SHEET (continued)
- In Current USD Million -
1991               1992               1993               1994               1995           1996     1997
SAR     Actual    SAR       Actual    SAR      Actual    SAR      Actual    SAR      Actual    Actual    Actual
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash and ShortTemi Investment               85.0     41.7      89.5     30.8      70.7     33.1    102.6        3.4    159.1      83.6      92.1    142.4
AccountsReoelvabeCusmi s(gross)            258.9    196.0    261.6    276.9    257.5    296.8    258.9    545.7    259.7    646.3    803.3    995.5
Provision Accounts Receivable               n.a.    -28.6      n.a.     -8.3      n.a.      4.5       n.a.     -8.2      n.a.    -16.8      n.a.   -211.1
Mateuials and Supplies                       6.8      7.2       6.3      7.5       6.5      3.2      10.5       9.9     10.5      17.7      48.5     26.5
Other Current Assets                         7.0     65.5       7.0      3.1       7.0     62.3       7.0      85.7      7.0      97.5    180.5    225.7
Total Current Assets                       357.7    281.7    364.3    309.8    341,7    390.8    379.0    636,5    436.3    828.3   1,124.5   1,179.0
FIXED ASSETS
Gross Plant in Service                   3,135.7   5,832.4   3,537.3   6,660.7   3,939.5   6,651.7   4,326.4   9,669.3   4,697.4  10,971.7  14,102.9  12,034.5
Accumulated Depreciabon                   -572.7   -198.5   -651.1    403.0   -739.5   -578.9   -838.0  -1,092.4   -946.1  -1,488.9  -1,800.4  -2,100.3
Net Plant in Service                     2,563.0   5,633.8   2,886.2   6,257.7   3,200.0   6,072.9   3,488.4   8,576.8   3,751.3   9,482.8  12,302.5   9,934.2
Workin Progress                          1,088.5   1,529.9   1,088,8   1,584.1   1,089.2   1,596.6   1,073.3   2,359.8   1,073,3   2,228.8  n.a.   3,097.2
Net Fixed Assets                         3,651.5   7,163.7   3,975.0   7,841.8   4,289.2   7,669.5   4,561.7  10,936.7   4,824.6  11,711.6  12,302.5  13,031.4
OTHER ASSETS                                 35.2      21.7      35.2     34.5      35.2     32.3      35.2     73,1      35.2    108.6    105.0       22.2
'>s5}sg  1$                       ..'    Q   4,044.4   7,467.1   4,374.5   8,186.1   4,666.1   8,092.6   4,975.9  11,646.2   5,296.1  12,648.5  13,532.1  14,232.5
LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH
CURRENT LIABILITES
Accounts Payable                            88.3     83.8      92.0    155.4      96.4    210.4      99.9    172.2    103.6    106.8    172.7    180.0
Current Portion Long Term Debt             123.3     94.4    140.7    227.0    160.1    582.7    174.0    328.4    174.0    173.3    525.3    662.6
ShortTerm Loans                             0.0    133.5        0.0    119.5       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0     21.8      30.9
OtherCurrentLiabilibies                     75.1    120.3      78.2    187.2      77.1    275,1      79.9    542.7      77.7    503.1    244.8    273.0
TotlCurrent LiabiitieS                     286.7    432,0    310.9    689.2    333.6   1,068.2    353.8   1,043.3    355.3    783.2    964.6   1,146.5
LONG TERM LIABILITIES
Long Tefm Debt                           2,201.8   1,687.1   2,283.6   1,772.5   2,330.0   1,604.1   2,295.3   2,921.5   2,260.7   2,967.4   2,878.7   3,110.5
Other                                       25.0      9.9      25.0     12.1      25.0     14.2      25.0    337.3      25.0    564.5    779.7    642.6
Total Long Term Liabilities              2,226.8   1,697.0   2,308.6   1,784.7   2,355.0   1,618.3   2,320.3   3,258.8   2,285.7   3,531,9   3,658.5   3,753.1
OTHER LIABILITIES
NET WORTH
Paid-In Capital                            467.5              577.6              677.5              777,5               877.5            3,455.5   3,455.7
Reserves                                   924.1              924.2              924.2              924.2               924.2               62.2      58.4
Monetary Correction                          0.0                0.0                0.0                0.0                 0.0            3,900.4   3,785.4
Retained Eamings                           139.3              253.2              375.8              600.3               856.1             1,491.0   2,033.4
Total Net Worth                           1,530.9   5,338.1   1,755.0   5,712.3   1,977.5   5,406.0   2,302.0   7,344.1   2,657.8   8,333.4   8,909.1   9,332.9
.LI0B      I L'ESANPN~TIM')RTH  7 ^x  4,044.4   7,467.1   4,374.5   8,186.1   4,666.1   8,092.6   4,976.1  11,646.2   5,298.8  12,648.5  13,532.1  14,232.5



BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
Loan 3102-BR
Table 12 Rate of Return
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001  2002-2021
SAR    Actual   Actual   Actual   Actual   Actual   Actual   Actual   Actual   Actual  Forecast Forecast Forecast Forecast Forecast
Volume of water billed (million m3)                         1,396.5  1,446.5  1,519.5  1,554.6  1,533.8  1,55.1  1,553.8  1,618.0  1,706.9  1,631.7  1,671.9  1,712.1  1,751.4  1,767.4  108,251.3
Incr. water sales (million m3)                                         50.0   123.0   158.1   137.3   159.6   157.3   221.5   310.4   235.2   275.4   315.6   354.9   370.9  24,461.3
Volume of sewage billed (million m3)                          722.6   774.2   854.0   923.7   919.7   919.7   904.3   951.0   980.0   941.4   979.1  1,018.2  1,058.9  1,101.3  81,678.0
lncrj sewage volume (nillion m3)                                       51.6   131.4   201.1   197.1   197.1   181.7   228.4   257.4   218.8   256.5   295.6   336.3   378.7  38,322.0
Incremental watertrom lime aice (rillion m3)                            0.0    47.6    71.4    95.2   119.0   142.8   166.6   180.9   190.4   238.0   285.6   309A    333.2  27,485.9
Incrementl sewage from bme slice (million m3)                           0.0    48.2    72.3    96.4   120.5   144.6   168.7   183.1   192.8   240.9   289.1   313.2   337.3  27,828.3
Tota incremental volume (million m3)                                    0.0    95.8   143.7   191.6   239.5   287.3   335.2   364.0   383.1   478.9   574.7   622.6   670.5  55,314.3
Time Slice Operabing Revenues, WaterSupply (constant 1988 USO mill.)    0.0    21.1    31.9    44.1    61.3    63.9    70.9    83.6    99.2   125.1    151.6   166.1   181.2  15,922.1
Time Slice Operabing Revenues, Sewerage (constant 1988 USD million)     0.0    22.9    32.5    45.6    59.1    61.4    79.1    93.3   111.5   140.2   169.2   184.5   200.4  17,205.3
Total Time Slice Operatng Revenues (constant 1988 USD million)          0.0    44.1    64A       89.7   120A    125.3   150.0   176.9   210.7   265.3   320.8   350.6   381.6  33,127.5
Time Slice Operairng Costs Water Supply (constant 1988USD million)      0.0      2.3      4.3     9.1    17.5    15.2    14.5    19.6    21.8    29.7    38.5    44.4    47.7   3,963.4
TirneSlicmOperang CostsSewerage(consant 1988 USD million)               0.0      3.1      4.2     7.5    12.0    14.5    13.5    16.4    18.9    25.0    31.1    35.4    37.3   3,077.7
Total Time Slice Operabing Cost (constant 1988 USD million)             0.0      5.5      8.6    16.5    29.4    29.7    28.1    36.0    40.6    54.7    69.6    79.8    85.1   7,041.1
Time Slice Invest Water Supply (constant 1988 USDmillion)     139.9    97.9   239.9   409.6   375.0   142.9    66.1    77.3   180.2   167.1
Time Slice Invest Sewerage (constanl 1988USD million)         293.7   223.7   273.5   287.8   316.4   142.4   168.3   105.3   190.4   309.1
Total Time Slice lnvesment (constant 1988 USD million)                321.6   513.4   697.4   691.4   285.3   234.4   182.6   370.6   476.2
Total Costa, constant 1988 USD million                                321.6   518.9   706.0   707.9   314.7   264.1   210.7   406.6   516.8    54.7    69.6    79.8    85.1  17,390.9
Net Beneftsl, constant 1988 USD miltion                              -321.6  -474.8  -541.6  -618.2  -194.3  -138.8   -60.7  -229.6  -306.2   210.6   251.2   270.8   296.6  26,086.4
IRR:                                                               Discount rate (%)                                        10.0
7.1%                                                               Project life, years (average)                             30
PV of investments, Water Supply (end 1988 USD million)  1,171.8
PV of investrents, Sewerage (end 1988 USD million)    1,319.1
NPV, end 1988 USD million:                                         PV of investments (end 1988 USD million)              2,288.9
($864.77)                                                          PV of O&M costs, Water Supply (end 1988 USD million)   266.7
PVof O&M costs, Sewerage (end 1988 USD million)        213.8
PV of O&M costs (end 1988 USD million)                 480.6
PV of volume billed, Water (m3 million)               2,040.3
PV of volume billed, Sewage (m3 million)              2,065.8
PV of volume billed, Total (m3 million)               4,106.1
Marginal cost, Water Supply (end 1988 USDtm3)           0.71
Marginal cost, Sewerage (end 1988 USD/m3)               0.74
Marginal cost water & sew. (end 1988 USD/m3)            1.45



38
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
Loan 3102-BR
Table 12: Comparison of Sales Assumptions In SAR and ICR (continued)
Year      Total Sales       Total Sales      Incremental Sales   Incremental Sales   Time Slice Sales    Time Slice Sales,
Water Million m3   Sewage Million m3   Water Million m3   Sewage Million m3   Water Million m3   Sewage Million m3
SAR      ICR     SAR      ICR      SAR      ICR     SAR      ICR      SAR      ICR     SAR      ICR
1988  1,535.6  1,396.5   746.4   722.6       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      (.0
1989  1,579.1  1,446.5   813.3   774.2    43.5    50.0    66.9    51.6    43.5          0.0    66.9       (.0
1990  1,623.6  1,519.5   862.1    854.0    88.0   123.0   115.7   131.4    88.0    47.6    115.7    413.2
1991   1,668.2  1,554.6   895.0   923.7   132.6   158.1    148.6   201.1    132.6    71.4   148.6    72.3
1992  1,712.6  1,533.8   917.3   919.7   177.0   137.3   170.9   197.1    177.0    95.2   170.9    96.4
1993  1,757.3  1,556.1    937.5   919.7   221.7   159.6   191.1    197.1   221.7   119.0   191.1   120.5
1994  1,803.0  1,553.8   937.5   904.3   267.4   157.3   191.1    181.7   267.4   142.8   191.1   144.6
1995  1,846.5  1,618.0   937.5   951.0   310.9   221.5   191.1   228.4   310.9   166.6   191.1    168.7
1996  1,894.2  1,706.9   937.5   980.0   358.6   310.4   191.1   257.4   358.6   180.9   191.1   18:3.1
1997  1,939.9  1,631.7   937.5   941.4   404.3   235.2   191.1   218.8   404.3   190.4   191.1    192.8
1998   1,987.6  1,671.9   937.5   979.1   452.0   275.4   191.1   256.5   452.0   238.0   191.1   240.9
1999  2,035.4  1,712.1    937.5  1,018.2   499.8   315.6   191.1   295.6   499.8   285.6   191.1   289.1
2000  2,082.1  1,751.4   937.5  1,058.9   546.5   354.9   191.1   336.3   546.5   309.4   191.1   31:3.2
2001   2,101.2  1,767.4   937.5  1,101.3   565.6   370.9   191.1   378.7   565.6   333.2   191.1    337.3
2002  2,104.4  1,770.1    937.5  1,145.4   568.8   373.6   191.1   422.8   568.8   357.0   191.1    361.4
2003  2,108.6  1,773.6   937.5  1,188.3   573.0   377.1    191.1   465.7   573.0   380.8   191.1   385.5
2004  2,112.8  1,777.2   937.5  1,208.5   577.2   380.7   191.1   485.9   577.2   404.6   191.1   409.6
2005  2,117.1  1,780.8   937.5  1,228.8   581.5   384.3   191.1   506.2   581.5   428.4   191.1   43:3.7
2006  2,117.1  1,784.4   937.5  1,249.1    581.5   387.9   191.1   526.5   581.5   452.1    191.1   457.8
2007  2,117.1  1,787.9   937.5  1,269.4   581.5   391.4   191.1   546.8   581.5   475.9   191.1    481.9
2008  2,117.1  1,791.5   937.5  1,289.9   581.5   395.0   191.1   567.3   581.5   475.9   191.1   481.9
2009  2,117.1  1,795.1    937.5  1,310.4   581.5   398.6   191.1   587.8   581.5   475.9   191.1    481.9
2010  2,117.1  1,798.7   937.5  1,331.0   581.5   402.2   191.1   608.4   581.5   475.9   191.1   481.9
2011  2,117.1  1,802.3   937.5  1,351.7   581.5   405.8   191.1   629.1   581.5   475.9   191.1    481.9
2012  2,117.1  1,805.9   937.5  1,372.5   581.5   409.4   191.1   649.9   581.5   475.9   191.1    481.9
2013  2,117.1  1,809.5   937.5  1,393.3   581.5   413.0   191.1   670.7   581.5   475.9   191.1    481.9
2014  2,117.1  1,813.1    937.5  1,414.2   581.5   416.6   191.1   691.6   581.5   475.9   191.1    481.9
2015  2,117.1  1,816.7   937.5  1,435.2   581.5   420.2   191.1   712.6   581.5   475.9   191.1    481.9
2016  2,117.1  1,820.4   937.5  1,456.3   581.5   423.9   191.1   733.7   581.5   475.9   191.1   481.9
2017  2,117.1  1,824.0   937.5  1,477.5   581.5   427.5   191.1   754.9   581.5   475.9   191.1   481.9
2018  2,117.1  1,827.7   937.5  1,498.7   581.5   431.2   191.1   776.1    581.5   475.9   191.1   481.9
2019           1,831.3           1,520.0           434.8             797.4             475.9            481.9
2020           1,835.0           1,541.4            438.5            818.8             475.9            481.9
2021           1,838.6           1,562.9            442.1            840.3             475.9            481.9
NPV until 2018  17,421.4  15,291.5  8,512.0  9,322.6  2,865.4  2,054.0  1,436.8  2,473.1  2,865.4  1,793.3  1,436.8  1,815.6
NPV until 2021         15,529.2          9,522.1          2,110.8           2,579.0          1,854.9           1,878.1
both at 10% DF



BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
Loan 3102-BR
Table 13: Studies Included In the Project
Purpose                                          Company                            Status                    Impact
Sectoriza0on of the water distribution system
Presidente Pnudente                           Hagaplan Planejarnento e Projetos S/C Ltda.       Conduded         Reduction of unaccounted-for water
Botucatu                                     Automatika projetos industriais S/C Ltda.          Concluded        Reduction of unaccounted-for water
Mirante, Vila Maria, Mooca and Anel do Bras   Cobrape Cia. Brasileira Projetos Empreendimentos  Conduded         Reduction of unaccounted-for water
Mirante, Vila Maria, Mooca and Anel do Bras   Estudos Tecnicos e Projetos ETEP Ltda.            Concluded        Reduction of unaccounted-for water
Mirante, Vila Maria, Mooca and Anel do Bras   Pertecnica Engenhara Ltda.                        Concluded        Reduction of unaccounted-for water
Mirante, Vila Maria, Mooca and Anel do Bras  J.N.S. Engenharia Consultoria Gerenciamento S/C Ltda.   Concluded   Reduction of unaccounted-for water
Mirante, Vila Maria, Mooca and Anel do Bras   Themag Engenharia Ltda.                           Concluded        Reduction of unaccounted-for water
Mirante, Vila Maria, Mooca and Anel do Bras   Coplasa S/A Engenharia de Projetos                Concluded        Reduction of unaccounted-for water
Mirante, Vila Mafia, Mooca and Anel do Bras   Latin Consult Engenharia Ltda.                    Concluded        Reduction of unaccounted-for water
Mirante, Vila Maria, Mooca and Anel do Bras   Hagaplan Planejamento e Projetos Ltda.            Concluded        Reduction of unaccounted-for water
Review of telemetering and automatization design
Franca                                       Automatika projetos industriais S/C Ltda.          Concluded        Reduction of operating costs
Taubate                                       Automatika projetos industriais S/C Ltda.         Concluded        Reduction of operating costs
Design of telemetering and automatization                                                                                                                                 L
Braganza PaulistatSao Joao da Boa Vista       Torrezan Consultoria Assocdados S/C Ltda.         Concluded        Reduction of operating costs
ltapetiningatBotucatulltapeva                 Comsip Engenharia S/A                             Concluded        Reduction of operating costs
Caraguatatuba/Pindamonhangaba                 Automatika projetos industriais S/C Ltda.         Concluded        Reduction of operating costs
SantostSao Vicente e Cubatao                  Gerente Engenharia Gerenciamento Ltda.            Concluded        Reduction of operating costs
Reorganization study for SABESP                 Fundacao Instituto Administracao of USP-FIA        Concluded       Creation of business units
Project management for the Bank project         Engevix Engenharia S/A                            Concluded
Analysis of Terms of Reference for the studies
on sectorization, unaccounted-for water
and billing                                   Safege Ingenieurs Conseils                        Concluded        Preparation of bidding documents
Program for reduction of unaccounted-for water  Lyonnaise Des Eaux Services Associes - Lysa       Concluded        Determination of investment priorities
Review of long-run marginal cost study          RB Consultoia Ltda.                               Concluded        Policy and management tool



40
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAUL
Loan 3102-BR
Table 14: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle  Staff Weeks  US Dollars
Preparation                131.9          255,513
Supervision                128.2          355,395
ICR Preparation             11.5           34,846
TOTAL                      271.6          645,754



BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
Loan 3102-BR
Table 15: Bank Missions
Project
Number of  Days In   Specialisatlon      Development    Implementation    Overall          Project     Availability
Stage of Project Cycle      MonthlYear   Persons    Field        Represented        Objectives         Progress        Status   Management   of Funds
Identification                     May 1987         1         2    En.
Oct. 1987       6          3    Ens., FAs, Ecs.
Preparation                        July 1988        1         14   Ec.
Oct. 1988       2         12   En., FA
Pre-appraisal                      Nov. 1988        5         20   Ens., FA, Ecs.
Appraisal                          Jan. 1989        4         20   Ens., FA, Ecs.
Board Approval through Effectiveness    July 1989  2          4    En., FA
Sep. 1989       1          2    En.
Jan. 1990       3          5    En., FA, Ec.               1                N.A.             1            1             1
May 1990        4          3    Ens., FA, Ec.             N.R.              N.A.           N.R.         N.R.           N.R.
Supervision
1                  Sep. 1990        2         3    En., Ec.                                    N.A.             1            1              1           4-
2                  Nov.1990         2         4    En., Ec.                    I                N.A.            1            1              I
3                  Feb. 1991        1         2    En.                       N.R.               N.A.           N.R.         N.R.          N.R.
4                  July 1992        2         2    En., Ec.                    I                N.A.            1            1              2
5                  Feb. 1993        1         4    En.                         I                N.A.            1            1              2
6                  April 1993       1         4    En.                         1                N.A.            3            2              2
7                  July 1993        2          5    En., FA                  N.R.               N.A.           N.R.         N.R.          N.R.
8                  Sep. 1993        2          5    En., FA                  N.R.               N.A.           N.R.         N.R.          N.R.
9                  Dec. 1993        2         4    En., Pr. Sp.                                 N.A.            2            1              2
10                  Feb.1994        1          1    En.                        1                N.A.            2            2              3
11                 Aug.1994         3          4    Ens., Ec.                  S                 U             N.A.           2             3
12                 Dec. 1994        1          2    En.                       N.R.              N.R.           N.A.         N.R.           N.R.
13                  Feb. 1995       1          1    En.                        S                 U             N.A.          2              3
14                 Apil 1995        2          9    En., FA                    S                 S             N.A.          2              2
15                 Sep. 1995        1          2    En.                        S                 U             N.A.           1             1
16                 Dec. 1995        3          3    En., FA, Pr. Sp.           S                 U             N.A.          2              2
17                 June 1996        1          1    FA                         S                 S             NA             1             1
18                  Oct.1996        1          1    En.                       N.R.              N.R.           N.A.         N.R.           N.R.
19                 Mar.1997         1          2    En.                      N.R.               N.R.           N.A.         N.R.          N.R.
20                  May 1997        1          1    En.                       N.R.              N.R.           N.A.         N.R.           N.R.
En.=Engineer/s  FA=Financial AnalystUs; Ec.=Economist/s  L=Legal Pr.Sp.= Procurement Spedalist N.R. = No forrn 590 available N.A. = Not applicable



T able -  l6                   -            -..-~-.-...                                                                                   .    ~     - - -  - ~  _   _   _  ___  __ _ _
Legal Covenant Report: Latest status of Covenant Compliance                                                                                                     OD 13.05- ANNEX D5
LCR - Latin America & Caribbean Region                                                                                                                                       Page:   I
LCC5C - Brazil CM1U                                                                                                                                     Run Date: 03P25/98 at 11.02.32
Form 590 Date: 07/05/1996
Project ID: BR-PE-6407    - WATER SCTR SAO PAULO
Original     Revised
Covenant              Fulfill      Fulfill
Class(s)   Status      Date         Date      Description of Covenant                                 Comments
Agreement: LOAN Loan Number: IBRD -31020
Text Reference: 3.03
02           C                                  Prior to Loan Disbursement for each sub-project,
SABESP should demonstrate evidence of compliance
with the agreed project selection critieria.
7Ikw Reference: 3.03 (a)
05,06        NC                                 Prior to loan disbursemert for subprojects              The State of Sao Paulo canceled construction of
inivolving dam construiction, thie Bank should rec.    dams-related to "Sistema Sudoeste"  corresponding
satisfactory evid. of complc w/the Bank's guide-    Loan funds were allocated to other subprojects.
lines on dam safety & apprvl. by the State & the
Bank of RIMA, mitiga.measures and realloca. plans.
Text Reference: 3.05
10           CP                                 Completion of a marginal cost study by March 90         The study was prepared and submitted to the Bank
and agreement on the implementation of such             for review.  SABESP decided not to implement its
recommendation.                                         recommendations.
Texi Reference: 3.06 (a)
02           CP                                 SABESP will submit financial projections prior to   Complied with the exception of submission
each November 30 for the following five years           corresponding to 1992 and 1993, when preparation
together with investment plan and monitoring            of multi-year plans was discontinued.
indicators.
Text Reference: 3.06 (b)
02           NC                                 SABESP will make no changes for more than 20% in    SABESP increased substantially its investment
the annual investment program withoat Bank              program, specially by adding the Tiete river
approval                                                project financed by IDB.
Status:
C    - Complied with
CD   - Compliance after Delay
NC   - Not Complied with
SOON - Compliance Cxpected in Reasonably Short Time
CP   - Complied with Partially
UYD  - Not Yet Vue



Table 16
Legal Covenant Report: Latest status of Covenant Compliance                                                                                                       OD 13.05 - ANNEX D5
LCR - Latin America & Caribbean Region                                                                                                                                          Page:  2
LCC5C - Brazil CMU                                                                                                                                        Run Date: 03/25/98 at 11.02.32
Form 590 Date: 0710511996
P'roject ID: BR-PE-6407    - WATER SCTR SAO PAULO
Original      Revised
Covenant              Fulfill      Fulfill
Class(s)   Status      Date         Date      Description of Covenant                                  Comments
Text Reference: 3.08
06            NC      12/30/1991                Water pollution control study to be completed             TORs prepared bot study was never contracted by
prior to Dec. 31, 1991.                                  SABESP because it was executed as part of the
state water resource plan by DAEE.
Tawt Reference: 4.04
01            Cp      12/31/1993                 The brrou~wr shallI: (z.) reduce unaccounLed-feLr        (a) Not comtplied with: MJW was 42% irn 1997 (b)
water to no more than 39%, 35% anid 31% by end of    Complied with: Employees per 1,000 connections was
95/96/97 re!spectively anid (hi to decrease nto. of    2.6 in 1991.
employees by 1000 conniections to 3.8, 3.5 and 3.4
by end of 95/96/97 respectively.
Text Reference: 5.02 (a) (i) (iQ('iia)
02            C                                  SABESP will generate sufficient internal cash            Internal cash generation was 50% in 1991.
annually to cover at least 25%, 35%, 35% of its
total investment program in 95/96/97.
Text Reference: 5. 01
01            CD                                 External audit report to be submitted by June each  ...
year.-
Text Reference: .5.03
02            C                                  SABESP's debt/equity ratio shall be greater than    Ratio was 31/69 in 1997.
55/65 in '90 and greater than 40/60 in '91 and
thereafter.
Text Reference: 5.04
02            C                                  SABESP's debt service coverage shall be bigger          Ratio was 2.8 in 1997.
thian 1.3.
Status:
C    - Complied with
CD   - Compliance after Delay
NC   - Not Complied with
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP   - Complied with Partially
NWD  - ot Ye(. 'Due



Table  16:
Legal Covenant Report: Latest status of Covenant Compliance                                                                                                       OD 13.05 - ANNEX D5
LCR - Latin America & Caribbean Region                                                                                                                                          Page:  3
LCC5C - Brazil CMU                                                                                                                                        Run Date: 03/25/98 at 11.02.32
Form 590 Date: 07/05/1996
Project ID: BR-PE-6407    - WATER SCTR SAO PAULO
Original      Revised
Covenant              Fulfill       Fulfill
Class(s)   Status      Date          Date     Description of Covenant                                   Comments
Tex- Reference: 5.05 (l-                                                                        -
02            C                                  SABESP will undertake a feasibility study on the
likely amounts involved and fiscal impact of an
asset revaluation.
Text Reference: 5.05 (b)
02            C       1/11/1991                  SAItP.SP wi I nI icorpr-rate t-l, r!Siult a of a formal
ass, t revj I LaL ion r   tihti Ii[land i21 st at.eterilts 01
VY90  ,r(d kipditL- it! ait leabt every fuur 7yars.
Text Reference: 5.06 (a)
02            NC                                 Reduce its account receivable comparator to 95, 85  Ratio of gross accounts receivable was 137 days
and 75 days by the end of years 1995, 1996 and           equivalent and of net accounts receivable 108 days
1997 respectively.                                      equivalent in 1997.
Text Reference: 5.06 (b)
02            CD      12/31/1990                By end - 1990 SASESP will reduce financial losses   Complied with starting in February 1994.
resulting from overdue bills.                                                                                        g>
Text Reference: 5.06 (c)
02            NC      12/31/1990                SABESP will ensure that bulk supply consumers'
individual accounts receivable at end-year do not
exceed the yearly averages stipulated in the
monitoring indicators.
Text Reference: Shareholder 2.02 (b) (ii)
02            C                                 States authorization to SABESP of tariff
increasesas and when necessary.
Sta tus:
C    - Complied with
CD   - Compliance after Delay
NC   - Not Complied with
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasoniably ShorL Thine
CP   - Comnplied with Partially
NYD  - Not Yet Due



Table  16.
Legal Covenant Report: Latest status of Covenant Compliance                                                                                  OD 13.05 - ANNEX DS
Full Text of General Covenant Classification                                                                                          Run Date: 03/25/98 at 11.02.32
Covenant Class
1 Accounts/audit
2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3 Flow and utilization of Project funds
4 Counterpart funding
5 Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6 Environmental covenants
7 Involuntary resettlement
8 Indigenous people
9 Monitoring, review and reporting
10  Implementation
11  Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12  Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13  Other
U,



46
Appendix A - Mission's Aide-Memoire
The last supervision mission to SABESP did not produce an Aide-Memoire.



47
Appendix B - Comments from the Borrower
The Borrower did not provide comments to this report.



BRAZIL
MINAS  GERAIS                 ~WATER SECTOR PROJECT
STATE OF SAO PAULO
MATO GROSSO
7\JK~ Municipalities served by SABESP
DO    SUL                       l1r~~~~~~~~~~~~~rr.r'r; -   M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J ~~Water Administrative Regian
'   ~~~j(Superintendencia) Baundaries
//  n./                          '>      <jay;                                              0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(    Slate Capital
r\ ,.V N?(
~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Municipal Baundaries
t44  A~~~~~~~~  4..~~~~~~.i    /  / ~~~~~~State Boundaries
~~~~  ,    >< ~~~~~~~~~~~~Internatianal Baundaries
'A 'C    c  ~~~~~~~  V ~~~~    /   -   ~ ~ 0100                                           200
/ ~~~~~~~~~~~' ~~~~~~KILOMETERS
B AZIL"'B
V1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-
3011VIA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~       ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~         ~       M~~</    OUAIN  N    EVIELVL
HILFd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1819
>   VNZB9.4   ''~AB                                                                                                                                                                      98        19
COLOMBIA           9                                                                                                                   Total Populcitian (millions)     32.07     37.43t
r)  ARGENTINA ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ .,/Nmbra Mnciaiie                                                                                             7
fIIR 1                                                                     2.             "y                                       TtlUbn auain mlis)                84        36



