Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AV    / 02-Z
teport No. 7650-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
MAY 17, 1989
LAI Department
Latin American and the CaribLean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanee of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
January 15, 1989
Currency Unit - Novo Cruzado (NCz$)
US$ 1          -  NCz$ 1
NCz$ 1         -  US$ 1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AOM         -   Administration, Operation, and Maintenance Costs
BNH        -   Banco Nacional da Habitacao (National Housing Bank)
CEF        -   Caixa Economica Federal (Federal Savings Bank)
CMG        -   Comunidades de Medio e Grande Porte (Large and Medium-sized
Communities)
CPP        -   Comunidades de Pequenho Porte (Small Communities)
CY         -   Calendar Year
DAEE       -   Department of Water and Electricity (SAo Paulo)
FAE        -   Fundo de Agua e Esgoto (State Water and Sewerage Fund)
FY         -   Fiscal Year
ICB        -   International Competitive Bidding
IDB        -   Banco Interamericano de Desenvolvimento (Inter-
American Development Bank)
IPC        -   Indice de Preco do Consumidor (Consumer Price Index)
IRR        -   Internal Rate of Return
LCB        -   Local Competitive Bidding
lpd        -   litres per perso.i per day
LRAIC      -   Long Run Average Incremental Costs
LRMC       -   Long Run Marginal Cost
MCL         -   Minimum Consumption Level
MMC         -   Minimum Monthly Charge
NTL        -   Ley Nacional de Tarifas (National Tariff Law)
OCC         -  Opportunity Cost of Capital
OTN        -   Obriga,6es do Tesouro Nacional (National Treasury Bonds)
PCR        -   Project Completion Report
PLANASA    -   Plano Nacional de Saneamento (National Sanitation Plan)
RMSP        -   RegiAo Metropolitana de Sao Paulo (Sao Paulo Metropolitan
Region)
SABESP     -   Companhia de Saneamento Basico do Estado de SAo Paulo
(SEo Paulo State Water Company)
SWC        -   State Water Company



lL - ALt    iL
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.       THE SECTOR ................................................    1
Background ....................  : .........................    1
Population ..........          ......................................      2
Service Coverage ..........................................    2
Sector Policies  ...........................................               2
Sector Institutional Structure ............................    3
Past Sector Investment in Urban Areas .....              ................    3
Bank Experience and Current Strategy ......................    4
II.      THE PROJECT ..........          .....................................      4
Background ...........          .....................................      4
Project Objectives ........................................    4
Project Description.                                                       5
Project Costs.                                                             6
Project Financing.                                                         7
Status of Project Preparation.                                             8
The Borrower and the State ................................    9
The Borrower's Past Finances  .............................    10
Present Financial Situation .............................                 11
Future Financial Performance  .............................    12
Finances of Sao Paulo State .                                             13
Monitoring Indicatcrs .13
Demand Analysis .13
Brazilian Water Supply and Sewerage Tariffs .14
Tariff Structure .15
Urban Poverty Impact and Affordability .16
Internal Rate of Return .17
Environmental Impact .17
Project Risks .18
III. PROJECT EXECUTION .19
Selection Criteria .19
Project Implementation ........                                           20
Project Supervision .20
Procurement ........                                                      20
The project was appraised by a mission which visited Brazil from January
3-27, 1989. This report was prepared by Messrs. Emilio Rodriguez
(Principal Sanitary Engineer), Carlos E. Velez (Economist), Guille,mo Yepes
(Water/Urban Unit Chief), Tim Campbell (Principal Urban Planner) and
Ms. Mary Sheehan (Financial Analyst, Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the. performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- is -
Page No.
III.     PROJECT EXECUTION (continued)
Disbursements ..............................................   21
Advanced Contracting and Retroactive Financing ....           ........   22
Auditing Arrangements ...........         ..........................   22
IV.      AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .......           .....................   22
LIST OF TABLES
2-1  Project Cost Summary.                                                       7
2-2      SABESP's 1989-1993 Investment Financing Plan
and Project Financing Plan.                                           8
3-1   Project Cost by Procurement Method .21
LIST OF FIGURES
2-1      Residential Average Price and Marginal Cost & Prices
in the RMSP .15
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.1       Urban and Rural Populations, Historic (19,0-1980)
and Projected (1985-2000)  .............................   26
1.2       Basic Sanitation, Simulated "Deficits' for Brazil,
1985-90 .27
1.3       Regional Distribution of Urban Service Levels, 1988                   28
2         The PLANASA System .......................................   29
2.1       PLANASA Investments, 1968-87 .............................   32
3         Bank Loans to Brazil for Water Supply and Sewerage .......   33
4         Letter of Agreement between SABESP and Sao Paulo .... .....  34
5         SABESP's Investment Program, 1989-93 .....................   39
6         Detailed Project Costs ...................................   48
7         SABESP's Organization Chart ..............................   50
8         SABESP's Institutional Data ..............................   51
9         Financial Statements of SABESP ...........................   52
10        Transfers of the State to the Sanitation Sector .... ......   55
11        Notes and Assumptions for SABESP Financial Forecasts .....            56
12        Water Sector Finances ....................................   60
13        Monitoring Indicators .....................                  -        61
±4        Methodology and Results of the Marginal Cost Pricing
Analysis . ..............................................   62
15        Brazilian Water Supply and Sewerage Tariffs ....           ..........   79
16        Loan Disbursement Schedule .......           ........................   87
17        Documents and Data Available in the Project Files .... ....   88
LIST OF MAPS
IBRD 21459    Water Sector Project:  State of Sgo Paulo ............   90



BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Companhia de Saneamento Basico do Estado de Sao Paulo
(SABESP).
Guarantor:           Federative Republic of Brazil.
Amount:              US$280.0 million equivalent.
Terms:              Repayment in 15 years, including five years of grace,
with interest at the Bank's standard variable rate,
Project
Description:         The project consists of:  (i) selected water supply and
sewerage subprojects; (ii) engineering and consulting
services as required for design and construction
supervision; (iii) st:dies and technical assistance to
strengthen capacities for planning, marginal cost
analysis and pricing, reductions in costs, and domestic
waste water pollution assessment; and (iv) institutional
development to improve operations and maintenance.
Parts (i) and (ii) account for 902 of the project costs.
The project covers a portion representing about 35Z of
SABESP's total investment program for the period
1989-1993. Financing for remaining investments would be
provided by the state, CEF and IDB. The project
provides funds for civil works, equipment, technical
assistance, studies and training, amounting to US$600
million equivalent and with a foreign exchange component
of US$150 million (251). Compared with past programs,
increased emphasis is given to sewerage works and to
small and medium cities rather than metropolitan areas.
While covering urgently needed extension of services,
this project would strengthen the capacity of the state
water company to carry out more efficient planning of
investments, improved internal revenue mobilization and
increased efficiency of operations. The project would
help to benefit 6.1 million people in water supply and
2.9 million in sewerage. Forty percent of the
beneficiaries of water and 37% of sewerage would be
urban poor.
Project
Risks:               There are no serious technical risks irn the project.
The main risks are associated with: (i) the unknown
effects of inter-governmental financial reforms on the



- iv -
state's revenues, and their impact on counterpart
funds; (ii) the impact of inflation on project costs,
tariff levels and the financial viability of the
company; and (iii) political interference in the setting
of tariffs and priorities for investments. Fiscal
reforms are expected to benefit Sao Paulo State
proportionally more than other states, diminishing the
risk to counterpart funds. In 1988 tariffs were raised
to adequate levels in real terms and the state and
SABESP would continue the successful strategy of
frequent small tariff increases to maintain the real
value of tariffs. In addition, close supervision of
progress in the Letter of Agreement, the annual review
of investment program and financial situation with the
Bank, and prompt completion of tariff 3tudies would
further mitigate these risks.
Project Costs and Financing Plan: 1/
Local       Foreign        Total
---------(USS million)---------
Water Supply                          249.7          83.3         333.0
Sewerage                               57.2          19.1          76.3
Institutional Development              40.5          13.5          54.0
Construction Supervision               25.2           8.4          33.6
Total Base Cost                    372.6         124.3        496.9
Physical Contingencies                 26.1           8.7          34.8
Project Cost at Dec. l98 prices    398.7           133.0         531.7
Price Contingencies                    51.3          17.0          68.3
Total Project Cost                 450.0         150.0        600.0
Financing Plan:
Bank                                  190.4          89.6         280.0
SABESP Internal Cash                  194.0           0.0         194.0
State of Sao Paulo                     65.6          60.4         126.0
450.0        150.0         600.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year          1990       1991       1992      1993      1994
Annual                    47.4       49.6       70.0      76.0      37.0
Cumulative                47.4       97.0     167.0      243.0    280.0
1/ Totals may not add due to rounding.



BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE SECTOR
Background
1.01     The demand for basic sanitation services in urban areas of Brazil
is now growing faster than supply, and the ability of the sector to meet
the needs for these services over the next several decades is uncertain in
view of financial constraints in the country. Since its establishment in
1968, the National Water and Sanitation Prograrn (PLANASA)1 has produced an
impre-sive record, adding over 55 million new water connections and over 24
milli n new sewerage connections to the Brazilian water and sanitation
system. However, demand is outpacing supply because of rapid urbanization
and an accelerated household formation which will generate nine million new
urban households by the turn of the century. Meeting national sector goals
of 901 coverage in water supply and 65% in sewerage will require a
restoration of former levels of investment. In addition, the new
constitution and the fiscal and administrative reforms promulgated in 1988
resulted in greater financial resources and responsibilities for states and
municipalities but diminished the federal governr:ent's own expenditures in
the sector. Although the effects of the reform are not yet clearly known,
with this receding federal role, state and municipal entities must become
more active and efficient in both resource mobilization and allocation.
1.02     The Bank's assistance in the past has placed emphasis on the
strengthening of sector financial viability and the institutional
capacities of SWCs. The project continues this strategy by choosing one of
Brazil's SWCs as a borrower. The loan goes directly to SABESP, the Sao
Paulo state-owned water and sewerage company, to finance a portion of its
five-year investment program, increase the efficiency of public sector
investments, improve --ter and sewerage pricing, and strengthen the
financial and institu onal relationship between SABESP and the State of
Sao Paulo. SABESP hats nade progress oveL the past decade in closing the
service deficits in the sector, and partly for this reason has been
selected to address the new challenges of extending service to secondary
1/ The National Water and Sanitation Program (PLANASA) is a national level
program that involves planning and policy making at national and
regional levels. It is carried out by the Caixa Economica Federal
(CEF) as the 'apex' financial institution; the state water companies
(SWCs) as operating agents at the local level; and the state water and
sewerage funds (FAEs) as revolving funds channeling state and local
resources to match federal investments from the CEF. See Annex 2 for a
detailed description of PLANASA.



-2-
cities and towns, especially among the urban poor, where most of Brazil's
new water connections during the next decade are needed. In addition,
SABESP and the State of Sao Paulo are strong Institutionally, technically
and financially, and are therefore in a position to carry out this project
successfully. The issues in the sector, and further details on the Bank's
approach in the project, are outlined in the succeeding sections.
Population
1.03     Although the overall rate of population growth in Brazil is
slowing to under three percent p.a., urbanization rates will continue to
exert pressure for expansion of basic infrastructure. The total population
of the country (close to 150 million), is expected to reach nearly 180
million by the turn of the century. Over 74Z (110 million) of this total
is presently living in cities, and nearly 802 will be urban by the year
2000 (see Annex 1). The distribution of this population has a pronounced
effect on the demand for infrastructure and key demographic variables have
influenced the approach adopted under this project. First, rural
populations are nearly steady, and even declining in some regions. Seccnd,
the rates of growth and population totals are unevenly distributed in the
country. The heaviest urban populations are found in the South and
Southeast regions. Third, although the Northeast has the largest
percentage of poor, the largest absolute numbers of urban poor are found in
the South and Southeast. Fourth, the relatively 'bottom heavy" age
distribution of the population pyramid implies that household formation
rates are 202 higher than urban growth rates as a whole. This signifies an
even higher demand for infrastructure coanections than wou'ld be suggested
merely by urban population growth alone.   Finally, the urbanization
process is inzreasing the number of secondary and tertiary cities and
towns. This fact complicates the administrative burden of meeting the need
for water and sanitation, given the present emphasis on decentralization.
Service Coverage
1.04     Brazil has produced one of the most impressJve records in
expansion of water service of any country in the Region. Over the past two
decades, more than 55 million people have been connected to water and
another 24 million to sanitation services. As a result of this effort, 872
of the urban households are presently connected to water and 392 to
sanitation services, as opposed to coverage levels in 1968 of 502 and 30Z,
respectively. The rate of service growth in water has outpaced population
and even urbanization rates overall. Sanitation services have lagged
behind water because water is the first priority and because sanitation
including treatment is more expensive and harder to finance from internal
resources (see Annex 1.3 for a regional distribution of water and
sanitation services in the PLANASA system). Service levels have dropped
perceptibly in the recent past. Projections based on 1985 survey data show
that merely to maintain present levels of wate, and sanitation service
nearly 650 thousand new households must be connected each year to water and
more than 1.85 million to sanitation systems between 1985 and 1990.
Sector Policies
1.05     Much of the reason for the priority given to investments in the
water sector is founded on the need for basic infrastructure and protection



of public health. The progress made in water connections over the past
several decades is reflected in improvements in health indicators. Child
mortality and morbidity, two indicators sensitive to sanitation services,
have improved by about 172 nationwide since 1970. However, as suggested
earlier, these improvements are found mostly in large cities and regions
where not only are water services more widespread, but health services,
education, and income are also better. Nevertheless, marked differences in
health levels by region and income level remain to be addressed. For
instance, child mortality among the poorest neighborhoods in all Brazilian
cities is 60 to 702 higher than the average for urban Brazil. Continued
improvements in the living conditions of the poor will require increased
investments in water and increased emphasis on sanitation.
1.06     Brazil has adopted PL.ANASA goals of reaching 90Z of the overall
urban population with water and 652 with sanitation by the turn of the
century. New emphasis is being given to waste disposal. However, the
large financial requirements implied by these goals, combined with a number
of policy constraints, make it unlikely that the goals can be met. To
achieve even more modest targets, it is urgent to address a range of the
policy and financial issues including overall policy formation, long range
planning, sector coordination, and tariff levels. The project seeks to
address the most important among these policy issues, especially those
relating to public sector efficiency and institutional arrangements.
Sector Institutional Structure
1.07     Most of the past progress in this sector has been the result of
PLANASA. Established in 1968, PLANASA greatly improved planning and
programming, establishing a national tariff law, standardizing accounting
practices and procedures, setting up criteria for project screening and
appraisal, and building information systems (see a description of PLANASA's
origins, operational arrangements and performance in Annex 2). The PLANASA
system consists of a central financial and technical intermediary, the
Caixa Economica Federal (CEF), which plans, coordinates, and lends directly
to states and water companies for capital investments. CEF funds are also
channeled indirectly through the State Water and Sewerage Funds (FAEs),
rz---olvirg funds set up to maintain sources of financing for sector
investments at the state level. Inflation and the economic crisis in
Brazil since 1983 have eroded the financial viability of the system.
Recently, the water companies have managed to avoid major capiLal
depreciation and serious reductions in service levels through capital
transfers directly from state governments, and as of 1987-1988, by raisirg
real tariff levels.
Past Sector Investment in Urban Areas
1.08     With the exception of investment made in municipalities that have
not joined PLANASA, this program has been the sole source of financing for
water and sanitation in urban areas. Since 1968. PLANASA has invested more
than US$11 billion in the sector--68.4Z in water and 31.6Z in sanitation--
benefitting nearly 80 million people in more than 4,000 communities.
Almost two-thirds of these investments came from the central government-
-the CEF and its predecessor in the sector, the National Housing Bank (BNH)
--nearly a quarter from the states (a portion of which had been lent to the
states by CEF), and the rest from grant and outside financing (see Annex 2,



Table 2.1). PLANASA investment represents more than 80 of Brazil's total
investment in water and sewerage.
Bank ExWerience and Current Strategy
1.09     The Bank has lent US$1.1 billion since 1970 in 12 operations in
vater supply, sewerage, and pollution control (basic data, including the
current status of each operation, are sumuarized in Annex 3). Bank
assistance to date has concentrated on urban water and sewerage and is
designed to support the objectives of PLANASA through institutional
development and the adoption of appropriate sector policies. Bank
participation accounted for about 10 of PLANASA investment in the 1970s,
and then increased dramatically after 1983. In 1983, the Bank approved the
first sector loan. This helped greatly to achieve standardization in
policies, tariffs, information, and management. Since then, two pilot
operations have addressed rural water and low income populations in urban
areas.
1.10     The project represents a logical extension of Ban' strategy in the
water and sanitation sector. As in the past, the project works within the
broad framework of PLANASA to support policies and investments that will
encourage economic growth and social development in the context of
macroe Jnomic stability. This project would strengthen the capacity of
SABESP to carry out more efficient planning of investments, improved
internal revenue mobilization and increased efficiency of operations, while
covering urgently needed extension of services.
II. THE PROJECT
Background
2.01     The project follows up previous Bank operations in the water
sector which began in 1971. Through these operations, the Bank has
nurtured sector financial viability and the institutional capabilities of
SWCs to plan and execute investments and operate their systems. Starting
in 1989, the federal government is transferring considerably greater
resources and responsibilities to states and municipalities while
curtailing its own direct expenditures and activities in the sector. In
line with these policies, the loan will be made to and the project executed
by the state water company of Sao Paulo with complementary state financing.
The project seeks to strengthen the state water sector planning and
financial capacities, meet the state's top priority needs for water supply
and sewerage, and develop sound strategies to respond to increasing waste
water pollution control needs in the state. Two Bank missions have
assisted SABESP on project preparation and in particular on gearing its
investment programs to stay within available financial resources and to
select a least cost alternative. The project was appraised in January,
1989.
Project Objectives
2.02     The main project objectives are to:  (i) help optimize the
allocation of scarce sector resources through better investment planning,



-5-
and marginal cost analysis and pricing; (ii) increase SABESP's operational
efficiency and financial health; (Mii) improve environmental and health
conditions in Sao Paulo's urban areas through water service and waste water
disposal; (iv) help develop new strategies to improve SABESP's ability to
implement projects with high social importance but not necessarily high
financial returns; and (v) support government efforts in decentralization
by commitment of resources from the State of Sao Paulo and SABESP.
2.03     Participation by the Bank in this operaticn is geared to support
SABESP's investment program for 1989-1993. This program, consisting of an
efficient and financially viable set of investments, was carefully prepared
to cover urgently needed extension of services within the existing economic
and financial constraints while permitting the financial and institutional
strengthening of SABESP. The project aims to build the company's capacity
to mobilize investment resources internally. SABESP is expected to
contribute as a minimunm counterpart funds amounting to 112 of the planned
investments or 32% of the total project costs (132 and 372 respectively,
including interest during construction) during the period 1989-1993. The
marginal cost studies to be carried out in the project will constitute an
important tool for planning, subproject selection and cost analysis; and
will enable SABESP to design a more efficient pricing policy. SABESP's
planning and programming will be further supported by a performance
agreement (expressed as Letter of Agreement) between SABESP and the State
of Sao Paulo. This agreement will make explicit the expectations and
responsibilities of each party in carrying out the investment plan. A
draft of the Letter of Agreement appears in Annex 4.
2.04     The project forms an important part of the 1989-1993 investment
program which would help benefit about 6.1 million people with water supply
and more than 2.9 million with sewerage services in hundreds of cities and
towns in the State of Sao Paulo. It is estimated that over 40% of the
beneficiaries with water and 372 of the beneficiaries with sewerage are in
the poverty group.
Project Description
2.05     The project represents about 352 of investments to be made by
SABESP in the State of Sao Paulo in the period 1989-1993 and includes a
large group of subprojects which become eligible for financing under the
Bank loan by complying with agreed upon economic criteria (para. 3.01).
Subprojects included in the investment plan for the project implementation
period which are not Bank-financed also are expected to comply with similar
eligibility criteria. The project includes the following (see Annex 5):
(a) construction of the first stage of the South West Water Supply
Scheme to increase raw water supply for the RMSP by 3 m31s,
which includes: (i) three dams that form two impounding
reservoirs with about 214 million m3 (Alto and Medio Capirari
and Embura); (ii) an outflow control structure and channei at
Embura; and (iii) a pumping station to transfer 5 m31s of water
from Medio to Alto Capivari reservoirs;
(b) improvements to the water production installations of Cabucu,
Guarau and Alto Coitia in the RMSP;



(c) construction of about 2,000 km of water transmission and
distribution pipelines, an aggregate capacity of about 100,000
m3 of storage tanks and 200,000 water connections in RMSP;
(d) construction, extension and/or improvement of water systems in
about 50 medium-sized cities and about 200 small towns;
(e) construction of 2 km of interceptors, a pumping station and a
1.8 m3/s sewage treatment plant in the city of Sao Jose dos
Campos;
(f) construction and/or extension of sewage systems and sewage
treatment facilities in about 19 medium-sized cities and 50
small towns;
(g) institutional development, including technical assistance,
materials and works for an unaccounted-for water reduction
program; other improvements in operational and commercial
systems of SABESP, such as in the user's cadastre and metering;
(h) an assessment of and a program for financing appropriate
investments in municipal waste water pollution in the State of
Sao Paulo;
(i) staff training; and
(j) consultant services for engineering, designs and supervision of
construction.
Project Costs
2.06     The cost of the project is estimated to be US$600 trillion
equivalent excluding interest during construction. The foteign exchange
requirement is estimated to be US$150 million. Costs are based on December
1988 prices, and include an average of 72 for physical contingencies and
price contingencies of 5.3Z per year for 1989 and 1990 and 4.1Z for 1991
and thereafter. Costs include direct taxes (about US$40 million). Cost
estimates for major subprojects are based on bills of quantities and unit
prices prepared by consultants and SABESP. Estimates for other subprojects
are based on unit costs of similar works recently bid. The costs of the
institutional development programs are estimated in accordance with
prevailing costs of materials and services.
2.07     Project costs and costs associated with other investments during
the project implementation period 1989-1993 are detailed in Annex 6.
Project costs are summarized in Table 2-1:



-7-
Table 2-1
Project Cost Sumnary
(US$ millions)
Local        Foreign      Total
Water Supply                               249.7         83.3        333.0
Sao Paulo Metropolitan Region             148.1          49.3        197.4
Medium-sized Cities                         37.7         12.6         50.3
Small Towns                                  7.6          2.5         10.1
Other                                       56.4         18.8         75.2
Sewerage                                    57.2         19.1         76.3
Medium-sized Cities                         14.2          4.0         19.0
Small Towns                                 10.1          3.3         13.4
Other                                       32.9         11.0         43.9
Institutional Development                   40.5         13.5         54.0
Supervision of Construction                 25.2          8.4         33.6
Total Base Cost                            372.6        124.3        496.9
Physical Contingencies                      26.1          8.7         34.8
P,oject Cost at December 1988 prices   398.7            133.0        531.7
Price Contingencies                         51.3         17.0         68.3
Total Project Cost                         450.0        150.0        600.0
Project Financing
2.08     A Bank loan to SABESP amounting to US$280 million equivalent would
finance the foreign component plus local costs amounting to 222 of the
estimated project cost. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including
five years of grace at the Bank's standard variable interest rate
(currently 7.652). The balance would be provided hy the state (US$126
million) and SABESP (US$194 million). This state contribution--which is
lower than in previous years--would be made as a direct capital increase.
Assurances were obtained from the State that this contribution would be
made available according to the project schedule and be totally disbursed
by June, 1994.
2.09     The financial success of the project depends largely on the self-
financing capacity of the borrower. This is a departure from practices in
the past where investments were done with near total debt financing. Under
the project, SABESP agreed to provide a minimum counterpart cash
contribution amounting to 32% of the project (37Z including interest during
construction).



2.10     The remainder of SABESP's investment program for the project
implementation period would be financed largely by the CEF2 and the State.
During this period, it is estimated that CEF would lend about US$300
million to SABESP under terms of 18 years, including three of grace, at 122
interest. The state water and sanitation revolving fund (FAE) would
provide resources amounting to US$300 million under terms of 18 years,
three years grace and interest of 3Z for water works, and 30 years, three
years grace ank interest of 22 for sewerage works. The funds from the CEF
and the FAE are based on SABESP's aEsumption that new lending will match
debt service payments to be made by SABESP to both sources. In addition,
SABESP will receive a further US$111.4 million from the IDB (terms: 20
years, including three years grace, at 8.52 interest), under an on-going
operation. SABESP would be Borrower of all loans. The financing plan is
shown in detail in Annex 9. Assurances were obtained from SABESP during
Loan Negotiations that annual investments during the project implementation
period will not be changed by more than 202 of the original investment
amount without prior Bank approval.
2.11     Table 2-2, which summarizes SABESP's financing plan, includes
interest during construction amounting to US$46 million under the proposed
project and US$20 million for other investments. Interest during
construction on the World Bank loan would be financed by SABESP.
Table 2-2
SABESP's 1989-1993 Investment Financing Plan and
Project Financing Plan
(US$ millions)
1989 - 1993
Project Financing Investment Financing
Entities                  Amount        2       Amount        z
World Bank (IBRD)                 280.0       43.0      280.0       16.0
Caixa Economica Federal             0.0        0.0      300.0       17.0
State Water & Sewerage
Fund (FAE)                         0.0        0.0      300.0       17.0
Inter American Development
Bank (IDB)                        0.0        0.0     111.4         6.0
State of Sao Paulo                126.0       20.0      552.0       31.0
SABESP Internal Cash              240.0       37.0      240.0       13.0
TOTAL              646.0      100.0   1,783.4       100.0
Status of Project Preparation
2.12     Project preparation conforms to the proposed annual investment
plans. Final designs for major works, which are expected to start in 1989,
2/ See "An Analysis of the Financial Viability of Caixa Economic Federal"
by M. Dorfman, 1988, Project Files.



are being completed by consultants. Designs for extensions of water
distribution or sewage systems in many cases follow existing master plans
and only minor revisions are needed. Designs for medium-sized and small
communities, in most cases, require a lead time of only two to three
months. In order to assure an early start of disbursement of loan funds
after signature, SABESP furnished to the Bank satisfactory final designs
corresponding to twenty percent of the total estimated project cost. Works
in RMSP include the construction of three dams. Agreement was reached
during Loan Negotiations that disbursement of Loan proceeds for
expenditures made on the three dams would be contingent upon satisfactory
compliance with OHS 3.80, including the Bank's approval of selection of
consultants, and State and Bank approval of environmental impact reports
(RIMA) and relocation studies.
The Borrower and the State
2.13     The Borrower will be SABESP.  SABESP has been a Bank borrower
under the Greater Sao Paulo Sewerage and Sewage Treatment Project (1525-BR,
1978) and in earlier water and sewerage projects (757-BR, 758-BR, 1981). In
addition, SABESP has been a beneficiary in the First Water Sector Loan
(2249-BR, 1983). The company has performed satisfactorily under these
loans and developed a good working relationship with the Bank.
2.14     SABESP was created in 1973 with State Law No. 119 kJune 29, 1973),
by the fusion of the then-separate water and sewerage companies, Companhia
Metropolitana de Aguas de Sao Paulo (COMASP) and Companhia Metropolitana de
Saneamento de Sao Paulo (SANESP). SABESP is a limited corporation 93Z
owned by the State of Sao Paulo, through the Department of Water and
Electricity (DAEE).
2.15     As shown in the organization chart (Annex 7), SABESP is governed
by a management council (Diretoria) comprised of the Executive President
and Department Directors. The Governor of the state appoints the President
for a four-year term. The Diretoria is ultimately responsible to an
Administrative Council--comprised of nine members and presided over by the
president--with responsibility for such functions as ex-ante approval of
investment programs and issuing of new shares, and a Financial Council,
comprised of five members, responsible, among other things, for approving
ex-post all budgets and financial closings. The structure is common to
most Brazilian state-owned companies.
2.16     At the end of 1988, SABESP staff numbered about 21,000.
Distribution of personnel among departments is shown in Annex 7. The
employee efficiency of SABESP, as measured by the consumer per employee
ratio of 206 in 1987, is higher than the sector average of 181 for the same
period (see Annex 12). During the project period this ratio would continue
to improve (see para. 2.28). A program for institutional development,
including training, technical assistance, and managerial skills upgrading,
forms a prominent part of the Managerial Development Program (PDE) to be
financed by the proposed project.
2.17     Water services are constitutionally delegated to the
municipalities; therefore SABESP, like all SWCs in Brazil, operates under
concessions granted by the municipal governments. Under the PLANASA
system, standard concession conitracts have been developed with a duration



- Iu -
of 30 years and the possibility of renewal. SABESP's area of
responsibility covers 416 (or 73Z) of the municipalities in the state,
covering about 66Z of the state's urban population. Six municipalities
receive water in bulk (paying directly and charging their consumers).
2.18     SABESP employs a computerized, double-entry, cost-center
accounting system developed under PLANASA and used by many SWCs in Brazil.
Major accounting procedures (reviewed in Annex 11) are consistent with
internationally-accepted accounting standards and include provisions for
inflation adjustments. Monthly closings are completed within 30 days, and
the results circulated as a management report. Year-end closings are
finalized within three months of year's end. Private external auditors
review annually SABESP's financial statements. These arrangements conform
to the accounting and auditing guidelines of the Bank.
2.19     Customer meters are read monthly by company staff on a rotating
basis by region, and bills processed internally. The company confronts the
problems of long billing periods (from meter reading to due date) and a
poor accounts receivable records, due both to non-payment of municipal bulk
consumers and the company's inability to cumulatively adjust consumer bills
for inflation. These circumstances have contributed to liquidity problems
(see para. 2.24). The project proposes measures to improve the accounts
receivable situation (see para. 2.24), and performance standards regarding
billing and collection (see Annex 13).
The Borrower's Past Finances
2.20     The financial situation of all Brazilian SWCs has been seriously
affected by the country's unstable economic environment since 1983: high
inflation (nearly 1,000X in 1988), periodic differentials between inflation
indexes, and the macroeconomic adjustment plans of 1986, 1987 and 1989.
Although Brazilian corporate law provides for inflation accounting
(National Law No. 6404, December 15, 1978), the magnitude of the
macroeconomic shocks, and the variance in movement of the adjustment
indexes, have made difficult line-by-line comparative interpretations of
historical financial statement or precise conclusions regarding SWC
profitability.
2.21     The past and projected financial statements for SABESP are
presented in Annex 9. A summary of Sao Paulo State's financial. performance
is presented in Annex 10. Major accounting procedures, and the notes and
assumptions for the forecasts, are provided in Annex 11. Financial
performance during the period 1984-1987 was weak due largely to low federal
government-set retail tariffs, which lagged behind inflation. Other
factors included escalating operating costs, particularly chemicals and
electric power. These factors were exacerbated by the debt service burden
related to investments made under PLANASA and large investments in sewage
treatment in RMSP (SANEGRAN) undertaken without a certain financing plan.
This led SABESP to rely on contributions from the state government in the
form of direct equity injections to cover working capital, and debt service
assistance to partially cover SANEGRAN investments. During this time,
SABESP barely covered its operational costs, depreciation charges and
financial expenses, and did not generate sufficient revenue to meet the



- LL -
National Tariff Law (NTL),3 despite a financial recuperation plan4 designed
to achieve this goal.
2.22     However, this performance must be viewed in the context of the
sector as a whole. SABESP's 1984-1987 average operating ratio of 75Z was
far healthier than the sector average of nearly lOOZ for the same period,
and its rate of return on remunerable investments in 1987 of 3.7Z was
significantly higher than the sector average of -1.42. Other ratios (see
Annex 12) similarly demonstrate the comparatively strong financial
performance and position of SABESP in the sector.
Present Financial Situation
2.23     During 1988, financial health throughout the sector improved with
the de facto transfer of authority for tariff-setting, brought about by
constitutional reforms, from the federal to the state governments.  While
the real average tariff had gradually increased under federal control
during the early 1980s, the macroeconomic crisis of the mid-1980s resulted
in substantial erosion, with the average tariff reaching a low in 1986 of
just 652 of the real 1982 level. During 1987-1988, water and sewerage
tariffs increased about 1052 in real terms, to a combined average of
US$O.37/m3 as of December, 1988. This has led to substantially improved
operating results in 1988, as demonstrated by the rate of return on
remunerable investment of over 82, and compliance with the targets
established in the financial recuperation plan as well as with the NTL.
2.24     The inability to make inflationary corrections on consumer bills,
however, has led during the past year to liquidity problems. SABESP
presentiy requires only a one-time penalty charge on overdue accounts.
With accelerated inflation during 1988, accounts receivable from
operations, as measured by the average collection period, climbed to 110
days.  In addition, SABESP has had three bulk municipal consumers with
long-term (over one year) outstanding bills.  During negotiations
assurances were obtained from SABESP that it: (a) reduce its average
(year-end) number of days accounts receivable to not more than 70 by the
end of 1993, following the gradual improvements shown in the Monitoring
Indicators (Annex 13); (b) by end-1990 adjust overdue accounts for
inflation, or take other measures which would reduce the financial losses
resulting from overdue bills; and (c) ensure that bulk supply consumers'
individual days accounts receivable at year-end do not exceed the yearly
3/ The National Tariff Law (1978) establishes guidelines for tariff-
setting on the basis of financial remuneration. Tariffs should be
sufficient to enable SWCs to cover operating costs, depreciation, and a
remuneration at least equal to annual debt service costs. This
remuneration should not exceed a maximum of 12% of remunerable
investments (see Annex 15 for a detailed description of the water and
sewerage tariff system currently applied in Brazil).
4/  As a result of the unstable macroeconomic environment during the 1980s,
and its impact on water sector finances, all the SWCs developed
financial recuperation plans, agreed with the CEF, to establish targets
for improved performance. In 1987, the recuperation plans were revised
to achieve NTL compliance by 1989, and relevant Bank loan documents
were amended accordingly.



- 12 -
averages stipulated in (a) above. Assurances were also obtained from the
State that it takes all legal and/or administrative actions on its part to
ensure that SABESP complies with (b) above.
2.25     Company net fixed assets at end-1988 were about US$2,600 million.
These are comprised largely of water and sewerage systems. Because of the
book-value distortions caused by inflation adjustments during the past
decade, it is likely that SABESP's assets are undervalued. This has
serious implications for SABISP's tariff-setting policy (which is based on
a return on assets), and the annual inflation adjustments which have been
responsible for large losses in the past years. During Negotiations
agreement was reached that the company undertake a study on the amount and
fiscal implications of a physical inventory and asset revaluation. The
study would be baRel on current replacement costs and useful asset life and
the results would be incorporated into the company's financial statements
by fiscal year 1990. In addition, SABESP would be requested to update this
revaluation no later than every four years. Because of off-setting equity
entries, this step would improve the capital structure of the company,
which had a debt/equity ratio of 63/37 as of end-1988, in addition to
providing a more accurate base for tariff-setting and for yearly inflation
adjustments.
Future Financial Performance
2.26     Financial forecasts for the period 1989-1995 (Annex 9) are based
on conservative assumptions: a continuation of constrained investment
resources under PLANASA; maintenance of existing water coverage levels and
a small increase in sewerage coverage; and constant tariffs in real terms.
The investment program provides least-cost solutions, with the non-project
components financed by the CEF and by the State's FAE at levels equivalent
to annual payments. Any increases in the combined average tariff level for
water and sewerage services brought about by improvements in (i) the
structure of SABESP's tariff schedule (resulting from the ongoing LRMC
study--see para. 2.33); and/or (ii) its consumer cadastre (estimated in
1989 to yield a 6Z real increase in the average tariff) would yield
increased interna! cash, and enable SABESP to further improve its self-
financing ratio, as targeted in the Letter of Agreement with the State
government. Real tariff increases have not been considered, however,
because there exists a risk of tariff erosion in real terms (as during the
period 1984-1987) due to Brazil's macroeconomic situation. Further,
SABESP's historic financial performance demonstrates that it is capable of
coping with difficult macroeconomic circumstances, as it has maintained a
position of relative financial strength in the sector.
2.27     To further strengthen the company, assurances were obtained during
Negotiations that the company will: (i) comply with the requirements of the
National Tariff Law (i.e., to cover all operating costs, depreciation
charges and debt service costs, within the limit of a maximum 12Z
remuneration on assets) and (ii) generate sufficient internal cash to cover
annually no less than 322 of the total projected costs excluding interest
during construction, and in 1993 and thereafter would generate sufficient
internal cash to cover annually not less than 20% of SABESP's total
investment program. Assurances were also obtained from the State that
tariffs be set in order to achieve this compliance. In addition, during
Negotiations agreement was reached that SABESP's debt/equity ratio does not



- 13 -
exceed 70/30 in 1989, 65/35 in 1990 and 60/40 in 1991 and thereafter, nor
its debt service coverage ratio fall below 1.5 during the project period.
Agreement was also reached that SABESP submit a general five-year
proiection, with specific details for the upcoming year, by November 30,
specifically targeting its self-financing ratio (with a goal of achieving
302 by 1995). Maintenance of the current tariff level in real terms over
the project period would enable SABESP to continue to meet the requirements
of the NTL, meet its minimum counterpart cash contribution, and comply with
the other agreed financial ratios.
Finances of Sao Paulo State
2.28     As its major shareholder, the State has an obligation to ensure
the financial solvency of the SWC. This has meant both injections of
working capital and payment of debt service, as well as contribution of
counterpart funds for specific investments and contributions to the FAEs.
Total transfers to the sector in Sao Paulo have averaged 1.52 of total
state revenues during the period 1984-1987. Total contributions are
estimated to reach US$159.2 million (2.23% of total state revenues) in
1988, largely due to an increase in the direct contribution to SABESP,
which will be 1.76X, compared with the period average of 1.12 (see Annex
10). Under favorable economic conditions this increased direct
contribution would be expected to continue during the project period, and
would be a major source of funding for the non-project investments.
However, with the current financial tightening at the federal level, the
adequacy of state funds (a large percentage of which are borrowed at a
federal level) is called into question. For this reason the financing plan
for the proposed project relies on a conservative amount of state equity
funds of just 212 of total project costs, and the financing plan for the
global investment program of the company would be reviewed annually with
the Bank and the State.
Monitoring Indicators
2.29     Financial and operational monitoring indicators for the project
(Annex 13) were agreed during Loan Negotiations. The indicators form an
integral part of the Letter of Agreement, which specifies performance
standards and responsibilities of the state government and the Borrower.
During Loan Negotiations, agreement was reached on the levels of
performance for the following ratios: accounts receivables comparator;
consumer to employee ratio and unaccounted-for water. These ratios were
incorporated into the legal agreements. (Levels per year are shown in
Annex 13.)
Demand Analysis
2.30     Water supply and sewerage service demand projections are made
according to administrative regions5 and are satisfactory. As shown in
Annex 14, these projections assume annual population growth rates, daily
water consumption per person, household sizes and persons per connection to
5/ These administrative regions are the RMSP's Integrated System, the
RMSP's Isolated System, the Baixada Santista, the Interior's Large and
Medium Cities (CMG) and the Interior's Small Communities (CPP). See
IBRD Map 21459 for a delineation of these regions.



- 14 -
be constant over the life of the project; sewerage connections to increase
at a higher rate than water connections; and unaccounted-for-water to
diminish at reasonable rates.
2.31     The project is designed to meet water supply and sewerage demands
in the 416 municipalities served by SABESP in the state of Sao Paulo--29 in
the RMSP, 10 in the Baixada Santista and 377 in the Interior. With this
project, SABESP will extend water supply and sewerage services into the
next century, covering additional populations of about 6.1 million in water
and 2.9 million in sewerage. This will allow the water supply coverage
level to remain approximately constant at its present level of 90Z and the
sewerage coverage to increase to 672 from its present level of 612.
Brazilian Water Supply and Sewerage Tariffs
2.32     The Bank has been closely involved with the Brazilian authorities
in the design of water and sewerage tariff structures over a long period of
time, including participation in the formulation of the National Tariff Law
(NTL). The promulgation of the NTL is one of PLANASA's most important
achievements. This law has proved to be adequate from the financial point
of view, i.e., in terms of defining appropriate average rate levels, but
contains some deficiencies with regard to the tariff structure. Notably,
it does not use marginal cost concepts and gives inadequate guidance on:
the degree of cross-subsidies for the financing of services to the poor,
the relationship between water and sewerage charges, and the appropriate
structure of charges to be applied to large and small consumers. A
detailed description of the water and sewerage tariff system currently
applied in Brazil is presented in Annex 15.
2.33     The Brazilian authorities, aware of these anomalies, organized a
national workshop in April, 1988, with Bank assisvance, to examine the
level and structu.-e of water supply and sewerage tariffs. As a result of
that workshop, six SWCs in Brazil, SABESP, SANEPAR, COPASA, COSANPA, CAGECE
and SANESUL6 are presentlr carrying out detailed studies of their marginal
cost structures under the coordination of the CEF and with the Bank's
active support and guidance. These studies are expected to produce a
general methodology which can be applied to the entire country, providing
the Government and SWCs with a valuable tool for r'vising present criteria
for water supply and sewerage planning, operations and pricing. Terms of
reference for the elaboration of these studies are in the LAC files.
2.34     Pending the outcome of these studies, the mission carried out a
preliminary analysis of SABESP's tariff structure and long-run marginal
costs (LRMC) in its water and sewerage systems. While this analysis must
be viewed as approximate, it has identified the main issues which are
reported in paragraphs 2.34-39. These issues will be investigated furthei
in the rclevant detailed tariff study mentioned in paragraph 2.32 and
addressed in the longer term under an action program to be agreed with the
Bank. Specifically, during Loan Negotiations, the borrower agreed to: (i)
complete the studies by end 1989; and (ii) discuss the results, agree on a
set of recommendations and define an implementation plan with the Bank
before December 1990.
6/ SWCs in the states of Sao Paulo, Parana, Minas Gerais, Para, Ceara and
Mato Grosso do Suil, respectively.



- 15 -
Tariff Structure
2.35     The tariff structure in SABESP's systems is presented in Annex 14,
Attachment 12. Overall, resulting average water rates and the combined
average rates for water and sewerage are in line with the LRMCs in the RMSP
and in the Baixada Santista--as may be seen in Annex 14, Attachment 13.
While there are divergences between the LRMC and the level of tariffs in
the large and medium cities of the Interior, they are relatively small.
The major differences between the LRHC and tariffs occur in SABESP's small
communities--where the LRMC exceeds average tariffs by more than S02.
However, such differences are not an immediate cause for concern, given the
preponderance of low-income consumers in those centers and the fact that
they account for a relatively small proportion (132) of SABESP's total
market.
2.36     SABESP's consumers face a minimum monthly charge (MMC) for a
minimum consumption level followed by a system of increasing block tariffs,
in line with the Brazilian practice (see Annex 15). This tariff schedule
translates into a set of average prices that decreases sharply until a
minimum point is reached at a monthly consumption of 10m3, and then begins
to increase. Figure 2-1 illustrates this behavior for the case of
residential consumers in the RMSP, and simultaneously shows the
relationship of this curve with prices of the different blocks and with its
corresponding marginal cost of supply. The consumption level at which
average tariffs equal marginal costs varies greatly between consumer
categories and regions, being usually about 25 and 35 m3 for small
consumers. However, where subsidies are large, equality is reached only at
a very high consumption level: for example, in the small communities of
the Interior, equality is reached at 577 M3 per residential customer.
Figure 2-1
Residential Average Price and Marginal Cost
and Prices in the RMSP
0.,
0o-
0.3
S ~  ~    ~     i/S
0.-



1 5 -
2.37     SABESP's tariff structure has four main deficiencies which need to
be addressed in the longer term. First, the relative prices charged to
different consumers within the non-residential category are not related to
relative marginal costs. Aa a group, non-residential consumers pay more
than the LRMC: such a policy has the advantage that it facilitates the
cross-subsidization of service to lower-income consumers, but the same
result could be achieved with a more rational structure. Second, the
distinction between residential and non-residential consumers is entirely
arbitrary, bearing no relationship to the marginal cost of supply. T.iird,
the system of increasing block tariffs--while typical in developing
countries as a way of encouraging water conservation and implementing
cross-subsidies from higher- to lower-income consumers--may not be
achieving the desired result. Recent evidence7 suggests that a significant
proportion of the cross-subsidy is enjoyed by medium- and high-income
consumers, while some of the poorest consumers are charged high average
rates, due to their very low consumption. Fourth, the rates for combined
water ard sewerage service in the RMSP appear to be above the corresponding
LRMC, which in principle could provide a source of financing for Sao
Paulo's ambitious program to clean up its polluted waterways. However,
before firm practical conclusions can be drawn, a more refined calculation
of LRMC is required,8 and consideration needs to be given to the potential
and rationale which might exist for alternative sources of financing.
Urban Poverty Impact and Affordability
2.38     The urban poor constitute a significant fraction of the
beneficiaries of this project. Urban poor are defined in Brazil as
families earning a monetary income of three regional minimum salaries or
less. Taking into account the life of the project, about 2.4 million poor
(about 40Z of all beneficiaries) will be connected to water and 1.1 million
poor (about 37Z) will be connected to sewerage.
2.39     The minimum consumption level (MCL)--typically 10m3 per month--is
intended to provide consumers with a quantity of water sufficient to
satisfy basic needs and maintain minimum health and sanitary conditions.
The NTL provides that the minimum monthly charge (MMC) for this quantity-
-in the case of residential consumers--should not exceed 35Z of one OTN
(US$2.42) for water and 50Z of one OTN (US$3.46) for water and sewerage
combined. In fact, most SWCs charge well bellow this legal limit for the
7/ Hugo de Olivera, Uma Analise Critica da Atual Sistematica de
Tarifacao Aplicada ao Setor de Saneamento no Brasil, SABESP, 1988.
8/ Lack of information required to make strong assumptions regarding the
projected volume of effluents collected and treated, and the expected
growth of installpd capacity utilization at existing and future sewage
stations. Additionally, although the existing system exhibits a
considerable amount of sunk costs, LRMC may have been underestimated
due to: (i) the aggregation into a single system of several independent
sub-systems, which artificially overestimate the treated volume
eliminating idle capacity at the treatment stations, and (ii) the lack
of differentiation among treatment technologies, i.e., considering
primary and secondary treatment, and submarine emissions as a single
type of treatment without cost differences.



- 17 -
MCL (about half on average), so that wate- and sewerage charges are
affordable even for the poorest segment of the population.
2.40     In the case of SABESP, the MMC for water and sewerage has
represented under 5? of one minimum salary with only rare exceptions since
1977. In addition, SABESP does not charge a connection fee for service
consisting of one tap and minimum flow. Tariff increases since January of
1988 have pushed the MMC to near 6? of one minimum salary, or 2S of the
three minimum salaries defined as the poverty income level. Domestic
consumers of the Interior face a slightly smaller MMC. A standard often
accepted in Bank projects has been to keep water and sanitation charges
under 5% of three minimum salaries.
Internal Rate of Return
2.41     As is usual in water supply and sanitation projects, incremental
revenues have been used as a proxy for the benefits of the project.
Incremental revenues are a minimum measure of benefits as: (i) they
underestimate 'willingness-to-pay", by excluding consumer surplus (which
cannot be measured in light of available information); and (ii) there are
important non-quantifiable benefits which in any case are not likely to be
captured by "willingness-to-pay," notably better public health and a better
quality of life which result from improved water supply and sanitation. An
internal rate of return (IRR) has been calculated for water and sewerage as
a joint service, since in many cases consumers pay a combined bill for
both. Although separate charges are provided in the tariff structures for
water and sewerage (see Annex 14, Attachment 13), it is not possible to
identify the 'willingness-to-pay' for each service separate.l. All costs
and revenues are expressed in constant market prices (US$ as of December
1988), including all complementary investments necessary to achieve the
full benefits of the project. Investments not related to incremental
benefits (such as plant replacement or major maintenance) have been
excluded from the analysis.
2.42     The calculated IRR is 122 for water and sewerage combined, using
January 1989 average tariffs (US$0.34/m3 for water and US$0.36/m3 for
sewerage) as a proxy for economic benefits.9 The return is moderately
sensitive to increases in costs or decreases in  revenues: an increase of
1OZ in costs combined with a 10? decrease in revenues, for example, reduces
the return to 9Z (see detailed calculations in Annex 14, Attachments 25 and
project files).
Environmental Impact
2.43     The mission discussed several environmental aspects of the project
with SABESP and arrived at agreement on strategies and conditions to
9/ This a realistic assumption regardless of likely reductions that may
result from the recently adopted "Plano Verao", because SABESP's
average tariff is expected to have a real in-rease of about 62 around
mid-1989. This increase will simply result from the effective
application of the existing tariff differentiation to the RMSP's small
final consumers.



- 18 -
address environmental issues related to the proposed project (see Annex 5).
First, three dams are to be constructed as a part of the company's
production program. The environmental consequences of the dams were
investigated carefully, and SABESP agreed that detailed impact studies be
carried out. Moreover, SABESP is required by Federal Law (Resolution 001,
23 January 1986) to prepare an environmental impact report (RIMA) following
state guidelines. During appraisal the Bank mission reviewed with SABESP
Bank policies for dam and reservoir projects as well as the policies and
laws of the federal and state governments. The state guidelines which are
more elaborated for diagnostic purposes will be complemented by Bank
guidelines which are more detailed for purposes of developing and
evaluating options and making recommendations. Prior to Negotiations,
SABESP presented terms of reference for the environmental impact study, for
a study on relocation of affected populations, and for the work regarding
dam safety as required by the Bank. Prior to Loan Disbursement for the
subprojects involving the construction of dams, SABESP should submit to the
Bank satisfactory evidence of compliance with the Bank's guidelines on dam
safety, approval by the State and the Bank of the environmental impact
report.
2.44     A second environmental aspect taken up in this project concerns
pollution control of municipal waste water discharged in receiving bodies
of the state. SABESP's record is better than most other Brazilian SWCs in
providing was e water treatment and is already advanced in the diagnostic
phases of a study in the state's nine water basins. With assistance from
this project, SABESP will carry out a study including a detailed assessment
of the degree of treatment required for sewerage effluents in the state,
their benefits and costs and the sources of revenues to meet the
recommended investments and their operational costs. Assurances would be
sought during Negotiations that this study be completed by December 31,
1991.
2.45     In addition, the project finances sewerage in much greater
proportions in middle-sized towns than in past Bank projects, although
recent deteriorations in the levels of water service make water systems the
first priority. SABESP's waste water treatment includes facilities at Sao
Jose dos Campos, a medium-si7ed city on the Paraiba, and one of the most
polluted in Brazil, as well as investments in many small communities in
order to avoid water pollution problems in the future. Also, SABESP's
SANEGRAN project will continue with IDB financing in parallel with this
project.
Project Risks
2.46     There are no serious technical risks in the project.  The main
risks are associated with: (i) the unknown effects of inter-governmental
financial reforms on the state's revenues, and their impact on counterpart
funds; (ii) the impact of inflation on project costs, tariff levels and the
financial viability of the company; and (iii) political interference in the
setting of tariffs and priorities for investments. Fiscal reforms are
expected to benefit Sao Paulo State proportionally more than other states,
diminishing the risk to counterpart funds. In 1988 tariffs were raised to
adequate levels in real terms and the state and SABESP would continue the
successful strategy of frequent small tariff increases to maintain the real
value of tariffs. In addition, close supervision of progress in the Letter



- 19 -
of Agreement, the annual review of investment program and financial
situation with the Bank, and prompt completion of tariff studies would
further mitigate these risks.
III. PROJECT EXECUTION
Selection Criteria
3.01     Assurances were obtained during Loan Negotiations that the
Borrower will use the following criteria for selection of subprojects: (a)
least cost alternative; and (a) long-run average incremental cost.  The
justification of each individual subproject will be made using marginal
costs calculated on the basis of the investment progra-m of the subproject
and its complementary works.10 Water projects will be approved only if the
SWCs water average tariff, present or prospective in the short term,
exceeds 752 of the marginal cost of providing the service to the smallest
type of consumers connected to the system.11 Sewerage subprojects will be
approved only if the SWCs sewerage average tariff, present or prospective
in the near future, exceeds 60Z of the marginal cost of providing the
service--sewage collection, transpcrtation and treatment, if available--to
the smallest type of consumers connected to the system. The use of
marginal costs simplifies project selection, provides useful information
regarding cost and tariff structures, and is easy for policy makers to
understand and apply. In addition, marginal cost data generate useful
statistics for the companies on investment costs, operating and commercial
expenses, and on cost differentials between regions and cities.
3.02     Projects not satisfying the above conditions but which are
designed for minimum cost may be accepted by the Bank on a case-by-case
basis. The analysis should consider inter-alia: (a) poverty levels and
health conditions; (b) the lack of alternative water sources; (c) the
impossibility of recovering costs through tariffs; and (d) an evaluation of
benefits in other sectors of the economy. These projects are likely to be
in towns where urban poverty prevails and large investments are needed to
compensate for the lack of previous investments. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that subprojects must meet project selection criteria
as a condition of disbursement for the specific subproject. During the
course of project execution, amendments to selection criteria may be made
as a result of marginal cost pricing studies. Subprojects outside the
Bank-financed portion of SABESP's investment program are financed by the
CEF, FAE and IDB, under project selection criteria acceptable to the Bank.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that SABESP agree to
selection, design and the carrying out of future investments using similar
eligibility criteria agreed for subprojects under the loan.
10/ The use of the IRR as an additional criterion tor accepting or
rejecting a subproject with Bank financing should be discontinued given
that it is redundant and misleading.
I1/ Sixty percent of the marginal costs in cities with less than 50,000
inhabitants.



- 20 -
Prolect Implementation
3.03     The loan would be made with the guarantee of the State of Sao
Paulo and the Federal Government. The contractual documents are as follows:
(i) a Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Borrower; (jA) a Shareholder
Agreement between the Bank and the State Government (through DAEE); and
(iii) a Guarantee Agreement between the Bank and the Federal Government.
In addition, assurances were obtained during Loan Negotiations that a
Letter of Agreement between the State and SABESP would be signed prior to
Loan Effectiveness.
3.04     The project would be implemented during 1989-1993. Annual project
investments are presented in Annex 6. This investment table would be
updated annually and, together with the monitoring indicators (Annex 13),
the financial projections, and the Letter of Agreement, would form the
besis for semi-annual progress reports. During Loan Negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the Letter of Agreement, including annual
investment and company financial forecasts, be reviewed annually, no later
than December 15. The investment schedule is compatible with the executing
capabilities of SABESP. The project is expected to be completed by
December 31, 1993. Agreement was reached during Loan Negotiations on
annual investment figures and monitoring indicators and on the submission
to the Bank by November 30 of annual revisions of project investments, as
well as submission of semi-annual reports and a project completion report
(PCR). Two workshops would be held for purposes of orientation and
explanation of Bank procedures: the first not later than two months after
Loan Signature and the second during implementation but before the end of
1991.
Project Supervision
3.05     Supervision of construction would be the responsibility of the
SABESP and would be carried out mainly by consultants. In view of the
receding role of the CEF, and because of detailed institutional and
financial aspects, the project wi:: require more than customary supervision
by the Bank.
Procurement
3.06     Civil works would represent 722 of the total project cost,
equipment and materials 26Z, and engineering and consulting services the
remaining 2?. All contracts which can be packaged to exceed the equivalent
of US$5 million for civil works and US$250 thousand for equipment or
materials would be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding (ICB) following the Bank's guidelines for procurement. All other
contracts for civil works and equipment or materials will be procured under
LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Under these assumptions, 47Z of
works and materials will be procured under ICB. The nature of the rest of
the civil works to be executed (amounting to about 38Z of pro,ect cost)
preclude the efficient packaging of services to be bid, because civil works
could be carried out in many towns. Under these circumstances, it is
unlikely that foreign firms would be interested in participating in the
bidding and thus, many works would be built by local contractors. The
large number of experienced Brazilian contractors guarantees a meaningful
competition. Foreign firms would be allowed to participate in LCB.



- 21 -
SABESP's LCB procedures have been reviewed by the Bank and found
acceptable. Standard bidding documents are under prenaration. Project
costs by procurement method are presented in Table 3-1. Figures in
parentheses are the amounts financed by the Bank.
Table 3-1
Project Cost by Procurement Method
(USS millions)
Project Element              ICB          LCB            Other       Total
Civil Works             203.5        230.6            0,0        434.1
(87.5)       (99.2)                    (186.7)
Equipment and           146.8         11.8           0.0        158.6
Materials               (82.0)        (5-1)                      (87.1)
Engineering and           0.0          0.0            7.3          7.3
Tech. Asst.                                          (6.2'        (6.2)
Total                  350.3        242.4           7.3        600.0
(169.5)      (104.3)         (6.2)      (280.0)
3.07     Consultants for detailed engineering, the training program, and
the various studies (under technical assistance) would be selected in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August
1981).
3.06     All bidding procur,d under ICB would be subject to the Bank's
prior review of bidding documents, awards, and contracts. In the interest
of expediting project execution, the balance would be subject to ex-post
review by sampling. In order to ensure adequate procurement procedures,
the Bank will review and approve--irrespective of the amount--the first two
contracts for LCB for goods and for works, respectively. If the Bank
determines in the review by sampling that procurement is inconsistent with
agreed procedures, no expenditures for such itenis would be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may cancel an equivalent amount of
the Loan.
Disbursements
3.09     The loan would be disbursed as follows: (i) 100% of foreign
expenditures for imported equipment and materials: (ii) 432 of local
expenditures for civil works, equipment and materials; (iii) 100% of
expenditures for services of foreign consultants; and (iv) 85% of
expenditures for services of consultants domiciled in Brazil.  In order to
expedite project execution, a Special Account in the amount of US$15.0
million would be established in the Banco Central de Brasil.  Loan
disbursements for civil wotks amounting less than US$l million and goods to
US$100,000 would be made against Statements of Expenditure prepared by
SABESP. Detailed dccumentation would be retained by the Borrower for
inspection during supervision missions and for audit by its external
auditor. No force account works are envisaged. The estimated schedule of



- 22 -
disbursement provides for Loan disbursement in six years (see Annex 16).
This disbursement schedule is consistent with previous Bank operations in
the sector in Brazil. The closing date would be June 30, 1994.
Advanced Contracting and Retroactive Financing
3.10     The Bank loan would finance works to be carried out duiring the
period 1989-1993. Some of the wcgrks are urgently needed--for instance to
rehabilitate and expand systems and to maintain current levels of service--
and these are scheduled to start early in 1989. Other works are parts of
annual investment programs with expenditures spread over the agreed
investment period. In view of these needs, the project provides for the
following: (a) advanced contracting as of January 1, 1989, and amounting to
US$40 million; and (b) retroactive financing as of the same date, and
amounting to US$10 million.
Auditirig Arrangements
3.11     During Loan Negotiations, agreement was reached that external
auditors will carry out an audit on the following: (i) Project Accounts;
(ii) Financial Statements; (iii) Statement of Expenditures; and (iv)
Special Accounts. It was also agreed at negotiations that the audit report
corresponding to each year (starting in 1989) will be submitted to the Bank
no later than June 30 of the following year.
IV. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01     Prior to Loan Negotiations, SABESP furnished to the Bank the
following:
(i)  final designs for subprojects amounting to 20Z of the
total estimated cost of the project (para. 2.12). Final
designs are well advanced and no problems are anticipated
in meeting this requirement;
(ii)  satisfactory evidence of its compliance with the financial
recuperation plan agreed with the CEF for 1988 (para.
2.23); and
(iii)  terms of reference for the environmental impact study,
relocation plans, and the safety program regarding works
involving the construction of dams (para. 2.43).
4.02     During Loan Negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
(a) from the State of Sao Paulo:
(i) provision of an equity counterpart contribution of
US$126.0 million, to be fully disbursed no later than June
30, 1994 (para. 2.08);



- 23 -
(ii)  undertaking of all legal and/or administrative actions
which might be required to enable SABESP by end-1990 to
adjust, or otherwise compensate for financial losses due
to overdue bills (para. 2.24); and
(iii) authorization of tariff increases as and when necessary to
enable SABESP to comply with the provisions of the Loan
Agreement (para. 2.27).
(b) from SABESP:
(i) to make no changes of more than 202 in the annual
investment program without the approval of the Bank (para.
2.10);
(ii)  to take the following actions regarding receivables:
(a) to reduce its average year-end accounts receivable to
no more than 70 days by end-1993, according to the
Monitoring Indicators; (b) by end-1990, to adjust for
inflation or to take other measures which would reduce the
financial losses resulting from overdue bills; and (c) to
ensure that bulk supply consumers' individual accounts
receivable at year-end do not exceed the yearly averages
stipulated in (a) above (para. 2.24);
(iii) to undertake a preliminary feasibility study on the likely
amounts involved and fiscal impact of an asset
revaluation, to incorporate the results of a formal asset
revaluation into the audited financial statements of
fiscal 1990, and to update the revaluation at least every
four years thereafter (para. 2.25);
(iv)  (a) assurance that yearly operating revenues cover, as a
minimum, operational expenses, depreciation and
amortization charges, and all debt service costs, up to a
122 remuneration on net fixed assets in operations (i.e.
compliance with the NTL); and (b) generation of sufficient
internal cash annually to cover at least 32? of total
project costs excluding interest during construction, and
in 1993 and thereafter, at least 20I annually of SABESP's
total investment program (para. 2.27);
(v)   that its debt/equity ratio does not to exceed 70/30 during
1989, 65/35 during 1990, and 60140 during 1991 and
thereafter; and debt service coverage not to fall below
1.5 during the project period (para. 2.27);
(vi)  submission to the Bank, not later than November 30 of each
year, a general financial projection for the following
five-year period, with specific details on investment
plans for the upcoming year and targeting self-financing
ratio (para. 2.27);
(vii) agreement on choice of parameters for, and levels of,
operational and financial monitoring indicators (para.
2.29);



- 24 -
(viii)  achieve an unaccounted-for water level of 22Z and a
consumer/employee ratio of 235 by end-1993, according to
the gradual improvements shown in the Monitoring
Indicators (para. 2.29);
(ix)  completion of marginal cost pricing studies by end-1989,
and agreement on a set of recommendations and an
implementation plan for those agreed recommendations
before December 1990 (para. 2.34);
(x) assurance that the water pollution control study be
completed by December 31, 1991; and that by the same date
a planning and financing strategy for investments
recommended by the study be developed taking into account
the results of the marginal cost pricing study (para.
2.44);
(xi)  terms of reference for environment study, relocation plan
and safety program for dams (para. 2.43);
(xii)  eligibility criteria for subproject selection consisting
of least cost alternatives and long-run average
incremental costs (para. 3.01);
(xiii)  continuation of the use of project selection criteria
acceptable to the Bank for future investments (para.
3.02);
(xiv)  submission of annual revisions of investment plans, semi-
annual reports and a project completion report (para.
3.04);
(xv)  holding with the Bank an annual review of the Letter of
Agreement including annual investment program and cumpany
financial forecasts to take place no later than year-end
(para. 3.04);
(xvi)  the external audit of Project Accounts, Financial
Statements, Statement of Expenditures and Special Account
(para. 3.11);
4.03     Prior to Loan Effectiveness, SABESP should have signed the Letter
of Agreement with the State (para. 3.03).
4.04     Prior to Loan Disbursement for each subproject. SABESP should
demonstrate satisfactory evidence of compliance with the agreed project
selection criteria (paras. 3.01 and 3.02.
4.05     Prior to Loan Disbursement for the subcomponents related to
construction of dams, the Bank should receive from SABESP satisfactory
evidence of compliance with the Eank's guidelines on dam safety and
approval by the State and the Bank of the environmental mpact report,
mitigation measures, and relocation plans in connection iith the
construction of dams (para. 2.43).



-25 -
4.06     With the above agreements, the project would be suitable for a
Bank loan of US$280 million to SABESP for a period of 15 years, including a
five-year grace period. Advanced contracting for up to US$40 milliota and
retroactive financing for up to US$10 million for expenditures incurred
after January 1, 1989, is also recommended (para. 3.10).



- 26 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1.1
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
Urban and Rural Populations
Historic (1970/1980) and Projected (1985/2000)
Millions of Inhabitants           Z of Total Population
Years              Total    Urban    Rural          Total    Urban    Rural
1970              95.9      53.6      42.3        100.0      56.0      44.0
1980             121.3      82.0      39.3        100.0      67.6      32.4
1985             135.6      97.6      38.0        100.0      72.0      27.9
1990             150.4    112.7       37.7        100.0      74.9      25.1
1995             165.1    128.0       37.1        100.0      77.5      22.5
2000             179.5    143.1       36.4        100.0      79.7      20.3
Source:  Luiz Armando de Medeiros Frias, PROJE96ES DA POPU'A,AO RESIDENTE E
DO NOMERO DE DOMICILIOS PARTICULARES OCUPADOS: 1985-2020, Textos
para Discussao, Maio de 1988, DPE-88 005.
Note:    The adjusted 1970 and 1980 population figures and the projections
for total resident population are from: IBGE/Centro Latino
Americano de Demografia -- CELAGDE, BRASIL: ESTIMACIONES DE
POBLACION 1950-2025, Fasciculo F/BRA 1, Julio 1984.



- 27 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1.2
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF sAO PAULO
Basic Sanitation
Simulated Deficits' for Brazil: 1985-90
(000's of Units)
Simulation:
Rate of Growthei
Adjusted deficits:        Absolute and Relative
Characteristic                   1985d/                   Deficits: 1990
Total   Urban   Rural      Total   Urban   Rural
TOTAL HOUSEHOLDS         30,900   23,100  7,800    35,900   27,900   8,000
Not Connected to
General Water Network
Absolute                   2,978   n.a.                3,627    n.a.
2 of Units                13.0%                       13.0%
Without Piped Watera/
Absolute         9,725    4,046  5,679    10,711    4,887   5,825
Z of Units       31.51    17.5Z   728X       29.82    17.5Z   72.8%
Without General Sewer
System or Septic
Tankb/
Absolute        16,007    8,917  7,090    18,041   10,769   7,272
Z of Units       51.82    38.6Z  90.92       50.3Z    38.6%   90.92
Without Any Sanitary
Facilityc/
Absolute         6,652    2,541  4,111       7,285    3,069   4,216
Z of Units       21.52    11.0%  52.7%       20.3%    11.0%   52.7Z
Source:  IBGE, PNAD-85, adjusted for 1985 recount.
Notes:   a/  Without piped water from the general network, well or spring.
b/ Without general sewer system or septic tank or with shared
facility.
c/  Without any facility or with shared facility.
d/  Adjusted using total from Table 1.  Due to rounding, the urban
and rural deficits do not always sum to exactly the total.
e/  Assumes that the number of households served grows at the same
rate as the number of rural and urban households.



- 28 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1. 3
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
Regional Distribution of Urban Service Levels, 1988
Water                 Sewerage
Populations            Populations1l/
Region                   (Million)  Z Served   (Million)   2 Served
North                   2.5        72.5         0.1          5.2
Northeast              16.8        80.6        16.8         17.7
Southeast              35.2        90.0        19.6         48.8
South                  11.4        88.9         2.2         19.4
Centerwest              6.4        85.9         2.5         38.9
Total Brazil               72.3       82.6        27.3         37.8
1/ Refers only to water-borne sewerage, not to other forms of waste-water
disposal. Service is percentage of urban population with water.
Source: CEF, Consolidated EVG's.



- 29 -                       ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
The PLANASA System
Origins of PLANASA
The National Sanitation Plan (PLANASA) was created in 1968 in an
effort to improve national water and sewerage service levels, at the time
50Z and 30?, respectively. Brazil was undergoing a very rapid increase in
urbanization at a time of unprecedented expansion in the national economy.
These forces put into relief the need for, and possibilities of, better
sanitation conditions. Until 1968, water and sanitation services had been
the responsibilities of relatively weak municipal governments which
operated in a confusing policy environment in which states, several
regional authorities, and numerous federal entities supported water and
sanitation programs. Coverage was uneven and the sector disorganized in
the sense that no coordinated systematic policy making and planning were
carried out at the national level.
With this as a backdrop, the idea of a concerted national effort
in sanitation, known as PLANASA, was conceived and made a part of the 10-
Year National Economic and Social Plan. PLANASA set new goals for the
sanitation sector--to achieve 80Z coverage in water and 502 in sewerage by
1980. More important, the plan for the sector established a system of
institutions, procedures, and financing geared to address the need for
planning and policy at national and regional levels. PLANASA was designed
to address operational and investment needs at the state level in order to
take advantage of economies of scale sufficient to establish a self-
sustaining financing system to operate and expand services. The
institutional vehicles of this system consisted of (1) the National Housing
Bank (BNH) as the 'apex' financial institution, (2) state water companies
(SWCs) which would take concessionary responsibility from municipalities to
operate and improve water and sanitation service at the local level, and
(3) state water and sewerage funds, known as FAEs, set up as revolving
funds, managed usually by state banks, to channel state and local resources
to match investments from BNH. The plan also called for municipal
investments in the sector, although this proved to be difficult to sustain.
Financial and Technical Arrangements
The financial and technical arrangements in PLANASA are simple in
concept and difficult to implement. The financial resources mobilized for
this system were of three types: (1) the Time-on-Joll Guarantee Fund (FGTS)
created by an 82 tax on the wage bill; 302 of this amount was to be
invested by the National Housing Bank (BNH1 in water and sanitation; (2)
internal and external credits; (3) budgetary resources from state
governments, some provided on a grant basis to launch the system and
establish the FAEs. Technically, sector planning and programming were
coordinated by a central unit in BNH based on rolling five year investment



- 30 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
plans prepared by the SWCs.  In addition, BNH (and later its successor, the
Caixa Economica Federal or CEF) monitored tariff increases, set standards,
and helped carry out training and technical assistance.
Once established, the FAEs and state governments were to match BNH
contributions for capital investment. The FAEs were to be subtained by
cash generation from company operations in addition to resources provided
by state capital injections. When a state's contributions exceeded 52 of
its budget, BNH could finance the difference charging an interest rate at
least equal to urbanization rate of states. Thus the FAEs were considered
to be the principal and permanent source of finance for state investments.
Additional financing programs were set up in early '70s during boom years
to stimulate sewerage treatment, help cut poorer states, and give incentive
to training and technical assistance.
PLANASA Performance
More than 55 million people have been connected to water, another
24 million to sewerage under the PLANASA system. Over the period
1968-1986, more than US$10.23 billion reaching service levels of 87Z and
39Z, respectively, were invested in the sector. In the first eight years
of the program, total combined investments in the sector averaged US$324
million per year. This figure was more than doubled during the "miracle"
years (roughly 1977-1982), to about US$844 million, but fell again to less
than half that level beginning in 1983. The geographic pattern of
investments follows roughly the regional population distribution, except in
the Southeast and the North, where investments are, respectively, slightly
less and slightly more than population distribution. Overall, more than
712 of the investments went to water supply, 28.9Z to sewerage. Sewerage
never reached planned investment levels because sewerage is roughly twice
as expensive as water and because it takes much longer to recover sewerage
costs. In addition to service increases, PLANASA made important gains in
improving sector policy making, planning, and coordination, in setting
tariff levels, and in developing and diffusing project evaluation and
screening techniques.
Average annual investments for the past five years has been in
steady decline. The recession, followed by economic crisis over the past
three years, drained the financial viability of the PLANASA system in
several ways. First, incomes dropped along with mortgage payments, meaning
the principal sources of finance for the BNH (now the CEF) were drastically
reduced. Second, states were unable to sustain counterpart financing.
State water companies, under political pressure to maintain low tariffs,
also lost the capacity to clear their debts with the FAEs.  Simning up this
experience, the FAEs got 39.1% of money from states, 33.32 came from BNH or
the CEF, and only 27.6? directly from users. Over tte past several years,
with few exceptions, returns to the FAEs from SWCs hEre been negligible.
Although PLANASA was instrumental in putting Brazil near the top
of urban water service levels in the Region, the performance in sewerage
fell short of the original goal. At the same time, the PLANASA system
proved adaptable. New programs were added, for instance, in low cost
sanitation and for rural water, and special incentives were cffered to



- 31 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
achieve specific objectives. For instance, to improve service in small
towns, special incentives led to an increase in the number of systems
operated by SWCs from 1,200 to nearly 3,300 in the period 1979-1983. Over
802 of the increase were in small towns.
The Future of PLANASA
Aside from the financial and economic crisis in the country at
present, the many political and institutional changes since the opening of
the New Republic, along with demographic shifts, constitute a new
environment for PLANASA and the sector. Brazil is now undergoing a
demographic transformation in which the number of households is growing 202
faster than urbanization as a whole. By the turn of the century, the total
number of urban households will rise to over 37 million, more than doubling
the 1980 figure (18 million). At the same time, the new constitution,
along with fiscal and administrative reform, tend to favor municipalities
financially and politically. This shift of emphasis to the local level--
along with the increasing demands for public sector efficiency, tariff
controls, and improvements in pollution control and solid waste--are
currently being reviewed by sector officials in order to determine the best
course for PLANASA and the sector.



- 32 -
ANNEX 2
Table 2.1
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
PLANASA Investments 1968-1987
Investments           Municipalities
Subsector            (USS billion)               Served
Water Supply               7.8                    3,011
Sewerage                   3.6                      570
Total                  14.4                       -
State            Grants
Share CEF              Counterpart        and Other
Billion USS                7.1                     2.7               1.6
Percent                   622                      24Z                14%



BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SXO PAULO
Bank Loans to Brazil for Water Supply and Sewerage
Amount/Borrowor                                        Status as of 12/31/88
Year   Loon No.   (US1 Millions)                 Purposo               Commitments   Disbursements                 Comments
1971    757-BR    22.0 City Water   Sio Paulo water distribution          100X            100X         Project Performanco audit dated
Company       and storago.                                                      April 4, 1980.
1971    758-BR    12.0 City Water   Sbo Paulo sewago collection           100X            1001         Idm.  Loon amount reduced from
Company       and disposal.                                                     USS1t.0 million.
1974   1009-BR        38.0 BNH        Water supply and sewerage in        100X            100X         Project completion report dated
the state of Minas Gorsis.                                       June 10, 1981.
1976   1309-BR        40.0 BNH        Water supply and seworage in        1001           1001          Project complotion report dated
the state of Minas Gerais.                                       May 18, 1964.
1978   1625-BR        62.6 BNH        Sewage collection and disposal    100X              100X         US87.56 million cancolled 1/86.
in metropolitan Sio Paulo.                                       Project completion report dated
May 19, 1987.
1979   1663-BR        100.0 BNH       Water supply and sewerage in        1001           1001          Projoet completion report dated
the states of Bahia, Ceari,                                      February 27, 1987.                           L
and Pernambuco.
1980   1823-BR        130.0 BSh       Water supply and sewerage in        100X           1001          Project completion roport dated
the states of Parand, Santa                                      April 27, 1987.
Catarina, and Rio Grande do
Sul.
1980   1860-BR        139.0 BNH       Third Minas Gerais water            100X           100X          Project completed satisfactory in
supply and sewerage.                                             December 1987.
1981   1970-BR        180.0 BNH       Multi-state water supply and        100X           100X          Project completed in December 1987
sewerage project in the states                                   with the exception of works in the
of Amazonas, Goids, Mato Grosso                                  city of Brocrlia which are
do Sul, Parn, Paraiba, and the                                   expected for completion by June
Federal District.                                                1988.
1983   2249-BR        302.3 BNN       Water supply and sewerage          100X             99X          Project satisfactory completed in
sector project; sub-projects                                     Decembr 1987 with the exception             I
in 23 states and territorios.                                    of an ongoing Tech. Assistance
Program.
1986   2632-BR      16.3 GOVT. of    Technical assistance to              201             121          Technical assistanc  portion
BRAZIL        develop national rural water                                      satisfactory; pilot component has
and sanitation paraomters, and                                   not yet started.
a pilot rural proj et in one
state.
1988   2983-BR        80.0 CEF       Water Sector Project for             25X             OX           Loan becam effective on February
municipalities and low-                                          23, 1989.
income aras.



- 34 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
Letter of Agreement between
SABESP and the State of Sao Paulo
I. Objectives of the Agreement
The purpose of this agreement is to clarify the respective
responsibilities of SABESP and the State of Sao Paulo in relation to the
provision of water and sanitation and to improve mutual understanding
regarding accountability in the respective roles. The need for the
agreement arises from the process of governmental and financial reform
brought about under the new constitution, tributary reform, 'Operacao
Desmonte,' and other changes related to macroeconomic strategy. These
reforms signify a growing role of the State in the planning and finance of
water sector investments and a receding federal role. The rationale for
this agreement arises from the mutual interest of SABESP and the State in
the need to:
o   optimize the programming, finance, and execution of investments in
order to reach the established goals of the State in water and
sanitation;
o   specify SABESP's investment levels and performance standards and
levels of funds to be provided by SABESP and the State;
o   avoid unnecessary losses due to downtime and  discontinuities in
operations and investments;
o   improve management and strengthen the institutional and financial
autonomy of SABESP;
o   maintain tariffs at levels which sustain the economic and
financial viability of SABESP, as far as SABESP and the State are
entitled to it.
II. Period of Agreement
This agreement covers the period that goes from the date this
document is signed to June 30, 1994 and coincides with the estimated US$1.7
billion "minimum" investment plan of SABESP. However, the period of the
agreement may be amended at any time with the conse'nt of both signatories.
III.  Commitments and Responsibilities
Each of the signatories agrees to make the good faith effort to
abide by specific targets or actions as set forth in detail in Annexes One
through Five.



- 35 -
ANX 4
Page 2 of 5
1. Institutional Strengthening and Performance. SAUESP will
continue to improve administration and manag e nt with a view toward
incr*eaing efficiency by cutting costs and increasing output during the
period of agreemnnt. SAIUSP agrees to achieve performnce levels as
weasured by monitoring indicators appearing in Annez One. Toward this end,
SAJISP has prepared an Institutional Development Program that follows
guidelines set forth in Annex Two.
The State supports SABZSP's efforts to improve efficiency in
administration, manag e nt, and operations.
2. Marginal Cost Pricina. SAIBSP will complete the -preparation
of a marginal cost pricing study by end-1989, and will discuss the results
and agree with the Bank on a set of recouoendations for application in
investment planning, operations, and pricing. If the tariff structure or
levels reco m nded by this study implies changes in the present ones,
SABESP agrees to support the need for these changes and to supply technical
and financial justification for them. The State also agrees to support the
need for these changes, and investigate alternative means to-implement
them.
3. Tariffs Levels. Changes in tariff levels will be proposed by
SABESP and approved by the State in accordance with prevailing statutes and
administrative regulations in order to attain the financial resources as
projected in the Financial Plan (Annex Three). The objective is to set
rates in order to allow SABESP to comply with the NTL, and at least to
maintain the average combined tariff at its present level in real terms.
Justifications for any tariff increases must be accompanied by evidence,
based on the monitoring indicators set forth in Annex Two, that SABESP is
making progress in increasing the efficiency of the company.
4. The net level of cash to be generated from SABESP's internal
sources should be equal to a minimum of 201 of the value of SABESP's total
investment program in the year 1993 and thereafter. As of October 31, 1989
ind for each year thereafter, SABESP's financial projections for the five-
year rolling plan should provide that the net level of cash generated
internally should be at least equal to 201 of the value of the total
investment program in the year 1993 and thereafter.
5. Investment Plan. The Investment Plan, described in Annex
Three is based on tte following assumptions and subject to a number of
considerations to wLich both SABESP and the State agree:
a)  Assumptions.
o   Central Bank Resolutions Nos. 1469 and 1486, imposing
limits on indebtedness and public sector lending, will
remain in effect;
o   World Bank and Inter-American Development Bank will
finance investments in water and sanitation in the amounts
indicated in Annex Four;
o   The State will budget regular contributions of no less
than the amount shown in the Investment Plan (Annex Four);



- 36 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 5
o   SABESP's investment program will be evaluated in
accordance with the marginal cost criterion.
O   Thte five-year investment plan will be updated annually to
evaluate the feasibility of, and sources of funds for,
proposed investments, and its incidence on SABESP's tariff
levels.
b)  Other Considerations
o   Other Programs in the Investment Plan involve issues which
are still to be resolved by SABESP in concert with the
State, and the CEF. The main issues are 1) financial
arrangements to reestablish a viable, self-sustaining
system to finance future investments and 2) criteria for
project selection. The State and SABESP agree to explore
a mutually satisfactory solutior. to financing future
investments and to the project selection criteria agreed
with the World Bank in the Loan Agreement.
O   Investments in addition to those set forth in the
Investment Plan (required in order to maintain or improve
present levels of service in water and sanitation) facing
similar issues to those in the "Other Programs," will be
prepared using the same standards.
o   Institutional Development Program.  SABESP will define
further the elements of the Program, establish priorities,
and prepare terms of reference regarding its
implementation.
o   The State will analyze on a yearly basis SABESP's
investment plan and will recoimmend modifications if
necessary.
o   SABESP will submit a quarterly progress report to the
State based on guidelines to be defined by the Planning
Secretariat of the State.
B. Other Points (for Further Discussion)
1. Revaluation of Physical Assets of SABESP. SABESP will
revaluate its physical assets aiming at establishing depreciation and
remuneration rates compatible with the real value of its systems.
2. Recapitalization of State Financing System. SABESP and the
State agree to formulate a strategy and respective responsibilities
regarding the recapitalization of a financially viable, sustainable
financing system at the state level.
3. Participation of CEF. SABESP and the State agree to the terms
and conditions regarding the financial and technical roles of CEP (as
outlined in Annox Five).



-37-                          ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 5
4. Accounts Receivable. The State agrees to assist SABESP to
define criteria, and possibly an indexation system to maintain the value of
accounts receivable, some several years past due (mainly arrearage on the
part of municipa. governments). Subsequently, a plan for recuperation of
receivables agreed by both parties, is to be put into effect for the timely
liquidation of these obligations. The plan should take into account
national and state legislation and the financial situation of SABESP.
IV. Evaluation and Compliance
Both parties are responsible for the evaluation and control of the
plan.The purpose of the evaluation is to monitor the responsibilities and
targets of each party by using the indicatora in the Institutional
Development Plan and to prepare quarterly reports. The terms of this
Letter of Agreement may be revised at any time by a mutual agreement of
both parties involved.
Sao Paulo, date
GESP                                               SABESP



- 38 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 5
List of Annexes
1.       Financial and Operational Monitoring Indicators.
2.       Institutional Development and Managerial Performance Program.
3.       Investment Plan.
4.       Financing Plan.
5.       Technical and Financial Participation of the CEF.



- 39 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 9
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
SABESP's 1989-1993 Investment Program
1.       SABESP's five year investment program (1989-1993) has been
conceived to increase water and sewerage service levels and the operational
efficiency of the company. The main physical objectives are:
Indicator                                     1988        1993   Increment
State Urban Population (millions)             28.4        33.7      5.3
SABESP
Total Urban pop. (millions)                  18.9        21.5      2.6
Water Supply
Serviced Population (millions)               17.0        19.4      2.4
(percentage)            90          90      --
Inhabitantsieco.                              4.3         4.2       --
Connections    (millions)                    3.19        3.6,7    0.48
Economias (millions)                         3.96        4.68    0.72
Metered connections (2)                        91          93
Production (Mm3/year)                        1937        2122      185
Consumption,billed (Mm3/year)                1167        1333      166
Block sales (Mm3/year)                        287         329       42
Unaccounted for water (Z)                      25          22      (3)
Sewerage
Serviced Population (millions)               11.5        14.4      2.9
(percentage)           61           67       6
Inhabitants/eco.                              4.3         4.3       --
Connections (millions)                       1.89        2.32    0.43
Economias (millions)                         2.68        3.29    0.61
2.       A total of US$ 1,717 millions will be invested to meet these
goals. The Sao Paulo Metropolitan Region (SPMR), which accounts for 662 of
the urban population in the state, will receive 69' of the planned
investments while the Baixada Santista and medium and small cities will
receive 24Z. US$ 113 million (7Z) will be allocated to institutional
development programs. Investments in sewerage and water will account for
512 and 42Z, respectively, of the total.
3.       The main investment components are:



- 40 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 9
Sao Paulo Metropolitan Region
Water Supply
a. Water Production. Production capacity will be increased by
8.2 d3/seg (258.6 million 33/year). This includes construction of the first
stage of the South West Water Supply Scheme ( more details given in
attachment 1 to this annex). This scheme comprises three dams (Alto and
Medio Capivari and Embura) which will fom two reservoirs (Alto and Medio
Capivari) with a total capacity of 214.5 million m3 (M3). It also includes
improvements to the Guarau and Cantareira, Rio Grande, Alto Cotia and
Southeast water systems and water treatment plants, the first stage of Alto
Tiete water treatment plant and other works.
b. Transmission pipelines. A total of 127 kms of large diameter
pipelines will be built to improve the reliability of the delivery s"stems
from the water treatment plants to the storage tanks.
c. Storage Tanks. Storage capacity will be increased by 190,000
cubic meters. This component includes construction of some 18 large tanks
(1000 m3 and larger) and improvements to water storage installations in
several municipalities.
d. Distribution System. Some 2,500 kms of pipes and 250,000
water connections will be installed.
e. Rehabilitation and Other Programs. Small investment programs
throughout the SABESP water supply system wi]l be made to improve the
reliability of the systems, remove bottlenecks and reduce operating costs.
Sewerage
a. Interceptors and Treatment. Completion of works to put into
operation a first stage of the Barueri (7.0 m3/seg) and ABC (3.0 m3/seg)
waste treatment plants. First stages will also be built of Parque Novo
Mundo (2.5 m3/seg) and Sao Miguel (2.2 m3/seg) and Sao Jose dos Campos (1.7
m3/seg) waste treatment plants. Small waste treatment plants will be
installed in several small municipalities.
b. Collection network. Construction of some 4100 kms of sewerage
pipes and 343,600 house discharges.
c. Rehabilitation and other programs. Small investment programs
will be made throughout SABESP sewerage system to improve service, remove
bottlenecks and reduce operating costs.
Baixada Santista and interior Cities
Water Supply
Expansion programs are included to increase service levels and
relishilitv of service. These programs entail construction of some 2,000
kms *of plpes rtnd 23n.ooo00  house cnnnevt itoir.  They inrludp,



- 41 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 9
a. Expansion for vegetative growth. Programs in distribution
systems to accommodate demands from new customers in already serviced
areas.
b. Medium Size Cities. Programs in 53 medium size cities to
improve delivery capacity. Includes construction of 86 kms of transmission
pipes and additional storage of 39,900 m3.
c. House Connections Program. Provision of water distribution
pipes and house connections to serve new housing developments. Includes
construction of 78 km8. of pipes.
d. Small cities. Programs in some 100 small cities to improve
service levels.
e. Rehabilitation and other programs. Programs to improve
reliability of service and service coverage and to reduce operating costs
in 45 cities. Includes construction of 267 kms. of pipes and 35,600 m3 of
storage capacity.
Sewerage
Expansion programs in the sewerage collection network to increase
service levels. These programs entail construction of some 1,900 kms. of
pipes and 230,000 house connections.
a. Expansion to cover vegetative growth. To meet demand in areas
with trunk sewers.
b. Medium Size Cities. Programs in 19 medium size cities to
improve service levels. This includes construction of 42 kms. of
interceptors and collectors and of 4 sewage treatment plants.
c. House Connections Program. Provision of sewerage collection
networks to new housing developments. Includes construction of 85 kms. of
pipes.
d. Small cities. Programs in some 100 small cities to improve
service levels.
e. San Jose Dos Campos. Construction of 2.2 kms. of
interceptors, one pumping station and a 1.8 m3/seg activated sludge waste
treatment plant.
f. Rehabilitation and other programs. To improve service levels,
reliability of services and reduce operating costs. Includes construction
of 274 kms. of interceptors and collectors, 52 pumping stations and 32
waste treatment plants.
Maintenance Programs
Water and sewerage works to improve quality of operations,
increase efficiency and reduce operating costs. The stock of parts will be
provided to respond to emergency situations.



- 42 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 9
Operational Development
Programs to improve user's cadastral information in some 239
cities with 738,000 service connections. Continuation of physical inventory
of networks (3,200 kie). Repair of about 138,000 service meters.
Eniinserinp
Final engineering designs for some of the investment components
and feasibility studies to meet future needs and supervision during
construction.
Institutional Development
Technical assistance, materials and works for:
a. Macrometering. To improve reliability and coverage of
production metering.
b. Pitometry. To improve pressure zoning, ascertain pipe
roughness coefficients and delivery flows.
c. Micrometering. Development of maintenance and replacement
programs and meter repairs.
d. Consumer Service. Programs to improve SABESP's response to
consumer complaints.
e. Technical Cadastre. First stage to update and computerize
inventory of all physical assets.
f.  Operational Units.   Development and executior of maintenance
and rehabilitation programs to be carried out by the differ nt operational
units.
g.  Rehabilitation Works.   Pipe cleaning and relining.
Electrical and mechanical systems. Reconstruction of house connections.
h.  Planning and Operational Control.   To improve operation of
treatment plants, define zones to control unaccounted for water and
telemetering systems and develop operational rules for water production and
pumping.
i. User's cadastre. Assessment and redesign of basic
classification of users in Sao Paulo Metropolitan Region.
j. Billing and Collection. To reduce billing time and improve
collection efficiency.
k. Commercial System. To improve company response to consumer
complaints.
1. Higher level staff overseas training. To help familiarize
SABESP's professional staff with state of the art developments in water
anti ws te watro tet.liinlf.'gy includi lg Itw c,ist optionns * ,n't el'titf 'o I9
prflgtaams and co"meetial systems.



- 43 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 9
Domestic Waste Water Pollution Assessment
a. Inventory of point sources of domestic waste water discharges
and quantification of pollution loads ( in progress).
b. Definition by environmental control state agency of effluent
quality standards.
c. Assessment of degree and type of treatment required and of
investment requirements.
d. Assessment benefits and costs and of priorities over short,
medium and long range planning horizons.
e. Assessment ef ability and willingness to pay of population
affected by proposed programs.
f. Assessment of sources of revenues to meet investment and
operating requirements. Internal cash generation (tariffs, special
assessments), state taxes and equity contributions, and other possible
sources of revenues.
g. Recommendations for implementation of domestic sewage
pollution control program, including suggested revisions of state water
pollution standards.



- 44 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 9
SABESP's 1989-1993 INVESTMENT PROGRAM
IBRD
Program                                 Project         Other     Total 1/ Pct.
(US $ millions)
1. Metropolitan Region                     240.9       825.1   1,066.0       63
Water Supply                               240.9        214.6      455.5     27
Production                                63.7         93.7     157.4
Transmission                              83.5         14.7      98.2
Storage                                  13.6         12.5       26.1
Distlrbution                              80.0         27.8     107.8
Rehi   and Improvements                                36.3      36.3
Other programs                                         29.7      29.7
Sewerage                                                610.5     610.5      36
Collecticn                                            441.0     441.0
Interceptors and Treatment                           144.8      144.8
Rehab. and Improvements                                14.7      14.7
Other Programs                                         10.0      10.0
2. Interior                                254.8        153.4     408.2      22
Water Supply                               162.9         60.9      223.8     13
Vegetative Growth                         87.2                   87.2
Medium Size Cities                        61.2                   61.2
Housing Program                            2.5                    2.5
Small Cities                              12.0                   12.0
Other Programs                                         60.9      60.9
Sewerage                                    91.9         68.5     160.4       9
Vegetative Growth                         30.0                   30.0
Medium Size Cities                        23.0                   23.0
Housing Program                            3.9                    3.9
Small Cities                              16.0                   16.0
San Jose dos Campos                       19.0                   19.0
Other Programs                                         68.5      68.5
Maintenance Programs                                     24.0       24.0      l
3. Engineering. Water and Sewerage          40.0         89.9     129.9       8
4. Institutional Development.               64.4         48.9     113.3       7
Domestic Waste Water Assessment
Total SABESP .......................... 600.0        1,117.4   1,717.4    100
1/ Costs include physical and price contingencies and taxes (US $ 40
million for IBRD project and US$ 77 million for 'other" projects). Totals
mAy not Add hpcatice of rolindinp.



- 45 -
ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 9
Attachment 1
South West Water Supply Scheme
1.       This water supply scheme, which has been studied to a feasibility
level, will increase the provision of raw water to the Sao Paulo
Hetropolitan Region. The proposed scheme includes:
a.  Capivari - Los Honos dams and reservoirs sub-system which will
allow transfer of the Capivari river and tributaries flows to the
Guarapiranga River and water supply system.
b. Alto Juquia subsystem. Dams and reservoirs on the Juquia
river and tributaries which will allow transfer of water from the Ribeira
de Iguape basin into the Guarapiranga system.
c. Possible use of Billings Reservoir as a source of water
supply. 
2.       The first stage of the South West Water Supply Scheme, which will
be financed under the IBRD loan, will increase the raw water supply by 3
m3/sec and includes:
a. Alto Capivari and Embura dams which will form the Alto
Capivari reservoir ( 4.5 Mm3 ).
b. Embura outflow control structure and Embura Channel to connect
to the Vermelho river, which in turn discharges into the Embu-Guacu river
which feeds the Guarapiranga Reservoir.
c.  Medio Capivari dam and reservoir (210 Mm3).
d. Pumping station to transfer 5 m3/sec. in a first stage ( 15
m3/sec final) from the Medio to the Alto Capivari reservoir.
Geography and Hydrology
3.       The 70 km2 watershed that drains into the Alto and Medio Capivari
reservoirs is located south west of Sao Paulo, at an elevation of 740 mts.
above sea level (m.s.l.). It is formed by the Capivari River and its
tributaries and receives an annual rainfall of about 1,500 mm. The average
unregulated flow is 7.6 m3/sec.
4.       This hydrographic system drains to the south of Sao Paulo, over
the Cubatao Escarpment, into the Rio Branco which then flows to the
Atlantic Ocean. The watershed is well covered by high trees and is free
from soil erosion areas. The entire project area is within protected
watershed areas. To the south of this area a state park reserved area is
located. At a future stage, the Lower Capivari dam and reservoir and the
Los Monos reservoir will be built downstream form the Medio Capivari dam.
These future developments may impinge upon the sate park area. Immediately
after the Lower Capivari dam the Capivari river exits the Cubatao
Escarpment through a fall (at an elevation of about 700 mts. in.s.l) and a
very steep river channel bed and drains into the Rio Branco, 7 kms
downstream (at an elevation of about 75 mts. m.s.l.). After the confluence
of the Capivari River, the Rio Branco flows very slowly through a wide
flnodplain with some agricultural activity, and discharges into the sea
sfmw  30 km. d,,wniusltam.



- 46 -
ANNEX 5
Page 8 of 9
Attachment 1
Population Aspects
5.       According to SABESP's estimates some 1000 people (200 houses) now
live in the watershed area of whom some 250 (50 houses) would be directly
affected by the flooded area and will need to be relocated. All the
watershed area is the property of the state or SABESP.
Physical Characteristics
Dams                       Alto Capivari       Embura          Baio Capivari
Type                       Rock with          Earth with        Rock with
inner filter      inner filter       inner filter
Crest elevation (m.s.l.)      752.0               752.0              746.5
Height (mts)                    25                 14                 50
Spillway capacity (m3/sec)  270                   n.a.               580
Reservoirs                            Alto Capivari            Bajo Capivari
Volume (Mm3)
Normal level                             4.5                        210
Minimum level                             3.1                        40
Flooded Area (km2)
Normal level                             0.7                       14.0
Minimum level                            0.6                        4.5
Water Level (mts. m.s.l.)
Maximum                                750.5                      745.0
Normal                                 748.0                      742.5
Minimum                                746.0                      726.0
Average Regulated Flow (m3/sec)             0.7                       3.0
Transfer Systems
Pumping Station (first stage).
Capacity (m3/sec)                                                    5
Dynamic head (mts)                                                  23
Power (h.p.)                                                      2000
Outflow Control Structure
Capacity (m3/sec)                          20
Embura Channel
Capacity (m3/sec)                         20



- 47 -                       ANNLXS
Page 9 of 9
Attachment 2
IBRD Project Description
Sao Paulo Metropolitan Region
Construction of the following water production schemes:
South Vest--includes the Alto and Medio Capivari and Embura Dams
and related structures and water transfer facilities.l
Rio Grande
Cabucu
Guarau water treatment plant
Alto Cotia
Pipelines for transmission and distribution of water, water
storage tanks and house connections throughout the distribution system.
Interior Cities and Baixada Santista
Improvements to water production facilities and conveyance
systems.
Pipelines for transmisaion and distribution of water, water
storage tanks and house connections.
Improvements to sewerage facilities and conveyance systems.
Pipelines for collection and disposal of sewage and house
connections.
San Jose dos Campos: sewage treatment plant, pumping station,
collectors and house connections.
Institutional Development Program
Equipment, materials and consultant services for:
Macro and micro metering
Pitometry
Consumer services and technical and user's cadastre
Planning and operational control
Billing and collection and conmnercial systems
Overseas training of professional staff
Domestic waste water pollution assessment
Engineering
Consultant services for final designs and supervision of
construction.
1/ Financing of the whole South West water scheme is contingent upon: a)
compliance with OMS 3.80 on dam safety and b) approval by the Bank of a
satisfactory Environmental Impact Study including its terms of
reference.



- 48 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
Detailed Project Costs
(USS million equivalent)
I of
199      1990      1991      1992      1993    TOTAL       Ease
S. ISRO PROJECT
A. SAO PAULO METROPOI.ITAN REGION                 7.6       32.4      62.1      58.9      46.4    197.4       39.71
1. Wat*r Supply:                               7.6      32.4      52.1      58.9      46.4    197.4        39.7%
Production                                  1.4       6.7      13.1      15.4      11.3      61.9      10.4%
Sudoest.                                 6.0        3.8       6.7       8.7      19.5      29.8       6.0%
Rio Gran"                                 1.6       1.1       1.7       1.9       1.9       3.3       1.7%
Csbucu                                   6.6       6.0        *.7       1.6       2.9       6.2       1.0t
Contereirs                               0.4       O.7        2.7       1.9       g.e       C.O       1.1%
Alto Cotia                               0.0       6.3        1.3       1.3       6.6       3.6       6.6e
Tranmaission                                3.1      14.1      18.6      22.6      11.1      63.9      13.9S
Storage                                     1.8       3.1       3.2       2.2       1.2      11.5       2.3%
D;stribution                                1.2       *.S      17.2      19.4      11.3      65.1      13.1%
B. INTERIOR                                      33.7       39.7      45.6      46.5      46.5    211.9       42.6%
1. Water Supply:                              23.3      24.3      26.0      29.4      60.1    136.6        27.31
Vegotative Growth                          14.4      14.1      14.6      16.6      13.3      73.0      14.7%
Medium-Sized Citioe                         6.2       7.6      11.4      11.6      14.9      56.3      10.1%
P40oum:ng Program                           1.1       1.2       6.6       6.6       6.6       2.3        .6.1
Small Cities                                2.2       2.1       2.0       1.9       1.9      10.1       2.6%
2. Sewerago:                                   9.6      15.4      17.7      17.6      16.4       76.3      16.3%
Vogetative Growth                           4.0       5.6       5.4       5.2       5.6      25.0       S.6%
Medium-Sized Citios                         1.1       4.7       4.6       4.4       4.2      19.6       3.3%
Mousing Program                             1.3       1.6       9.6       6.o       6.d       3.4       0.7s
Small Cities                                2.9       2.3       2.7       2.6       2.5      13.4       2.71
Sao JQO- doo Campos                         9.0       0.7       5.1       4.9       4.7      15.4       3.1%
C. SUPERVISION OF CONSTRUCTION                    7.J        7.0       6.7       6.4       6.2      33.6       6.3%
D. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMEIT                      16.3      11.,      11.1      10.7      11.6      64.0      10;91
TOTAL IBRD PROJECT BASE COST                     56.6       90.3    115.6    122.6    169.1    496.9    11,1.9
Physical Contingencies                          4.1       6.4       *.1        3.6       7.6      34.8       7.9%
Price Contingenciei                              1.6      7.3      14.5       21.0      23.9      69.3      13.7%
TOTAL ISRD PROJECT COSr                          64.5    164.5    130.2    152.2    140.6    66e.6    120.7%
Interest During Construction                    1.1       4.0       8.4      18.7       18.6      46.0       9.31
TOTAL S8RD FINANCIN5   REQUIREMENTS              65.6    186.6    144.6    165.8    159.4    C4J.O    1 U.OS
__~~-                                                             _          _in..__



- 49 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
Detailed Project Costs
(USS million equivalent)
s of
1969      1966      1991      1992      1993    T0AL        8&s
::.  OTHER INVESTWEN'S
..anus ...s.........
A  SAo PAULO wETROP2L2TAN REC:Oh                164.7    168.S    136 4    1.6 9    122 9    e69  3           73 613
:  'ate, S,pCY:                               46.9      43.6      36.7      23.5       29.6    162.6       :9.33
Prodwet;0A                                 22.0      18.7      14.2      11.4      13.1       79.4       6.41
T,*ag;se;on                                 9.7       1.3       1.8       6 6       6.e      13.1        : *S
Resev,St;on                                 2.7       3.3       2.7       1.6       e 9       1i  6      1.15
O;atr;but;on                               1s e       9 e       2.0       e.6       2 s      24.2        2.63
R°h*bi itat:on A I3.p.o.eeo.nts             2.2       7 *      1  6      *4 A          2    3t.2        3. 23
Others (osm resoures)                       2 6       3.6       6.7       5.5       7.1      24 s        2.6!
2. Sewerage.                                 118.S    122.8       99.7      63.3      93.1    614.4        84.6%
etsrceton ,om,d T        ..t~t              7.6       3.4      13.1      43.3      49.6    lie 4       :2.37
Collecto's                                165 6    116.3       63.-      35,4      37.2    377.7       48.13
:08 Proagam                             63.9    162.4       s6 4        e.6       6 6    244.7       26 63
Othels                                  21 6       13.9      24.6      38.4      37 2    133.0       14.13
R.pht,I ;tt;ov a Impromemts                 1.2       1.4       2.0       2.6       4.6       12 6       1 33
OtP,.r  (own resourees)                     1.5       1.4       1 3       1.9       2.2        1.3 1      .;3
6.  NTERIOR                                       36.3      38.6      24.2      23.9      16 9    136.6       13 93
1. water Suoply                               14.2      16.1       7.6       7.5        7 3      61.6       S.S%
2. Sw.erage                                   13.9      16.4      13.1      12.6        6.6 8..6            e.6.
2  Operation  md blermetcame  Progr.am         2.2       2.1       3.3       3.9        6.1      .9.6       2.111
C. SUPERVIS;1N OF CON4STRUCTION                   16.4     16.6    1.1         14.6      14.6      78.6       6.6!
0. INSTITUTIONAL DEvELOPMENT                      10.4       7.1       6.9       6.6      16.6      41.6       4,3!
TOTAL OThER INVESTWENTS BASE COST               221.9    223.8    182.6   11.l    162.9    942.9    16.63
Physical cont;A9gene                           16.6      1.7        12.8      16.6      11.4    60.6         7.0
Wrice Coat-genc;se                              8.9      16.1      22.6       26.6       8.?7   166.6       11.83
TOTAL OTMER INVESTMENTS COST                    243.3    287.6    216.1    199.4    216.6  1,117.S    116.83
-         a-ma        -       usale" _    _                 sa*.
Interest Du'rig Ccontruction                    2.3       3.6       3 9       4*6        8.8      20.6       2 1I
TOTAL OTHER FINANCING REQUIREMNITS              248.6    287.6    216 1    198 4    216.6  1,117.S    116.81
TOTAL MINIW.  PROORAU BASE COSTS                266.6    314.7    29. 1    274.3    272.0  1,430.9    166.61
fl-s--wa-s
Physical Contingencesw                         19.7      22.6      26.9       19.2      19.6     1".$        7.63
Prie  Coft;ng9n .;w                             7 4      2S.S      37 J       47 e      89.7    176.6       12.31
TOTAL WINIhIU  PROCRAW COST                     907 6    362.2    35i.2    340.6    356.7  1,717.6    119.3!
assess...                                       wesS  a    s-6--     w."Um  _    -        wa-      .. w       "eas
Interost During Con.tr,ction                    3.4       7.8      12.3    16.         24.3      6 .6       4.6!
TOTAL WIN. PROC. FINANCING REQUIREMENTS         311.2    369.7    366.5    319.6    378.6  1,713.5    123.9
sws,ts5Sw55555U _w   a _ms ,s ._
1/ Note: Do  to high inflation  A Seaxil during the *Cproell period (Nov  2166), inneetment costs or
shown ;n US dol laro (Dc. 1966).  Physicel contingences averto  about 79 of baa. coats.  Price
contngenees ar* calculated eccordiag to 1660 IUS 3.11 (Ob  190).  Direct tog  of US140 *;llior
on the I6*0 projct snal US577 million on the oth-r iftnestments .l            ncluded in the bae costs.



-5                                  ANNEX  7
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
SABESP's Organization Chart
G Cvetn-nmt of Soe Pou\o State 
Administrative Council             General Assembly              Financisl Council
|  AEPDiretorie 
| Presidency        l
Proeidmnt's                          Assistsnt for
Cabinot                              Municipalitios
_              I            ~~~~~~~~in RMSPj
Snt rnOl
i                                          ^~~~~~~~~~~~~Adito                   Externni
Affairs
Relations                             Sp ecil Advisor
Finance.     Administratione            Coarctions                 Comeril              RWSPs                I:iP   i~
Shareholder Position                                                              Distribution of Personnel
Decomber, 199                                                                      December, 1906
DOAE        s3.er                                                                 Operational              69.es
Others      17.6!                                                                 Tech. Admin.             32.0s
Management                4.0!
Profeos  /Others          6.0S
TOTAL      160.0!                                                                 TOTAL                   160.6!
NOTES.   *   Denotoe* mmbersh;p in Diretoria.



-51 -
ANNEX  9
BRAZ IL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
SABESP's Institutional Data
December 1988 1/
Is i ade
Areo/Indicator                                  RWSP Sontisto 2/  Intoe;or           TOTAL
-------------_-_------_----_------- -------------------------~--------~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
1. Adm imstraton
No. ReQgion                                             --                 5          13
No. Employe                                 :3,111        1,440       C,440      19,936
2. Operationo
A. Water
No. Operating Systems                            29          10         435          S24
No. Water Treatment Stations                     14          11          99          124
Water Treatment Capacity (m3/*)              46.07         4.89       14.10         6.56
Main Lines (ki)                                726          241       1,620        2,466
Reservoir Capacity ('66  i3)                 1,477          196         3"         1,979
Distribution Notwork (km)                   20,254        3,455      11,139      34,34S
No. Water Consumers ('036)                                                         4,28s
8. Sewerage
No. Sewerage Treatment Stations                  11           4         111          126
Sewerage Treatment Capacity (.3/a)            7.71                                  7.71
Interceptors  (km)                             134           32         529          665
Collection Networks (km)                     6,340          596       7,391      16,339
No. Sewerago Consumers ('006)                                                      2,532
S. Core ircieI
Average Water Production (UMm3)                                                   1,647
Aversgo Water Billed ( )                                                          1,392
Average Sewerage Billed ()                                                           726
Connections with hydroeter (X)                 I"6           me          63           93
Avg. Monthly Vol. Billed (m3/conn.)              34          37          20           36
Avg. Monthly Cons, per Cons. (*3)               26           19          19           24
No. Consumers per Connoction                  1.29         1.92        1.35         1.27
No. People per Consumor                       4.14         4.17        3.67         4.13
Average Family Income (WS/yr) 3/              6.02         7.16        5.32        6.56
Poor Families in Area Served (X) 4/             26           31          45           34
1/  Estimatod on tho bas;s of Dec. 1937 and mid-1903 data.
2/  Saixeds Saniost  is included as a region under the Intorior
Operations Directorate.
3/ MS a Minimum Salaries.
4/ Povorty defined as 3 Cinimus salaries per month or less.



- 52 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
Water Sector Project in the State of See Paulo
Compnmhis do Sonesoonto laaico do Sao Paulo (SA8ESP)
Income Statement
(Curront US9 MilIlions)
-------------h;itoric-----------------   -oot.-   -----------------projected----------------
1964     1936    1966       1987      1933    1939    1996    1991    1992    1993    1994    1993
Water Billed (Mm3)         1,164    1,161   1,143    1,411    1.460   1, 6"    1,541   1,565   1,627   1,669   1,7x'   1,735
Sewage 8illed (')            467       436      457       726       746      313     662      396      917     933      956     971
Avg. Tariff (US$/m3)        6.14      6.15    6.13 U      .16      6.36    0.33    6.34    0.36    0.37    6.39    6.46    6.42
Operating Revenues         277.9    2PS.S   312.8    402.8    665.7   771.3   344.1   913.2   973.2 1,643.2 1,116.6 1,183.7
Water                    176.3    166.1   195.9    252.3    416.4   466.1   526.1   565.2   664.1   645.2   647.1   726.3
Final                  164.4    167.6   162.2    234.7    304.4   453.9   491.1   526.7   661 6   66. 1   639.0   677.4
Block                   12.4      12.6    13.7       17.7     32.0    34.2    37.6    39.6    42.3    45.2    40.1    $1.3
Sewerage                  94.2      97.7   107.0    146.9    230.2   264.6   296.4   319.2   346.6   362.4   384.3   466 6
Other                      7.0       7.7      9.2       9.6      19.6    18.6    26.6    23.7    23.5    35.6    38.7    46.3
Operating Expenses         149.7    161.1   169.6    267.4    362.2   399.3   424.6   441.6   4ff.6   481.9   499.5   517.3
Personnel                106.4    111.6   112.8    167.6    263.0   259.7   273.4   204.6   296.3   366.6   321.1   334.8
Materials                  9.5      11.2    14.1       16.7      22.1    25.9    27.3    29.5    31.3    33.2    35.2    37.4
ChemicalI                4.2       4.9      6.4       6.2      9.2    11.6    12.6    13.6    14.7    15.3    17.0    18.4
Other Materials          5.3       6.3      7.8      16.5     12.9    14.3    15.2    15.9    16.         17.4    18.2    10.3
Third Parties             32.6      36,5    33.3       69.6     98.6   106.5   114.8   113.7   123.5   131.3   134.2   137.1
Electricity             17.7      19.4    21.3       25.6     45.4   4U.6    52.5    54.7    5.9    62.6    62.0    62.6
Other Third Partie    15.2        17.1    17.1      46.4      63.1    56.9    81.6    64.6        6 .6    69.3    72.2    75.1
G-neral                    1.9       2.4      3.8      11.4       8.1      3.6     6.0      6.0      3.6     6.0      3.6    38.
Fiscal                     6.1       0.1      6.2       6.7       6.6     6.7      6.7      6.3      6.3     6.6      6.6      1.3
Deprec. A Provisions        46.1      56.6    51.6       60.1      62.6    74.5    65.4    95.5   106.6   117.4   123.6   129.3
D-preciation              44.2      43.6    56.4       56.3      54.2    6 .4    76.3    37.2    97.2   109.4   115.7   121.5
Prow. for Oad Doebt        1.8       2.6      1.2       3.9       7.6      6.6     3.5      8.4      3.3      8.0     7.9      7.3
Opersting Incme             62.2      73.7    92.3       75.3    221.5   297.0   334.7   371.6   467.6   443.9   487.5   536.3
:~~~~~~~~~~~~-                  - -    ------    ------   --- -     -----    ------   ------   -----    -- --    -----   -----
Not Non-Op. Expenses         (6.9)   (16.3)   (1.3)   (683.)       (2.7)  (16.1)  (16.6)  (14.6)  (12.6)   (9.0)   (3.6)   (9.3
Net Financial Expenses  (125.2)   (62.9)  (74.3)   (67.7)  (164.6) (1661.9) (111.8) (119.8) (135.7) (151.2) (157.7) (162.1
Net Inflation Adjust.    122.1        (3.7)  (36.3)   (49.7)  (265.6)    6.0         .e       6.6      6.6      6.    0  .        .3
Pro-Tax Income              77.6    (11.7)  (22.6)  (116.1)   (96.6)  189.1   266.9   237.2   266.6   233.7   329.7   365.4
Net Income Tex Charge        2.9       6.6    06.         2.4       1.3    54.6   6*.1    71.2    73.6    35.1    90.2   163.6
Net Revenue (Loss)          74.7    (11.7)  (23.4)  (112.5)   (92.2)  126.6   144.9   166.1   132.0   199.6   224.5   255.1
",x xxx0  .-s.uu  2,3am. ASMUSs   3*u           season  Saoaxn x_n. xx.m x xmum  uaa                  _
RATIOS:
Operating Ratio                706       74%     706       s1$       678      613     6ex      69S      585      57S      61      5o
(OpCo9ts#Oopc.OServ)/Revs
(NTL compliance)           1363      1171    1663       1113      96x      873      033      643      965     35X       5S      6s
RoR Avg Net Fixed Assets
(Un-revolued Basis)         e6         SS       53        43        aS     12X      14S      1S       15%    153      15S      11
NOTE:
Th. unusually high inflation adjustment of 1986  masks the significant improvement in performance, genorated by a 675
real increase in average tariffs. This improvement can be seen in the financial ratios, and in operating income.
Inflation adjustaents hsv- not been forecast; however, until the asoot revaluation in 1990, theeo effects
could have a negative impact on SASESP's projected booked not revenues.



-53 -                                               ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 3
BRAZIL
Water Sector Proaeet ;A the State of See Paulo
Cempanh~is de San.aento Basic* do Sao Paulo (SASESP)
Balance Sheet
(Current US Ullifone)
--------historic ----------  -*et. ---------projected---------
1964     106      1066      1067     1906    1gg      109    1  000191    1002    1993    1004l   100
ASSETS                  2,236.2  2,431.0 3, 190.1  3,183.0  3,912.4 3,310.1 3,660.3 4,644.5 4,374.4 4,644.60 4,075.6 6,206.1
Currant Aes"ta              07.6    110.3   192.6    165.6    2ff. 6   207.1   335.4   357.0   364.2   341.6   376.9   4se.3
Cash                       9.3      17.0    17.0      11.0      1.6.    46.7    43.4    45.6    46.3    509.    53.7    56.6
Accounts Receivable       64.4     56.2    42.4       05.1    196.1   269.7   212.7   2990.   266.6   266.1   107.8   194.6
Uninveiced Recaivebl    16.6       29.3    35.1       35.6      36.7    42.4    46.4    40.0    53.5    57.4    61.1    65.1
Inventar-y                 .6.       3.2     4.7       4.0      8.2      6.2      7.7     e.g      ga3     6.5    IS.$    1.6.
Deferred Pyats A Oth       0.4      1S.6     2.7      10.6       2.7     7.9      7.6      7.6     7.9      7.9     7.9      7.6
Short-toer  Inweetimen     (.9      6.9      6.9       6.9       9.6     6.9    16.1    30.2    41.2    10.6    46.0   162.5
Total Fixed Assets       2,146.6  2,321.3 31,96610.3  3,916.2  2,751.6 3,022.6 3,358.0 3,666. 7 4,610.2 4,324.4 4,590.0 4,650.0
Net P Ised Aesete        1,466.1  1,548.1 1,032.6  1,030.3  1,657.5 1,012.6 2,234.6 2,54113.6 2,666.2 3,266.9 31,466.4 3,751.2
Gross Fixed Assets   1,711.6  1,616.6 2,316.1  2,340.5  2,6641.5 2,396.0 2,730.1 3,135.7 3,537.3 3,930.5 4,326.4 4,607.4
Leses: Acuminuted Ceo  (225.6)  (276.5) (363.3)  (419.2)  (303.6) (444.3) (5904.2) (572.7) (651.1) (730.5) (686.) (044.1
Work In Piegee.            864.1    762.7 1,055.6  1,061.0  1,667.6 1,634.2 1,963.7 1,966.5 1,6661.6 1,91111.2 1,978.3 1,673.1
L-T Intangible Assets        0.4      15.5    17.7      17.1       6.3    35.2    35.2    35.2    35.2    35.2    35.2    35.2
LZA6!LZTIES A EQUITY   2,236.2  2,431 6 3,160. 1  3,163.9  3,012.4 3,310.2 3,600.3 4,044.5 4,374.4 4,6464.6 4,076.2 5,206.1
Current LisbUlitlee        162.0    102.0   102.       162.0    240.3   237.9   268.2   295.7   310.0   333.5   353.0   355.2
Accounts Payable            71.2      37.7    53.2      54.6      76.2    9511.6    64.0    66.3    02.0    96.4    00.0   163.6
Current Pert, of L-T D    60.2    135.4   195.6         96.2      97.6    61.1   167.1   123.3   140.7   1691.6   174.0   174.1
Suppl iers and 3rd Part    21.6       10.9    20.6      37.0      73.6    76.6    76.31   75.1    76.2    77.1    79.0    77.7
Total Long-Toer  Debt   1,151.7  1,247.1 1,7?M.6  1,637.6  1,6644. 6 1,049.2 2,661.1 2,291.6 2,263.6 2,336.0 2,296.3 2,266.7
Loes: Currant Pertio    66.2    136.5   1669.6        06.       67.6    61.1   167.1   123.3   149.7   166.6   174.0   174.1
Total L-T Debt        1,564.0  1,362.6 1,161.5  1,927.2  1,762.2 2,621.3 2,166.2 2,325.1 2,424.2 2,522.8 2,467.8 2,452.7
Other L-T LiebIlitise       695.      64.9    54.7      771.6    154.2    39.$    25.6    25.0    25.9    25.6    25.6    25.8
IEquIty                    65.9    027.6 1,161.2  1,666.1    044.2 1,111.1 1,314.0 1,531.0 1,756.6 1,077.6 2,862.1 2,657.6
Capital                  217.8    862.1   795.3    267.3    125.5   245.5   357.5   407.5   577.5   677.5   777.5   677.6
Reserves                 475.7    623.4   496.4    661.6    022.7   02. 2   924. 2   024. 2   024.2   024.2   024.2   024.2
Earninge Aseerve           6.3      6.7      6.6       6.9       9.6     6.6      6.9     9.6      6.6      6.9     9.6      9.6
RetaI ned Earn./Loase   157.7       (.6.)  (15.4)   (62.6)  (194.9)  (56.7)   33.2   130.3   253.2   375.6   666.3   654.1I
RATIO$:
Current RAstio             9.6      6.6      9.5       6.6       1.9     1.3      1.8      1.2     1.2      1.9      1.1     1.2
Debt: Equity Ratio        .9.7     6.57    6.56       9.63      9.64    6.64    6.61    6.50    6.57    6.54    9.56    9.46
A/R comparatar              71        74      40        as       160      05       02       64      76       79       65      6f



~ 54  -                                           ANNEX  9
BRAZIL                           Page  3 of 3
Water Sector Preoject in the State of See Paulo
Companl%a do soneae.nte 1es;co do See Paulo (SA8ESP)
Funds Flew
(Current US$ Millioen)
--------- historic-           ---            -p6t-   --------------projeeted---- -
TOTAL
1934     1931    1986       1937     1933   1939   199    1991   1992   1993   1994   1991 1919-91
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -                  ....     ----  _  _   __ ----  --__  ....  ----    ....    ....   ....    ----   ----_____-
tOTAL SOURCES:             264.2    271.6   369.6    310.1    311.6  547.6  666.3  693.6  731.1  774.8  69n.e  739.6 3,417.3
*-awaeswsaunw            wasum... .  sutuuua  ma-==.... 11assail wsw--- --W1 w------ assume usages  3--. -u---- -w-a-w gs=
Internal Sources           122.6    133.6   143.1       61.2     11.3  293.4  333.1  373.3  414.9  419.2  49*.9  139.6 1,373.6
'dt Inc.(Lose) aft.teax    74.7    (11.7)  (23.4)  (112.S)   (92.2) 126.9  144.9  163.1  102.3  194.6  224.6  211.1   317.5
"Imu                     ....   ------   ------- -------  -------  ----_-- ------ ------ --_--__ ------ --__ ____ --__ -----___--
D-er4ciation              44.2     43.6    60.4       56.3     64.2   *4.4   76.9   07.2   97.2  141.4  111.7  121.6   437.1
Monetary Veriet.      1.491.4  1,563.7   732.2  2,347.   4, 196. 3    3.3        .0    3.3    3.3    3.0    e..    e.e       e .
Monetary Correction (1,613.1)(l,U6.I) (743.9)(2,297.9)(4,211.4)   *.9    9.9    3.3    0.0    0.. 90 0.  3.3                 0.
Financial Charge         121.3     62.9    74.8       67.7    104.0  13.9  111.6  119.3  135.7  151.2  117.7  162.2   619.3
Other                      3.3      ..3      ..3       3.3       3.3    3.3    3.3    3.3    3.3    3.3    3.3    3.3        3.3
External Source.           141.6    172.0   169.1    243.9    2"6.4  214.2  331.9  321.5  316.2  816.7  233.d  233.3 1,643.4
Oebt:                       76.6     ff.4   131.6    169.9    163.1  134.2  219.9  211.1  236.2  211.7  133.9  10.0  991.4
CEF                        3.3      3.3      3.3       3.3       3.0   28.3   62.1   73.3   64.3   79.1   63.3  1U.3  3S3.3
FAE                        3.3      3.3      3.3       3.0      3.3   23.0   62.5   73.0   6 .0   79.5   U.9   13.9   363.3
10                        a.'       3.3     3.3       6.3      3.3   41.2  $5.6   14.3    3.3    3.0    3.0    3.3   111.4
Is"O                       1.3      3..      3.3       1.3      0.3   37.3   39.3   63.3  36.2   U.7    3.3    3.0   233.3
Equity:                    64.2      71.6    61.4       37.3      92.4  120.3  112.3  11.3  113.3  133.e   111.3  133.3   112.3
Shereholder's Inc.        11.9     49.7    42.7       42.6     49.8   94.0   31.0   34.0   $6.3   77.3  1d3.3  133.3  426.c
Capital Increawe          12.3     26.3    22.1       44.7     42.6    0.3    0.3    3.3    3.0    0.3    3.3    3.3    03.
IRSW  Counterpart          3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0      3.3   26.3   27.3   26.0   24.3   23.3    3.3    9.3   126.3
Other Asset Increase         1.3       1.3     2.5       1.6       3.3    3.3    3.3    3.3    3.3    3.3    3.3    3.3   16s.3
rOTAL APPLICATIONS:       292.9    192.9   260.6    321.2    311.1  571.3  670.4  7?0.9  733.0  777.4  733.4  742.9 3,412.6
wrsu.      _ _.              a m    as.  ua..   _ms    s_m               _r.              _                     _
Capitol Expendituree       146.6    196.7   233.8    263.3    292.7  292.9  391.3  401.3  431.8  432.7  376.4  376.0 1,890.4
Proposed Project           4.0      9.9      3.3       3.3       9.0   64.6  134.5  133.2  112.2  140.6    3.3    3.3  6am.3
Other Inveateente        133.6    179.2   212.6    243.4    261.2  233.3  217.6  228.1  233.4  211.0  35U.4  353.0 1,117.4
Int. During Conet.         2.6      .6       3.1       2.9      2.6    3.4    7.1   12.3   13.1   24.3    5.3    6.    66e.
Cap'd Admin. Coat.        12.6     17.3    21.3       23.3      29.0   16.6   22.2   22.7   22.7   22.8   21.3   21.3   137.3
(Inc)/Dec in Whing Cap  (126.9)  (123.3)  (32.4)   (64.3)  (133.3) (49.7)  (7.1)  (4.3)  17.7   41.3  (17.0) (63.0)    3.3
Other Liability Inc.         0.4      3 3      1.5       1.3       3.0  127.7   92.8   76.7   16.1   37.6   21.4  J3.9   339.6
)ebt Service               132.e    123.4   133.7    123.9    112.2  193.5  192.9  226.9  266.9  291.3  32e.3  339.3 1,169.6
Interest                125.3      62.9    74.3       67.7    134.0  131.3  111.3  119.3  131.7  151.2  163.3  161.3   619.3
Amortizatlon              67.0     60.1    33.9       13.2      43.2   97.6   31.1  137.1  123.3  140.7  163.3  174.0   649.7
(Inc)/Doc in Cash                                                     (22.7)  (6.1)  (2.4)  (2.1)  (2.6)  (2.3)  (2.9)   19.1
Cash 8eginning Year                                                    13.0   40.7   41.3   48.2   13.7   63.3   66.1
Cash End Year                                                   18.3   43.7   45.8   48.2   1.7   13.3   13.1   59.9
RATIC:
3ebt Service Coverage        0.7      3.6      1.3       3.6      3.3    1.S    1.7    1.6    I.6    1.6    1.t    1.6          1.3



- 55 -
ANNEX 10
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAUI
Transfers of the State to the Sanitation Sector
(Current USS millions)
----------h;istori e------------- ----St -----
1984     1936      1986     1967      1983     1969
Total Revenues                     4,383.5  5,720.3  8,967.0  8,693.1  7,342.4  8,U .0
Total Transfers to Sanitation         86.6      96.0     94.8    116.2    159.2    147.6
To SABESP                           60.3      76.1     66.4      85.6    125.6    137.6
To FAE                              25.3      13.6     23.4      30.6     33.6      16.6
% Revenues to Sector                 2.0%      1.7X     1.1%      1.3%     2.0%      1.8%
X Tronfors to SA8ESP                70.4%    86.2X    70.1U    73.6%    78.9%    93.2%
X Tranfors to FAE                   29.6X    19.8%    29.9%    26.4%    21.1%        6.8%



- 56 -
ANNEX 11
page 1 of 4
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
Notes and AssumDtions for SABESP Financial Forecasts
I. INTRODUCTION-
1.01     The financial projections are based ont  (a) audited financial
statements of SABESP for FY 1984-1988; (b) FY 1989 budget; and (c)
financial projections and explanatory notes for 1989-1995 (EVG), as
prepared by SABESP.
1.02     Because of the high inflation in Brazil during the past decade,
historical financial statements have been translated into current US
dollars (using year-end exchange rates for balance sheets and average
exchange rates for income statements), and projections also have been
prepared in current US dollars. The coefficients used for projected US
dollar inflation (source: IBRD OPN 3.11, October, 1988), historic domestic
inflation and exchange rates (source: Coniuntural Economica, November 1988?
are shown below:
End-yr.        Avg.     Domestic       US $
exch. rate   exch. rate  inflation   inflation
Year       (CZSIUS$)    (CZ$/US$)       (2)          M
1983           984        618            -               -
1984         3,184      2,084           224            4.0
1985       10,490       6,837           235             4.0
1986 1/         14.9        12.6          65            5.0
1987            67.86       39.3        339            9.8
1988           731         385.2        987             5.3
1989 2/                                                 5.3
1990                                                   5.3
1991                                                    4.1
1992                                                    4.1
1993                                                    4.1
1994                                                    4.1
1995                                                    4.1
1/   February, 1986 (Cruzado Plan): establishment of cruzado (CZS); 83-85
exchange rates shown in cruzeiros (CR$).
2/   January, 1989 (Summer Plan): establishment of cruzado novo (NCZ$).



- 57 -
ANNEX 11
page 2 of 4
II. INCOME STATEMENT
A. Revenues
1.03      Revenues are derived from the sale of water, sewerage collection
and treatment services, sale of equipment and consumer connection,
installation and service fees. Consumers are broken down into five major
categories: residential, industrial, commercial, institutional and bulk
municipal sales. Projections assume that net coverage levels for both
water and sewerage change very little as the proposed project would
essentially help to maintain current levels in the face of high population
growth rates (water maintains the level of 90Z, and sewerage is increased
from 61Z to 67Z). The actual increase in absolute volumes averages about
2.52 per year for water and about 42 per year for sewerage.
1.04      Retail prices are in para 2.27 and Annex 15.  Financial
performance improved dramatically from 1987 to 1988, due to a 67Z real
increase in the average tariff level during 1988. Prices of January, 1989
(following the "Summer Plan" announced January 15, 1989) were assumed as a
base for the projection. These prices were assumed to maintain constant
real levels over the project period. This level enables SABESP to comply
with the conditionality of the loan (see para. 2.27).
1.05      Losses are measured by the difference between water produced and
water consumed, and include losses due to meter errors, theft and other
items. (The volume of water billed is slightly higher than water actually
consumed due to the fact that some residential consumers do not always
consume the full minimum monthly amount.) Forecasts assume SABESP meets
targeted water-loss levels by the end of the project period. (See
Monitoring Indicators, Annex 13.)
B.        Expenses
1.06      Operating expenses include production, maintenance, commercial
and administrative costs. Variable costs (chemicals, electricity) were
assumed to increase according to the increase in total volumes sold. Fixed
costs were maintained constant.
1.07      Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis.  Average
depreciation period is about 25 years; it has been assumed to remain
constant, although the proposed asset revaluation study may recommend
alterations. Provision for doubtful accounts is based on about 4Z of
accounts receivable.
1.08      Net financial income and expense is the net of interest on long-
term debt (excluding interest during construction on the IBRD, CEF and FAE
loans, which is capitalized) and interest income from short-term
inves.tments.



- 58 -
ANNEX 11
page 3 of 4
1.09       Total inflation adiustment is the net of monetary corrections on
asset and equity accounts, and monetary variatinns on long and short term
debt. Projections have not provided for inflation adjustment in the future
due to: (a) the difficulty of projecting inflation in Brazil due to the
current economic conditions; and (b) the fact that after the asset
revaluation of 199O, the effects of monetary correction on asset and equity
accounts should more nearly balance the monetary variation on debt.
1.10       Income tax for the water scctor historically has been 62
(compared with 35Z private corporate income tax). New tax reforms in 1988
increased this level to 30Z as of fiscal 1989. Brazilian corporate law
allows for an income tax loss carry-forward of up to four years, thus
SABESP assumed to pay income tax at this rate until previous losses are
written off (projected for 1989).
III. BALANCE SHEET
D. Assets
1.11      Accounts receivable are assumed to decrease to 60 days of yearly
sales revenue by 1995. Accounts receivable consist of accounts billed and
unpaid. Accounts not yet billed are shown separately.
1.12       Inventory consists of materials and represents about about 30
days of supplies.
1.13       Short term investment is the amount available to the company for
future phases of investment.
D. Liabilities and Equity
1.14       Long-term debt is detailed in IV below.
1.15       Share capital is assumed to increase with the increased equity
participation of the state over the period, as shown in the financing plan
(see Funds Flow, Annex 9).
1.16      Retained earnings grow with net income (dividends are paid out to
the majority shareholder, DAEE, but are reinvested).
IV. BORROWING AND INVESTMENTS
E. Proiect Financing
1.17       Proposed IBRD loan: US$280 million equivalent borrowed over 15
years, including 5 years grace, at standard flexible rate (currently
7.65Z). First disbursement: second half 1990; first repayment: mid-1995.
Commitment fee: 0.75Z of undisbursed balance.



- 59 -
ANNEX 11
page 4 of 4
P. Non-Prolect Investment Borrowing
1.18      IDB loan:  US$111.4 remaining for FYs 1989-1991 borrowed over 20
years, including 4 years grace, at 8.5Z.
1.19      PLANASA:  US$300 million equivalent from CEF and US$300 million
equivalent from FAE borrowed over 18 years (water) and 30 years (sewerage),
including 1-3 years grace, at 2Z (FAE-sewerage), 3Z (FAE-:water) and 12Z
(CEF). Disbursed and repaid by contract, according to schedule of works.
Note: As of 1983 the State of Sao Paulo ceased providing contributions to
the Sao Paulo FAE (preferring to provide any contributions directly to the
company as equity capital injections); therefore, since 1984, SABESP's use
of FAE resources has consisted only of the repayments (or "returns") it has
made to this fund. Therefore, forecasts of FAE resources for SABESP's
minimum investment program as defined with the Bank were based solely on
the company's estimated repayments to the FAE for the period.
G. Total Investment Costs
1.20      Total investment costs are projected to include interest during
construction on the IDRD, CEF and FAE lcan, and administrative costs of
about 71 of total investments, which are capitalized (representing physical
improvements and other items, allowed under Brazilian accounting
standards). These items are separated from physical investments.



- 60 -
AN4NEX 12
BRAZ IL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
Water Sector Finances
(As of end-year 1987)
Volum                    Averago    Operating    Return    Consumers
Billed         Logsse      Tariff       Costs    on Asooto        Par
STATE                COMPANY    ('9ft a3)            (I)      (US1/ma)    (US1/s3)       (U)       Employee
Alagoas              CASAL           48,909         16.1%      O.397        9.416          -5.6X         1SO
Amazonas             COSAMA          56,632         64.8X       0.443        0.398         -1.61         122
Bahia                EMBASA        284,960          26.09       0.369        9.366         -2.2X         162
Ceara                CAGECE        1908,31          26.7x      0.266        0.274          -8.3X         217
Espiritu Santo       CESAN          130,679         30.7x       0.308        0.267          2.9%         193
Maranhao             CAEMA          49,680          42.91      0.276        0.5U2         -13.71    .    92
Mato Grosse          SANEMAT        67,407          42.7X      0.498        0.602          -7.0%         138
Para                 COSANPA        126,656         37.6%       0.178        0.220        -13.3%         172
Paraiba              CAGEPA          91,666         22.41       0.264        0.282         -4.9%         155
Pernambuco           COMPESA       241,193          22.6%       0.280        0.264          1.2%         197
Piaui                ACESPISA       49,653          32.41       0.337        0.320         -1.6%         18
R C do Norte         CAERN           69,577         39.11       V.297        0.313         -6.4%         162
Sergipe              DESO           64,824          24.41      0.378        0.248           3.6%         161
AVERAGE NORTH                   104,266         32.0%       0.330        0.334         -4.1%         18
Fed District         CAES8         161,585          35.1X      0.336        0.290           3.1X        16
Coias                SANEACO       200,618            --        0.264       0.263          -1.31         107
U C do Sul           SANESUL         70,489         29.0X      0.337        0.289          -1.0%         228
Minas Gerais         COPASA        633,869            --       0.232        0.202           6.6X         239
Parana               SANEPAR       JO9,648          27.0X      O.370        0.282           3.7%         291
R C do Sul           CORSAN        268,396          11.65       0.428        0.310          6.8%         242
Rio de Janeiro       CEDAE       1,466,642          17.7X      0.202        0.173           1.0%         237
Santa Catarina       CASAN         149,146          18.2%      9.300        0.246           3.21         190
Sao Paulo            SABESP      1,687,629          24.9%      0.J84        0.269           8.81         296
AVERAGE SOUTH                   626,414         23.61       0.317        0.257          2.7X         214
AVERACE SECTOR                  276,956         29.1%       0.826        0.393         -1.4X         181
NOTES: Data gathered during mid-November, 1988; Source: CAIXA ECONOMICA FEDERAL, Rio de
Joneiro. Not included are Acre (SANACRE), Amapa (CAESA), Rondonia (CAERD) and Roraima.



- 61 -
ANNEX 13
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
Monitoring Indicators
(Actual)
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Operational
Water & Sewerage
Connections/Employee         207     215      220      227      232      235      238      242
Population Served-
Water (2)                     90       90       90      90       90       S0       90       90
Population Served-
Sewerage (2)                  61      64       66       67       67       67       67       67
Unaccounted for Water (2)        25       25       24       24       23      22       22       22
Sewerage Treated (Z) a/          20       21       22       23      24       25       26       27
Sewerage Collected (I) b/        45       46       47       48      49       50       51       52
Financial
Operating Ratio                 0.67    0.61   0.59    0.57    0.56    0.56    0.54    0.54
Rate of Return (2) c/              8       12       8        9       10      11       11       12
Debt/(Debt+Equity) d/           0.64    0.63   0.61    0.59    0.56    0.53    0.50    0.50
Accounts Rec. Comparator         109       95      92       84       78       70      65       60
Net Internal Cash as 2
of Total Investments            11       13      15      17       18       20       25       30
Notes:
(a) volume treated/volume water consumed
(b) volume collected/volume water consumed
(c) revalued assets, 1990 and thereafter
(d) long-term debt



- 62 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
Methodology and Results of the Marginal Cost Pricing Analysis
1.       Marginal costs (MC) for the project's investments and
complementary works have been estimated using long-run average incremental
costs (LRAIC). SABESP's water and sewerage MC have been estimated for each
of the five regions in which its market is divided: RMSP's Integrated
System, RMSP's Isolated Systems, Baixada Santista, Interior's Large and
Medium Cities (CMG) and Interior's Small Communities (CPP).
2.       Demand projections have been estimated using expected population
growth rates; fixed targets for service coverage; constant parameters for
annual per-capita consumption, number of people per household and number of
households per residential connection; and declining percentages of average
losses. Therefore, demand projections implicitly assume a price elasticity
equal to zero. Disaggregated projections for each market of SABESP and for
the whole company are shown in Attachments 1 and 2.
3.       SABESP's nominal capacities of water and sewage treatment stations
and their expected use in each year are shown in Attachments 3 and 4--lack
of information required to assume capacities at sewage treatment stations
to be filled at a constant rate until saturation in year 2000.
4.       Water investments are divided in production--which includes water
intake, treatment and unaccounted water control, transmission, reservoirs,
primary distribution, secondary distribution and connections. Sewerage
investments are divided in connections, collectors, main collectors,
interceptors and treatment.  All investments are expressed in market prices
of December 1988 and include engineering and physical contingencies.
Complementary investments to be made by the SWCs after project execution
are mainly house connections and secondary water distribution pipes and
sewage collectors.  SABESP's investment programs for water and sewerage are
shown in detail in Attachments 5 and 6, while Attachment 7 presents an
estimation of its fixed administrative, operating and maintenance--AOM--
incremental costs.
5.       LRAIC have been calculated at an annual opportunity cost of
capital (OCC) of 102 for each level in the chain from production to final
deliver (water) or disposal (sewerage). Figure 1 illustrates this
classification showing a simplified diagram of the PJISP water supply
integrated system for year 1994. SABESP's LRAIC are shown in Attachments 6
and 7.



- 63 -
ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 2
figure i.  SL.Tpfied %agrasm o  :ne IL4S? 'ater S;;r-y
tntes:ated System for Year !;9,
-REATMZNT |                 Cons=rners
0.0150Q                    PLANTS                  -0 with S;ec4a:
T.0O08Q  Contracts
0.0070Q a
3 - Lk 5a'e
RESERVOIRS             T-L- _ -      O.;959Q  Consumers
O.O00Q -                                              Cons-.=ers
PRIMARY D:STRIBUT:ON                      O with Spe-.sJ.
0.0206Q Contracts
0.050oq                                                Consumers
o-with Special
SECONDARY DISTRIBUTION               0.0088Q  Contracts
0.0240Q  Non-legal
_     _940Q  -fr_ __ __ __ [Consumpt :on
0.0940Q I*_        I    I      i   1 i       W      I 
Small Consumers
0.5739Q
_  Losses                                           O Large & Xedi=
Q * Total Volume of                                    Connect i'r.s
Treated Water                                   0 Small Ccrnects.
6.       MC for treated water delivered at treatment plants, transmission
pipes, primary and secondary distribution pipes, and meters have been
estimated by adding and adjusting for losses the corresponding LRAIC. MC
for sewage collected and transported to the interceptors reception point
have been estimated by adding the corresponding LRAIC, and MC for sewage
collected and treated by adding and adjusting for additional effluents
received (inverse losses) the corresponding LRAIC. SABESP's complete MC
structure for these services is shown in Attachments 8 and 9.



'. j '  & " e r " - i o S 9 ° ° ! g   ° n l w s   " s ° ,   X ° ' 2 ° S s ;   . . . . . . . . . . . . .;   ° r . . . . . . . . . . . . .$ " o o  
^        ..    'F~i   5°|            tS  $l'           s°'"X'.           .S    itX         S   -t*S- EE  2ligi4 
4  a   ,  'l-:--^sSsj|°   sri°;  "s°   %f-^-|"atst    s.s -8.....'°':°'....   .........°'§
4i~~~ 22   v-.gas$rSS   "" ;                                            *g  S55   S          ii2;'S           ai2-3ls-
,,_,,  °.,'.*s_.*IS$lRR:X ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     .........     .ri°   .^ .l°l~''  . . .; i-    .i;w;s ag:":s .'
.s'. !!Xn'r-is'°f  r3u0g "0en ggr°r*~~°;    O'..-;£°i- .........          °rii;       °Ei^t;t'l
',~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~.... 5. vr's2'.  °  a  Oo t°''°-  ts-tvi  Si-ssl  ;j2|2| 
i, i, sow toe5g°t sr;"° ts° SXso-gawbi-"0  0-- °i -s ......°        .......5gk '
^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .                                            ............... g5rS_$;  oi  tv jz S 2 E ;5RStg
.~~~~~~~~~~~~ ....                                  ........             ....
.'r  qs-r*-AO; _ ;  "rj ---O   .  rs6s  ......o   j.......           ...........-     §°   2 °| °X -s '
,Se,,  5g2*,e_7*Z57Sg!6   oot;ss~~~~~~~~~~ Rs°~~2~  °rte    °°   °i';°swRoo°o    5sXj basJj>!  X~~~-1
o~~~~~"~~~x§327R?°°}~~~~~~~~~  .Si8??"  .iX°??X  .tS .??2 .F-°??- .st . ..  . ..  .  .. ..
}4 % % li^ljXlt t. r   ,, th5FF   i; !   $   e I     ern  &IE 



-65-                                                                   ANNEX 14
Attachent 2
4A*I3 $WOR PRJ IN r)6 STATh OP &40 P"a.
ShA411l PMJWI  OWoM PO SEWAGE CIUZ,L1M AND   PL6  7481464!Of (10 II i-  O)
oUmiPTIWio                           an.     111       1990     1991     199      1441     1444      1448     144      I"?      1946      it"    2000-1IS
NW    : VNIF8G2A7IN
I,    POPAATI3S (TkVAe".4)                                 12,16 SO  8.4811  13,9ON    131,13   L3. 40    13,88    13.88,0   15.880   18.44    15. 80   13.660   13 MG    MMn
COVIRAM   U..(L  M54.0                                                441      644      AG92      994      68 7     9.?      667       661.?    46?    699        44.7    44.7
~.   popWUTIO 8175 SMOAK0 C.LE7U  Cn94.".')                 7,30     4.10'   I. 442    6.048    4.174    9.361    2,161    9361    9,3161    9161l   93111    4.361    9,16
Foomm PM HOUND.D (U. i S.)42                           4.3       4 2      4 2      42       42       4. 2      4.2      4.2      42:      42        4.2      42:
HadecLasPat CRocrtaN ct,; t.)1.8                        I.1      1.1        S      18       1         1.4      4.8      1.1       I4       146      1        1.5
in   W  1  )6   c4odKIOI   CTh"..4d4.                      1,144       170    li354    1,407    1. 43    in. 49   1,449    1.46      1,444    1.444    1,444     44 1.     4491 "
US OP THE Ono  D18.                           Id6(7-d.)       1411     126      210      243       2  343   25       MG6      an                 32       mG       3MG       3
MOM C6LL         -i NATO n MUNITUN0 9                                  0 9      090      0.9       0 9      019      0.9      0,9      0.        0.9      0.9      0le      0.9
SE110   w4r                                             1042    S"4 8    4946    6200    41131    474S   847.            447.     "I6 647.8  47.      474    "47.4    4`7.
VPN64TAL 03460  COU.KrW                                       6A      U36      42.4   110.8   129 1    143 3    143.4   143.4    148.4    18. 4    143.4    143.4    141.4
OW.134T 14670                                               249 1    148.1   27?. 4     9.       310.0   227.4    344.6    2588.8        .    407.6   410.4   464A.    460 1
D4111INnTA4. G.J.W  74441D                                    MA     14.0     266      44 .4    60.9      763       47     11.2    137    1994    14123  .26             221 0
NW 130.4706471I3
UL4  P.PLATION (64.-44)                                     121 0    124 0    127 0    131L7    138,0   140.0   140.0   140.0   140.0    140.0    140 0    140.0    140.0
cOvowa  1.846  M8                                            21 .1    30.7     47 0     62 4      84 9     78 2     78. 4    78. 4     78.4     78.4     78. 4    78.4      78.4
UMin  PORLATION 31r)4 2464   COJeCTI9D (TIN-...4.            28.4     36.0    60.2    81 1        90 3    104.  0.5         106Slo  8    106.4   106.4   106.5   104 a    106.0
aP SS. Po  DO .4010O. i.)                                     4.2      4.2      4 2      4 2       4 2      4 2      4.2      4 2       4.2      4.2      4.2      4 2       4.2
HsRHJ O          S0 m18n.08 l?20(UN. it)                     101      1.01     1 03      103      1 02     1 03     1.0 1s66a    1.08s    1.03           1. 08    1.08      1. 03
Om  OF THE VW4  CDP4W1,1W   (T..44.                            .9      88      14.0    19 2       20 9     24 4     24.4    24.4      24.4    24.4       24.4    24 4      24.4
US OF THE 184  1)s4IAL C*W4VI164                                       II....4)  4 2  81  1233    12.0     18.25    16.4A    is.a    1s..1    1S.8a    18.        16.45    I6.4
SEWGECOa1,Tw  / vAT7COPONWTION                                0.9      0.9      0.9      09        09       0.I      090      09       0.9      0.9       0.9      0.9      0.9
SOWAOR COUACrO                               ~~~~~1.3  20       32        44       471      1. 88    0         0.4.    81.4      5.5      55        8.2      2.5'
DI0iN4AL  DM G      K13 rrED                                  PO       0.7      1.9      31       2.4      42        4.2      42       42E      4.2       4.2      4.       4.
e..1..34T71647                                                44       52       62       7          6       02 1201   I  O: 1  14.2    14.      19.9     I.       27.8     22.8
DCR6!AL. OWL"1744A72                                          9         04      1        29       42       S.8       7S       98      12I9    23                           264
B614A0A SAM4TSTA
1.~~~ 90P.9..47134 (544..VA..4.) ~~~~~~~~~2,236    2.30        2.376    2,424    2,491    2.6S4    2,0S4    2,4SU    2.8S4    2.8S4    2,484    2.4SU      2.5S4
CIPYM       LVL 9,(4)                                        3.34     51 2     17.9     417       602      647      "L46              4 U899    "84      44       636      646
MM POFAIC.A13 WM) S0A6E COL.KT00 (Th-...d.)                 1.198    1.273    1,278    1,501    1,638    1.476    1,678    1,5678    1,47      1 87     1. 47    1 678    1,47
piptum  00  moussm"   (U".)                   5 0      5 0      5.0       0 0      00       30       80       40        40       00   0            40        4.
HO,65140.016PS CS8IWT2O  ( M it.)                            2U       3.88     3 M8     3 M       2 86    2.06      3646     SU4      3.n    3266        3 M8     3.88      3.66
M  OF TME WMCS4TSM7001h..4.                                   16      48.4A    7090    7174      63 a       45      844a    844       65       64.8    845        845      648
S0OF rW7)   VW4  047N.ff   COP011VC0111 (Th..-4.)              44"     4.       9.3     107      22.2      34 9     2349     24419    2479    24.9    249I    24,9         2449
SMOGE CMI.WrW/ ATinCOPMR.PVT                                  07   7   0        0.O   7            0?       1.        .       07       0.       07        07       07       0.7
SIMAGE COLLMCrO                             ~~~~~14     444     432      02S       49      be7       64 7      6.7     5.7      54.      28.       58.7     36.7
D4!M.ffA   ok m   jLw1l                                        IO      2.        S'     1        18        1.9.    169       18is9    14.9     1. 9      14.9     16.4    16s
EFLLf T44670                                                 47 2     60 I    83.1I    54 2       09.4    64.1      64.8    70.8      74.0    79.4        4.1I    89.1    $44
Dco41M.A WP.l,4T 14.10                                        MA       28S      56 a     a9      12.8    1s.8a    i9.8a    22.        27.7    32. 1      34.4     41.8     47.1I
06126166 LAM a n.0JI 15702 (051
U1mW  POPLAT1U8 (M%....4)                                 8,518.0  S, 671. 0  B,W?..0  31.WM. 0  4.119.0  4,166 0  4,186.0  4, S   0  4,566.0  4,30200  4,   0~ 4.3   0  4.50N0
COW8tAQEL&&3.8                                               728a    72r,5    71.        499      99.      I4.      8.       64.       94       64.8     U92        .       I88
.mW   OP9AM  Wr wTh SMAG  CMJ.ECT'KD (7o..-.44.)           2.047    2,642    2,741    2,780    2.amG    2.884    2,6814   2,889    2.846    2,89"    2.8"I    2.8469    2.889
PS.S4oaUa0O.'.4)                                     483      483       45       42       4.3       453      4.2      4.3      4.8      4.1       483      4.       4 3
)4SQ4104 Pu  co4e7T04 (W%.6)                                 1I04     1.04     1.04      1.04     1.04     1.04      1. 04    1.04     1. 04    1. 04    1.04     1.04      1.04
sC OF T)6 0146 camrmsTW      ST...ao) 8.8    641.2    613.7   621.4    630.4S   439 4    619 4    89".4   639.4   42n 4    634.4    629.4    63. 4
SQ OF 7TM Yom* 144A 4.ow   08499T!6K                          PA.,4fd)  14       20       41        80       44       so       b4       89        be       59       44        so
SMOAKCM"I.KT / 4!.AcS.W7234                                   09C  0   0        0.9      0.4       09       04       09       09        09       09       0         .         .
134466 CO..L.K122                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~127 4    141.93   1480.71   147 6 149.7 I O8  8  0181.   181 8    11~        151.  181.8    18.8    181.8
I,Pe41A4.S34WA2I .99706                                       36 .4             7.8      9.7      11.8     128      13.9     12 9     11.49   $129       1319     12'9      12 9
6'jLe?  7444T3D                                               6        a9 8    10.6      13 I     14 21    20.0     24.:       . 1     6.0I    47.0    56.        720   8.1 I
DCP4T4fL, 64          767r                                    94       1.       3 7       .2      9.       12.      17       Zs8.     81.      40 1       13      48 1      02
LAW  40F12AT.A7     (Tih.s...n4)                            844.0   O64 0    724.0   744 0    774.    814.0:   814.0  .0 0l.    814~.0   814.0   414.0    814.            81.0
COVEWAM LE41L (W)                            6~~3~7    82.1     509      449      46. 46      6S    44S    416         44.       44.4     A 9      A 44.   4.6 4.
LOGO Pn.tLATIO' 417) MMWAO  C4LZC06 (7h.,...d4)            364.7    140.    16.         71.0    378. 38 161.1    361.1!   361.1   361. 1    wi1.1    361.1    361.1    161.1
P21115"  P    HOL99HK    (WiIA)               341      3.5      1. I       .)      5. 3     2.2      84        5.6      3.4      346      85        185      2.5
MOIGO.m SMPCw6PT14(4Nm C-.)                                  10       10       10        1004  I           104      1.04      1.04     1.04     1.04     1.04     1.04      1 04
De W) THE   * CWdWT1OHB (T1-.d 4. O46.0                             64.1    101.8   1082.    103.8    104.7    104.7    104.7    I"4 7    104,7    104.7    104.7    104.7
55 891THE TM * 0418A, C0P*d10IW=  Crt4.3-.4*4                 NA       1.1       .3      4          .        .        .7      67       *v        67        .                 .
406M CO...9T0  / 647T6 C8ftL114                             09       0   0      .9      04       09       09       0.        06        .9      09       0.        09       09
834WA808.1U0672                                              17 9     18.2     18. 4    18.8      19.0     14.2     19.2    19.2    19.2        19.2     19.2     19.2      19 2
Dinn1,11,1TL SEWAGE 08.L.370                                  NA       08       07r      0.        1.I      123      1.1      1.8      123       1.2      1.3      1.8      1 3
WVq 1.44,T4FAT                                               8 4       0.       48       7I.                 .       07      121      1.         62      1.       14 1     21.8
L14  FOJYATIUN C713d4*4)                                   18.924   19,441   14,964   10.4"B  20.930   31,442   21.462   21.446   81,446   31,442   55.442   21.442   21.442
C049to  LEY&  (S)                                           40 7      44.0     "9.0      7 1      872      67 I    67, I     47 1    67 1       87.1     W7.      67.1I    47 I
~.   OR.ATION WMT  864O0  COu.067E  CT)-d-n4)              11.479   12.438   13,1I"    11,719   14,067   14.400   14.404   14.4061  14,4ADS   14,404   14,404   14.406   14,408
Pets    PM M0.3642.0 (1,5.0)                                4.27      4.7      4 27     4.27     4.27      427      4. 27    . 27     4 27      4. 27    4I 27    4 27     4 27
PS c08~~~~~1?04 (13.,..)            1 ~~~~~~~~42    48    42    1 442   12  142         42    2      1 8      142       1 42     1 42     13       1 4
50 OF TM 714  08699710   cTh~4...4)                         I.691    2.01N    2,144    2.226    2.274    2,224    2.324    2.224    2,484    2 ,104    2.324    2.224    2,224
De or 7)6S 716* VADMIENT   C08997106 c(l,-..4)                MA       144      294      336       3G       434      434      434      434       43       434      434      434
Sao=C04iKT06/ 6     ATOCS.8TI04                             089       069      0891    089       0 84      084      08 9     089e    089        089      0809     0809     0.84
SEWAG  0.U.LI0W                                               703      746      612      843      6S4       683      a"8      O"U8                        868      888      883
DC)4TWL. S34QE C04.1060                                       "A        57      103      134       138      174      174      174      14        174      174      174      174
aj47."  T18T9                        3~ 12                             331      584      378       403      4.20     460      491      829       489      612      862      718
04)81.rA  S.1,u4I 74440                                       MA        20       41       65       40       117      147      1SO      216      284       300      349      408



ORAZIL
66A26 SWT30t S.WT IN THE STAT! OF SAD PEASO
SAM'S *AT26 115T17 CAPAZY
9MDOL TM WTH    CAPACEW'!
SYfST8A                   ACTIAL MI.c
19668   1999     190    191    1992    1992    1994    199           19o6    199?    199       1999    20       aw01    2001    300       SW0    2600
SPO   IUECRATED SYSTBE
CANAREnth1   / ETA OJARAU                     22 O0   26.00   26.00   26.00   26.00   26.00          00-O    26.00    26-00   26.00   26.010    6.00   36.00   26.010    WM0   36.00   26.00   21010
0.JMPtVCA / ETA ADA                           10.50   10.60   1030      1050    10. 30 10  800   10 50 10.30       10 30 10.    30   10 30s 10.50 1039 0    10.30 10.00 10.00   10.9  0.0    10M
N010CLAM  ETA CASA06GuCT                       3 70   3270    2.70       S.70    3.70    3.70      3.70    S.70    3.70      S.70    2.70    3.70    3.70    3.70       2.70    3.10    3.190    3.70
RIO 0AME  IETA RIO 6APE                        3. S&    i3       -        .so    S. so    S. so26  360s    S.0 so   Sw        . a      . so   Sam      3680    S. so    S-o      3.00    *.00    5.00
ALTOCITtA ETA ALTO COTIA                       0.60    0690    030s    060s    060D    0300    060O    0690    030s    060D    0610    030D    030    060s    0.00    0.60    0.30                0.66
UAIXO COTrIA IETA 6AKIO COTIA                  0 50    020D     0 s0    050s    0.60    0.30    0310    030o    0.30    0.30    0.30    060            0.30    0.30     0.10    0.110   0.30    0.30
R1u00A. 3TIVA                                  0 00        002  0.00    0 00    0 00    0 00    0 00    0 0         0 06.    0.00    0300    0302    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    000          0.00
ALTO TIEM!                                     -        -       -        -       2 00    2 00    5 00    5 0        600    6.00 5.00    5       00    5 .00    2.00 -O  1.00    6.00    2.00    1.00
51.102O                                        -          T-                              2.70     2.70    2.70     2.70    237P     2.70     2.70    2.70    2.70      2.70    3.70    2.10    3.70
CAMJOJ/S6 006  D                                                  -R                      0.50o    0 60    0 30    0. 30    0.60    0.00    0."        0.60    0.60     0.30    0.110   0.30      0.30
IOhI,M1L CAPACITY IN M3/.                     41 00   45.00   42.00    46.00   3O.30    32. 2     63.26   52.2     5.26   10.26   6.0.    00.26   60M       .22 6.   60.6    M0.=    30.26   60.2
9041WAL CAPACrTy IN MILALISE OF 9           1293.6 13419.6  1.419.0 1.410 6  1.877. 4  1.370 3 167.3O.  1.670.2  16976.3  167.3O.  1I7.3.  1676.2  1.6M.2  &.676.   1676.5  I.63.2 1.6.3  I,670.3
EXPETED PNOUCTION IN M1ILLIBNS OF MS        1.470.0  1. 46. 0  1.524.0 1i5m 0  1. B". 0  1,607.0  1.633 0  167. S.0  1.706.0  I.74t.0  I.ns f) I.S&Go  I.M.0  Ius.0  1.4101.0  1,60.0  Im..0  1.011.0
EXPECT6  OveflA0Ic (7...)                   I1.1364   1-0327   1.0763   1.9939   1.0010  0DA57    0 9720  0.66OM    1.01890  1.0072   1.0694   1.0014   1.1031   1.1100   1.1100   1.1200   1.1100   1.1IND
SEP   ISOLATED SYSTEM
N04ISSL CAPACTTY IN M0/.                       0~ 1s    0.19   0O22    0.24    0.26       0.26     0 26    0.26    0.26      0.26     03w    0.26      0.26    0.26     0.60     0.610   0.60     0.60
POIINAL. CAPACITrY IN MILLIONS OF MS           5 74    6.06    7.00    7.63    7.96       0.25     3 26      2       26      32 6.26326                5.26    6.00  6.26 6.8  .26 6-9  .0 IS  .60  S."
EXPECTI6D PMrTIWd IN MILLIONS OF MS            6.20    6.30     6.2      660a    7.30    7.6       6  940    6.90    9 30    9.00    9.60    9.00      9.26    9.20    9.00      9.26    9.00     9.00
EXPECTIED 0VE..0A0INC CT,-.)                 1 0602   1.0*406  0.92OM   060910  0.9106   0 9440  1.0166   1. 077    1.11360  1.11.35  1.112    1.1125   1.1136   1.1136   1.1136   1.1tin   11136   1.1126
POIIIML CAPACIT  IN NS/.                       3 40    3.40    6.00    6. is    6.13s    6.7       6.70    6.75    6.70      6.7?B    6. 79    6.11    6.12    6.76     6.70    6.75    6.15      6.73
NO3IIIML CAPACITY in mILLIam& OFPo9          170 29  170.29  16092 I3 1956   193.9   212271  212.71  212.71i  212.71   212.71  223.71   121.71   212.71    1. 71  31.71  21i.n   22.71   213.71
EIIPECrYW PMXLtIOH IN NILLI06S OF 9.         166 70  172.90  175.60  177 70  179.20  160 90  110 70  184.20   136.40   136.40  160.40   196.30   194.70   199.30  306.30  306.80  214.90  32.30
EX14XTEW OAEPtLI.ICT (7..                    0. 9739   1.0152   0. WM   0-9162  0. 9240   7.0000   0.636    0.6674  0.675    O.632   0.66161  0.90100  0.615  0.961    0.9514  0.66gm    1.6001  1.032
N011151 CAPACITY IN 9..'.                      6.30    7.46      .49     9.79    10. Of   11.61    11.61    11.61    1IM    II  1.61 116 16  16 as 31.61    11.6    11.61   11.6"    11.1    11.61
PE3INAL. CAPACrTY IN MIILLIONS OF PO         214 4  320.26   267.74  206.74   34.6 66.25D.13       O 366  NO. 3613  366. 1   366.  312      3661I.2IS  366.138     3661   566.l    M 3  o6. n6.2is  M6.13s
2E`FTW PRDUTIIM IN MILLIONS OF MS            243 90  264.250  251.60  270.70  279 70  205.90  300 20  512.30   94.380  567.00  n51 BD   M40  666.00  367.40  3O7.40  53PA4   367.40  S2.0AD
92PCWM  0Ae..0A0I#6  CT;)                    1.1374   1.3010  0.9770N  0.6766   0.6070   0. 7091   0.in   0.9650   0.6671  O.ftS6  0.969    0.996    1.0079      M      .t 1.066  1.066W.n 166    &.1321    0
116T261    BEAU. C3369kTM11  (CPP)
M6341NA.L CAPACMT IN AD.'.                     1 40    1.52   I161       1.71    1.74     1.2      1.0  1.00 1. 60           1 00 1.    1I-4       1.00 1. 66           1.  1. 61I-       1.0     1.00      f
101115L CAPACITY IN MIL.IONS OF NS            44 is   46.24   so 67    U." 99 6600   57.24   57.24   57.24   37.24    W.9 24 3724   57f 24 6.56   67.36    67567.26                     374 .56   31.36    is
SXPT60 SErYCIBE IN MILLIONS OF AD             42.90   43 00  w44        WM467    46 70   46-10   20.20   26220   64.20    U.40    WI70    6990   . 9.90   39.90   39.90    6.90   5690-    go.90go
VXPIXTW OV39RL0A)IIC 'T...)                  090717   06967   05792   0.6046    0.6691  0. 040   0.577    0.9120  0.9467   0.9664   102   1.0466   1.0660   1.0666   1.0665   I.oW6   1.0666   1.0600
------------------------ ----                                     ----------. --- - -      --        - ---  -



tRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULAO
SA8ESP'S SEWACE TREATMNT CAPACITY
NOMINAL TREATMeWT CAPACM
SYSTEM                   ACTUAL                                                  PROJECTED
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    197    1996    199         2000
RSEP: IWTECRATED SYSTEM
NOPqINAL CAPACITY IN PN3/                    9.20    9.49    9 60    9.76   10.70   15.22   15.22   15.22   15.22   15.22   1t5.22   15.22   15.22
NOMINAL CAPACITY IN MILLIONS OF P3          290.1   299.3   302 7   307.8   337.4   480.0   480.0   480t0   480.0   480.0   480.0   480.0  ;490.0
EXPECTfD EFFLUENT TREATED IN MILLIJNS OF P3    249.1   263.1   277.9   293.5   310.0   327.4   345.8   365.3   385.8   407.5   4J0.4   454.6   480.1
EXPECTED OVERLOADINC (Tis)                 0.8586  0.8791  0.9179  0 9536  0.9187  0.6821  0.7204  0.7611  0.8038  0.8490  0.967  0.94C9  1.000O
SE5P: ISOLATED SYSTEMS
NOMINAL CAPACITY IN C3/s                     0.14    0.32    0 50    0.68    0.86    1.04    1.04    1.04    1.04    1.04    1.04    1.04    1.04
NOMINAL CAPACITV IN MILLINS OF P3             4.4    10 1    15.8   21 4    27.1    32.8    32.8    32.8    32.8    32.8    32.8    32.8    32.8
EXPECTED EFFLUENT TREATED IN MILLIONS OF P3   4.4     S.2     6.2     7.3      8.6    10.2    12.0    14.2    16.8    19.9    2S.5    27.6    32.6
EXPECTED OYTRLOADINC (Ti ..)               0.9966  0.5153  0.3932  0.3404  0.3171  0.3110  0.3659  0.4330  0.5122  0.6068  0.716   0.8476  1.00001
8AIXADA SANTISTA
PNDINA. CAPACM  IN PC/s                      3.10    3.10    3.36    3.36    4.89    6.19    6.19    6.19    6.19    6.19    6.19    6.19    6.19
N0I1MAL CAPACITY IN MILLIONS OF P3           97.8    97.8   106.0   106.0   154.2   195.2   195.2   195.2   195.2   195.2   196.2   196.2   196.2
EXPECTED EFFLUENT TREATED iN MILLIONS OF P3    47.30   50.10   53.10   56.20   59.60   63.10   66.80   70.80   75.00   79.40   54.10   89.10   94.40
EXPECTED OVBRLOADINC (Tiss.)               0.4836  0.5125  0.5011  0.5304  0.3865  0.3232  0.3422  0.3627  0.3842  0.4067  0.4308  0.4564   0.466
INTERIOR  LARCF A M3ED)I  CITIES (CM)
NOMINAL CAPACITY IN P3/s                     0.22    0.34    0.47    0.47    2.27    2.84    2 64    2         2.84    2.64    2.84    2.64    2.64
ININAL CAPACIT  IN MILLIONS OF P3             6.9    10.7    14.8    14.8    71.6    89.6    89.6    89.6    69.6    69.6    69.6    69.6    89.6
EXPECTS) EFFUINJT TREATED IN MILLIONS OF PS   6.9     8.5    10.6    13.1    16.2    20.0    24.8    30.7    38.0    47.0   86.2    72.0    69.1
EXPECTED OVERLOADINC (Tim)            .   0.9945  0.7927  0.7152  0.8838  0.2263  0.2233  0.2769  0.3428  0.4243  0.5246  0.696  0.tJ69  0.W48
D1ER IO: SMALL COM6J4IT1S (CPP)
NII14AL CAPACM  IN M3/s                      0.20    0.20    0.20    0.20    0.21    0.60    0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80
NOMINtAL CAPACM  IN HILLION5 OF PC            6.3     6.3     6.3      6.3     6.6    25.2    25.2    25.2    25.2    25.2    26.2   25.2    26.2
EXPECTED EFFLUENT TREATED IN NILLIONS OF PS   5.4     6.0     6.8     7.6      8.5     9.6    10.7    12.1    13.5    15.2    17.1    19.1    21.5
EXPECTED OVERLOWINO (Ti-m)                 0.8562  0.9513  1.0781  1.2050  1.283S  0.S306  0.4241  0.4796  O.S351  0.8026  0.66  0.7571   O.52
I-
ft



............................................... ............. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ...............
VC 2                   I      CC I      1. es    IL w                  W  0-    4  be    90 91    go 11    06 9VT   V, 151   W  6 I   It W              , KI   C, I                      "Id"    du-  -a
-__  .  . ..... !!.! ..... 0   .....  _ _                                               .- ..         -     .. ;_    .- . .   -_ ---   .-_- ._. -_ -.... .......... ..                           -  --------
----------------    --------------  .  ....... ...                                                                       -  ---------
000       00 0      00 a      00 a       co 0      00 a      00 0      000       00 0       *1 I      11I       01           I                De         es .1                                         MVNDQ_-   dcr  - oc.,Ij-
Ks        *c 1      69 1       a  9      W. 9      it be    Sia                  as .       ti .      W  1.    go 4                 at        W  9WI   LoW         x  ect   9  Lz       _""    ..  14t!            14.t!!
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                                                                                           - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - . . . . . . . .    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - !!!?n .
-7- ...... 71--'7 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -                                         -,I                                            lbel'
'oI       10I       0  1      W  I       n          I11    Se 9,    I ,"         ."        So"        .SI    VS"          .SI    So"          "SI    .II    .'I    Do
4:I       ttI       1. 9       Lo        Lo I      11 Ge    S. ot    00 lz    I: 99    VI IC    .iz             D, at    ota        I IW          et    iz 09    V- 't,    000                           104I. lol"twslo "W
I0        110       11 0      11 0       tt 0      uI        0,I       11I        II        1,I       nI        itI       11I       "I            I     SI5        LZ        DoI                           mald wolmwl-
WI        OD.       Go .       'o 0      De I      DeI       ..        'oI       DoI        DoI       .I        D.I       n,        11I           'I    91 a!    10.         000                                              'o
co0   00 a      co 0      co 0       x0        co0       goa       000       W0        co0        000       OT St    66n        go it    V,Z        "gg    000                                        adl. wilgi
00        00        00        00 0       00 0      00a       000       coo      co co    00          *00       W00       "a        Iz ot    0.9 IC    69 oz    ta           W0                    wwmw IMLLWO           Vo ajw
CC        W         00         00 0      00 0      000       000       00 0      00         00        OD0       00        u2-    Zs               91    00.    tv It    uLZ                                                   Nal-
Do I                   0      00 a       00 0      go 0      co
..........             . .....                                              ------- *.I         I----- IS - -----    .....    ....                 0 .... es ....... 4 -9 ----- 00 0                  11-wo-ma,
7         7;        7                 De 7                ea"                                                             0      :70       co 00                     EMOM&L-ow  WPVo 9 NDIAII
co 0      oo a      00 11     11 0       10        0  1      10            ,     co0           0      110       De        91 0      1         41 0      a
QC 0      co 0      D. .          .      to D.               00        L. V      "9         0,c       II        n  I      Vo 9      1; It,    SI el    a6           II       co                os"
---------------------------- !! ............... n   ------- - ------- ;-------   ------ 7. .... ;----------- ;........ ;.................. .................................. -----------                              ............
coa       at0       co a      cco       OD.0      00.0      oc 0      "          to        et0        1 SO        v      ILW       W         LI'I       11I                 W  0                                           vwlm
*00       co0       00 0      W                                        ISI         I                                                "I                   II        :11       De .                        adio molitez"Wo mw
SoI                    9.     :0            I         0     So           1.                Soo       00
000       100       00 11    to          10        10I       01                  So                                       Vo                                                                               Sao 414MULOO AAi
000       go.       00 .      to         co        000       00        W         co0           0      We        000       K0        a0        000                  IS0       00O                                             "a"
0         0                                                                                                 St
00 0                                    Do            I      0         Do D      ovD           0     SoI       We            0      p,        De 0
W: .0                                                                               I      DoV       4TI       00                     WAOMM IML=    WLLM  ORAN
00I       co        co 0      Do .       W  I      00I       00        co0       la         00        110       100                 01        So
000       co        co 0       OD 0      or, 0     000       co0       000       to         co        CID0      00I       DoI       ODI       11I        V.I       ObI       00 0
(40) Inaw"10D TWW            moll
et 61    'v el    uit    so it    et el    21.91    9Is    16         W                         Do 0                    4-W.M  isu   PC IAOLL
------------------------------------------------------ --    ...........................                          ...................................... ---------------
co 0         0      00 0      00         go        co 0                                                                                                 Ckc 0      00 0      00 0                      11KNOON30aw  Woo 9 MDIAJI
00 0      :o                     0         0                M  0      W11       01        'POD 0     I"        De 0      I'D 0     01 0      00 0.      T,           't               ""M  "U,  w
00 a                          S. .1    el .        Le.       24 L,        11    .  11    lu !L.  I1.    to                P..          a                co 0
-------------                                                                                                            .. ......... .  ------ ---------------  -----------                   ---------
000                                      co                ---- -------- ------ ;;7; ------- 7------  ----------                                  I
at        co 0                   .0      aI        W,        o,:                 So                   ILI       oI        Os        Vs        to            0      co0                                            met
co0       00        co 0      W  0       00 0      u01    So .,    So            SoV       LI:        So:       LtI       beI       ua            I                It 11    W0                           GWId WojgjlSIQ AA_
0                   0
Oaa       co        co :      co         oov       68        aI        uI        Wto       :  ol      SII       ofI       it1       We1       :I        VSI        00a       DO0                           swid wDUvitu_-
0         a                                    ZI        000                                      00
000       00 0      co 0      OD 0       ooo      Oa 0      W0        01I       01                      I      1*0       "I        UI        19I       SoI        LeI       Do0                                              o",
00        00        OD        00         co 0         0                .I        Do.       to I       I.I       000       11I       00I       u9         fta          9      000                                     =41. win:
co0       co0       co a      OD 0       co 0      co0       co0       000           0     co 9       co0       OD 0      aI        ig I      0I         "6        141       coa                   lommm Iftla=   a,"  QLW
coI       00a       co 0      a  a       W  0      00 0      so 0      00 .0     :  a      00 0       co0       OD 0      0-I       W5        aI        91t        ORI       00
- ------------------- - -------
(00) IMaD Wa OW =An  k7-
ft  I     W  I      6ig I                                    in 2      'I,I       6,.I      0.t       toI       I, V      0WI    It TI    69 9           11 IM        11    W  0                     A      _!!tm  la
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          - - - - - - - -                                                                                    .  . . . . !! .  . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  - - - - - - -
00:,      OD 0      00: SO    00-0       00 0      00 0      00 I          0      10 11               IIDI      10 V      goa       OD0       co 0       W  0      000       W  0                      lmonaApaw  or"
c                            as .                 "  I      ":.       aI        So I      100        16        80 St..  It 11    00 I        TI.C1   ft I    00 0                         I'aftsitpa la Lle-
6t .......................... .................................... --  ---------------------- ----- ...................                     ..........................
-09       ODa       ft I                                     V,,       asI           I      IL T      toI                 0         VSI                  DIc       WT        000
Vs: I     So        "  I                           IL: a     It                  It 1      4*2 &I    It9       :11           I                                            Mold wulaulwslo A
c     LI 9       L. c      1. g,     11       1.I       1.I       "            e      ta            g                                    W         60        000
LI:0      L:0       It 0      to 0       it 0      it0       Lo0       IS0        Loa       460       I:0       LIa       Lt0       LI0       it0        ..        0         010                           Odio motimiaLp.
go0       00a       oco      oco       00 0      000       000       W0        co0        000       000       00 0      "I        toI       ti0        W0        SoI       W0                                              9
ac0       000       01 0      la 11      co 11     000       000       co0        DI0       co0       000       W  0      'AI       lb9        to9       toI       W:        000                                    IMO Not.
0                                                                                                 00            0         I      "0
00 0      *0 00     go 0      00 I       go I      *00       Do0       to.        00           I         0      00 I,    to                   a,         So        11        10                    wAmmi 'OKLOO du"  Q&Ak
co        00        00 0      00 0       00 0      000       co0       000        000       000       co0       co        W         II0       SoI                     I      00                                              Nu
------------
00 0      co 0      00 0      00 0       OD 0      00 0      co 0      00 0          0      00 0      u         VS0       IF        It c      el &       10 9      aT        00 0                    A-ld"
...........................  . .....    -----  . ..... ------------
a----------- -------------------------- 7; ------- 70 ............ ----------- !! ................... !..............
ooo    co 0      00 ,0     co 0       00 0      00 00    co 0       00 0      00 0      co 00    00 0        el 0      el a      ol 0      91 0      .00        00 0                     MOM411taw  wrvw v motil
0,        co        00 a      co         00        00        00 0      00        ot 0       94        VS 0      OD        0.9                 VI                   00
_    ...... !.9 .....  .......                                    ---------  ---------
-- - ------- ;------- ;------- ;------- 7.......... ...... .  ------- ------ ;..........................
co0       OD:*      00:0       000      00:0      000       co0       ooo       coo      ao,      at 0      97:00     0:0       LI0       'T0        el0       to0       000
000       000       00        00         at        OD 0      00 0      00 0       00 a      00        LI 0      a             0     bt0       et,        it0       ol0       000                         now  letimiumo Awa
a                                                                                                                                             0                 1
co        co,       00        00                                                     0         0       I0        I0       300       000       so         to0       100       000                           lmd mllmKmo
I         0         0      10 0      000        Do0       a,0       01        10
00,       000       co 0      00 0       De .     00.       00I       *00        000       co0       000       000       110       et1       6c0        Is0       VSa       00 'O                                            W
000       co C,     co a      co 0       00 0         0          0     O'0        2D0       co0       000       OD0       .10       .1.       n0         W0        co0       W                                      adU  main
co0       Do0       co 0      OD 0       00 0      0,0       Do0       0,0        co0       OD0       000       co"       'oI       OD0       Soa        9,0       000       'o0                   WWWOONW1 limupw  'lull
OD        0,
co0       co Lo     00 0      OD 0       00 0      000       co0       000        co0       co0       co0       W0        290       140        690       tv0       690       000
-------------------
solut aw -__
00 0      a  0      00 0      !to        Co,*      "LVI    eg ol                  ed el    M'el    JZ 91    tl'#l    $1a                ft    21, III   VS 4-    99 et                               ANNNIS                umm_-
-----------------           _1041 -------
--------- - ------
T                           00
co a                   0      OD 0      co a      00 0       co        VS- Z-       s      Is ft    IS
OD.; ....... 7- ------ ------ co ---------
go 0      00 0          a     co                   00 0                                                                                           6      91 9      co 0                      3wosaaw  M`Vo 9 NUA.
00 0      00 0      001                  VS VT    a  vt    a  VI    Go 91    n  In             91    91 ot    or as    VI-m         ou 16    W  Lo    a  u         CZ a      clools mu.  -MAMOMMM    'a
------------------------------------
.....................  ....         .................................................  --------- 7; -----------------------------------------------------------
SI V      So        LZ 2      cw 9      IV I      OF 9       to 0      OD 0
a
I.,       1.0      Owl I.,   1.0, :      OZ:       la,  11    NO 11    01 It       11   .0                     SI        So            SI               of 6                W  0                        swili molmazaAm"'I'l,
O'                                                                     SO
00 0      00 0      co 0      00 0       00 0      till      Ti I      so's       sot       06 9      to          .1                                                 11   1000 10,                         add Mulmkm
0                            a                                                                         0
O." :         1.0,       00ON     000":      1.0       000 :    0.1:    0000 00    ONO        so O      aC,    .4 W             et    som        a  "      00                                               9
co a      co        a,a       00.0      a0        co a       a  0                                                         u  At       wx=KWM  'W
........... ................
.    ...... -  - - - -    ----------------- ----------------------- ............    -              .!.    -----
1.0 :     0001      1.00      "I         01                  el 10,   0.1:    1000 0      01 I       .,0       9,b      VS ot    so el    VI, ty    vi'tt    00 0                      WINDOW WAROK) 0
co        00                                                           co 0      to n      1, it
---  --------- ! ..................
00 0      00 O      00 O      Pt ri    at DI    a  I         m  V      0070      co a
Io,:      011                 10        loco       01:      1`:      IN       1400        So 0      00,0                co.       1, I       IS I      1. 0      00 0      OD a                                            W141
00        00                  00                   go        go        So                                       so
00 0      go a      co 0      00,0       co 0      00 0      00 0                              0      OD 0      00:       WI :      L919       III       el s      tt I      0010
10                                          I      IS, 0     So I      0.1       10        00. a      co a      coO       co O      go t       1,        "Lg       9L I      it I                                    UNW)
w:    1000         V ,                                                   ,.     :.0        0a        go.a      000       is 9      a  I       bt 0      00 0      Colo      00 a
00 a      co 0      0  :                 ::    000,  10   0000 0:   0010 0     OD 0       00 :      000      co a      Be V      it 9      "Le        VS t      a  9      Is 01
go 0      00,C)     able      0010       Colo      go 0      00        0010      SI,*       00        00 0      GD 0      AL ot    to 01    W  et    a  el    to 11    IV 6
....... ....                           . . .. ....... . ......................................................................................................................................... ----------- .......
"el                                     8"I       I                                   ................... !!!Adlwom
Om                                       low                                          .........                                                .66                                                         .........................
................................................                                                                                                   ...      ....
'Vooo-O P.                 vor')
WWOV" Apausna                 dan,,
............................................
OV"d O" A RLVAI ".L3Wftd OAMM dUVo
IT XZNKV                                                                                             99



- 69 -                                                ANNEX 14
Attachment 6
lAZIL
WAT  SOCTO  PtOJECT IN TH STATiE OF SAO PALW
SAtJI'S Si3ZACE INVETiW PiOOt
(UU$ Ni I;one ia of6 D.ceab. 1960)
DrIPITIW4                  1966    1909    199      1"1     1992    1993
NP: INTMTED SYSTEM
CONNECTIONS                                2.36    7.55    6.63    5.34    2.06    1.99
COLLECTtOS                                24.90   76.79   67.59   45.58   25.S6   23.67
MAIN COLLECTORS                            9.01   28.50   47.95   30.01    6.12    7.49
I,ftRCSTOR                                15.51    2.09    0.00    1.60   24.61   20.46
FINAL DISPOSAL A TREATMENT                15.90    4.95    2.71    11.77   23.28   33.60
StaEE RELATED INVESTMET                   67.70  121.67  123.06   94.38   63.63   67.41
IMP : ISOLATED SYSTESH
COECTIONS                                  0.00    0.54    0.91    0.86    0.27    0.S4
COLLECTORS                                 0.00    5.73    9.63    7.15    3.43    6.43
MAIN COLLECTOtSo 0.00    0.00    0.00    6.12    0.95    2.20
INTERCEPTORS                               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
FINAL DISPOSAL A TREATMENT                 0.00    1.67    1.19    1.53    1.47    1.41
51ERAGE RELATiED INVESTMh4T                0.00    7.94   11.93   15.67    6.13   10.59
INTERIOR i BAIXADA SANTISTA
CONiECTIONS                                0.00    3.89    3.16    1.17    1.16    0.44
COLLECTORS                                 0.00    2.98    4.92    4.73    3.88    1.04
MAIN COLLECTORS                            0.00    1.28    2.11    2.03    1.66    0.45
INTCEPTORS                                 0.00    0.61    1.01    0.36    0.31    0.38
FINAL DISPOSAL & TREATMENT                 0.00    1.35    5.56   10.41   10.64    1.90
SEWERAE RELATED INVESTENT                  0.00   10.11   16.76   16.69   17.65    4.22
INTMIOR: LARGE AND MEDIUM CITIES (CM4)
COFNECrIONS                                0.00    2.90    3.75    2.68    2.89    2.91
COLLECTORS                                 0.00    5.61    4.39    3.33    3.75    3.64
MAIN COLLECTORS                            0.00    2.18    1.71    1.30    1.46    1.49
INTERCEPTORS                               0.00    2.50    4.48    3.18    1.97    2.40
FINAL DISPOSAL £ TREATMeIT                 0.00    1.91    5.el    4.77    5.29    6.22
SEWtEACE RELATED INVESTiNT                 0.00   15.10   19.93   15.25   15.36   16.88
INTE_RIOR: SMALL COMMUNITIES (CPP)
COFNECTIONS                                0.00    0.21    0.39    0.20    0.24    0.13
COLLECTORS                                 0.00    1.24    1.48    1.38    0.79    0.60
MAIN COLLECTORS                            0.00    0.31    0.37    0.34    0.20    0.15
INTERCEPTORS                               0.00    0.00    0.12    0.23    0.33    0.16
FINAL DISPOSAL A TREAThe4T                 0.00    0.00    0.41    0.93      1.38    1.76
tlEYEACE RELATeD INVESTME4T                0.00    1.76    2.77    3.06    2.94    2.82
SAIIESP
COiECTIONS                                 2.38   15.06   15.04   10.26    6.61    6.02
COLLECTORS                                24.90   94.35   88.22   62.15   37.41   35.59
MAIN COLLECTORS                            9.01   32.27   52.13   39.78   12.40   11.79
INTERCEPTORS                              1S.31    5.20    5.62    8.45   27.21   ?3.43
FINAL DISPOSAL A TRi_ATMENT               15.90    9.88   15.47   29.42   42.06   .S.10
SEWERACE RELATED !NVESTMENT               67.70  156.78  176.48  147.06  125.70  121.92



-70-                                           ~~~~~~ANNEX 14
70 -                                       ~~~~~Attachment 7
4DlsF    M30S10111tit2. wouT2o ND0 003NI7UM (APO DOmSiN  cam
(242 42..C   .0 OFF...0   ISO)
,aoa   Do               19       o       SaOL     130  1on        174           ON24    .100     s.0    o"2    1M,       .I  aI=         am     am    a00mi
tow  T13                  0                               SN01 00  g  S7   8      10     17    132        144   `a.m              foe m   im     2480    2o
u,_81JT03              a so   0.0       Ia?     1.I     2' 11      N   2. N.   2.42      .3            ..,o    I.a   aS          .              .        
04      0.70    138     138    IN       2.04G     330    2.71    S.11I     847    a,M.        *m  *20    o     E.2     oN      4
'coaft               2.407    1.81    A.:    7.20    8.73   10. 38   1t. 4    143s   16.22   is s    It..   240   20        a.im    21.9    aim    aim.4
-                 0.00    010    oil    01~~~0.0.04    021    ON          I  041a   0.4  0.3Iem            n     on      ow      oI        Mw 
0.4E     .3     0.I    0 0.     00      .4     048      12      .4 .al                  72     12      12      07       7       7
tam                   008    01       021'    O  ON   0E    0O        04      03      a.      0.48    02      04    0.74 0."07                0.7To    0 74
ION                     10 0    0 0     0 12    0 18    0 14    0002   024    0.20    024   0O          040df    0.44    0.40    0.44    0.40    04     04
ADOCO             O 42    O 74       is    1 40   1i.m    S 1I    2 0'4    I 06    a.     2."O'    4 38    4.47   4.47    .4      4.47    4.4 7    4.47I
TOTAL 44706                            a 244    4.34    4.84    S. 71   I oN   12 76  L SE4  I? LS   14.4do   31."   M4.47   28.17   M .2?   24.17   24.2?   24.27   M427
F"T0ON                       006    000    001    001    001    Ill    001    0.03    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.1            00I 00          001    001    001
1000mo                      000    0GO    0cc    000    000    000    00            0.0     001t   00       02       .0     0.2.01          001     001     00
ro0Wt13                000    0a00    000    0 00    I 00    0 00    0 00    03        006    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.c      00o.0            .0     00
~-v. .Twprtm               000    000    000  0  0g        001    00         1     00      001    0.0      0.0     0.0101 :1       0.1     00      0.0     001
046                 000~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~00   0  000  0  0,   00G1    01         00      4       .1    0.01    0.01    0.0  .1 1        O00     071 0I01
7007S0.0                       0.1    0020  a00   0.00    0               0      04    .0      00      04      004     00       .0       4     0 4     00
,,o-- Ao Cars000    000    000    0OR               10      00       0 0.00    000E00 02 0' O. O0,   00    000    0.00    0.00    000       000    000M
-t                          00     00        0     00      00       . 000  0000            00 000  0000co          000    0.       00      000 00 0G   G000
'¶    8000    000    00   000    000    0                           0      0       .00    00   000       00     00        0.0    0.0      00       0       0
t'12                      00       0       0       0       0       0       0000            0      0.00    0 0  00     00   0      .00     000     000    1000
000    000    000    000    0.00    000    000    0.00    000    0.0           00 000    000    0.00           1.00  000ac     000
0000    000      00     00      00      00     00      01      01      0.1      .0     01    0.01    0.2       00 0 01    00
0 01    0 01    0 00 ~00  0o  0 0   0 0       4    04       .8     00        8     00  00.0        0 0     0 08G   0 00    0O0
.4'00X0138               004    007    ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~01  014    01  021    0.00    024    000  ON04    04         E4   081    0G.      0O      04
4AT007449V010'018J'138      ~~~~ ~~~~001    a00  0    00                 00604 08 06 07     08       .4    0 8       010    01       012     012     014    O
406S0004.'000TWlafl!.24m          000    000    000    011    012    014    018    721    024    0.N1   0.2t               NI    O.N    a03    01    0     4400   0G7
=:ntneW?I4                      000    001    021    001    001      000             t    a 0.00 48 00  008    004aa    0.04    004    0.06    000a     000    004
.A1W FMODXTIQN               004     000    006    006    0.04    0081   0005   007    036    0 M    010    0.1    0.1 0              142:S  014    010    018
WER .10004.1.Wr?3                      002    001    0101    00 0    006    008    008    0.Is    07    004    0.21   00  00 0                0.06    00      0071   0071 3
'TER 22TD 8¶!2 0 ilfm000    000                         001    0.01    001      00     006    000O     00 0   008.     OO 000 00      00t    006    04    004L   1041
10440W00A"D74T40   t`27                001    001    001    0.00    000    006    00           ON02   03   024    O     N 7    ON      ON 36    N     081     027    03
0T4L0 4000143O08O8                    003    004    007    0.38    0.11    013    @2.8   040    044    0.12    044    0 40    0012            03 0. 84  03    007    004
TOT44. A473 4WAC  O                    0 11       022    0    0.046    034    070    0.06    1M    1.co    2.8    IM          1.36    I 47    I 11    0 N       83 40  S4
44`A¶3 oui00G                          001    IN2    030    04         03      03      0.      041    0.00    112    1.17    1.        1.     1.3    138       1 38    I13
se..,% WI 44204813                     007    0012     04    00I O     03      ON      041    040    0G4    08.       07    072        .7     072    072 G    072    072
44'A67E24440CE121J!038006    006    006    0010    01I    010    318       021    0.n                         0 .3    0.s38     a 0          *00  0.  0.3 00 0 00-      G
44GETREAT-OffW                         006    014    0 00    0.oe    0.20      00       47     04      0 00co         0.74O03 0M               .0      03     083      03
0&40_00.FIXED AC CO                    0.01    00      0 047    4       0       00     03      . 00.11    0.1*        0.14i0.18       02      01S1t08 
TOTAL   47Ar I3A                       00A    006    006    0 64    004    0M01 0.0            04      0.0    0.48      0.o    I.40    010;   0.it    0.1     00    210
.AepPDIR 0I0ASITO                 006    0as      00  00          007a000a0a   0          0.1it C1    0.22    0.2.    0.4  .1     01 0 .14:'      0.14    a01     014
.T098001DR024TIic                001    001       0 0     006    004    004    006    000    007         00      0.08    0.04    0.3    0.0      00 Iad   000    008
.1   0O 7004                    000S00I         01       01     01      00      06    008    006    006    04864         00     0.4     006    00       006    008
s42,20000124001    000    006                          04    1048    1004      0 0     006    03       010    010      010    0120   0.10    010S      010    010
sama CQL4.9CT                001     010   0I        006     04       0      08      0 0000    00 0m                 004    0AS   0.0       0.M  061  38      004
sa.Ace mik                   aGI04   038    014    0as    021    0.GE    0.2    0.38 t    0381   0.4LS    044    04 4  0.     OI    0.4      244    04       0is
SIWI  0m6WeC                     000    000    000    00f    001    001    001a   001s   001    0.01s   00               00 0.I: 01          0.01  01    001    00
S    73'104ATM                   000    000s      00    000      0000 0a01               0011   001s   0.014   .001     0.1    0.1    001        001    001    0It01
Cos,0                         00      00       01     01      O0      s01    002y   006    0.72    006    006    0.6    00a            00. 00as    0a0
TOTAL   71W?Ar    C06a2001    0M0   0IM    004    004    200                         203     048    008    04W    0.10    0.1        A.0    010    01 0fS0             ;0
~~0'o...~~~~~~~~706424~~~~~00    006 01        01'   G001!    ON     02      0O      042       0'     1 0418   004    0 04   G 0.0    004    004     O01     04
,SM11TIO2200             400    8008   100.        a       of00 104   104     co0    0o.f    a81 o 47      to   00 to    42o   0to1    2to   342
1  0~*~*,40 P~4  ..~ ...4.4~b4 o5..~ .4e~4b..4~82.,INS...14  4442*.44,    49144  ..8 O0.44..84  .4GE.,2,,3064  3I*
on.   4 *'..44   f4~~~~~~~~~00             0E        GEi44O4 



BRAZIL
WATR STeB PROJECT IN Tff STATE OF SAO PAULO
SAESP'S LN3-RM  AVERACE DtEE8TAL COSTS (LRAIC' Fet VATER SU.PLY SERVICE
(Ias of December 1986)
WV at *-101                             RAIC                          LA
TREATED WATER LEVEL     ------------------------------------------------------------- (Before Lose.)   AVEAGE LOSS    ADJITIWA
INVESTMENT    FIXED AeM    INV., FIX.AeN   WATER PRODCT.                      s            FACT
US$ (10)6     usI (1O)6      usI (10)6       43 (10)6        WI/PG
RMSP :MEIMATED SYSTBI
TREATIENT PUNTS                     191.86          40.06         231.94       2,065.74         0.1123           1.50         1.0182
TRANSMISSION PIPES                   71.18          20.80          9:.98       2,064.06         0.0446          0.70          1.0070
PRIMARY DISTfRIWToIN PIPES           39.78           6.93          46.7;       1,636.54         0.0297           1.00         1.0101
SECONDRY DISTRIWfTION PIPES          60.13          29.67          89.60       1,574.37         0.0570           5.00         1.0526
CONNBCTI6                            3S.04         23.73          58.77       1,253.92         0.0465           0.40         1. ion
SEWP ISOLATED SYSTEMS
TREATNENT PLANTS                      1.64           0.06           1.92          18.29         0.1060           2.16         1.0222
TRAINIISSION PIPES                    1 44           0.06           1.50          10.10         0.0829           1.02         1.0108
PRIMARY DISTRIBUTION PIPES            1.80           0.01           1.81          17.82         0.1016           1.45         1.0147
SECOI3AR  DISTRIBUTION PIPES          1.58           0.07           1.65          16.40         0.1006          7.2S          1.0782
CONNECTIONS                           0.70           0.07           0.77          13.54         0.0669          10.63         1.1m
sAIXACA SANTISTA
TREATMENT PLATS                      15.82           2.07          18.69         226.53         0.0a2s          2.40          1.0246
TRhN2SSION PIPES                     18.75           1.30          20.25         223.67         0.0905           1.12         1.0113
PRIMARY DISTRIMlITICN PIPES           6.22           0.67           6.89         219.82         0.013           1.60         1.0168
SECODARY DISTRIBUTION PIPES          17.61           2.12          19.73         200.28         0.0W5          6.00          1.0670
CONNECTIONS                          13.30           1.72          15.22         160.59         0.0946          13.04         1.1770
IrRTR : LAM CrTIES (CM)
REAIN2T PLAUNTS                      4a.s9           7.67          56.46         730.01         0.0773          * 1.66        1.0191
TRhA ISION PIPES                     13.49           4.12          17.61         723.32         0.0243          0.08          1.0048
PRDIMARY DSTRIBUTION PIPES           26.41           1.79          28.20         713.79         O.O69            1.2S         1.0127
SECOARY DISTRIWTION PIPES            60.95           5.67          6.82          685.36         0.1004          6.25          1.0667
CEONTrIe                             41.31           4.69          46.00         568.71         0.0909          11.75         1.1861
DTIOFlt  SALL CI4TS (CPP)
TREA1r PUNMETS                       17.67           0.87          16.54          69.62         0.2069           1.95         1.01W
TRMEIISSICN PIPES                     1.66           0.4"           2.34         86.77          0.0264          0.91          1.0092
PRDIaRY DISTRIS.TMIE  PIPES           1.71           0.19           1.90          87.54         0.0217          1.0           1.0182
SBCINDRY DISTRI3JTIiN PIPES          16.90           0.63          17.53          81.36         0.215S          6.50          1.0691
CONNECTONS                            4.55           0.54           5.09          66.96         O.0108          12.22         1.182 
___________________--__________________________________________________-______--_______________ --_______________________________________________----
OSb



WATER SECTOt PROJBCT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAUO
SA66'S LCNC-ftM AVERAGE IIAt2 AL COSTS (LRAIC) FOR SBOtA0E SmYICE
(US as of Deceber 1968)
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------------__-------------------------------------------------------------__------
Ncy at -low                                          LRtAIC          oAET
SEWAGE LE            --------------------------------------------------------------------------------  (Sefor Adj        AOTg
INYWESTIE      FIXED AO"    INV.. FIX.AtM       SEWACE         EFqLfIB    for Water metering)       FACTD
USt (10)6      uss (10)6       uSn (10)6       Ms (10)6        MS (10)6            uI/MS
REP   INTFATM SYST84
CCTIONS                               21.54            3.56          25.10        1,196.82                              0.0109
COLLBCTORS                           218.19            9.77         220 56        1,1". 62                              0.1907
MAIN COLLECTORS                       107.29           4.47          111.76       1,19 8.2                              0.0932
INTCW TORS                            46.18           2.59           50.77                         1,224.36             0.043*          2.2=22
AFTER TRA ATIEW                       63.37            4.85          s8 22                         1, 224.38            0.0667          2.2222
RSP   ISOLATED SYSTE
CONECrIW                               2.42            0.01           2.43           33.40                              0.072S
COLLECTORS                            25.04            0.01          25.05           33.40                              0.7s50
MAIN COLLECTORS                        6.61            0.01           6.62           33.40                              0.1962
UT8OCTOS                               0.00            0.00           0 00                           131.25             o.000o          2.2222
AFTER TREATMENT                        5.64            0.01           5 55                           131.26             0.0420          2.2222
8AIXADA SANTISTA
CONNECT1IO                             6.09            0.26            S.S5         132.07                              0.0632
Cm.LECTflSI                           13.63            0.72          14.35          132.07                              0.1087
MAIM COLLECTOR5                        5.64            0.32           6.16          132.07                              0.0466
INY4CWrERS                             2.12            0.18           2.30                           512.22             0.0048          2.222
AFTUr TREATMENT                       22.09            1.27          23 36                           512.22             0.0466          2.222
DE5IOR  LAM CITIES (CH0)
CSTICNS                               11.53            0.69          12.22          112.04                              0.10
COLLBCTORS                            16.16            1.92          16.10          112.04                              0.1615
MIM COLLECTORS                         6.29            0.66           7.15          112.04                              0.06o
INERCTRS                              11.21            0.55          11.76                           361.04             0.0o2           2.2222
AF1R TREATMENT                        17.42            0.95          18.37                           361.04             0.060e          2.2222
INWERtR: SMALL COMETS (CPP)
CNNTINS                                0.90            0.07           0.97           10.17                              0.0964
COLLECTORS                             4.29            0.25           4.52           10.17                              0.4444
MAIN COLLECTOS                         1.07            0.12           1.19           10.17                              0.1170
IEA 1TORS                              0.61            0.06           0.67                            79.17             0.006           2.2222
AFrM TREATf!                           3.07            0.12           3.19                            79.17             0.040           2.2222
I I
'0



- 73 -                                                 ANNEX 14
Attachment 10
WAZIL
WATI  WCTO PRJOrT IN THE STATE Of SAO PAULO
SABP'S MARCINAL COST SThUCTURL FOR WATER SUPLY
(LB  as of December 19&)
CAPACTY          OfPATINC         CONSTJ9TIW4            NON-R1 0RRT CLSTOMR
TREATW WATW LEV.                      COST              COST              COST                        COST
USS/S3            US$/.3            USS/aS         USS/Cconc;ti oc    USI/Ce. -uer
i45P INTtA7TED SYSTOI
TREATMET PLANTS                                     0.1140            0.0303             0.1442          Variable           Vsriabi
TRANSMISSION PIPES                                  0.1507            0.0305             0.1901          Vari*ble           Variable
PRIMARY DISTRIBUTIN PIPES                           0.1913            0.0308             0.2221          V)riabl*           Variable
SECONDARY DISTRIbUTION PIPES                        0.2614            0.0324             0.2938          Variable           Variable
CNICTIHS                                            0.3094            0.0358             0.3452            113.49              87.30
R4SP   ISOLATED SYSTEMS
TREATMENT PLANTS                                    0.1073            0.0305             0.1378          Variable           Variable
TRANSMISSION PIPES                                  0.1921            0.030o             0.2229          VaFiable           Variable
PRIMARY DISTRIBUTION PIPES                          0.2980            0.0312             0.3293          Variable           Variable
SECONDARY DISTRIWTION PIPES                         0,4298            0.0337             0.4635          Variable           Variable
CONNECTIONS                                         0.5036            0.0390             0.5426            112.77             109.49
bAIXADA SANTISTA
TREATMET PLANTS                                     0.064             0.0305             0.1151          Variable           Variable
TRANSISSION PIPES                                   0.1771            0.0309             0.2079          Variable           Variable
PRIMARY DISTRISJTION PIPES                          0.2118            0.0314             0.2432          Variable           Variable
SECOARY DISTRIBUTION PIPES                          0.3a73            0.0341             0.3714          Variable           Variable
CSFAETIONS                                          0.4096            0.0401             0. 4497           229.04             120.ss
INTERIOR LAM CITIES (OC0)
TREATMTEN  PLANTS                                   0.0788            0.0304             0.1092          Variable           Variable
TRANSMISSION PIPES                                  0.1041            o.0306             0.1347         VYriable            Variable
PRIMARY DISTRISJTION PIPES                          o.1454            0.0310             0.1764          Variable           Variable
SECONDARY DISTRIsUTION PIPES                       0o2622             0.0331             0.29s3          Variable           Variable
CONNECTIONS                                         0.065             0.0375             0.3440            168.55             161.29
INTERIOR . SMALL COMWTS (CPP)
TREATMENT PLANTs                                    0.2110            0.0304             0.2414          Variable           Variable
TRANSMISSION PIPES                                  0.2395            0.0307             0.2702          Variable           Variable
PRIMARY DISTRIsTION PIPES                           0.2647            0.0311             0.2958          Variable           Variable
SECOsCARY DISTRISUTIN PIPES                         0.o135            0.0332             0.o468          Variable           Variable
CONNECTIO14                                         0.5939            0.0379             0.6315             93.49              93.49
------- ------- ------ ------- ------- ------ ------- ------- ------ ------- ------- ------ ------- ------- ------ ------- ------



74 -                                                 ANNEX 14
Attachment 11
MAUL
WATY SeT"MROJET IN THE STATE OF SA0 PArAJ
SAEW'S NODML COST ST3JCTrU  FM SOAPAE SYtVICE
(US a* f DQ.n.er 1536)
SUdPCE              NO-OWRN  CUOST0
SI&ACE LEVEL                   SinVIC                       COST
COST       ------------------------------------
USS/d         LSS/Co-ection      US6/Conauer
IOP: INTS(ATED SYST4
COPICTI1S                                          0.00300            W0 46             53.64
COILLECT                                           0. 19J                NA                NA
MAIN COLLrS                                        0. 2i68               NA                NA
DfInTCWORS                                         0.3790                NA                NA
AFTER TREATMENT                                    0. 502                NA                N
OP : ISOLATED SYSTEMS
CONCTIONS                                          0.0003            16973             164.79
CLLTORS                                            0 7503                NA                NA
MAIN COLLECT«OR                                    0.948S                NA                NA
INT  Tan                                           0.9485                NA                NA
AFT  TREATT                                        1 .0425               NA                NA
SADXADA SANTISTA
CNECTIONS                                          0.0020            113.53             29.26
CGLLECTOM                                          0.1106                NA                NA
MAIN COLLECOS                                      0.1573                NA                NA
INTERCEPTORS                                       0.1672                NA                NA
AFTS TREATMENT                                     O.2486                NA                NA
ITNIODR   LfA CrTIES (CMC)
TONNeTI                                            0.0062            256 44            24.53
COLLRTOS                                           0.1677                NA                NA
MIAIN CDLLECTOWt                                   0.2315                NA                NA
INTERCE  ORS                                       0.3039                NA                NA
AFTER TREATMET                                     0.4170                NA                NA
INTtIOFt    vuL COMTrS (COP)
CCTIONS                                            0.0069            175.13            16. 47
CO.ecTfS                                           0.4513                NA                NA
MAIN COLLTORS                                      0.5t3                 NA                NA
SIPCETRS                                           0.5671                NA                NA
AFrg TREATMEW                                      0.6767                NA                NA
----------------------------------------_    -----------------------------------_--_--_--_-__-__-__-__-_--_--_--_--_ __  __  __  __  _      _      _      _ 



8AZIL
VATER SECTOt PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
SABESP'S TARIFF STRLCTCftE AS OF JANUARY, 1989
MINIMUM   THEDLY                     MONTHLY VATER  CONSLWTION  (WC)                             ESTnATE
CHARCE        --------------------------------------------------------                    AVERAGE TARIFF
1/               10 < WC < 20           20 <  C < 50              50 < WC
C A T E C 0 R Y       ----------------------- ----------------------- ----------------------- -----------------------       USS/NS
US6/Conumwr-Month            US5/N3                 USL/M3                 US/3
VATER     SEWERACE    WATER      SEJERACE    VATSR       SEACE    WATER         SBiRACE      VATS      SM-
RHSP
8Ul SALE CONTRACTS                                                                                                            0.14S1          NA
SPECIAL CONTRACTS                                                                                                             0.9238      0.766
FINL CONSUMRS                                                                                                                 0.3785      0.3649
- DOMESTIC                       1.5325      1.5325     0.3012      0.3012      0.5297     0.5297      0.76W       0.7698                                               -
- COMMERCIAL                     1.7636      1.7636     0.3463      0.3463      0.6092     0.6092      0. 853      0.6e5s                                               U'
- INDUSTRIAL                     1.9932      1.9932     0.3915      0.3915      0.6887     0.6887      1.0008      1.0000
DAIXADA SANTISTA
FINAL CONSUMERS                                                                                                               0.3250      0.8130
- OMESTIC                        1.5325      1.5325     0.2952      0.2952      0.5144     0.5144      0.7490      0.7490
- COMMERCIAL                     1.7636      1.7636     OaSS95    0o3395        0.5917     0.5917      0.8613      0.8613
D*WSTRIAL                      1. 932      1.9932     0.3837      0.3837      0.6689     o.a689      0.9737      0.9737
- BOATS                              NA          NA     2.7520          NA      2.7520         NA      2.7520         NA
- SHIPS                              NA          NA     2.9512          NA      2.9512         NA      2.9512          NA
INTERIOR
FINAL CONYUSS                                                                                                                 0.2653      0.2248
- DOMESTIC                       1.5325      1.2293     0.2591      0.2073      0.453S     0.3627      0.6581      0.526S
- CMMERCIAL                      1.7636      1.4115     0.2981      0.2384      0.5214     0.4171      0.7568      0.6066
- DWSTRI..L                      1.9932      1.5945     0.3370      0.2696      0.5893     0.4714      0.8565      0.6643
- BOATS                              NA          NA     2.7520          NA      2.7520         NA      2.7520         NA
_ SHIPS                              NA          NA     2.9512          NA      2.9512         NA      2.9512         NA
.w
----- ---- -- - -- - -- - - - -- -- -- - ---- - --- - - --- ---- -- -- ---- - --- - - -- - -- - -- -- - - ---- - -- -- ---- - -- -- - - -- ---- ---- - - - -- --- - --- -- - - -- - - - -
N)



tAZIL
MAT?6 SECTtr PFJO.T Di Tf STATIE O 50 M .PD
SAW 'S COSTS, TRlM AND SSIDIM AS IOF 6*R  ISM
MNODML COST                 A     E TMIW         PIICIALI.MmD  1V                  11C    tW
C A T E C O R Y          ----------------------------------- ----------------------- --------------------- ------
WATPt    W A SC 3/  WCST 4/   WATER           WMOC8T      WATI       WCT          VAMP        v   K 50
WS rM Utse/             JS4/             UUiA  LeO                . S               s I                     S
W      DlMATED SYSTD4
SC SALE CNi                              0.1901          PA         NA      0.1461          PM        W.?          SE         3.7           M          PM
camim   WITH SPXclAL CONTACTS
-  vW6D    4 A TRAflEaT PLANT            0.1442      0 4310     0           0.526111    I-65        (175 7)    (144.5)    ("5.5         (6.)        ( -)
- _OVU  ..A  A PRDISAY 01TR. PIPE        02221       0.505      0.46m       0. *M       1.967        175.7)     (144.5)     (515.6     C310.6      (165
- 563 PRIN A 8 5DRY DlSTRt PIPE          0.293      0 t60       0 694       0 666  1,6H17           (175 7)    (144.5)      (4.4)       (195.7)    (14-.)
- 56ED   ..  SlAWUL COECTIO             0 5452      063        07506       0  1O       1 61.   (17 7.)          1.5"      (1.6)        (1.         (16.)'
FD^L COgl4    (SUALL CE8CTIOS6):
- OUIIC                                  0.3462     0.650       0 7T0o      O.6        0.764        (1U.0)      (10.2)      (6.7)      (11.-)        (1-7)
- CCIA                                   0. 5452    0. 60       0 70        0.576       0. 744       (180)       (10.2)       (-.7)      (36.)        (1.7)
- flDRlaA                                0.542      060        0 7506      0.376       07744        (150)       (10.2)       (9.7) n.)               (1.7)
.me  - SOLATED SYST
FDNL COERS (SMALL Cd54ECTINSM)
- WOSTIC                                 0-5426      1.4911      1.6        0.575       0.764        (15.0)      (10.)       50.2       4e.0         69.5
- co9C1M                                 0.6426      1.4911      1.64m      0.75        0.7684       (13.0)      (10.5)       56.2       46.0         W.5 
- IM1"TRIJL                              0 6426      1.4611     1.54S       O.6         0.7654       (110)       (10,.)      50.2        46.6        50.5
MDCA SANTISTA
FINL CO      . (1W11L CONNECTIONS)
- OSNTIC                                 0.4497      0.070     0.6m        0. 50       0.6110         5.0         7.,        21.7       (5.1)        4.5
- CCI^L                                  0.4497      0.8070     0.62        0.00        0.6510         *.0         7.9       1.7         (6.1)        4.8
- 11,15IAL                               0.4497     0.8070      0.5         0.2510      0.,510         *.0         7.9       1.7         (5.1)        4.5
- SHl5                                                  PM          PM                      P
ZNIII: LAMM A IEDIM CITIES (CHO)
FDML CO.I    (SHALL COEI iNS):
- ITIC                                   0.5440     0.575       0. 6s77     0.2153      0.U101        14.S       25.5         17.1        11.4       36.7
- C_UAL                                  0.5440     0.5756      0.877s      0.2553      0.101        14.6 S       6.         17.1        11.4       36. 7
- DU6RlAL                                0.5440     0.575       0.6775      0.28s       0.6101        14.S        #.S         17.1        11.4       36.7
- BTS                                                   "A          NA.                     M
- SHIPS                                                 NA PA                               NA
ffIOR : SMALL CtlIdTIES (CPP)
FDLAL CSg.ss (S1ALL Ct         5NE 6TIS)
- OoPTIC                                 0.616       1.2C01     1.2597      0.2113      0.5101        1.5         36.5        54.6        57.5       SO.S
- OC3lIAL                                0.e "S      1.5001     1.2U97      0.265       0.-101        14.S        U.S         S4.#       57.6        6.5
- DJSRIIAL.                              0. S1       1.001      1.2597      0.266       0.5101        14.5        #,.S       54.&         7.5        11.5
- MOATS                                                 PM          NA                      "A
- SHIPS                                                NP           NA                      MA
11  Financia  mobidies (PS) are defined an fq110: Ki .. (1 - ATi/AT)0100                                                                                                   I
wher: FSi * Financial 5.b*idy '0,ercharg.) Ili,n to coie-,_e cleassfied in category i
ATi - A.eraga Tariff for cone.,.r. cleamifiod in c.*ego,y i
AT - SASS'. Anerage Teriff (1E0.331I/PM  fer Water .nd L180.6926f/lb for WTC)T)
21 Econo. ie U.sidis (ES) are defind as fo110 s:  Si; . (1 - ATiAIC.)100
.here: 15i * Economic Sbu.idy (Oesrch.r ,) g,en to con. u,_  classified in cate_y i                                                                                  i
ATi . A.*rage Tariff for con"ar. c1a1eifi*d in cat*.ory i
i  . lMerg,n-I Coet seoeibtd siP. conc..ra ,i. f.sd in cteogry i
3/ IMOC stand. for *eter s.wppl.d and "asg  colect.
4/ WISCSET stande for at.r apoied and ea-e. comll*cted nd  fflent tr,eetd.



WAT12  !'Vf C         iJT El TM 6ArE OF 80  P0A4L.
SAIE5'S ATI0ATW 1M34.V   (US6 Hil. .-. f D-o.e., 2964)
O63CJIII'T 12N              1Q08    1909     299      291       90 199     3 o   194      2995     1994    1997     1906    I99       2000    2001      3001    3002      3004     36    3002-1is
WATER
EST IATED SALES. (".llio.. M3)        1I 3.8  1857.1  12J.5 .1.SU.2  1,712.5  1.757J3  1.80.0  2.844.8  16n4 2  1.9290  19067 5 2.075s4  2,062.2  2,101.2 2.104.4  2. o.s 2, 128.   2.17.1  2.117.1
A443A4E TARIFF (1.6/13)                  0 33SS   0.3381  0.3351  0 3381  0.38S1  0338s    1  0.3351   0 3351  0.3351  0.3381  0.3351  0            O 33 S 0.33S1   0 nl  am1  0.ini   O.31l  0.381   0o.382
TOTAL DIRECT RrVE91E                      514 6   529.2   544.       51    574 0    SW6 *    04. 2    618 6       U4 8*     0 S.1  6a   2    862.1   497.7   704s   706-2   706.6   70 0    709.4   70m4 
TOTAL IM IRKICT REVEO                      11 a     1186    123       18.S    158s 1a     4      20.5    22.      25.4     2 3      31 5    3S.1      ".0      43.2    47-7    527 T       3      8.44    644
TITAL REVE8IS I                           526 2    540.7   556.4   572.6   589.    807 3    824.7   84184   540.2   676.4   897 8    717.1   736-7   747.3   752.9   78.93    760.    776    7 3 o
INCR504NTAL RE0IE4                         OO      14 S    S0:2    48.4    83 4    02.1        6 5    115.4   234 0    152.2   171 4    190.9   210.5   221.1   ff6.7    313.2  290.1   847.0   247 
ESTi1ATPID SALES (HiIlIl--  H3)           746 4    613.3   662. I       .95.0   017.3   937.8    07 .5   937 S   937.8    57.8   9278    917.5   037.5 8      037.8      7.8      7.8   067.5    937.6    9S7.8
AV4tACE TARIFF (LrSI/83)                 0 3875   0.37    0.J575   o.s 0.3 o5 0.3575  0.3875  0 3s75  0 3S75  0.3675   0.3575   0.3S75   0.3671   0.3878   0.J575   0. 387S  0 3578  O.S75   0.3SO7    0 3S75
TOTAL DORET RFVE1I                        256 2  6   290 7   306 2    S20.0   827 9    us.1    SS I   SSS 2   335.1   33S 6        S1 .    S   I                      r 1 3.1   a38  ss I   SW.I  M. I   33.1    So I
TOTAL INDIRFC' RrVE6                        8 0      4.4      7 0      7 S         9    2o0 5    11 4    12 4     13.4    14U       15 .     17.2    IS.7    20.6       2.7    25.0    ns6    SD.4    30 4
TOTAL REV~                                272 *   297 1   318 2    327 7    338 9   345 8   848.5   347 5    N4.8   349 7   381.0   382. 4   388.9   28 7   3876    360 2   a8.7   3".a   388 6
It2R1FNTAL R8v8NlE                          0 0     243      424      549      64.1    72.8    73 7    74 7        .       78 9     70 2     79.8    82.1    60.    80.0    67.4          09.0    92*2 J    2 a
WATEP A SE'ERACE
TOTAL D0RECT REE182                       781 4    619 9    652 3    8". 0    902.0   924.0   939 3    953 9 *    69.9   966.2  1,001.2  1.017.2  1.032.0  1.030.3  1.040.8  1.041.7  1.048.2  I.044   1.044 4
4TAL IHDIRECT REVENJE                      17 8     17 9     1 .3    21.4    24.8    26.9    31 9        S 2    26.0    42 9        47.4    52 I    87.8    63.8    70.4    77.7         US.6    94.6    04.6
TOTAL RE04.E                             799 0   627       6 72.8   000.3   9284   q2. 9   971 2    03  I  1 C00 0  1,02 .1 1048.8  1069.5  1, 09.8O I2loS.o  1.110.7  1.11-.5  1.In60  2139.4  1.I3S  4
INCRE83TAL RE0981                           n 0    S26 7*2.8   102.3   127 4    213.9   172 2    190 I   209.8   229.1   245.8   270.5   291.8   204.0   311.7    SD S    SM 0     840.4   340 A
WZIL
I1ATIR SECf1 PROJT 1N  TMe STATE OF SO PALILO
SA8e8P  COsTS AND BENEFITS (143 M; I Il---   e. f D-b., 168)
015CRI2'TION               1060    108o      1 19     1992I    1992     199      1984    2995      1998     1997    106    1999    2000    2002         3002    2003      2008     2006   300616
WAT26 D1VESTMENT COST                      27.7   133 0    146.1   155.3   151.2   145.6    41 1    42.1    39.7    40.8            41.9    36.o      394       .2      6 2       s.8      a       8.4       0.0
4ATER AMI FIXED III9R2ETAL COST             0.0      2 7      4.7      7.3      9.3    11.3    13 a    18 0        16.4    20.7    23 2      25.5    27.9      0.1    36.3      38.       a 4    216.6    2B.5
WATr4t A 6 OM2ATTHC INCEETAL COST           0.0      1 3      2.5      3.7      4.       8.0      7 3     S.8    10.4    22.0    136     188J    149           17.8    17.7    17.0    28.6    18.2    10.2
W4TER INIC9ETAL COST                       27 7    136.9    1'.2   1S.S   ISS a    182.9    41.9          4.5    66S      73.8    78.7      M.s    64.8    S0.0    81.2    S1.4    81.0    W0.1    60.7
SI3FOACE INVESTMENT COST                  677   M156 .    174.8   147.1   125.7   121.9            0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0      0 0      0.0      0.0
SIAAE  AO8  FIXED INC1E1T.AL COST          00       0 5      1.0      1.5      1.9      2.3      2.6 38            4.0     4.5      S.0      8.4      8.9     6.0      8.0      6.0      6.0      6.1      6.1
SU   AOE Aa 904tATINC INTREIMAL COST        0o0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     00       0.0      0.0      0.0      0o       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0o.      06       0.0      0.0
SEACE INTAL COST                           87.7   157.3   177.4   148.8   127 0    14.2          26       3 3      4.0      48.      8.0      8.4      8.9      6.0     S.0      6.0        0      6 *.1    6.1
WATER A SOFA0CE 1NCREHIML COST             8.4   294.3   112.    314.6   29. 9   267.1 2         4.7    70.1    72.       73.0     6.7    80.0    90.6    66.6    87.1         67.8    67.6    36.2        6.6
WAT43  I2N9"ITAL 4 tEVE469                  0.0    14.8    30.2    40.4    63 4          1 21    0.65    218.4   284.0   152.2   171.4   190.9   210.5   221.1   22S.7   SM1    so401    s47J.   24712
SAWERE I21R6MEWAL  REV79E                   ° 0     24.3    42.4    84.9    84.1    72.8    73.7    74.7    75.            76 9     782      79.6    611    62.0    88.0    67.6         40.9    06.       92.6
W5TER A S1ERACE IICTE0EWL REVEN9E          0 0         .    72.8   101.3   127.4    153.9   172 2    100.1   209.0   239 1   249.8   270.    2391            304.0   311.7   360.8    SMO    840.4    40.4                    F
WT4t InMBTrL NET BeEFIT                   (27 7)  (122 4)  (125.0)  (110.0)  (101.0)   (61.8)   38 s    46.8    88.5    73.8         2.8   111.4   125.0   170.8   1718.    161.7    UOJ   28    2009 M  9
SEWERAGE INCR6T4AL NET 898EF7T            (67.7)  (133.0)  (138.1)  (93.8)   (8 8.)   (51 4)   70.9    71.5    71.6    72.5    73.3    74.1    75.2    76.9    70.0    01.4                J.o9    057     s8 7
WATER A S32i60AE I1T16AL NET IEffFIT  (95.4)  (258.5)  (260.1)  (213.8)  (185.8)  (133 2)  107 5    120.0   137.3   18s1.1    2 89    108.6   201.0   247.3    254.6   363.0    M.2               .2   387.6
rt
W.



-78-                                       ANNEX 14
Attachment 15
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
SENSITIVITY OF THE IRR TO CHANCES IN COSTS AND REVENUES
REVENUE                     COST CHANCE  (X)
CHANCE  ------------------------------------------------------
(U)     WATER  SEWERAGE    WkS      WATER  SEWERACE    WaS
0        14.0       9.9     12.3      12.4      8.6      10.8
10        12.3       8.5     10.7      10.7      7.3       9.3



- 79 -
ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 8
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
Brazilian Water Supply and Sewerage Tariffs
General Pricing Criteria
1.       Brazilian water supply and sewerage utilities have an uniform
tariff structure which results from the adoption of a National Tariff Law
(NTL) in 1978,1 and the efforts of Caixa Economica Federal (CEF) in
defining criteria for its implementation.
2.       The NTL and those criteria are based on two general objectives:
financial equilibrium and social equity. Financial equilibrium is
established by requiring utilities to have an average tariff for water
supply and sewerage service that guarantees enough revenues to meet all
their financial expenses. Social equity is set forth by requiring
utilities to consider the customer's ability to pay.
Financial Guidelines2
3.       Financial equilibrium is guaranteed by requiring each utility to
have an average tariff for water supply and sewerage service3 such that it
should generate a revenue equal to its service cost (SC). SC is defined as
the sum of exploitation expenses--operating, maintenance, commercial,
administrative and fiscal expenses (DEX); annual allowances for
depreciation, doubtful accounts--excluding a reserve for it--and
amortization of expenses (DPA); and a remuneration for investment (RI)--the
acknowledged investment in operating and immobilized fixed assets times an
authorized remuneration rate. The remuneration for investment should be at
least equal to the debt service (interest payments and capital amortization
due in a given period of time. The actual annual remuneration rate should
be equal to or smaller than 12Z.4
1/ LEI No. 6,528 de Maio 11 de 1978 and DECRETO No. 82,587 de Novembro 6
de 1978.
2/ See Jose Carlos CHAVES DE AZEVEDO (1984). Esquema Geral do Sistema
Tarifario do PLANASA, Convenio de Coopera,co Tecnica BNH/OPAS de
22/12/81, juhno/84, Revislo 01.
3/ Average tariffs are defined dividing operational revenue by volume
sold. Required average tariffs are defined dividing service cost by
volume sold.
4/ Other financial definitions are:
Operational income (LO) - Operational Revenue - DEX - DPA
Gross Income (LB)         - LO - Interests
Net Income (LL)           - LB - Taxes
Amortization              < LL



- 80 -                           ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 8
Social Equity Guidelines5
4.       The current Brazilian social philosophy on water supply and
sewerage tariffs requires utilities to take into account users' ability to
pay. Rate structures are set forth using minimum consumption levels and
increasing block tariffs. Assumptions underlying Brazilian philosophy are:
(i) there exists households which are classified as cosmercial or
industrial customers, and (ii) family income is positively correlated with
family water consumption. Additionally, current philosophy explicitly
denies subsidies to commercial and industrial customers, and suggests a
neutral tariff (a tariff equal to the utility's service cost) for public
users. Social equity guidelines are discussed in detail in .the following
paragraphs.
Minimum Residential Bill
5.       The first guideline establishes that there should be a minimum
water residential bill not exceeding 0.35 OTN (Obrigacoes do Tesouro
Nacional), and a minimum water and sewerage residential bill not exceeding
0.50 OTN. In 1983, the average minimum water supply and sewerage
residential bill reached 70Z the maximum value authorized by the law. By
1986, this figure was reduced, to less than 602, and the average minimum
water supply residential bill was near 502 the maximum limit.
Minimum Residential Consumption Level
6.       A second guideline establishes that: (i) the minimum residential
consumption level corresponding to the minimum bill should be at least
equal to 103 per household per month, and (ii) this volume should represent
the quantity of water a family requires for maintaining minimum and
indispensable health and sanitary conditions. Currently, 18 SWCs have
their minimum consumption level (MCL) at 10 m3/household-month (hm), one
has it at 12 m3lhm, and 2 at 20 m3/hm. The concentration at 10 m3/hm is a
relatively recent trend.
7.       Establishing a MCL is equivalent to setting a fixed rate with a
right to consume the minimum level free of charge. Usually, the main
reason for including MCLs in a rate schedule is that it allows utilities a
full or partial recovery of customer-related fixed costs. Establishing
MCLs for accommodating low-income households --as it seems to be happening
in the Brazilian case, does not generally accomplishes its purpose and on
the contrary, contributes to significant departures from the objective of
improving poor families' welfare when it is handled aggressively.
8.       And these problems are even more complicated than having some low-
consumption customers paying average tariffs greater than larger
consumption users. It may happen that many residential, commercial,
industrial, and public customers who are able to afford the utilities'
5/ See Jos4 Carlos CHAVES DE AZEBEDO e "rera Lucia BAZZANELLA (1984),
Modelo de Estrutura Tarifaria, Conv6nio de Cooperac,o Tdcnica BNH/OPAS
de 22/12/81, Julho, Revisao 00, and ACCORSI & ASSOCIADOS LTDA. (1987).
Avaliac5o das Normas e Crit#rios de Fixacao de Tarifas no Setor de
Saneamento : Uma Anilise dos Objetivos de Equidade, 2 Volumenes,
Curitiba, Agosto, SANEPAR - CEF (BNH).



- 81 -                             ANNEX 15
Page 3 of a
service cost (without violating NTL's directives) are being subsidized.
And because of this policy's consequences on revenues, the very poor
families' service affordability remains an unsolved issue.6
Residential Consumption Blocks
9.       A third guideline establishes that residential consumption should
be differentiated by iakcreasing block tariffs. The blocks' ranges vary
significantly not only from one utility to another, but also between areas
being served by the same utility (for example, CAERN has three different
schedules). In addition, the blocks' formation does not follow any set
guidelines. For example, the second block's range goes from 11 m3/hm to 15
m3/hm in 9 SWCs, from 11 m3/hm to 20 m3/hm in 6 SWCs, fcom 16 m3/hm to 30
m3/hm in 3 SWCs, and exhibits 8 different magnitudes in the remaining 12
SWCs.
Rcoidential Water Consumption and Family Income
10.      Practical implementation of current Brazilian social philosophy on
water supply and sewerage tariffs is based on the assumption thtt family
levels of income and water consumption are positively correlated. Minimum
bills, minimum consumption levels, and principally, consumption blocks, are
all rate schedule's elements because of this assumption. However, if this
assumption is proven inaccurate, the entire apparatus involving social
considerations may be regressive and some households may be paying bills
smalJer than what they can ifford. Additionally, if residential rates are
smalleL Lh.n marginal costs--as is Brazil's most common case, a large
majority of households are subsidized, which gives utilities large room for
increasing revenues just by eliminating unnecessary subsidies now being
granted to high-income families.
11.      Recently, this assumption was examined in Brazil.  Its authors
concluded that 'water consumption is not an appropriate variable for the
purpose of guaranteeing progressive tariffs, because of its weak
relationshin with family income'.7   The correlation coefficient they found
for these two variables was only 0.21.
12.      Table 1 shows average household water consumption by income level
in SANEPAR. The small differences between averages (especially among the
first four categories), as well as the large standard deviation exhibited
by all income levels, are worth noting. Household water consumption
distribution for each income level category is shown in Table 2 and
illustrated in Figure 1. The small range defined between 7 m3/hm and 15
m3/hm includes almost half of SANEPAR residential consumers.8
6/ See paragraphs 10 to 14 for a more detailed discussion of this issue.
7/ ACCORSI & ASSOCIADOS LTDA. (1987), p.138.
8/ These figures are based on ACCORSI 7 ASSOCIADOS LTDA. (1987).



- 82 -                           ANNEX 15
Page 4 of 8
Table 1. SANEPAR'S Household Water Consumption and Income9
Household Income                            Household Water Consumption
(Y)               Households                   (m3/hm)
(Minimum Salaries       -------------- -----------------------------------
[MS] per Month)           I       Z        Mean     Standard    Deviation
Deviation Coefficient
Y <  1 MS         338     6.2        10.4      12.3          118
1 MS < Y <  2 MS         806    14.9        11.0        7.7           70
2 MS < Y <  5 MS        1969    36.4        12.3        7.5           61
5 MS < Y < 10 MS        1228    22.7        15.7       11.0           70
10 MS < Y < 20 MS         674    12.5        22.5       18.5           82
20 MS < Y                 419      7.3       32.3       24.6           76
TOTAL              5434   100.0        15.5       13.8          89
Table 2. SANEPAR'S Household Water Consumption Distribution10
Water Consumption                     Household Income Level (Y) (2)
i            ~~~~(W )       ------------------  ------------_ ---- -----------------
Y<OlMS   OlMS<Y   02MS<Y   05MS<Y   lOMScY   20MS<Y
m3/hm                      Y<02MS   Y<05MS   Y<05MS   Y<1OMS
00 < W < 03            15       12         7         5        3         2
03 < W < 06            18        15       12         9        4         2
06 < W < 10            31        31       29        20       13         0
10 < W < 15            21       24        28        27       20        16
15 < W < 25            12       14        19        26       33        29
25 < W < 50             3        4         5        11       19        30
50 < W                  0        0         0         2        8        21
TOTAL              100      100       100      100       100       100
ACCORSI & ASSOCIADOS LTDA. (1987)
10/
ACCORSI & ASSOCIADOS LTDA. (1987)



- 83 -
ANNEX 15
Page 5 of 8
1CURlE I  SANEPAR'S HOUSEHOLD WATER CONSUMPTION DI>Tk1IIvBlu.
* Xs  i os   u    04           60                a   n o. 10  E as  gr o 
j T7.
4-1~ 
*  a. a0 ISV 15           a  a   0UUo              o     IC is garso
S H.  A   Y in  1(0 Ms   10 KS     Y 4Y   2C MSz    Y >  S'  nm
13.       A practical consequence of using water consumption as a main
element in water supply pricing may be that resulting tariff structures are
not as progressive as has been originally planned. And in some cases,
these tariff structures may be even regressive. Hence, the growing
Brazilian concern about water suply and sewerage tariffs, as expressed by
CHAVES DE AZEVEDO and BAZANELLA:1   '.    the majority of the tariff
!l/ CHAVES 'D'E AZEVEDO. JA
|        11/ CHaVE   EAEEO                             AAEL   18)   pct,p2



- 84 -
ANNEX 15
Page 6 of 8
structures of the Companhias de Saneamento present unsatisfactory
progressive levels which cause even inverse transfers of subsidies".
However, it would be wrong to argue that the solution is to make the tariff
structure more progressive, sharply increasing the rates belonging to
higher consumption blocks. This proposal may make the tariff structure
appear progressive for the average poor family. However, upon closer
examination, it will surelv aggravate the situation for many households
when considered individually.
Residential Water Consumption and Other Variables
14.      In the above mentioned study, residential water consumption (RWC)
was unsuccessfully explained by other variables. Geographical location and
the cities' urban size failed to explain the differences between water
consumption of households located in different cities. And, an explanation
of RWC using variables such as: number of water exits (points) (W), number
of people living in each house (P), number of rooms (R), the area of each
house (A), and the type of construction (C). also failed when applied to
SANEPAR's case.
Non-residential Tariffs
15.      A fourth guideline establishes that tariffs should be
differentiated by final usage, and that average cormnercial and industrial
rates should be greater than the utility's average rate.
16.      A fifth guideline establishes that: (i) commercial, industrial,
and public12 minimum consumption levels should also be set, and (ii) in
each category, the minimum consumption rate should be smaller than the
remaining rates, in that category. Additionally, commercial and industrial
minimum rates should be greater than the utility's average tariff, and,the
public minimum rate should be greater than the residential minimum rate.
17.      Differentiating between commercial, industrial, or public
customers based on their water consumption level has negative effects on
the resource allocation process. Brazilians seem to be aware of this
point, as minimum consumption levels for non-residential customers are
explained by some households owning a small family business, and in turn,
being classified as commercial or industrial customers. However, a well
design tariff structure should automatically take care of this
classifica.ion process.  Households having small family business within or
attached to their homes should find themselves better off when classified
as residential customers. Likewise, households having a larger than normal
family business should find themselves better off when classified as non-
domestic customers.
Non-metered Consumption
18.      Twelve (12) SWCs only charge non-metered residential customers
with their authorized minimum bills. The remaining companies bill them
using their rate schedules, and water consumption estimates based on the
following criteria: dwellings' area in m2 (5), dwelling construction type
12/ The public category also includes some private entities involved in
social activities.



- 85 -
ANNEX 15
Page 7 of 8
(3), number of rooms (2), number of water exits (1). or a combination of
more than one of the above (1).
19.      Most non-residential water consumption is metered, and those
customers that are not metered are generally non-intensive water users.
SWCs use one of the following criteria to estimate water consumption:
establishment area in m2, economic activity, minimum consumption, number of
water exits, or a combination of more than one of the above criteria.
Special Contracts
20.      Special contracts are celebrated between non-residential customers
and eight of the SWCs. These contracts usually guarantee a minimum amount
of water to be supplied to the customer benefitting from such a contract.
In this case, the customer negotiates his rates aside the actual rate
schedule. The water volume sold under this kind of agreement represents a
significant share for some of these companies, regardless of the small
number of customers involved.
Sewerage Rates
21.      Sewerage and water supply tariff structures are equal, with
sewerage rates oscillating between 35; and 100Z of water rates. Currently,
there are 15 SWCs applying the 100t overcharge, 9 applying 80%, 2 applying
60Z, 2 applying 50%, and three more applying 902, 75Z, and 35X.
respectively.
22.      Sewerage rates are not based on supply costs, but on financial
reasons   Explicit charges for treatment do not exist.  Systems without
treatment have rates significantly larger than costs, meanwhile systems
with treatment have costs much greater than rates. Therefore, sewerage
bystems are usually transferring a large portion of its revenue to water
supply systems, given that in most cases only a small portion (if at all)
of the collected sewage is treated.
Complementary Guidelines
23.      A long term objective of each utility is to serve the whole
population under its influence area. Therefore, as a way to facilitate
access to their services, most utilities do not charge connection fees to
their customers or, if they do, it only covers materials, labor, and the
meter cost, if applicable.
24,      SWCs usually have several water supply and sewerage systems with
different supply costs which are aggregated and consolidated for financial
and pricing purposes. Therefore, SWCs' rate schedules and levels are
equally applied to all customers, independent of the individual system
which is serving them. This pricing feature introduces a cross-
subsidiLation element among customers of a given utility. Furthermore,
differences in the interest rate PLANASA applies to the different SWCs
introduces another cross-subsidization element between states.



- 86 -
ANNEX 15
Page 8 of 8
Efficient Allocation of Resources
25.      Water supply and sewerage pricing criteria are complemented by
planning criteria that aim to obtain an efficient allocation of resources.
Utilities are required to expand their systems choosing the minimum cost
alternative,13 and water projects are accepted only if the utility's water
average tariff (WAT) is larger than 0.75 of the project's marginal cost
(MC), for those cases involving populations larger than 50,000 people. The
WAT should be larger than 0.60 MC for those cases involving populations
larger than 5,000 people, but smaller than 50,000 people. Sewerage
projects are accepted only if the utility's sewerage average tariff is at
least equal to 0.60 MC. However, a project ttiat does not satisfy these
conditions may still be accepted if it is possible to demonstrate that
there are "special social benefits" attached to its execution.14
13/ See BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITACAO (BNH) (1981a), Circular COSAN No.01/81,
Disp6e sobre a Escolha de Alternativas nos Relatorios Tecnicos
Preliminares.
14! See BOANCO NACIONAL DA HABITACAO (BNH) (1981b), Circular COSAN No.02/81,
Institui Modelo de Analise Econ6mica de Emprendimentos Financitveis
Atraves do Sistema Financiero do Saneamento e DA Outras ProvidOncias.



- 87 -
ANNEX 16
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
Loan Disbursement Schedule
Bank Fiscal Year               Quarterly
and Quarter EndinR          Disbursement             Cumulative Disbursement
(US$ million)        (US$ million)     2 of Total
FY 1990
September 30, 1989                24.00               24.00               4.0
December 31, 1989                  6.40               30.40              11.0
March 31, 1990                     8.30               38.70              14.0
June 30, 1990                      8.70               47.40              17.0
FY 1991
September 30, 1990                10.20               57.60              20.0
December 31, 1990                 12.20               69.80              25.0
March 31, 1991                    13.20               83.00              30.0
June 30, 1991                     14.00               97.00              35.0
FY 1992
September 30, 1991                16.00              113.00              40.'
December 31, 1991                 17 00              130.00              46. 0
March 31, 1992                    18.00              148.00              53.0
June 30, 1992                     19.00              167.00              60.0
FY 1993
September 30, 1992                21.00              188.00              67.0
December 31, 1992                 21.00              209.00              75.0
March 31, 1993                    18.00              227.00              81.0
June 30, 1993                     16.00              243.00              P7.0
FY 1994
September 30, 1993                14.00              257.00              92.0
December 31, 1993                 12.00              269.00              96.0
March 31, 1994                     8.00              277.00              99.0
June 30, 1994                      3.00              280.00             100.0
1/ Includes US$15 million of Special Account.



-88-                      ANNX 17
Page I of 2
BRAZIL
WATER SECTOR PROJECT IN THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
Documents and Data Available in Proiect Files
DemoaraDhics
1.       IBGE/Centro Latinoamericano de Demografia--CELAGDE (1984), Brasil:
Estimaciones de Poblacion 1950-2025, Fasciculo F/BRA 1, Julio.
2.       MEDEIROS FRIAS, Luiz Armando de (1988), ProjecOes da PopulaCgo
Residente e do Numero de Domicilios Porticulares Ocupados: 1985-2020,
Testas para Discusao, Maio.
Economics
1.       BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITAgAO (BNH) (1981), Circular COSAN Nc.
01/81, Dispoe sobre a escolha de alternativas nos relatorios tecnicos
preliminares.
2.       BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITAgAO (BNH) (1981); Circular COSAN No.
02/81, Institui modelo de analise economica de emprendimentos financiaveis
atraves do sistema financeiro do saneamento e da outras providencias.
3.       BRASIL, Republica Federstiva do (1978a), Lei No. 6528 de 11 de
maio de 1978.
4.       BRASIL, Republica Federativa do (1978b), Decreto No. 82587 de 06
de novembro de 1978.
5.       CHAVES DE AZEVEDO, Jose Carlos (1984), Esquema geral do sistema
tsrif&rio do PLANASA, Convenio de Coopera,ao Tecnica BNH/OPAS de 22/12/81,
Junho, Revisao 01.
6.       CHAVES DE AZEVEDO, Jose Carlos e Vera Lucia BAZZANELLA (1984),
Modelo de estrutura tarifaria, Convenio de Coopera,co Tecnica BNH/OPAS de
22/12/81, Junho, Revisao 00.
7.       OLIVERA, Hugo de (1988), Uma Analise Critica da Atual Sistematica
de Tarifacao Aplicada ao Setor de Saneamento no Brasil, SABESP.
8.       YASSUDA, Eduardo Riomey (1988), Sistema de tarifacao brasileiro
para servicos de aaua e esgoto, I Seminario Nacional de Tarifaqao de
Servi,os de Agua e Esgoto, MHU-AESBE, Brasilia, DF, Abril.
9.       Terms of Reference for the elaboration of marginal cost pricing
studies in selected SWCs.
10.      Computer diskettes containing several economic and financial
tables.



- 89 -                        AEX17
Page 2 of 2
Entineering
1.       SABESP (1986). Sistema Adutor Metropolitano - Revisao e
Atualizac&o. Sintese. Figueiredo Ferraz/Engevis SA. Novembro.
2.       SABESP (1989), South West Water Supply Scheme:  KaMs and Reports.
Finance
1.       DORFHAN, M. (1988), An Analysis of the Financial Viability of
Caixa Economica Federal.
2.       CEF (1988), Consolidated Global Feasibility Studies.
3.       SABESP (1989), Detailed Tab.es and Reports on Debt, Receivables,
Cost Accounting, Investment Planning. Asset Structure and Financial
Performance.
4.       SABESP (1988), Plano de Recuperacao Economic& 1988-90, June.
5.       SABESP, Annual Reports 1985-87.
5.       SABESP, Audited Annual Reports 1985-87, Short-form.
7.       SABESP (1982 and 1986), Convenios SABESP-GESP.
General
1.       SABESP (1988), Estudo de Viabilidade Global:  Versao BIRD,
September.
Institutional
1.       DAEE, Estatutos.
2.       SABESP, Estatutos.
3.       SABESP (1987 and 1988), OrRanizacao Institucional.



MAP SECTION



F                                          -                                                                                                                      - R
MINAS  GERAIS                                                       WA                  _ _    _ 
>1                                                                                                     STATE OF SAO PAUILO
MATO  GROSSO
J  -      .       .      .          ~                                                  MMucipalihes served by SASESP
DO    SUL                         ,        *     .                 \        ,        _,8 >                                                         Woter sn.@Wtrntn.e Regaop
DO    S U L                                                                                                        (Supmontendenoo) Bounkdow 
,             ;                                                                                                     0      Stat Cop *01
; , , ,., ( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sto4e 8otc
Mun.c.pcI Bounclw.e.
(                  ----  ~~~~~~~Skate Boundwre'
- ---   lntenobonol Soundorms
, . * -- ..... ; '. t . . >_ '< DE JANEIK~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..... k
ROO DrE JANEIRO
PARANA
.                                                                        -   .POPLATIO1 AM- SERVCE LEVELS
I9U8 1993
/196     1993
TO,.  Pioum OWNT)              3207    37.43
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mnu .4 14_diiig                                                                                        sn
Ti Lbb t(*  PIdu  (Wh-)        28.43    33.69
M-* wi s,IIn                    m
,,  ,   BRAZIltII Pm  1 p. i C_pqiy  _w                                                                                                                   18.92    21.50
¢ \ 4bu .. -                                                                      ,                                                                                {:_     F W}o_ 16 ff 19-44
tP   _ d    U*_mS1.m           89.6      90.4
, ..-,'                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Comm.dmd la Wvwo
i~                         ~                                                                  Papi m.COi n. B        - _ . a dbCo  S_.PSS  11.47    14.42
-         (         -      1       .1 I -INA &                                                _ _ *- Pw.u d S     s _ _.as s0.6        67-0
__ _                      _ _ _                 _ _                _______ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __Cmu,gdd t Se_m_.__



