                                           Documentof
                                        The WorldBank


                                  FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                         Report No. 32868-TP




                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION


                                    PROGRAMDOCUMENT


                                  FORA PROPOSEDGRANT

                              INTHE AMOUNT OFSDR342,000

                                  (US$500,000 EQUIVALENT)




                TO THE DEMOCRATICREPUBLICOFTIMOR-LESTE




                                              FORA

                    CONSOLIDATIONSUPPORTPROGRAM(CSPI)


                                        SeGtember 7,2005




PovertyReductionandEconomicManagementUnit
EastAsia andPacificRegion


This document has a restricted distribution andmay be usedby recipients only inthe performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bankauthorization.

                          TIMOR-LESTE -GOVERNMENT              FISCAL    YEAR
                                            July 1-June 30
                                       CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                                       Currency Unit=U S Dollar

                                        WEIGHTANDMEASURES
                                              Metric System

                               ABBREVIATIONAND ACRONYMS

AAP        Annual Action Plan                          INAP      InstitutoNacionalde AdministraGb Publica
ADB        Asian DevelopmentBank                       JSAN      Joint StaffAdvisory Note
BNU        BancoNacionalUltramarino                    LSMS      Living Standards MeasurementSurvey
BPA        Banking andPaymentsAuthority                MDGs      Millennium DevelopmentGoals
CAAC       Comiss50paraos Assuntosdos Antigos          MoEC      MinistryofEducationandCulture
           Combatentes                                 MOH       Ministry of Health
CAQR       ComissIoParaos Assuntos dos Quadrosda       MPF       Ministry ofPlanningandFinance
           Resistencia                                 MSA       Ministryof StateAdministration
CAS        CountryAssistanceStrategy                   MYBU      Mid-Year BudgetUpdate
CAVF       Comissb paraos Assuntosdos Veteranos        NDP       NationalDevelopmentPlan
           das Falintil                                NDPEAC NationalDirectorateofPlanningand
CGB        CentralGovernmentBudget                               ExternalAssistanceCoordination
CPAR       CountryProcurementAssessment Report         OIG       Office ofthe InspectorGeneral
CPV        CommitmentandPaymentVoucher                 PFMCBP PlanningandFinancialManagement
CSB        CombinedSourcesBudget                                 Capacity-BuildingProgram
CSP        ConsolidationSupport Program                PMIS      PersonnelManagementInformation System
DNV        DirecqbNacionalVeteranos                    PRSP      Poverty-ReductionStrategyPaper
DPT        Diphtheria, tetanusandpertussis             QRM       QuarterlyReportingMatrixes
EFA        Educationfor All                            SCJ       Superior Council ofthe Judiciary
EITI       ExtractiveIndustriesTransparencyInitiative  SDR       SpecialDrawingRights
EMIS       EducationManagementInformationSystem        SIP       SectorInvestmentProgram
FY         Fiscalyear                                  SWG       SectorWorking Group
GDP        Gross DomesticProduct                       TFET      Trust Fundfor EastTimor
GoTL       Govemmentof Timor-Leste                     TSP       TransitionSupport Program
HAAPs      HospitalAnnualActivity Plans                TSS       TransitionSupport Strategy
HIPC       Heavily IndebtedPoorCountries               UN        UnitedNations
IDA        IntemationalDevelopmentAssociation          UNTAET UnitedNationsTransitionalAdministration
IDF        InternationalDevelopmentFund                          inEastTimor
IEPA       InvestmentandExport PromotionAgency
IMF        IntemationalMonetaryFund


                                     Vice President: Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAF'VP
                                  Country Director: Xian Zhu, EACNQ
                                   Sector Manager: Barbara Nunberg, EASPR
                                Task Team Leader: RosaAlonso ITenne, EASPR

                                        ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
 The Consolidation Support Program Grant was prepared by a team led by Rosa Alonso iTerme (EASPR),
 and comprising Regis Bonnelli, EdithBowles, Alan Burrell, David Chandler, W. Bernard Drum,RuiPaul0
 de Jesus, BryanGorddard, Amanda Green, DavidJefferies, MarkMinford, IanMorris, Sofi Ospina, Rosalia
 Rodriguez-Garcia, Helen Sutch, Andre Corsino Tolentino and Kaoru Yamagiwa. Comments were received
 from peer reviewers Poul Engberg-Pedersen (PRMPS), Alison Gillies (OPCVP), Stephen Ndegwa
 (PRMPS), and Jeffrey Thindwa (SDV). The team is also thankful to Homi Kharas (EASPR), Xian Zhu
 (EACNF), BarbaraNunberg (EASPR), and ElisabethHuybens (EACDF) for their guidance.

                                                                                 FOROFFICIAL USEONLY



                                                  Timor-Leste
                      CONSOLIDATION SUPPORTPROGRAM(CSPI)
                                            TableofContents


    GRANT AND PROGRAMSUMMARY(FY2006) .......................................................................                               ...
                                                                                                                                           111
                                                                                                                                            1
    11.
    1.    INTRODUCTION.................................................................................................................
          COUNTRY CONTEXT........................................................................................................          2
               RECENTECONOMICDEVELOPMENTSINTimor-leste...................................                                                  2
                                                                                                                                           4
          THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM..................................................................................
               FISCAL OUTLOOK................................................................................................
    111.                                                                                                                                    9
    I V.  BANKSUPPORTTO THE GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY..........................................                                                15
               LINKTOCAS........................................................................................................           15
               COLLABORATION WITR THEZMF AND OTHERDONORS.........................                                                          15
               RELATIONSHP TO OTHERBANKOPERATIONS.........................................                                                 16
                                                                                                                                           17
               ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS.....................................................................
               LESSONS LEARNED...........................................................................................
                                                                                                                                           18
     V.   THEPROPOSEDCONSOLIDATIONSUPPORTPROGRAM(CSP I)                                                         .......................... 18
                                                                                                                                           18
               POLICY AREAS....................................................................................................
               OPERATIONDESCRIPTION...............................................................................
                                                                                                                                           24
     V I. OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION..................................................................................                        29
               POVERTYAND SOCIALIMPACTS..................................................................                                  30
               IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORINGAND EVALUATION............................                                                        30
               FIDUCIARY ASPECTS ........................................................................................                  30
               ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS ........................................................................... 33
               RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION ........................................................................                          33

    TABLES

    TABLE 1: CENTRAL GOVERNMENTBUDGET(CGB) ............................................................                                     6
    TABLE 2: COMBINED SOURCESBUDGET(CSB) 2004-05 TO 2008-09 .................................                                               8
    TABLE 3: KEYOUTPUTS UNDERTSP 111AND PRIORACTIONS FORCSP I....................
    TABLE 4: KEYPERFORMANCEOUTCOMESAND INDICATORSFORCSPI-111...............20                                                              23

    ANNEXES

    ANNEX 1: LETTEROFDEVELOPMENTPOLICY andOPERATIONPOLICY MATRIX .....35
                                                                                                                                           64
    ANNEX 3: COUNTRYAT A GLANCE .......................................................................................
    ANNEX 2: FUNDRELATIONSNOTE.........................................................................................
                                                                                                                                           70

    MAP      :No.TIM33433............................................................................................................      71


This document has a restricted distributionand may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
                                                       .
without World Bank authorization.


                                    TIMOR-LESTE
                   CONSOLIDATIONSUPPORTPROGRAMI

                         Grant andProgramSummary (F`Y2006)

Recipient:    Government of Timor-Leste

Implementing  MinistryofPlanningandFinance
Agency:

Amount:       SDR 342,000 (USD 500,000 equivalent)

Terms:        IDA Grant

Tranching:    Single

Description:  The Govemment has requested the Bank to extend its budget support program to
              Timor-Leste for an additional three years, through FY2008. The new operation
              will be named Consolidation Support Program (CSP) inorder to reflect the move
              from transition to the consolidation of gains made thus far. For three years, the
              annual Transition Support Program (TSP) has provided a framework for grant-
              financed multi-donor budgetary support to the implementation o f the National
              Development Plan (NDP) in Timor-Leste. The program has focused on three
              thematic areas: service delivery for poverty reduction, job creation, and good
              governance reflecting the country's strategic priorities. CSP I(FY2006) will
              continue to focus on these same thematic areas, with the addition o f infrastructure
              underthe service delivery component.

Benefits:     The rationale for the continuation of multi-donor budget support under CSP Ii s
              two-fold. On the policy side, the Government of Timor-Leste has argued that the
              program brings critical support in: (i)establishing priorities; (ii)monitoring
              progress in policy implementation and the achievement o f results; (iii)   building
              Government capacity; and (iv) supporting donor coordination. Onthe fundingside,
              despite increased petroleum revenue, Timor-Leste will continue to require
              substantial funding from development partners due to: (i)considerable
              development needs andrelated fundinggaps for the achievement o fNDP goals and
              MDGs; (ii) ongoing process of shifting off-budget spending onto the central
                            the
              government budget (CGB); (iii)   the need for a more expansionary fiscal stance; iv)
              the importance o f respecting the country's sound savings policy; and (v) the
              volatility of petroleumrevenues.

Risks:       A. LimitedGovernment implementationcapacity
              B. Lowbudgetexecutioncapacity
              C. Corruption andpoor governance
             D. Risingunemployment andsocial andpoliticalinstability




                                             ...
                                            111


                                         I.INTRODUCTION

1.         Since the restoration o f independenceon May 20, 2002, Timor-Leste has made solid
progress innation building, maintaining peace and stability, and restoring public services and
private sector activity. The country now faces the challenges o f buildingon its early progress
inthe context of very limitedhumanresources, embryonic institutions, a stagnant economy,
andhighlevels ofpoverty andunemployment.

2.         The National Development Plan, prepared shortly before the restoration of
independence, outlines Timor-Leste's development and poverty reduction objectives. A
Stability Program and Road Map, announced in January 2003, highlighted the areas o f the
NDP considered by Government to be immediate priorities, notably, service delivery in the
social sectors, job creation andimprovements ingovernance arrangementsandlaw andorder.

3.         For three years, the annual Transition Support Program (TSP) has provided a
framework for grant-financed multi-donor budgetary support to the implementation o f the
NDP. The program has focused on three thematic areas reflecting the country's strategic
priorities: service delivery for poverty reduction, job creation and good governance. Financing
for each TSP has been agreedon the basis o f an annual programlaid out inthe Government's
Letter of Development PolicyandAction Matrix. These actions have largelybeen drawn from
the Government's annual action plans, preparedby all agencies as part o f the annual planning
andbudgetprocess. Moreover, actionswhich are agreedbetween Government andthe donors
duringprogram negotiations are subsequentlyintroduced into Annual Action Plans to ensure
proper implementation and monitoring. As a result, the program reflects both Government's
and development partners' appreciation o fpolicy andoperational priorities for the year ahead.
Actions have been increasingly supplemented by outcomes targeted as program objectives.
Initially, three annual TSP operations were foreseen, covering the period FY2003 to FY2005
and, over that time period, the Government has made substantial progress in the
implementation of the National Development Plan and in the achievement o f goals laid out
underthe three Transition SupportPrograms.

4.         The Government has now requestedthe Bank to schedule three further operations for
FY2006 through FY2008, under the title o f Consolidation Support Program (CSP) to reflect
the move from transition to the consolidation of gains made thus far. Despite the coming on
stream ofpetroleum, budget support remains appropriate to allow the integration o f off-budget
expenditures onto the central Government budget to address pressing poverty-reducing needs
while respecting the country's savings policy and safeguarding against the effects of highly
volatile petroleum prices. The proposed budgets also reflect a projected increase in overall
combined sources expenditure, which should result inhigher aggregatedemand and stepped-
up job creation, which are much-needed in Timor-Leste's stagnant non-petroleum economy,


  The central Government budget includes the funds that are directly under the control o f the Government o f
Timor-Leste, namely, Government's own resources, budget support and associated expenditures. The Combined
Sources Budget (CSB) includes all of the above revenues and expenditures plus other "off-budget" donor -
mainly project-expenditures andrevenue from autonomous agencies. It has beenprogressively developed over
the past few years inorder to capture a more comprehensive budgetary and developmental picture inthe country
for policy planning, aid management andmonitoringpurposes.

                                                     1

CSP I(FY2006) will continue to focus on the same thematic areas supported by preceding
operations, with the proposed addition of infrastructure --inparticular, o f roads, water, and
electricity-- under the service delivery component. Therefore, the program will support the
long-term improvement ofthe supplyside o fthe economybystrengthening service delivery in
the humandevelopment and infrastructure areas while also providinga short-term stimulus to
the demand side. The program's focus on governance, moreover, should strengthen the
institutional framework and external accountability mechanisms that are essential to growth
and poverty-reduction. The program will follow four principles of engagement, which are
consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy for Timor-Leste: deepening the results
orientation, fostering transparency and communications, building institutional capacity, and
strengtheningpartnerships.

5.       Although IDA'Scontribution to CSP Iis USDO.5 million, the overall amount o f the
operation is USD 10.0 million, with the remaining balance being provided by co-financing
from eight development partners. The Bank has played a key role in catalyzing this support
from development partners and in leading the Government-donor dialogue that is the spinal
cord o fthis whole-of-Government budgetsupport operation.


                               11. COUNTRY CONTEXT

RECENT    ECONOMICDEVELOPMENTS         IN TIMOR-LESTE

6.        In2004, with the coming on-stream of petroleum production, overall GDP grew at
about 47 percent. Non-petroleum GDP, on the other hand, grew by 2 percent after a 6 percent
decline in both 2002 and 2003. The recovery innon-petroleum GDP reflects an increase in
agricultural production following a period o f drought as well as a significant expansion in
banking sector activity which compensated for the continuing decline in international
presence. Since the 2004 census and Demographic and Health Survey data show yearly
population growth of almost 4 percent and petroleum GDP does not have a direct impact on
the individual income o f Timorese citizens, GDP per capita has been declining and poverty
mayhave increased.

7.        Wage levels in Timor-Leste are exceedingly high given the country's skill levels.
This is dueto the demonstration effect from the guideline wage for unskilled labor established
by UNTAET (at USD 85 per month). As a result, the guideline wage for unskilled labor in
Timor-Leste is dramatically higher thaninneighboring countries such as Indonesia (45 USD)
or Vietnam (20 USD), despite much lower educational levels. This situation undermines
competitiveness and limits job creation for unskilled labor. Moreover, since non-petroleum
growth is not sufficient to keep up with the rapidly growing working age population,
unemployment rates are high. The most recent employment data are from late 2001, when
unemployment reached 20 percent in the urban areas o f Dili and Baucau, compared to 5
percent nationwide. Unemployment has most probably increased since then, as labor market
entrants grow rapidlywith roughly 16,000 .peoplereaching working age eachyear.

8.        While some interest has been shown in concessions for the exploitation o f natural
resources, such as fisheries and forestry, there has been little new investment thus far.
Moreover, the progressive reduction in UN personnel in Timor-Leste - from 12,688 in

                                              2

FY2001 to 6,350 in FY2003, 1,602 inFY2004, 120 at end-May 2005 and an expected 0 by
end-May 2006 - should result in a further decline in aggregate demand and hence in
production.2 However, financial sector activity has expanded rapidly in the last year. Bank
deposits increased to 25 percent o f GDP in2004, andthere was a seven-fold increaseinbank
lending between January 2003 andMarch 2004. As of January 2005, the largest bank, Banco
Nacional Ultramarho (BNU), held USD 63 million in outstanding loans to about 10,000
borrowers, representing about 19 percent o f GDP. Micro-finance is also gainingmomentum,
with four micro-finance institutions, several savings and credit cooperatives, and an
Association o fMicrofinance Institutions inoperation.

9.       Subsequent to the ratificationofthe Timor SeaTreaty inMarch2003, development of
the Bayu Undan oil and gas field has proceededand liquids production began inApril 2004.
The secondphase, scheduledto beginin2006, entails pipingof dry gas to Darwin, Australia,
for recovery as liquefied natural gas. Although oil and gas production may result in some
opportunities for the service sector in Timor-Leste, the main benefit will be from the
significant revenuesthat the project is expectedto generateover the next two or three decades.

10,      Inacontext ofhighoilprices, Timor-Leste's petroleumrevenuesin2005 havegrown
significantly from last year and are much higher than expected (at an estimated US$ 242.6
million for FY2005 as compared to US$41.4 million in FY2004 and an expectedUS$129.8
million in the FY2005 supplementary budget). Medium-term projections indicate that
petroleum revenues will remain at around US$200 million for the next four years. In the
interest of prudently managing the influx o f revenues, Timor-Leste approved a Petroleum
Fund Act, including an associated savings policy, consistent with the Extractive Industries
Transparency Initiative (EITI), for which Timor-Leste is a pilot country. Consultations over
these policies and laws havebeenbroad-based, bothwithin andoutside the country, which has
contributed to the creation of a national consensus over the principles o f petroleum wealth
management. The savings policy and Petroleum Fund Act were approved unanimously by
Parliament in June 2005, after thorough study and discussion, a strong sign o f good process
and commitment to the country's petroleum management regime. The Government aims to
have arrangements inplace for implementationnext fiscal year.

11.      Inflation has continued its downward trend, falling to 1.8 percent on a year on year
basis in December 2004 inresponseto moderate domestic demand and stable non-petroleum
import prices. Non-petroleum exports rose to US$8 million in2004, o f which US$7 million
was coffee. Coffee exports are expected to rise over the medium term due to higher
international prices and improved marketing. Other exports are growing at a higher rate but
startingfrom a much lower base. Imports have continued to decline, from US$221millionin
2003 to US$202 million in2004, as the international presence winds down. As a result o f all
of the above and, inparticular, of significantly higher petroleum revenue inflows, the external
current account deficit (excluding international assistance) has narrowed from US$218 in
2003 to US$77 millionin2004, amounting to around 23 percent o f GDP. The current account
deficit continues to be fully financedbyofficial transfers.



'M. Carnahan, S. Gilmore andM.R a h n , TheEconomicImpact of Peacekeeping.UNInterimReportPhase
One. April, 2005.

                                                3

FISCALOUTLOOK
12.      In FY2004, revenue collection (at US$105.4 million) was higher than budget
estimates (at US$93,6 million). Petroleumrevenues were almost exactly on targetwith budget
forecasts while domestic revenues were higher thanexpecteddue to marked improvementsin
tax and customs administration. Over the course o f the fiscal year, a technical problem
emerged in the Bayu Undan petroleum field that was expected to delay production. As a
result, petroleumrevenue was revised downwardby USDl8 million and expenditure ceilings
were concomitantly reducedduringthe mid-yearbudgetupdate(MYBU).As it tumed out, the
technical problem in B a y Undan was solved much sooner than expected and petroleum
revenue for the year was not affected. However, the brake placed on expenditures in the
MYBUresulted ina slow-down inbudgetexecution duringthe secondhalfofthe fiscal year
and hence inexpendituresbelowbudgetedamounts. Budget execution amounted to 75 percent
on a cash basis and to 93 percent on a commitment basis. Budget execution varied
significantly across expenditure categories, with goods and services and capital expenditure
rates having the lowest execution rates. Capital expenditure was particularly low insome key
ministries such as the MinistryofTransport, Communications andPublic Works (5 percent on
a cashbasis) and the Ministryo f Education, Culture, Youth and Sports (no capital expenditure
at all on a cash basis). Expenditures by function have been broadly in line with poverty
reduction objectives and all TSP expenditure targets were met or exceeded. The higher-than-
budgetedrevenues and lower-than-forecasted expenditures resulted ina larger budget surplus
thananticipated(at US$33.2 million).

13.      InFY2005, overall revenue is estimated to be muchhigher than budgeted (at US$
306.6 million compared to US$ 192.3 million in the supplementary budget) due to soaring
petroleum prices. Budget execution, however, continues to be the Achilles' heel o f public
finance  management in Timor-Leste. Moreover, there has been little improvement in
performance inthis area over the last year andthere are some signs that the difficulties maybe
intensifjmg. By end-May 2005, only 62 percent of budget appropriations were spent. This
corresponds to an annualized estimate o f 67 percent for FY2005, which would be down from
75 percent inFY2004 and FY2003. Although the execution rate for salaries inthe period to
end-May 2005 was 82 percent o f appropriations (amounting to 89 percent on an annualized
basis), the rate for goods and services was 62 percent and that for capital development was
only 9 percent (amounting to 67 percent and 10percent, respectively, on an annualized basis).
This poor performance is the result of over-centralization o f the budget execution process,
poor knowledge by line agencies o f budget execution and, in particular, o f procurement
regulations, and insufficient communication between MPF and line ministries. It also reflects
much greater concentration o f international assistance in supporting the budget elaboration
than the budget executionprocess, inparticular inline ministries.

14.      The budget for FY2006 forecasts an increase inpetroleum and overall revenue from
the levelof the FY05 budget(to US$ 158.7 and205.6 million respectively) anda concomitant
increase in expenditure (to U S $ 121 million). This expenditure level is roughly US$40
million above the FY2005 budget, implyingmore than a 50 percent increase in expenditure.
Budget allocations are inline with growth andpoverty-reduction objectives as laid out inthe
NDP and Sector Investment Programs (SIPS), with outlays for recurrent expenditure on
education and health continuing to meet TSPlCSP targets. The allocation to the agriculture

                                              4

sector i s significantly increasedand is now protected under a CSP target. The largest increase
in the budget is due to a US $20 million rise in expenditure in infrastructure (with an
additional US$10 millioninre-capitalization for the Bankingand Payments Authority). Most
o f this stepped up infrastructure expenditure i s to be found in key priority sectors, such as
health, justice and transportation as well as in public works. This increased expenditure is
welcome fiom an aggregatedemandmanagementperspectiveand couldgenerateanestimated
additional 3,000 jobs inthe construction sector over the next fiscal year. Finally, there i s also
a US$13 million increase in goods and services expenditure, an important part of which i s
meant to finance improved service delivery inrural development inter alia via the opening o f
regional directorates o f the Ministry o f Agriculture Forests and Fisheries and the training o f
judges and lawyers by the Ministryof Justice. It also reflects an increasedallocation for fuel,
the scarcity o f which created serious problems in road construction and maintenance
monitoring as well as inthe social sectors duringthe last fiscal year. The challenge inthe year
ahead will be budget execution, as capital development expenditures have suffered from
particularlylow execution rates inthe past.

15.      From FY2002 to FY2004, the Government faced a financing gap o f approximately
US$30 million per year. TSP has filled this financing gap by providing a substantial share o f
Government's untiedresources (roughly 40 percent o f the central Government budget). Now
that the Bayu Undan petroleum field is in full production, the sustainable income from
petroleum revenues i s estimated at about US$lOO million per year. This revenue flow could
substantially increase if the dispute over Timor Sea boundaries with Australia were resolved
or if explorations in non-disputed terrain became productive. With the addition o f non-
petroleum revenues, and according to the savings policy, Timor-Leste's sustainable income is
estimated at US$130-170 million per year. On the basis o f this income and given large
expenditure needs and the Government's plans to progressively shift off-budget expenditure
on-budget, there is still a financing need over the next three years (see Table 1). This gap i s
even larger when considering combined sources expenditures, which provides a more
comprehensivebudgetarypicture for Timor-Leste (Table 2).




                                                5

                            3




                            3




I f 01
    c 0 m
      m    NNz




  m
  h 3 m
      c m
        N   9    7 - 7 3



                   c

16.      Though the sustainablebudget is larger than the current budget, it is not sufficient to
meet the country's development objectives as set out inthe National Development Plan and
Millennium Development Goals. Moreover, the central Government budget represents less
thanhalfofcombined sources expenditures,withoff-budget (project) expendituresamounting
to around US$lSO million a year. These projects often finance recurrent activities, raising
questions about sustainability. Therefore, the Government has expressed an interest in
progressively shiftingoff-budget expendituresonto the central Government budget inorder to
work toward long-term sustainability while allowing the Government to focus on
strengthening its own systems and processes rather than on complying with multiple donor
procedures. This shift is appropriate given that the level of the sustainable budget is expected
to increaseover time.

17.      Moreover, the Government is envisaging a significant increase in combined sources
expenditure over the next three years which could not be fully financed by the Government's
own resources (Tables 1and 2). This increase is well justified by the country's development
needs as well as from a macro-economic fiscal perspective. Giventhe great needs that exist in
the country, inparticular inre-building infrastructure, andthe high-and probablyrising--rate
of unemployment, the proposedincreaseinexpenditure i s awelcome development. Moreover,
non-petroleum economic activity is stagnant and the Government does not have either
exchange rate policy or monetary policy to stimulate aggregate demand and spur growth.
Therefore, inthe coming years, the main impulse for non-petroleum growth i s likely to come
from an appropriately expansionary fiscal policy. Finally, given the volatility in petroleum
prices, there is a considerablerisk o f a downturn inforecastedrevenuesbasedon a dip inthe
price o f petroleum. On this basis, there continues to be a financing gap and a strong rationale
for budget support in Timor-Leste if the Government's prudent savings policy is to be
respected.




                                                7

                 Table2: Combined                                2004-05 to 2008-09 ($m)4
                                                                2006-07      2007-08     2008-09      Total 4
                                                                Estimate     Estimate    Estimate       years
 Total CombinedSources Revenue                 423                   278          258          282        1,092


 Whole of GovernmentRevenues                   284                   236          234          275          951
 PetroleumRevenue                              243                   186           181         219          744
 DomesticRevenue                                33                    39           41           44          160
 Autonomous AgencyRevenue                        8                    12            12          13           47


 Fundingfrom other Governments                 139                    42           24            7          141
 Direct BudgetSupport                           31                    11            11           1           32
 Nonbudget Support                              108                   32            14           6           109


 Total CombinedSourcesExpenditure               197                  259           262         233          988


 Whole of GovernmentExpenditure                 87                   120           127         123          494
 GeneralGovemment                               73                   102           107         102          414
 Non FinancialPublicAuthorities                  14                    18           20          21           75


 Bilateraland MultilateralExpenditure           108                   32            14           6           109
 RecurrentExpenditure                           73                     11            5            1          44
 CapitalExpenditure                             35                    20             9           5            64


 UnfundedSIPActivities                           2                   107           121         104           385
 ProposedRecurrentExpenditure                     1                   38            41          30           135
 ProposedCapitalExpenditure                       1                   69            81          74           251

 Other FinancialTransactions and
 Investments
 CapitalizationofBPA                         __ 228
 Net Accumulationsto PetroleumFund              49
 Changesto centralGovemmentbudget
 (CGB) Revenues                                 179


 CombinedSourcesFinancingGap                                  f     (107)        (121)        (104)        (395)

18.       The capacity o f Timor-Leste to effectively absorb a larger amount of Government
expenditure critically depends on improved budget execution. Last year, the Government
established an inter-ministerial budget execution commission, chaired by the Prime Minister,
to address this shortcoming. As part o f the commission's work program, the Ministry of
Planningand Finance carried out a study on the budget execution process and it has recently
commissioned a second study on bottlenecks in the execution of the capital development
budget which is to include recommendations for improvement. The Government, with the
assistance of its development partners, i s also developing a program o f capacity-building
support for the execution o f the FY2006 capital budget, with a particular focus inthe area of


 The Combined Sources Budget is preparedby the Government among other reasons to highlightthe fmancing
gap once the country's savings policy is taken into account. To this effect, contributions to the PetroleumFund
are subtracted before calculatingthe financing gap.

                                                       8

procurement. This program also envisages the provision o f support by Trust Fund for East
Timor (TFET) monitoringunits to the execution of the capital budget and the training o f line
ministry officials in budget execution and procurement processes. The Government and its
development partners are also developing a comprehensive planning and financial
management capacity-building program. The focus of the program, especially in its early
phase, will be on improvingbudget execution.

19.      Since the Government has a no-borrowing policy, there is no public debt and hence
no needto make an assessment of debt sustainability.

                      111. THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM

A. THENATIONAL      DEVELOPMENT ANDASSOCIATEDIMPLEMENTATIONDOCUMENTS
                                     PLAN

20.     In 2002, Timor-Leste prepared its poverty-reduction strategy, the National
Development Plan (NDP). Covering the time period from FY2003 to FY2007, the NDP
coincides with the mandate of the country's first Government. The NDP identifies sustainable
growth and poverty reduction as its overriding goals. Economic growth is seen as a
precondition for sustainedpoverty reduction, with citizens andthe private sector as the driving
force and the government as the facilitator including through the execution o f a pro-poor
budget aimed at basic service delivery and the establishment o f essential infrastructure, To
ensure that growth has a significant impact on poverty reduction, the NDP proposes apoverty
reduction strategy with four pillars: creation of opportunities for economic participation;
delivery of basic social services; provision of security of person and property, and protection
againstunforeseenshocks; andempowerment of citizens andcommunities.

21.     Within this broadfiamework, the RoadMap and Stability Program announcedbythe
Government inJanuary2003, inthe aftermath o friots inDecember 2002, focus on three areas
of the longer-term program where Government intendsto have an immediate impact: service
delivery for poverty reduction, job creation and govemance. These focus areas have been
adopted as the pillars o f the TSPKSP and the World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS), whichwas discussedbythe Executive Directors on July 19,2005.

22.     NDP implementation has been facilitated by the development o f sound, full-fledged
sector policies in health and agriculture, and an education sector policy i s in the process of
being finalized. Since 2002, each ministryprepares an Annual Action Plan (AAP)to inform
budget preparation and progress inimplementation is monitoredthrough Quarterly Reporting
Matrixes (QRMs). During2004, the government completed preparation of seventeen Sector
Investment Programs (SIPs) as well as two umbrella reports which provide the overall
framework for the individual papers and outline a process for moving forward with
implementation. The SIPSbuildon sector strategies to provide costed sector programs within
a consistent macro-economic framework. The Government has begun the process o f
establishing joint government-donor Sector Working Groups (SWGs) to support SIP
implementation and monitoring. These SWGs should contribute to raising the financing
needed for SIP implementation as well as providing a forum to discuss the consistency
betweenNDP, sector strategies, SIPs andbudgets. As ofmid-April2005, SWGmeetingshave
beenheldinagriculture, infrastructure, andhealth.



                                               9

B.PROGRESSUNDERTHETHIRDTRANSITIONSUPPORT PROGRAM
23.      Broad progress has been made in the implementation of programs identified under
TSP 111(FY2005). Performance has been strong in the health sector, in the design o f the
petroleum revenue managementregime, inthe recognition ofveterans ofthe resistance, andin
public sector management. Agriculture, education, justice, public finance management and
private sector development have performed reasonably well against program objectives, but
sector performance as a whole remains a concern. Finally, performance in the broad
governanceareas has beenmixed.

24.      The attached Letter of Development Policy, preparedby the Government, presents a
detailed overview o f progress achieved under TSP III(FY2005) while the following sections
highlightkeyaccomplishmentsanddifficulties under eachpillarofthis program.

ServiceDeliveryfor PovertyReduction

25.       Substantial progress has been made on most fronts o f the health program. The
Ministry of Health (MOH) has completed nine micro-policy documents and is currently
undertaking consultations on an additional five. District HealthPlans are developed each year
and monitored on a quarterly basis. MOH has prepared a 24-program budget for FY2006 in
order to separately monitor expenditures in each of the 13 districts, 5 hospitals, central
specialty services, andmajor knctions at the Ministry level. Hospital expenditureshave been
kept below the maximumtarget of 40 percent of the central Government budget's recurrent
health expenditures, though M O H has recognized the difficulty of constraining spending on
hospitals andhasplaced a highpriority on the development of a hospital services packageand
Hospital Annual Activity Plans (HAAPs). The hospital services package i s in draft but has
already informed the development o f initial HAAPswhich were developed by end-June 2005
as scheduled. The Ministry has exceeded its targets for DPT3 and measles immunizations,
skilled attendance at birth, and annual outpatient visits per capita.' The 2003 Demographic
and Health Survey and the 2004 census have yielded a much higher population growth and
fertility rates than had previously been estimated, which is likely to lead to a downward
revision of health indicators. Although this revision will not alter the absolute progress
achieved in the past few years, it will underscore that gains were made from a much lower
base than originally thought. Moreover, the current populationgrowth rate o f almost 4 percent
poses enormous challengesfor the sector.

26.      In education, progress on program actions has been moderate. The policy and
legislative framework for the sector, consisting o f the Basic Law, Organic Law, and education
sector policy, has been revised on the basis o f feedback from the Council o f Ministers and
resubmitted for approval. Regulations on private schooling and tertiary education have been
drafted and are currently undergoing stakeholder consultation. The recruitment ofthe Director
of Administration andFinance for the Ministryo f Education, Culture, Youth, and Sports is in
process. An Education Management Information System (EMIS) i s in place but not enough
staff is available for its proper upkeep. School data and the 2004 census are being



 The targets have beenmet basedon the originalpopulation estimates. Preliminary population estimates from the
2004 census, however, indicate that despite significant progress inabsolute terms, the targets wouldnothave
beenmet.

                                                        10

incorporated, albeit rather slowly, to provide amore comprehensivepicture o f coverageof and
demandfor schooling.

27.       Progress has been made in the delivery o f education materials. All students and
teachers in primary and junior secondary schools receive learning materials, but much still
needs to be done to provide adequate materials and books for a comprehensive learning
program. Budget execution rates remainlow, with actual expenditures on goods and services
reaching only 42 percent o f appropriations through May 2005 (compared with a target of 92
percent if all appropriations had been spent) and no capital development spending so far.
However, block grants have been distributedto selected schools as part o f a pilot program to
improveresourceavailability at the facility levelandthe moneyhasbeenspentbythe schools.
The Governmenthas also committed tojoining the Education for All Fast Track Initiative and
i s preparingits strategy for universal priaarycompletion by2015. There are plans to establish
a joint sector working group with the Secretary o f State for Labor and Solidarity. Regarding
the planned development of a national youth policy, a workshop was held inOctober 2004 to
consult with youth groups and other stakeholders around the country ahead o f the policy
design.

28.       Sound progress has been made in the recognition of the veterans o f the resistance.
Parliament i s drafting legislation on the basis o f the recommendations put forth by the
veterans commissions, andpublic hearings will be heldbefore promulgation. The process for
registering the members of the civilian resistance has advanced considerably, with criteria
defined, a questionnaire developed, and interviewers trained. Following the passage o f the
law, it i s anticipated that the veterans databases will be transferred to the Direcgb Nacional
Veteranos (DNV)which will be an important step inoperationalizing the database for policy
implementationpurposes. The DNVhas nearly completed construction o f amemorialpark for
victims and has prepared a study as a basis for the construction o f 100 houses for veterans
with fbndingfromthe ChineseGovernment.


Job Creation

29.       The issue of job creation and income generation is the most crucial economic
probleminTimor-Leste andthere i s no evidence o f any significant new sources o fdemand for
the already highnumber o fjob seekers. Moreover, recent estimates o f population growth, at
almost 4 percent per year, indicate that this problemwill become even more important inthe
future, as 16,000 new entrants to the work force beginlooking for jobs eachyear. Unless the
current stagnation injob creation i s reversed, these new entrants will continually add to an
already large unemployed or underemployed working age population. As this populationdoes
not find employment opportunities inrural areas, it is increasingly migratingto Dili, creating
serious concerns about social stability. Moreover, as UN personnel withdraw, job
opportunities inDiliwill becomeeven scarcer.

30.       Over the past year, modest progress has been made injob creation, though the
establishment of an appropriate legal and regulatory framework to support private sector
development has continued apace. The Council o f Ministers has approved the decree law on
cooperatives, as well as the insurance law and its associated regulations. A draft law on
bankruptcy has been prepared, but i s undergoing Wher revisions. The decree law on the
leasing o f Governmentproperty has been promulgated, and the draft law on leasing between

                                                11

private parties is currently in Parliament. There has been no reported progress, however, on
the simplification of business procedures or the transfer of the registration function to the
Ministry o f Justice from the Secretariat of Trade and Industry, as required by the Law on
Commercial Societies. Inthe context of the Emigrant Workers Program, a contract has been
signed with a South Korean company andthe first batch of workers is currently beingtrained
and is scheduled to depart in September 2005. The long-awaited Memorandum o f
Understanding with Malaysia has not yet been signed due to issues intemal to Malaysia. The
community-based roadmaintenanceprogramhas not yet resultedinthe expected levels ofjob
creation largely because o f the implementation o f significant budget cuts inthe program last
fiscal year.

31.      The Government has held several informal town hall-style meetings with business
people from small-sized enterprises around the country and the first formal Business-
Government forum took place in June 2005. A credit and collateral registry is still to be
instituted, with the BPA indicating it would assume initial responsibility for this important
function. Inthe effort to enhanceentrepreneurship,the BusinessDevelopment Center network
has far exceededits targets intraining a large number of existing andwould-be self-employed
workers. The creation of the Investment and Export Promotion Agency (IEPA) i s behind
schedule, but is expected to start hnctioning shortly. Its Chief Executive has been recruited,
and the search for a national counterpart and the renovation o f permanent office space are
ongoing.

32.       The agriculture sector continues to make substantial progress inkey programs, most
notably with the testing and distribution of improved food-crop varieties, development of a
sound sector policy and strategy, and implementation o f the SIP. The capacity of staff at all
levels, the degree of ownership of programs, and the capacity to lead and coordinate national
programs have grown over the past year. The Sector Working Group for Agriculture and
Rural Development was establishedinNovember 2004, and for the first time, the Ministry of
Agriculture, Forests, and Fisheries has coordinated the Joint Donors' Mission for the
agriculture sector. There has also been progress with staff appointments and management
arrangementsfor the new regional system, and a new AgribusinessUnit hasbeen established.
However, many challenges remain in areas such as completing the policy and legislative
agenda with supporting regulations, refining the SIP, and developing national systems for
service delivery, particularly in watershed and natural resource management. Improving the
profitability of irrigated farming systems continues to require attention, but has lower priority
than improved food security and sustainability inthe uplands.


Good Governance

33.      With regard to the establishment o f oversight institutions, the Provedor
(Ombudsman) was appointed at the endof March2005 andhasbeen swom inbyParliament.
His office, however, was not established by June 30, 2005 as had originally been envisaged
under the program. The Government has expressedits intentionto enhance the independence
of external audit of Government accounts by transferring management o f the contracting out
o f these audits fiom the Ministry o f Planning and Finance to the Court o f Appeals. The
President of the Court o f Appeals has incorporated the transfer inhis annual action plan for
FY2006, and terms o f reference are being prepared for an options study on external audit


                                               12

arrangements. The options study itself, .howeveri s scheduledto be carried out inFY06-rather
thanbecompletedbyJune30,2005 as originallyenvisaged.

34.      Important steps have been taken in strengthening core government functions,
although progress has been limited in some areas, The development of an effective and
transparent policy and legislative process, includingpriorities andtimetable, has beendelayed
by the ongoing harmonization of Organic Laws for Ministries, but the State Secretary of the
Council of Ministers plans to carry out the first steps to define this process in FY2005. The
Organic Law o f the Office ofthe Inspector General (OIG) is ready for approval bythe Council
of Ministers, but is also awaiting the completion o f the harmonization exercise. In the
meantime, the Inspector Generalhas successfully completed 10investigations at the request of
the Prime Minister andhas referred five cases to the prosecutor general over the course o fthe
fiscal year. Five further cases havebeenreferredto the prosecutor generalbythe internal audit
unitof the Ministry ofPlanningandFinance. The OIGhasalso continuedwork on education
andoutreach through the NationalInstitute of Public Administration (INAP).InMarch2005,
the Prime Minister extendedto the OIG the authority to refer all criminal cases directly to the
Prosecutor General, and one case has been directly referred. On March 11,2005, the Prime
Minister sponsored a seminar on Integrityof the State to explore ideas o f conflict o f interest,
codes o f conduct, income and asset declaration, and the anticorruption agenda o f the
Provedor. Meetings have begunbetween the Government and members o f the media on the
development of a freedom of information policy to provide guidelines on information
dissemination and arrangements for accessto information.

35.      The Government has developed a state-of-the-art policy and institutions for the
prudentmanagement of oil andgas revenues basedon the Norwegianmodel, with a view to
maximizing benefits for current as well as future generations. There has been widespread
consultation on the new policy and draft law, and it was not only submitted to Parliament by
end-June-as programmed-, but also approved.

36.      Significant progress has been made inthe area ofpublic sector management. After
successfully promulgating the Civil Service Act inJune 2004, includingthe ethics code and a
section on disciplinary procedures, the Ministry of State Administration (MSA) is in the
process of preparing supplementary legislation, regulations, and procedures so that the Act
can become fully operational. I"i s conducting courses on the Civil Service Act. The
foundations of a human resource management system are being established. Cleaning o f data
files was completed in January 2005, and bids have been received for automation o f the
PersonnelManagement InformationSystem(PMIS). Finalizationo fthe study on the preferred
option for localadministration hasbeen delayed, which is wise as this is work that requires in-
depth analysis and consensus-building. Much remains to be done, however, for the civil
service o f Timor-Leste to be established and function effectively to support NDP
implementation. The overall level of capacity inthe civil service is extremely low and a large
number of vacant positions still remainto be filled. Moreover, the pay structure of the civil
service could usefullybe reviewed once the remainingUNpresence is withdrawn next fiscal
year so as to ensure that wage levels are appropriate given the country's skills level, public
resourceavailability andcomparability with the privatesector.

37.      Inthejustice sector, the trainingofjudges, prosecutors, andpublic defendersiswell
advanced. Evaluations o f court actors have been undertaken, but unfortunately none o f the

                                               13

judges have passed. The training ofcourt actorshas createdimportant gaps instaffing, though
the appointment of international judges has led to some improvements in the efficiency o f
case resolution. The Court of Appeals and the Office of the Prosecutor General conducted
reviews of their backlogs, and in the Court o f Appeals this has led to a reduction in the
number of illegal detentions. The Superior Council for the Judiciary has not undertaken
additional disciplinary cases andinspection reports, and some key staffpositions have not yet
been filled, though this i s not considered a priority given that the training of judges is still
ongoing. District courts in Suai and Oecusse have reopened, but their operation remains
heavily dependent on support fi-om the UnitedNations Mission inEast Timor. InFY2005, the
courts assumed control oftheir own budgetsfiom the Ministryof Justice. While basic finance
and administrative systems are inplace for the courts, budgetexecution has beenmoderately
slower than in FY2004. Progress on the creation o f a new legal framework for the justice
sector continues. The Public Prosecutor Organic Law is currently under consideration by
Parliament, and the Public Defender Organic Law is being debated by the Council o f
Ministers. The Public Registration Decree Law has been submitted to the Council o f
Ministers, but approval i s pending harmonization with the civil code. The draft law on
domestic violence is expected to be submitted to Parliament by June 2005. Finally, the
development of a penal code, criminal procedure code, and civil procedure code are well
underway.

38.      Performance inplanning and public expenditure management has varied across
phases o f the budgeting process. Budget elaboration andreporting have continued to progress
well. The Budget Call Circular was issued earlier in the fiscal year - in November as
compared to February in the previous year-- so as to allow more time for preparation o f
submissions by line ministries and a more extended period for consideration by Parliament.
The Government has also made impressive progress in moving towards a combined sources
budget that includes donor financing as well as Government's own resources. Moreover, for
the first time, the budget document also includes detailed outlays for capital expenditures,
which should allow improved monitoringbyParliament, civil society andother stakeholders.

39.      Pro-poor budget allocation targets have been met in FY2005, with the combined
education andhealth budgetstotalling over 35 percent ofrecurrent expenditures o f the central
Government budget (36.6 percent) and security spending under the target of 25 percent o f the
recurrent central Government budget (20.7 percent). Budget allocations for primaryeducation
have remainedabove 45 percent o fthe recurrent educationbudget(47 percent), while hospital
budget allocations have been constrained to 40 percent of the recurrent health budget.
However, expenditure management is a continuing area o f weakness, with budget execution
rates continuing to be low and, insome cases, falling. Over FY04, budget execution on a cash
basis amounted to only 75 percent. This i s an area of serious concern as it significantly
impacts on service delivery and weakens Government legitimacy. Quarterly budget execution
reports and final audited accounts are beingproduced on time and the latter were submitted to
Parliament in a timely manner. However, there have been some delays inthe submission o f
quarterlybudget execution reports andthe managementletter accompanying the final audited
accountsto parliament.




                                              14

            IV. BANKSUPPORTTO THE GOVERNMENT'SSTRATEGY

LINKToCAS

40.      The Bank's first Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) was presented to the Board in
November 2000 and has provided the framework for Bank assistance to Timor-Leste in the
immediate post-independence period. The TSS pillars were built on the Road Map and
StabilityProgrampriority areas-establishing aninstitutional framework for improvements in
service delivery for poverty-reduction, particularly improvements inthe health and education
sectors; job creation, especially through private sector development and agriculture; andgood
governance.

41.      The CAS aims to continue to support Timor-Leste in achieving tangible results in
sustainable growth and poverty-reduction and is aligned along the same three strategic pillars
mentioned above: delivering sustainable services, creating gainful employment and
strengthening governance. These three pillars have also provided the basic structure o f the
TSP and are proposed to be continued under CSP. Two critical cross-sectoral issues will be
mainstreamed throughout CAS programs: gender and youth. Across the strategic pillars, the
CAS will emphasize four principles of engagement:buildinginstitutionalcapacity, deepening
the results orientation, strengtheningtransparency and communication, and consolidating and
extending the strong partnerships that have been established with donors active in Timor-
Leste.

42.      As an operation that emphasizes a whole-of-Government approach and multi-donor
partnerships, the CSP will remain the backbone o f the Bank's overall assistance program in
Timor-Leste. CSP I(FY2006) has been designed to consolidate the strengths o f preceding
budget support operations, namely prioritization, self-monitoring, capacity-building, and
donor coordination. It is also meant to support the long-term strengthening inthe supply side
of the economy while providing a short-term fiscal stimulus to the demand side. It focuses on
the same three strategic pillars as the CAS and it embodies the four above-mentioned
principles of engagement.

COLLABORATION WITHTHEIMFAND OTHERDONOM

43.      Although the IMF does not have a program with Timor-Leste, missions visit the
country regularly and discuss macro-economic and fiscal projections with Government .inthe
context of IMF surveillance. The IMF i s also closely involved in providing technical
assistanceinkey areas of public finance andpetroleum management through advisors placed
inthe MinistryofPlanning andFinance, including inthe Revenue Service and Statistics, and
the Banking and PaymentsAuthority. The Bank and the IMFhave collaborated closely inthe
design and progress assessment under TSP as well as in coordinating capacity-building
strategies for the Ministry of Planning and Finance and producing just-in-time technical
information such as the production o f an IssuesPaper on the SIPSprocess. Recently, the IMF
and the World Bank have jointly prepared a Joint Staff Advisory Note (JSAN) on Timor-
Leste's National Development Plan, the Road Map to its implementation and the Sector
Investment Programs. These documents along with the JSAN were presented to the Fundand
BankboardsinJune2005.


                                               15

44.       The TSPlCSP dialogue is the only forum in Timor-Leste where Government-wide
policy issues are discussed andresults are monitoredjointly by Government and donors. The
twice-yearly TSPlCSP missions provide analytical pieces on emergingpolicy issuesand carry
out intensive monitoring and policy dialogue between mission members, line ministries, the
Ministryof PlanningandFinance and the donor community -including with Parliament and
civil society. Missions start with individual meetings with Government, civil society,
Parliament and development partners and are followed by one week of back-to-back plenary
sessions on each area of CSP. These plenary sessions provide a much-appreciated forum for
discussion and agreement on the policies and results to be included in the new program -
during an appraisal mission or the assessment of progress made -during a progress review
mission. These meetings are chaired by the Vice-Minister o f Planning and Finance and
presentations are made by each responsible ministrylGovernment agency. Although the line
ministry representatives are normally the Minister or Vice-Minister, they have increasingly
involvedmid-level Government officials, which the Government feels contributes to capacity-
building. The results matrix for the program is the result of this dialogue-with     the vast
majority o f measures originating fi-om the Government's own annual action plans and others
resulting from the policy dialogue process. As o f this year, the latter measures are also
integrated into annual action plans to ensure proper follow up by each relevant Government
agencylstate institution.

45.       Over the first three years, nine bilateral donors have provided co-financing for the
Transition Support Program through Bank administered Trust Funds. Contributions from
these development partners have amountedto US$76.3 over the three years: UnitedKingdom
(US$22.6 million); Australia (US$16.8 million); UnitedStates o fAmerica (US$12.0 million);
Norway(US$l1.8 million); Ireland(US$4.5 million); Finland(US$3.3 million); NewZealand
(US$2.1 million); Canada (US1.8 million); and Sweden (US$1.4 million). In addition,
Portugal has providedparallel budgetarysupport financing o f US$ 9.0 million directly, rather
than through Bank-administered Trust Funds. Other development partners have actively
participated in TSP design and monitoring, particularlythe European Union, Japan, UNDP,
andUNICEF. Civil society organizations are also consulted inthe design ofthe program, and
results fi-om progressmissions are shared and discussedwith them.

46.       Six bilateral donors have confirmed they will provide co-financing for the
Consolidation Support Programthrough a World Bank-administered Multi-Donor Trust Fund
(Australia, Ireland, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal and the United States) while two
additional donors have yet to confirm their participation. Inaddition, the Asian Development
Bankhasjoined the multi-donor team inbringingsupport to the infiastructure sector. A wide
variety o f development partners, including the UN system partners and the Governments of
BrazilandJapanhaveparticipated as observersinthe design ofCSPI.

RELATIONSHIP ToOTHERBANKOPERATIONS

47.       Since early 2000, the multi-donor Trust Fund for East Timor (TFET) has been a
central vehicle of World Bank support to Timor-Leste. TFET-financedprojects inagriculture,
education, health, infrastructure, private sector development and community empowerment
total US$170 million. TFET-supported sector projects, which have increasingly evolved
toward sector-wide approaches, have provided the basis for the sector components in TSP.
While TFET-funded sector programs have been wide and deep intheir coverage and level of

                                                16

engagement, TSP has complemented them by including each sector's top priorities for high-
levelmonitoring. Moreover, thejoint engagementofthe MinistryofPlanning andFinance and
line ministries under TSP has encouragedcohesiveness between sector policies and budgets.
The whole-of-Government approach of TSP and sectoral interventions have thus been highly
complementary. Moreover, giventhe Government's limited implementation capacity, support
provided through sector projects has beencrucial to policy implementation andthe attainment
o fresults inkey TSP areas, particularly service delivery.

48.      CSP I(FY2006) is also complemented by grants to support capacity building,
particularly inthe areas of governance andpublic finance, andby a program o f analytical and
advisory work. Grants include support to the Ministryof Planning andFinance inthe areas o f
planning, expenditure management and procurement, support to the Office o f the Inspector
General and the Office o f the Provedor (Ombudsman), as well as financing to buildcapacity
for the implementation o f the National Development Plan. Given the critical importance o f
capacity building for improved budget elaboration and execution, CSP Iwould be "twinned"
with a program of capacity buildinginpublic financial management.The proposedplanning
and financial management capacity-building program (PFMCBP) would bring development
partners together in the provision o f considerable institutional capacity building inplanning,
budget preparation, execution, and reporting. Therefore, while CSP focuses on supporting
Government's management capacity in the areas o f service delivery, governance, and job
creation, PFMCBP focuses on the twin area o f capacity building in public financial
management. The combination of CSP and PFMCBP forms a strategic part o f the upcoming
CAS for Timor-Leste.

LESSONSLEARNED

49.      The Government hasconsistently praisedthe contribution ofthe TSP to Government-
owned policy prioritization, capacity-building, results orientation, and donor coordination ina
post-conflict environment. The TSP has supported strategic annual planning and high-level
monitoring with a whole-of-Government approach. Indoing so by taking guidance from the
NDP, sector strategies and annual action plans, the program has cultivated Government
ownership. It has promoted capacity building by using the Government's own systems and
processes for budget preparation and execution, including mid-level managers in program
elaboration and monitoring, and providing a forum for discussion on prioritization,
implementation, results, and monitoring. The preparation o f a time-bound matrix o f policy
andinstitutionalmeasurestogether with their expectedoutcomeshasinstilled disciplinewhile
internal disciplinary mechanisms still remain weak and has fostered good planning and
enhancedagencies' results-orientation.

50.      The TSP has strengthened donor coordination by bringing together the majority o f
Timor-Leste's development partners in the preparation and monitoring o f the program, thus
serving as an anchor for all donor-financed activities. This coordination mechanism allows
coverage o f all critical issues, drawing upon the comparative advantage o f each development
partner, andpromotes the mainstreaming o f cross-cutting issues such as gender.

51.      TSP has also encouraged policy dialogue within and across ministries and between
government, donors and civil society. By linking budgets with results, TSP has encouraged
coordination between MPF and line ministries and across line ministries. It has enhancedthe

                                                17

results-orientation of MFF and the focus on financial management of line ministries. While
incipient, TSP has also been an increasingly important vehicle for the expression o f civil
society's priorities and concerns. Moreover, TSP missions have met with the public finance
committee of Parliament.TSP, however, has hadto keep a delicate balance between fostering
civil society and Parliamentary involvement while respecting the views o f an often reluctant
Government.

52.      TSP implementation has also brought to light the challenges o f budget support in
Timor-Leste. The program's broad scope and wide donor participation poses difficulties in
balancing representativeness with strategic focus. Including a large number o f areas and
actionsloutcomes within each area accommodates the inclusion o f the priorities of various
Government agencies as well as eleven developmentpartners. It also allows the programto be
representative of overall progress across and within each sector or area, supporting
Government planningandmonitoring at various points of the results chain. At the same time,
however, program expansion can lead to unrealistic expectations about what Government can
deliver while dilutingfocus on the most strategic issues. Similarly, inclusiono fpolicy actions
as well as outputs andlor outcomes can lead to over-burdening the program and, arguably,
excessivemicro-management.

53.     Finally, budget support operations such as TSP play an important role in the long-
term strengthening of Government systems andprocesses andthe development of institutional
structures. However, they are less effective indelivering short-term results whether interms o f
service delivery or job creation, in particular if Government systems are weak. This i s an
important trade-off that needs, to be taken into account when designing country assistance
strategies, inparticular inpost-conflict andlor low capacity environments.


ANALYTICALUNDERPINNINGS

54.     Recent analytical work that will underpinthe new TSP includes: a CountryEconomic
Memorandum, which informed preparation of the NDP; a Poverty Assessment, presented in
early 2003 and used as an input to the design o f sector programs; a Public Expenditure
Management and Accountability Note, delivered in May 2002, and a Public Expenditure
Review, delivered inJune 2004. Sector analytical work has supported the policyprocess, both
through analytical studies (as in the case of an education sector study) and through technical
assistanceto the preparation of sector policies and Sector Investment Programs (inthe case o f
agriculture, education, health, roads, and power). Inthe context o f TSP, the Bank has also
preparedissuespapers on Strengtheningthe Institutions of Governance inTimor-Leste andon
the Sector Investment Programs (2004).


       V.    THE PROPOSEDCONSOLIDATIONSUPPORT PROGRAM(CSP I)

OPERATIONDESCRIPTION

A. Rationale

55.     The rationale for the continuation ofmulti-donor budget support under CSP Iis two-
fold. On the policy side, the Government o f Timor-Leste has argued that the program brings


                                               18

critical support in:(i)
                      establishingpriorities; (ii)
                                                 monitoringprogressinpolicy implementation
andthe achievement ofresults; (iii)  buildingcapacity ofState institutions; and(iv) supporting
donor coordination. The focus of this budget support operation on achieving results on-the-
ground andbuildingup Governmentinstitutions as well as fostering overall transparency and
accountability should also contribute to good governanceandsocial stability.

56.      On the fundingside, despite increasedpetroleumrevenue, Timor-Leste will continue
to require substantial financing from development partners due to: (i)considerable
development needs and related funding gaps for the achievement of NDP goals and MDGs;
(ii) Government's intentiontoincreasecombinedsourcesexpenditureandprogressively
     the
shift off-budget spending onto the central Government budget; (iii) country's sound
                                                                         the
savings policy; and (iv) the volatility of petroleum revenues. Neither the current budget o f
US$79 million nor the currently sustainable budget of US$130-170 million will suffice to
implement the NDP or achieve the MDGs. The central Government budget represents less
than 50 percent of combined sources spending, and many of the bi-lateral and multi-lateral
programs encompass expenditures that constitute core Government functions and are
ultimately long-term liabilities for Government, such as pharmaceuticals, educational
materials and maintenance of irrigation perimeters. These project-based expenditures also
place a large burdenon Governmentas itjuggles a multitudeof different donor processes and
procedures. To alleviate this burden and improve long-term planning, the Government i s
planning the gradual shift of a larger fraction of off-budget expenditures onto the central
Government budget andhas requested continued budgetary assistancethrough CSP to support
this shift.

57.       CSP I will contribute to financing an increased level of Government expenditure
which is warranted both @om the development needs as well as @om the macro-fiscal
perspectives. As explained above, CSP Iwill continue to support the Government in its
implementation o f the National Development Plan, in terms o f both policy and financing. It
should also contribute to stimulating aggregate demand and generating growth and job
creation. This i s particularly important as UN personnel winds down placing downward
pressure on aggregate demand and given the weakness of overall private sector demand. This
weakness o fprivate demandturns the public sector into the main engine o f growth inthe non-
petroleum economy, strengtheningthe rationale for expansionary fiscal policy and continued
budget support. Moreover, the Planning andFinancialManagement Capacity-Building project
would be "twinned" with the CSP to focus on strengthening the budget execution capacity o f
the Government, thus increasing the feasibility and effectiveness o f integrating more
expenditure into the national budget and of overall fiscal expansion. An increased level of
expenditure would also show the population the benefits that can be reaped from petroleum
revenuewithin the boundariesofthe Government's savings policy.

58.       The monitoring process inherent to this budget support operation and the
transparency and accountability systems it helps to build can help support the Government's
sound savings policy by containing pressuresto spend petroleum revenues above the level o f
sustainable income. The focus o f ' the operation on increasing transparency and
communications should also support Government efforts to provide needed information to
stakeholders across society on the Government's savings policy and its use o fpetroleum -and
other-- funds.


                                              19

B. ProgramDesignandKeyPerformanceOutcomesandIndicators

Prior Actions

59.       Within the program presented by Government for TSP III(FY2005), the Program
Document identified twelve key actions for implementation during the year. The most
important o f these key actions have been completed-submission of the Petroleum FundLaw
andsavings policy to Parliament, approval ofdisciplinary regulations for the civil service and
submissionto Parliament of the FY2006 budget and medium-term framework on a combined
sources basis (g, handj). Four others have beenpartially completed (a, cyk and 1) and two of
them (a and c) are expectedto be fully completedthis fiscal year (FY2006). Four actions have
not been completed (byd, e, f), but, with technical assistance pledged from development
partners, they have good prospects for implementation this fiscal year. Finally, one action has
been droppedas it is no longer consideredapriority (i).




    policy, preparedfollowingan openand            savingspolicy, preparedfollowingan
    consultativeprocess.                           openand consultativeprocess.
h   Approvalofdisciplinaryregulationsfor the       Approval of disciplinaryregulationsfor  Completed
    civil service.                                 the civil service.
i ImplementationofinspectionsbytheSuperior                                                 Notcompleted.Dropped
    Councilofthe Judiciary, enforcementof
    decisions on disciplinarycases, andpublication
    ofresolutions.
j    Submissionofthe FY2006AnnualBudgetand         Submissionof the FY2006AnnualBudget     Completed
    Medium-TermExpenditureFrameworkto              andMedium-TennExpenditure
    Parliament,on aCombinedSourcesbasis.           Frameworkto Parliament, on aCombined
                                                   Sourcesbasis.
k.1  Implementationofpilot grant mechanismin       Implementationof pilot grantmechanism   Completed
    primaryschools                                 inprimaryschools

k.2 Decisionon follow-up (to pilot grant                                                   Not completed. Re-scheduledto
    mechanism), with aview to integrating                                                  CSP Imatrix
    allocations inthe FY2006budget.
1   Establishmentof a Business Forum, with two     One BusinessForumsession heldduring     Partlycompleted
    sessionsheldduringFY2005                       FY2005



                                                             20

60.      The Provedor de Direitos Humanos e daJustigawas appointed andhasbeenswom-in
byParliament. H i s office hasnot yet beenestablishedbutthere is abudget allocationto do so
inFY2006. After extensivecountry-wide consultations, the PetroleumFundLaw andsavings
policy were not only submitted to Parliament -as envisaged in the program-- but also
approved. The pilot grant mechanism for primary schools has been implemented and the
money has been spent by the recipient schools. The FY2006 budget was presentedwithin a
medium-term fi-amework and on a combined sources basis, pooling on the extensive donor
financing database developed for the elaboration of Sector Investment Programs. The Civil
Service including the ethics code and a section on disciplinary procedures was successhlly
approved. It was envisaged that two business forums would be held over the program period,
but due to difficulties in scheduling and competing priorities for Government officials, they
have been delayed. The first forum, however, did take place on June 23 2005. The Office o f
the Inspector General (OIG) has launchedits website including summary reports producedby
the OIG. The corrective measures, however, will nQtbe ready in time and their posting has
been rolled over to next year's program. The completed actions identified in this paragraph
(andinTable 3 above) areprior actions for the presentationofthis operation to the Board.

61.      The remaining key outputs have not yet been implemented. They have been re-
scheduledto CSP Iand appropriate technical assistanceto support themhas beenpledgedby
development partners. In particular, the development of the directive on the policy and
legislative process is due to take place this coming fiscal year with technical assistance from
development partners. The terms o f reference for the study on the implementation
arrangementsfor an independentaudit office are being drafted and the study i s expectedto be
presentedto the Court o fAppeals by September2005. The drafting o fthe procurement decree
law is taking longer than hadbeen anticipated due to technical reasons, the heavy work load
on the legislative drafting agenda, as well as a lengthy consultation process within
Government. Significant progresshasbeenmade inthe preparation o fthe procurement decree
law. Its approvalbythe CouncilofMinisters, traininginthe newdecreelaw for lineministries
and the implementation o f pilot procurement delegation projects in selected line ministries
have been included under CSP I. on this front will be critical to facilitating the
                                     Progress
budget execution process. The financial management law has been drafted and is currently
being circulated within Government for comments. The Government and the CSP team will
discuss whether the Government plans to finalize this law by end-June 2006 and hence
whether itshouldbeincluded inCSP I.

62.      The reason for the revision of the triggers proposed under TSP 111is two-fold. First
off, despite significant progress achieved in the most critical areas included in TSP 111, a
number oftriggerswere not hlfilled. It is now estimated that the program, particularlyinthe
governance area, was too ambitious and that it wan-antedrevision under CSP I. second The
reason for the revision i s that there i s still a considerable level o f uncertainty on what is
achievable over one year in the context o f very weak capacity o f State institutions and that
caution is warranted inthe definition o f program triggers. Instead, some of the measures that
were formerly triggers are pursuedin the matrix for CSP Ibut at a pace more in line with
implementation capacity.

63.      The actionthat hasbeendroppedis the implementation ofinspections bythe Superior
Council o f the Judiciary (SCJ). The SCJ has completed the evaluation o f alljudges and, as a
result, all judges were disqualified from their positions. In the context of the evaluation

                                                21

process, the SCJ has not undertaken additional disciplinary cases and inspection reports, and
still lacks personnel for the key positions o fjudge inspector andjudge evaluator, as well as
administrative staff. However, given that the training o fjudges is still ongoing, filling these
positions inthe SCJ is not deemed a priority by the President of the SCJ. As a consequence,
the Government andthe TSP team decidedto drop this action from the TSPKSP program.

Key Performance Outcomesand Indicatorsfor CSPI-III

64.       The Consolidation Support Program, like its predecessor TSP, will be a grant-
financed budget support operation with a strategic whole-of-Government approach. The
ultimate goal of the operation is to foster poverty reduction and sound governance by
supporting the implementation and monitoring o f Timor-Leste's                           strategic planning
instruments (notably the National Development Plan, the Stability Program, sector policies
and Sector Investment Programs). Within this broad framework, CSP I(FY2006) establishes
milestones and performance targets to monitor progress on a subset o f priority areas agreed
with Government and in consultation with Parliament and civil society. It also seeks to
support the development of institutions andpolicy processes conducive to sound governance
andpovertyreduction.

65.        Buildingupon the experience ofthe TSP andthe Government's policy andplanning
initiatives, CSP Iseeks to strike a balancebetweenthe achievement o f tangible results andthe
development of the institutional and policy processes that lay the basis for progress in the
medium term. The CSP Iand its accompanyingresults matrix establish milestones andtargets
for key areas ineach sector. Selection of these areas has been based on four criteria: (i)               clear
link to the achievement of tangible results on the ground or to the development of critical
institutions and policy processes; (ii)       ownership by Government and other relevant State
institutions; (iii)   administrative and technical feasibility; and (iv) potential for multiplicative
effects and sustainability.6

66.       The keyperformance outcomes and indicators for the end o f the three-year program
period, which are derivedfrom the CAS and supportedthrough the CSP, are outlinedinTable
4 below. They center on improved service delivery in the basic education, health and power
sectors, job creation and food security, and transparency, probity and efficiency in public
sector-including public finance-management for service delivery.




   _____

  An example ofa policy interventionwith multiplicative effects is information availability, Once informationis
publicly available, it canbe usedby any stakeholder-Parliament,  civil society, the media, the donor community
or an interestedGovernmentagency.

                                                     22

               Table 4: Key PerformanceOutcomes and Indicators for CSP1-111




  services                                          Attended deliveries: from28 to 40%




  4. Jobs creationdirectly throughbudget            30,000 jobs created
  implementationandoverseasemployment
  programs andthroughimprovementofprivate
  sector enablingenvironment
  5. Improvedprivate sector enablingenvironment,    Improvedperformanceagainst "Doing Business" indicators
  resultinginincreasedtrade, investmentandjobs

                                                  I
  6. Building blocks for improvedfood security and  Foodsecuritystrategyinplace
  food productioninplace                            Timely reportingandmonitoringof food security
                                                  I Agricultural extensionmodelpilotedwith increasedinformation
                                                    to farmers, particularlywomen
  7. Transparencyandprobity inmanagingpetroleum    1PetroleumFundestablishedandsavingspolicy implemented
  revenuesandsafeguardsagainstcorruption            throughoutthe period
                                                    PetroleumInvestmentBoardandConsultativeCouncil
                                                    establishedandoperationalfrom January2006 to the endofthe
                                                    period
                                                    Provedorfunctioningcrediblyineducation, preventionand
                                                    investigationofcorruption
  8. Civil serviceproperlystaffedandfunctioning     Appropriatecareer andpaystructure introduced
  effectivelyto ensureservicedelivery               Clear responsibilitiesandreportingarrangementsestablished
                                                   I
  9. Improvedaccess tojustice, with enhanced        Prosecutionbacklogreducedfrom 3,000 to 1,000
  quality andefficiency

  10. Improvedimplementationofbudgetina             FY2008budget executionfigures show spending> 80% of
  transparentmanner, inline with savingspolicy and  appropriations
  sustainablegrowthandpoverty-reductiongoals        Budgets for FY2006-2008includingthe medium-term,final
                                                    auditedaccountsandmanagementletters publishedinan
                                                    accessibleform


Triggersfor CSP11

67.        The Consolidation Support Program (CSP I)              constitutes a very broad and ambitious
action programto be implementedby Government and other State institutions inTimor-Leste
over FY2006. Within this broad CSP program, a number of areas that are regarded as
particularly important in achieving program development objectives and laying the


'Targets  are for end-FY2008 unless otherwise indicated.
 The baseline net enrollment rate for grade one may need to be revisedas data onthe school-age population
fromthe 2004 censusbecomesavailable. Inthis case, the target for FY2008 wouldbe accordingly revisedto be 5
percentage points above the baseline.

                                                      23

foundations for a prospective Second Consolidation Support Program (FY2007) are
highlightedbelow.

68.      The measures selected as triggers pertain to areas where critical policy actions are
needed over the CSP Iperiod in order to achieve the development goals identified in the
previous section. This is the case for the education, power, job creation, petroleum revenue
management, justice and public finance management areas. In sectors where the focus over
the CSP Iperiod is not on policy change but on implementation and results (such as health,
agriculture and civil service), no triggers were selected. The inclusion o f the measures
identifiedbelow as triggers for CSP IIwill be confirmed with Government and development
partnersduringnegotiations:

               National Strategyfor the Universal Completion ofPrimaryEducationby2015
               (the EFAPlan) approved andmonitoringsystem agreedbetweenMoEC and
               EFAdonors(Outcome 2, Table 4)

               Designo fbusiness models for electrificationpilots at two districts finalized
               (Outcome 3, Table 4)

               Two business-Governmentforums held, resultinginconcrete actions taken to
               reducethe regulatory burdenonbusiness andcreatejobs (Outcomes 4 and5,
               Table 4)

               PetroleumInvestmentAdvisory Boardoperational (Outcome 7, Table 4)

               Consultative Council (on petroleum andsavingspolicy) operational (Outcome
               7, Table 4)

               Long-term humanresource development plan forjustice sector finalized and
               financing sourcesidentified(Outcome 9, Table 4)

               Audited FinalAccounts for FY2005 andFY2006 Budget published and
               available on GoTL websites and distributedto districts (Outcome 10, Table 4)

               BudgetexecutionrateinFY2006higherthaninFY2005 (Outcome 10, Table
               4)

               Capacity-buildingprogram to support planning, expenditure management,
               accounting andauditing inplace (Alloutcomes, Table 4)


POLICYAREAS

ComponentObjectivesandOutputsfor CSPI
69.      Inline with the CAS, the Consolidation Support Program (CSP I) emphasizes three
thematic pillars and four key principles o f engagement. While the thematic pillars constitute
the "what" or substantive content o f the results sought by the program, the principles of
engagement attempt to address the "how" or the political economy o f achieving the results
identified.


                                              24

70.      The three thematicpillars, as inprevious programs, are service delivery for poverty
reduction, job creation and good governance. Gender and monitoring and evaluation have
received special attention as cross-cutting issues. The full program agreedunder CSP Icanbe
found in the results matrix attachedto the Government's Letter of Development Policy. The
sections below provide a summarypresentationoftheir keyobjectives andpolicy actions.

71,      Service delivery. This CSP pillar continues to include education, health, and veterans
affairs, but it now also covers infrastructure and, in particular, power, roads, and water and
sanitation. This is an important step forward, as the infrastructure sector i s crucial to
supporting growth and poverty reduction. Infrastructure components draw heavily on the
ADB-supported Government programs in this area in order to ensure consistency between
whole-of-Government priorities and sector interventions. The service delivery outcomes that
are most relevant to Timor-Leste's population have been identified for each area and targets
for monitoringprogressinthe achievement ofthese results havebeen established.

72.      The program also includes expenditure targets on the education and health sectors
combined (at or above 35 percent of the budget), on primary education as a percentage of the
education budget (at or above 45 percent) and on hospital expenditure as a percentage o f the
health current budget (at or under 40 percent). The targets apply bothto budget allocations as
well as to executed expenditures. This emphasis supports the Government's resolve to
improve budget execution in these key ministries, particularly in the Ministry o f Education,
Culture, Youth, and Sports while strengtheningthe cohesivenessbetween the NDP, SIPS, and
budgets.

73.      Health. Programmed actions andoutputs focus on performance improvements on the
ground through the implementation of newly developed sector policies and the efficient
management of hospitals. Performance improvements on the ground will be monitored
through indicators on vaccination rates, deliveries attended by skilled staff and outpatient
visits per capita. Implementation of sector policies will be supported by ensuring adequate
fiscal space for primary health care and improvedsector planningandmonitoring through the
inclusiono f information from donor projects inquarterly district planmonitoringreports. The
efficient management o f hospitals will be enhanced through the elaboration o f a service
package for hospitals with revised hospital monitoring arrangements for FY2007. Overall
sector performance is expected to be enhancedthrough a facilitated organizational review of
the MOHaimed at improvingthe technical andorganizational support for its core programs.

74.      Education. Programmed actions and outputs focus on increasing access, efficiency,
and quality inbasic education. Achieving these results critically depends on the development
of a strategy for universal primarycompletion of education, enhancedcapacity o fthe Ministry
of Education, Culture, Youth and Sports (MECYS) as well as improved budget execution. To
achieve the first objective, the Government will develop, approve and publish a strategy for
achieving universal primary completion by 2015 over the program period. It will also aim to
enhance the capacity o fMECYS by carrying out an institutional assessment o f the Ministry --
with appropriate stakeholder consultation-and       an associated capacity-building plan. The
program also includes a commitment to improve budget execution by at least 15 percent
comparedto last year.




                                               25

75,      Infrastructure. Programmed actions and outputs focus on developing strategies to
improve access to infrastructure throughout the country, especially inremote areas, and with
particular attention to power, roads, andwater and sanitation services. Inthe power sector, the
main objective o f the program is to enhance access to power inthe districts so as to support
private sector development and improved living conditions by the Timorese population
outside Dili. In the transport sector, the program aims at improving road, bridge and river
embankment maintenance as well as at supporting the development of a five-year strategy for
the road sector. In the water and sanitation sector, program components support the
development of a legal andinstitutional framework for water andsanitation, improving access
to water for the population and improving solid waste management and disposal. The
infrastructure components o f CSP will be implemented mainly through ADB and JICA
projects andwill bemonitoredbythese agenciesthroughtheir projects as well as through their
participation inCSP missions.

76.      Veterans.Programmedactions and outputs inthis area focus on developing the policy
and legislative framework to recognize veterans o f the resistance, in particular through the
registrationofveterans, the approval of aveterans law andthe development o f a database.

77.      Job creation. Risingunemployment i s a top concern for the Government o f Timor-
Leste. The most important source o f economic growth is the oil and gas sector, but because
this is a capital- and technology-intensive sector, it creates very few jobs. Meanwhile, lack o f
opportunities inrural areas is causingrapidmigrationto Diliand other urbanareas, leading to
an increase inunemployed youth andthus opening up the potential for increasedpoverty and
social instability. As mentionedinother sections, CSP supportsjob creationbycontributingto
the fiscal expansion envisaged in the FY06 budget as well as through supporting and
monitoringpolicy actions inthe private sector development andagriculture sectors.

78.      Private sector development. Programmed actions and outputs under CSP Ifocus on
the direct and immediate generation o f employment, the development o f a legislative and
regulatory environment conducive to private sector development, and the institutionalization
o f dialogue between Government and the private sector. Three thousand direct jobs are
expected to be created through public works as a consequence o f increased budget
expenditure and two hundred workers are programmed to be voluntarily placed overseas
through the Emigrant Workers Program. The development of the legislative and regulatory
environment i s to be supported among other measures through the adoption of the legal
framework on land rightsltitling, foreign owner compliance, cadastre, natural resources, and
agricultural use. Two Government-Business Fonuns aimed at reducing the regulatory burden
on doing business are to be held over the program period and the dialogue i s to be
institutionalized by determining the structure and frequency o f these forums for Govemment-
privatesector dialogue.

79.      Agriculture. Programmed actions and outputs focus on fmalizing the legislative
framework for the sector and on enhancing food security and sustainable resource
management. The program also includes an expenditure target for the sector o f 4.7 percent of
the overall budget to ensure resources allocation is sufficient to carry out sector tasks. The
forestry policy, strategy, laws, and regulations are expected to be finalized over the program
period. Food security is to be enhanced through the establishment o f a monitoring and
evaluation system, including baseline 3ields for upland crops and sustainable resource

                                               26

management is to be supportedby reaching agreement on a fisheries monitoring, control and
surveillance system.

80.
work program initiated under TSP and includes many actions rolled over from TSP m. It
          Governance. The governance agenda included in CSP Iis the continuation o f the

covers the areas identifiedinthe Government's RoadMap for the implementationo fthe NDP
as critical, namely strengthening: a) the administrative structures o f the state (i.e. oversight
institutions, core government functions, public sector management, and public finance
management,); b) thejustice system; andc) the Timor-Leste Nationalpolice.

81.       Oversight ~n~titution~.Programmed actions and outputs focus on the establishment
andoperation o fthe Officeofthe Provedor (Ombudsman) andthe transfer o fexternal audit to
the Court o fAppeals with support from Treasury.

82.       Core Government Functions. This program component focuses on the establishment
o f the institutional arrangements for an effective and transparent legislative process, offering
adequate opportunities for public consultation, the development o f a regulatory framework to
enhance integrity in the State, including through the Office of the Inspector General and
selective income and asset declarations and on nurturing responsible, independent, and
effective media. It also includes the effective managemento f oil and gas revenues and savings
through the successful implementation of the savings policy and Petroleum Fund, and the
establishmento fthe Investment Advisory BoardandConsultative Council.

83.      Public Sector Man~gement,Programmed actions and outputs focus on elaborating
disciplinary regulations for the civil service, developing a human resource management
system, strengthening capacity to manage for results, and exploring options for devolution to
local administrations.

84.      Justice Sector. This program component focuses on improving access to justice by
strengthening human resource planning and case management, reducing backlogs in
prosecution, and improving administrative, financial, and procurement systems inthe justice
sector.

85.      Planning and Public Expenditure Management. Programmed actions and outputs in
this area focus on strengthening the Government's ability to use its financial resources to
deliver the best development results for its population. To achieve this goal, the program
supports the development o f institutional capacity for public financial management, the
elaboration and execution o f a pro-poor budget in line with the savings policy, the
enhancement of transparency and accountability to the legislature and public, and the
improvement of the effectiveness of customs administration. Institutional capacity i s to be
enhanced through the development and commencement o f implementation o f a capacity-
building program in public financial management while the composition and execution of
public expenditure is to be monitored closely through the program. Various transparency and
accountability measures have also been agreed under the program, such as the publication of
audited final accounts for FY2005 and the budget for FY2006 on the Government's website,
the timely distribution o f FY2006 budget and quarterly budget execution reports to District
Administrators, the timely submission o f quarterly budget execution reports andAudited Final
Accounts and Management Letter for FY2005 to Parliament. To improve the effectiveness

                                                27

and probity in customs administration, automated customs clearance procedures have been
extended to several customs offices, the cargo managementat Dili seaport i s to be automated
andimprovementsinrisk assessment andvaluation areto be achieved.

86.      Implementation o f the program will proceed according to the principles of
engagement: deepening the results orientation; fostering transparency and communications;
buildinginstitutionalcapacity; andstrengtheningpartnershipswith donors.

87.     Deepeningthe results orientation. Duringthe first two years following independence,
the Government focused heavily on developing strategic documents and sector policies and
establishing its legal framework. Accordingly, the TSP placed a major emphasis on legal and
policy development, and great strides have been made inthese areas. However, less progress
has been made indelivering tangibleresults to the population. CSP Iwill work to support the
achievement and monitoring o f results on the ground. Within the CSP Iresults matrix, the
Government and development partners havejointly establishedoutput and outcome targets in
the various sectors and supported the development o f monitoring systems. In sectors where
reliable quantitative indicators are not yet available, alternative indicators o f service delivery
outcomeshave beensought.

88.      Fostering transparency and communications. Transparency and communications are
critical to good governance, especially in the context o f weak Government institutions.
Transparency and information availability is particularly important to ensure prudent, pro-
poor and accountable revenue and expenditure management in natural resource-rich
economies. In this regard, CSP Iseeks both to encourage information sharing and
communications with key stakeholders in key policy areas as well as directly through actual
program design andmonitoring. Civil society organizations have been consulted on the design
of CSP Iandbriefedonprogressmadeunder TSP III,          The CSP missionalso briefedthe public
finance committee ofParliament.

89.      Sector teams have an ongoing dialogue with civil society organizations inthe context
o f sector program missions and continue this dialogue during TSPlCSP missions. TSPlCSP
teams meet with civil society at the beginning and the end o f every mission focusing the
consultations on priorities during appraisal missions and on monitoring results achieved
duringprogressmissions. Inthe elaboration ofthe CSP Iprogram, civil society organizations
were also requestedto provide suggestions for transparency and communications measures.
CSP Icontains some critical measures aimed at supporting fkther progress in this critical
area. These measures include, among others, the publication o f budgets and executedbudget
figures, timely submission o f quarterly budget execution reports to Parliament and district
administrators, public dissemination o f information on the petroleum fund, approval o f a
freedom of information framework, issuance o f the official gazette and cabinet minutes in
Tetum as well as Portuguese and the institutionalization of Government-business forums on
investment climate issues.

90.      Building institutional capacity. Despite the significant progress achieved over the past
two years, institutional capacity in Timor-Leste remains understandably weak. The content
and process of the CSP has been designed to foster the self-monitoring and capacity
enhancement that Government has appreciated about the program thus far. Program content
supports prioritization, consistency between sector policies and budgets, focus on results,

                                               28

establishment o f a monitoringculture andassociatedsystems andprocesses. It i s expectedthat
the CSP process will continue to encourage Government leadership and communication
between high-level officials and mid-level technicians and proper coordination between the
Ministry of Planning and Finance and line ministries, betweenthe center and the districts and
between the executive and other stakeholders. Moreover, the presentation o f Timor-Leste's
NDP as a PRSP will requireyearlyelaboration ofannualprogressreports. This process should
support the improvement o f the results-focus and analytical component o f the document
presented annually by Government to its development partners in the context o f the Timor-
Leste Development Partners meeting. Direct efforts to strengthen capacity through the CSP
will be complemented by other capacity-building programs. Given the importance of sound
public finance management in budget support operations and the fact that institutional
weakness is particularly acute in this area, CSP Iwill be twinned with the Planning and
Financial Management Capacity-Building Program. In addition, initiatives in the education
andinfrastructure areaswill supportcapacity-developmentinthese critical sectors.

91.      Strengthening~urtnersh~s     with donors. One of the main strengths o f the TSPlCSP
process is its ability to bringa wide variety o f development partners together insupport o fthe
Government's development program. During FY2002-2005, the TSP was funded by eleven
development partners. Other bilateral donors andUN systempartnershave also participated in
program design and monitoring. The program has thus served as a crucial tool for donor
coordination, helping to avoid duplication o f interventions and making optimal use of
individual partners' comparative advantage. Moreover, under CSP I,development partners
have agreed to monitor progress toward the provision o f information to Government on
annual and medium-term aid commitments as well as on disbursements, with appropriate
classifications and on a time-schedule appropriate to the Government's budget cycle. Progress
in this area will be critical to supporting the development of credible combined sources
budgets. Moreover, the inclusion in the program of commitments to be delivered on by
development partners underscores its genuine partnership nature. The program's results
matrix also includes commitments from development partners to provide technical assistance
inareaswhereitisnecessaryto supportdelivery ofspecific programactions.

92.      Some of the activities identified under CSP I(FY2006) follow up on activities
launched under the TSP (FY2003 to FY2005) that were not completed. IDA provides support
to and monitors those activities within the TransitiodConsolidation Support Program as
consistent with its institutional mandate; activities related to the strengthening o f the national
police force and related judicial activities are supported and monitored by bilateral TSP
partners. The key elements o f and rationale of the IDA monitored and financed program are
reviewedbelow.


                           VI. OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION

93.      Given increased revenues and low budget execution capacity, a smaller amount is
envisaged for CSP I(US$lO million including co-financing). The program will be
Government-implemented. Were the Government's budget execution capacity to improve
significantly, an increase inthe program amount would be considered for the two succeeding
years.


                                                29

POVERTYANDSOCIAL IMPACTS

94.      CSP Ihas been designed to maximize and monitor the impact o f Government
interventions on the welfare o f the poor. Focus on delivering results on the ground to ordinary
citizens and, in particular, the poor should contribute to improved performance in access to
social services, jobs and sound governance. The program also aims at strengthening
monitoringand evaluationsystems.


IMPLEMENTATION,      MONITORING EVALUATION
                                    AND

95.      CSP Iwill have similar implementation arrangements as TSP. The program will be
implemented by the Government agencies designedas responsible for each policy area inthe
results matrix under the overall guidance o f the Ministry o f Planning and Finance. The
program will be managed by the Vice-Minister of Planning and Finance and the Ministry's
NationalDirectorate ofPlanning andExternal Assistance Coordination (NDPEAC).

96.      The Bank, working jointly with other development partners and inconsultation with
Parliament and civil society, will assist the Government inmonitoring progress under CSP I.
Progress will be monitored through the Government's quarterly reports and CSP biannual
progress missions. The annual NDPPRSP progress report will also contribute to monitoring
progress inprogram implementation as well as support the development o f the Government's
ownmonitoring andevaluationcapacity.

97.      As has been the case for TSP Ito III,two progress missions will be scheduled for
CSP I--one missionto monitor progress during the first half o f the programlfiscalyear and a
second mission to assess progress during the second half o f the year and appraise a new
program. In each mission, sector specialists will be assigned to work with Government
officials and inconsultation with other development partners, Parliament, and civil society in
program development andprogress monitoring. Work programs andmethods will continue to
be structured to maximize self-monitoring, enhance Government capacity, and encourage
dialogue andinformationdissemination among keystakeholders.

98.      Inaddition, after the first quarter ofthe fiscal year (end-September 2005), a detailed
analysis o f progress achieved inbudget execution will be carried out. Ifbudget execution is
not on-track, Bank staff will encourage the Government to consider a variety o f mechanisms
for increasing public spending. These could include the expansion o f quick-disbursing
programs such as block grants to schools, the community-based roads maintenance program
and other labor-intensive public works programs andcontracting out services inthe social and
infrastructure sectors. These recommendations would beprovidedintime for the Government
to consider their inclusioninthe mid-year budget updateto be carried out inNovember 2005.
Bank staff would also provide recommendations on emergencymeasures for streamlining the
budget execution process. Over the course o f the program period, Bank staff would also carry
out an analysis of the FY06 budget with a view to providing advice on the FY07 budget and
use data from either a light labor force survey or a proxy indicator to track progress injob
creation andor unemployment.


FIDUCIARY    ASPECTS


                                               30

99.      A Public Expenditure Management and Accountability Note completed inMay 2002
concluded that basic financial management systems were sound inTimor-Leste. A number of
recommendations were madeto address weaknesses insupporting systems, such as linkingthe
procurement and budget execution information systems and the creation o f a comprehensive
asset register. Progress in implementingthese recommendations has been slow and there is
still room for improvement.

100.     A Country Procurement Assessment was finalized in2003. Manyo f the assessment's
recommendations, such as reductions inthe thresholdsfor purchasesthrough shopping, an end
to telephone shopping, and implementation of the procurement information system have
already been implemented. The assessment points to the centralization o f procurement as a
cause o f delays and as undermining the accountability o f line agencies, which remains a
concern. Procurement legislation, incorporating CPAR recommendations, has been submitted
to the Council of Ministers and includes provision for decentralization o f procurement with
appropriate safeguards. The MPF authorized a procurement review by World Bank staff,
based on a sample o f procurement dossiers and stakeholder consultations. While the overall
system was found to be reasonably sound, problems were identified inthe roll over o f supply
contracts and incomplete record keeping in some cases. The audit of FY2004 accounts also
found the overall system to be reasonablysoundbut noted that the procedures for sole source
procurement needto be strictly adheredtc~andreinforcedthe need for sound recordkeeping.

101,     A Public Expenditure Review was presented in July 2004. The review found that,
although expenditures were broadly in line with NDP objectives, progress was needed to
further increase their consistency. Inparticular, the review pointed out the need to reallocate
expenditures from administrative overheads to priority areas and, in particular, to service
deliveryandinfrastructure. The review confirmed that core financial managementsystemsand
procedures were essentially sound. The Government acted promptly to curtail the trend in
administrative overheads duringits FY2004Mid-YearBudget Update and insetting limits for
the FY2005 budget process. Goods and services allocations were cut and specific measures
announced to contain expenditures on vehicles, including sale o f part o f the vehicle fleet.
Action to control administrative expenditures, while welcomed, moves focus away from the
key problem o f poor budget execution. The processing o f commitments and payments
approvals through the CPV system is over-centralized, lengthy and exacerbatedby a lack o f
understandingofrequirements inlineministries. Line agenciesdo not have adequateaccessto
financial management information systems showing their budget allocations, actual
expenditures and remaining available resources. Lack o f access to these systems hampers
planning, leads to the development of parallel systems and contributes to over-caution in
initiating commitments and hence to poor budget execution. As mentioned before, the Prime
Minister has established an inter-ministerial technical committee to address budget execution
and oversight issues and the MPFhas completed a study o fbudgetexecution constraints and
commissioned a secondstudyon constraints inthe development capital budget.

102.     Financial management systems are essentially sound andTimor-Leste meets 12out of
16 HIPC public expenditure management benchmarks. However, the high degree of
centralization that exists in the budget execution process spreads thin limited Government
capacity thereby reducing attention on large transactions and placing control systems away
from where transactions take place, which increases actual fiduciary risk. There is also weak
reporting on outstanding expenditure commitments and accounts payable andthe Government

                                               31

will be encouragedto raise this issue as one deservingspecial attention bythe external auditor
who elaborates Timor-Leste's final accounts and management letter. Moreover, the currently
rudimentary financial management and control systems at agency level need to be developed
to allow for a greater degree of decentralization in public expenditure management. Finally,
there is also the potential for a skills gap created by the scheduled departure of technical
assistance, as the remaining UN funded posts are withdrawn from the MPF at end-FY2005.
The proposed Planning and Financial Management Capacity-Building Program (PFMCBP)
will directly address these concerns by providing support in the following key areas: (a)
Planning, Financial Management, Accounting and Audit; (b) International Technical
Assistance and fellowship programs; and (c) Financial Management Information Systems.
Interimmeasures for fknding key technical advisers inthe public finance management area
before the initiation of PFMCBP are beingdeveloped by the Government with the support of
its development partners.

103.     Itis suggestedthat aprocurementreview following the same terms ofreferenceas
last year's be carried out.

104.     Fiduciary arrangements for the IDA Grant and the MDTF will follow the OP andBP
8.60 for Development PolicyLending. The section above on Fiduciary Aspects concludes that
overall fiduciary policies and institutions are adequate to proceedwith support from IDA and
other development partners. The CSP grant amount will be received directly into the Single
Treasury account of the general budget o f Timor-Leste. The Government o f Timor-Leste is
keen to demonstrate transparency and, for this reason, there will be disclosure o f the CSP
grants received from IDA and other dcvelopment partners in the Annual Accounts o f the
Governmentalongwiththe auditopinion.


DISBURSEMENT AUDIT   AND

105.     D i s ~ ~ r s e m e nand Reporting Arrangements. The IDA Grant will be disbursed in a
                               t
single tranche while funds from other development partners may be disbursed in one or
several tranches. The accounting of the Grant inthe Recipient's Budget Management System
will be reflected in the State Budget under the heading "Revenue" and the sub-heading
"Budget Support from Donors." Therecipient's accounting system allows for M e r analysis
o fthis sub-headingto identify source of funds. The currency inuse inTimor-Leste i s US$ and
all funds from IDA Grant and the Multi-Donor Trust Fund(MDTF) will be received inUS$.
Disbursement will not be linked to any specific purchases, but the Recipient i s required to
comply with the standard negative list of excluded items that may not be financed with IDA-
Grant andMDTFproceeds.

106.     As under previous operations, the overall CSP grant amount will be disclosed inthe
annual accounts of the Government. The CSP grant amount will be audited in a timely
manner, and the audit opinion of the annual accounts will include a specific opinion on the
grant. If after deposit, the proceeds of the Grant and MDTF or any part thereof are used for
ineligible purposes, as defined in the Development Grant and MDTF Agreements; IDA will
require the Recipient to either retum that amount to be used for eligible purposes, or refund
the amount directly to IDA.



                                                  32

ENVIRONMENTAL       ASPECTS

107.     CSP is the basis for a sustained policy dialogue between Government and
development partners on the implementation of the NationalDevelopment Plan. As such, the
policy areas it covers are wide-ranging and some are likely to have an environmental impact -
positive in some areas and potentially negative in others. Since State institutions in Timor-
Leste are nascent, the legal and regulatory environment i s fledgling including in the
environmental area.

108.     The most obvious CSP program component with potential environmental impact is
infrastructure. Currently, however, almost all capital expenditure in Timor-Leste is executed
by development partners thus being scrutinized by the partners' environmental guidelines.
While harmonizing these rules may be beneficial, at this stage it is likely that the
environmental impacts ofthese expendituresare beingtaken into account. Another sector with
potentially significant environmental impact is oil and gas. Up to the present, petroleum
activities have been conducted almost exclusively in the Joint Petroleum Development Area
between Australia and Timor-Leste. Petroleum operations in the Joint Petroleum
Development Area are subject to very strict environmental regulationsbasedon the Australian
model and implemented under Australia's responsibility. Other program areas, such as the
development o f natural resource management policies for forestry (e.g. forest use rights),
fisheries (e.g. offshore marine industry development), andland (e.g. titling) are likelyto yield
both positive and negative environmental impacts. The same situation i s likely to correspond
to the development of the legal and regulatory framework for the agriculture and private
sectors. This encompassing development program should be analyzed so as to secure the
reduction of adverseenvironmental effects andenhance positive effects and sustainability.

109.     The country has significant potential for economic growth and development in the
near future, and given Timor-Leste's current poverty level, reliance on natural resources for
development, fledgling legal and regulatory environment, and weak capacity, it i s important
to undertake analytical work to assess Timor-Leste's current state o f the environment, the
country's institutional policy and regulatory frameworks, and its capacity needs to implement
policy provisions while enhancing its poverty alleviation efforts. To this effect, the Bank will
conduct a country environmental analysis duringthe periodo f CSP I, Timor-Leste to
                                                                       assisting
incorporate environmental considerations as part o f its development program. This task
should also include an assessment o f provisions for addressing the social impacts of
investment projects andmechanisms for participation, consultation, anddisclosure.

RISKS RrsmMITIGATION
        AND

110.     Perhaps the greatest risk anticipated in the implementation o f CSP Iis limited
Government implementation capacity. To minimize this risk, due regard has been paid to the
administrative andtechnical feasibility and ownership by Government andother relevant State
institutions of each milestone and result includedunder the program. Great attention has also
beenpaidto the overall legislative workload included inthe program, which hadbeen a matter
o fconcem inprevious operations.

111.     A second risk lies in low budget execution capacity, which could result - as in
FY2005 - in the direct accumulation of budget support resources in the BPA, hence

                                               33

underminingthe appetite of developmentpartners for further budget support. To address this
shortcoming, the program will carefully monitor budget execution and reporting and will
continue to build capacity in the public finance area through PFMCBP as well as other IDF
grants. As mentioned in previous sections, a program to support execution o f the capital
development budget i s beingelaboratedwhich will include, among other interventions, direct
support from TFET program monitoring units. As indicated in the monitoring section o f this
document, Bank staff will carry out a detailed analysis of progress inbudget execution after
the first quarter o f the fiscal year (end-September2005) during the course o f its first program
review mission. If in budget execution is insufficient, Bank staff will recommend
                       progress
measuresfor stepping up expenditure to be consideredbythe Government for inclusion inthe
mid-yearbudget update.

112.     Although fiduciary assurances inTimor-Leste compare favorably with those of other
low-income countries, they are fragile inparticular to the departure o f international advisers.
Although the country's petroleum management regime and actual petroleum revenue
management to date meets international best practice standards, the risk o f corruption as
petroleum revenues increase remains. Moreover, corruption and poor governance in some
areas, such as customs, are also an important and growing concern. The program's emphasis
on transparency and communications, particularly inthe petroleum and public finance areas,
i s aimed at mitigating this risk by enhancing the availability o f information and fostering
demand for accountability. The operation's focus on strengthening monitoring and
accountability systems through the various measures included inthe governancepillar should
also contribute to diminishingthis risk.

113.     Finally, social and political instability are a concern, inparticular as unemployment
remains high and job creation slow. Surveys indicate that the population is not feeling the
benefits o f independence, which is fuelling social discontent that could potentially turn into
violence. The focus of CSP Ion achievingtangible results on the ground andits support o fthe
Government's macro-fiscal stimulus is designed to address these concerns. Moreover, the
program's emphasis on improved governance, transparency and communications i s aimed at
improving the dialogue and trust between Government and its citizens, which should also
diminishthe likelihoodofinstability.




                                                34

                                                                                                   ANNEX 1




                       REP-LICA       DEMOCRATICADETlMOR-LESTE
                          MINISTJkIODOPLAN0EDASFINANCAS
                                  GABINETEDAMINISTRA
                      2005 "An0dnReavalia@o dnFuaflo PvMlcae da lnfraatrutura$SodoPnL"
                          -


                                                                                   Dili,2August2005

Mr.PaulWolfowitz
President
World Bank
Washington,D.C., U.S.A.

               Subject: Letter ofDeveloDment Policv for the ConsolidationS U D D OPromam       ~ ~

Dearhk.Wolfowitz,

1.      Ihavethepleasuretoprovideyouwiththestatementofdevelopmentpolicyofthe

ConsolidationSupportProgram(CSP I> for the fiscal year 2006 (N2006).
Government of Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste and the Results Matrix in regard to the


2.      Timor-Leste continuesto make gradualyet steadyprogressinachievingthe key goals set in
its NationalDevelopmentPlan (NDP). Povertyreductionand thepromotiono frapid, equitableand
sustainable economic growth to improve the well-being o f all Timorese population remain the
overriding development goals in Timor-Leste. We continue to pursue policies in this direction,
striving to overcome the very significant development challenges that remainin our country. I
would like to take this opportunity to acknowledge and express gratitude for the generoussupport
provided by our Development Partners, including the World Bank, under the Transition Support
Program(TSP) andthroughother channels.

3.      Three years since restoring its independence, Timor-Leste i s now entering a new, more
advanced stage in its development process, moving well beyond the post-conflict relief,
rehabilitation andrecoverystage, into the mediumandlonger-term development. Inthe past years,
Timor-Leste has made significant progress in rehabilitating basic services and inf?astructure,
building the democratic state institutions, and strengthening the capacities of the public
administration system. Yet, the challenges we face for the future are still enormous and remain
verycomplex. We arenow atthepivotalstageofdevelopment,wherewe mustconsolidatethepast
gains to ensure their irreversibility and sustainability while progressing toward our twin goals o f
strong economic growth and accelerated poverty reduction, as reflected in our first National
DevelopmentPlanformulatedinMay2002.


I. MACROECONOMICOUTLOOK

4.      Timor-Leste's current and future macroeconomicsituations arepresentedingreat details in
the Overview o f the SectorInvestmentPrograms (SP) as well as in the Background Paper for the
Timor-LesteDevelopmentPartnersMeeting, both o f which were releasedinmid-April2004. For



                                   PalaCiodo Govemo,Edificio5,1? Andar
                             .' 33395 101331 2886     Fax+670390332 1339
                                             Dili,Tim-Leste




                                                  35

detailed analyses and information on the macroeconomic outlook inTimor-Leste, Iencourage you
to refer to thesedocumentsavailable inour website (wwrv.monf.Uov.tp/tIdpm).

5.      Overall, while government service delivery has improved in many areas, we also
acknowledge that the economic situation in Timor-Leste has deteriorated.             The economic
contraction that beganin2002 is only now beginningto abate, with FY2005 representing a tuming
point.    Non-oil Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is estimated to have grown by one percent in
FY2005, andgrowth is expectedto recover further inFY2006.

6.      The most important factor affecting GDP inFY2005 was the commencement o fproduction
inthe Bayu Undanpetroleum field, The oil sector is expected to grow significantly, though its
growth is likely to have little effect onnon-oil GDP. Itis important to note that the Government i s
determined to avoid the "resource curse'' that has afflicted so many other resource-rich developing
countries. Accordingly, it has adopted a savings policy and is creating a Petroleum Fund to hold
andmanageits savings ofpetroleumrevenues. Timor-Leste will spendthe petroleum revenues at a
sustainablelevel andsave its remainingrevenueinits PetroleumFund.

7.      For FY2006, the Government prepared its budget on a combined sources basis, including
both the State revenuesand external resourcesprovidedbymultilateral andbilateral donors. State
Budget revenues are now estimated to be much stronger than before, due to stronger petroleum
revenues, andthe FY2006 General Budget o f the State plans to increase State Budget expenditure
rapidly. Much of this increasewill be achieved by using StateBudget expenditure to provide core
and ongoing responsibilities of the public sector that were previously funded by Development
Partnersor that havebeenidentified through the SIPSexercise.

8.      The FY2006 Combined Sources Budget shows a financing gap over the next four years.
This arisesbecausethe total estimatedexpenditure levelis greaterthanthe total financial resources
available from expected sustainable budget expenditure levels and the expenditure commitments
currently made by development partners. Closing this financing gap is the major fiscal challenge
for Timor-Leste andits Development Partners.


TI.     PROGRESSDURINGFY2005 UNDERTSPIII

9.      During FY2005, Timor-Leste, with support fkom its Development Partners, continued its
efforts to strengthen democratic institutions and the rule o f law; deliver essential services to the
Timorese people; and strengthen the foundations for generating employment and promoting
economic growth. Key progressand developments inthe country during Fy2005 are summarized
below.

GoodGovernance

10.    Legal Framework During FY2005, Timor-Leste continued to make tangible progress in
strengthening its legal fi-amework, and some key legislation was adopted by the National
Parliament. These included, for example, the Law on the Council of State andthe Organic Law o f
the Superior Council for Defense and Security, promulgated on 3 and 17 February 2005,
respectively. The Laws on Foreign and Domestic Investments were approved by the Parliament
andpromulgated by the President. While legislative efforts continue, the Government has also set
upa five-person Co"ission       to review andharmonize all the relevant laws to ensure consistencies
                                                                                                 F
amongthem.




                                                 36

11.     Suco Elections: Decentralizationis animportantmeansto ensurethe sustainedparticipation
of Timoresepeopleinpolitical life at the locallevel. The local electionsfor Suco Chiefs and Suco
Councils - the first electionsheld since the restorationo f Timor-Leste's independenceand the first
ever conductedby Timoreseauthorities      - arebeing held ina phased manner. The elections have
been successfully conducted in the districts of Bobonaro, Oecussi, Lautem, Baucau, Matututo,
Covalima, Ermela, Viqueque, Ainaro, Manufahi, andAileu sinceDecember2004. It isimportant to
note the initiative taken to promotewomen's participation, with the electoral law providing for a
miniumofthree womento beelectedto eachvillage council. The electionsinthe districts ofDili
andLiquica are scheduled for September2005. The Suco elections are animportant step towards
decentralizationanddemocraticdecision-makingat the locallevel.

12.     Civil ServiceReform: At the core ofgoodgovernance is a functioning civil service. Much
work hasbeendone instrengtheningthe legal andregulatory fiamework for the civil service. The
Civil Service Act was promulgated on 8 June 2004, including the ethics code and a section on
disciplinary procedures, TheNational Institute ofPublic Administration hasbeguntrainingcourses
for civil servants to promote good understandingof the obligations under the Civil Service Act.
Efforts are underway to prepare supplementary legislation, regulations, and procedures, necessary
to put the Civil Service Act fully into operation. Effective human resources management is a
backbone of the civil service system. Data collection and verification o f personnel files were
completedinJanuary 2005.With an aim of creating a PersonnelManagement InformationSystem.
The next step is to develop acomputerizedsystemto maintainandmanagethese records.

13.     Public Financial Management: The Governmentis proceedingwith a number of measures
designed to address the problem of budget execution. On the initiative o f the Prime Minister, a
committee was formed to oversee and improve budget execution. Other actions include: (i)
preparationof agencycapital development plans inFY05 inkey sectors and reporting onprogress;
and (ii)   assessment of funds release requirements through the negotiation of front-loaded
Expenditure Authorization Notices in key sectors. It is hoped that these measures will lead to a
significant improvement in budget execution in key sectors, without sacrificing the quality of
spending. Another noteworthy activity is the work undertaken to prepare the FY2006 National
Budgetonacombinedsourcesbasis.

14.     Petroleum Fund Determined to avoid repeating the mistakes o f other resource-rich
countries, the Governmenthas adopted a savings policy and is creating a Petroleum Fundto hold
and manage its savings ofpetroleumrevenues. The key to the Timor-Leste savings policy is that
actual expenditures should adjust over the medium-termto the sustainable level of expenditure.
The PetroleumFundwill accumulate large levels of savingsfrom petroleumrevenuesand will also
act as a buffer to fund expenditure should there be any temporary shortfall inpetroleum revenues.
The Government undmook public consultationsinDili and the provincial capitals inlate 2004. In
2005, it distributed the draft law and invited public comments. The law was approved by the
ParliamentonJune20,2005 andis awaiting promulgationbythe President. The fundwillbe set up
as soon as the law ispublished.

15.    Transuarencv & Accountabilitv: Transparency and accountability are key to d n g good
governance. The Organic Law for the Office of the Provedor for HumanRights and Justice was
approvedbyParliamentandpromulgatedbythe PresidentinMay 2004. The Provedor ismandated
to collect information on human rights abuses and administrative malpractices, including
corruption, receive and respond to complaints from the public, and increase public awareness of
citizens' rights andmeanso fredress. The Provedorwas electedbyParliament andhas sworn-in in
June 2005. The office is inthe process o fbeing established. The Inspector-Generalwho hasbeen
appointed, reportsing directly to the Prime Minister, is pursuing measures to strengthen i n t 4




                                                37

audits and controls, that would contribute to buildingan effective civil service fiee o f corruption
andnepotism.

16.     Justice: Efforts continued during FY2005 to train Timorese court officials and improve
judicial service delivery.   The evaluations o f the national judges took place in 2004, and the
prosecutorsandpublic defenderswere also evaluatedin2005. Over 2005, itwas announcedthat all
nationaljudges, prosecutorsandpublic defendershadfailed to pass the evaluations and would thus
not be eligible for conversion o ftheir appointment from probationary to careerjudges, prosecutors
and public defenders. International judges, prosecutors and public defenders are maintaining the
justice systemwhile 40 nationals are currently pursuing full-time training, scheduledfor completion
inmid-2006, uponwhichthey maychooseto becomeprosecutors, defenders, orjudges andentera
one-year probationary period duringwhich they will work under the mentoring o f an international
professional. It is, therefore, hoped that by June 2007 a cadre o f qualifiednational professionals
will be inplace to take over more o f the functions currently carried out by the international legal
professionals.

17.     Law Enforcement: The Timor-Leste NationalPolice (PNTL)took over the command o fthe
policing function from the United Nations Mission o f Support to East Timor (UNMISET) on 20
May 2004. With support fhm multilateral andbilateral partners, much progress has been made in
institutional strengthening and training o f national police officers.   It is important to note that
training and other efforts have also contributed to greater mainstreaming o f gender perspective in
the work o f the National Police. Efforts also focused on measures to increase the trust and
confidence o f the community. An independentreview commission for police complaints has been
establishedto monitor cases beinginvestigztedbythe ProfessionalEthics Office.

 18.    Reconciliation:   In an important step forward towards reconciliation, Timor-Leste and
Indonesia agreed, on 14 December 2004, to establish a Truth and Friendship Commission to deal
with the issues of the reported human rights violations in 1999 as well as other bilateral issues.
Both parties are in the process o f appointing their members o f the Commission. Within Timor-
Leste, the Commission for Reception, Truth, and Reconciliation concluded its public hearings and
researchwork and i s inthe process o f preparingits final report before the end o f its mandate on 7
August 2005. The report will provide the first independently researched account o f humanrights
violations committed inTimor-Leste between 1974and 1999.

Service Delivery for Poverty Reduction

19.     One o f the key goals o f the NDP is to improve the health and education status o f the
population. The provision and effective use o f basic social services is important to break the
poverty cycle. Since independence in 2002, Timor-Leste has made good progress in enhancingits
people's access to social services, includingbasic education, primary health care, clean water, and
safesanitation.

20.     Education: Access to schooling improved considerably, with primary school enrolment
risingsteadily. The net primary enrolment rate is currently 76 percent for boys and 74 percentfor
girls. On the other hand, repetition and dropout rates remain high, at 20 percent and 10 percent,
respectively. Giventhis, priority efforts are now focused onimprovingthe internal efficiency o fthe
schools systemas well as quality of teaching. The Government is currently finalizingan education
sector policy which sets out the priorities and strategies for the sector inthe next five years. The
Government has also spearheaded a curriculum reform process for primary education.               The
Curriculum Reform Planfor primary education has been endorsed by the Council of Ministers in      B
2004. The syllabi for primary education have also been approved and are being piloted in thr




                                                 38

regions for a one-year period, starting in March 2005. Training of teachers has already been
delivered to 75 percento fpre-secondaryeducation teachers andis continuing.

21.     Health: The Government has made good progress inrestoringthe basic infrastfucture for
immunization, a key to reducing child mortality. Timor-Leste has also made efforts to improve
immunization rate both for DPT3 and for measles, its attendeddelivery rate, and access to anduse
o fpublic healthservices. It should, however, be notedthat these performance indicators at the end
o f Fy2005 became lower than the targets due to the population growth based on the last Census
result. The situation of safe water and sanitation, though still difficult, is improving especially in
urbanareas. It should, however, be notedthat these performance indicators will be lower when the
new census data istaken into account.

22.     Timor-Leste completed the first national Census inSeptember 2004, andpreliminary results
have been subsequently released. These show a population increase of 17.4 percent, compared to
the results o f the 2001 suco survey.     Data from the Demographic and Health Survey has also
become available. It indicates that Timor-Leste has one o f the highest population growth rates in
the world - about 4 percent per annum, although it should be noted that some o f this growth,
perhapsaccounting for upto 1percentper annum, is due to the returno frefugees fromWest Timor.
This new demographic information has obvious implications inthe sectors directly responsible for
delivering basic social servicesto the population. The Government faces greater challenges inthese
sectorsas ithasto providehealthand education services to a greater numbero fpeople.

23.     Inbotheducationandhealthsectors, the Governmentiscontinuingwithefforts topromote
decentralized management, which will not only improve efficiency in channelling resources for
service delivery, but also provide a framework for bottom-up accountability. Inthe health sector,
micro-policy documents have been completed, which are intended to be disseminated to support
districthospital-level planning, priority-setting, and budgeting. District and hospital health plans,
budgeting, and monitoring have been introduced. In education, a pilot scheme, where schools
demonstrating good management capacity are provided with block grants, has been launched in
January-February 2005. This has been piloted in seven schools, to each o f which a grant o f
US$3,000 per year has beenprovided. This grant fund hasbeen transferred to and executed bythe
schools.    Parent and teacher associations and School Councils are to play a decisive role in the
managementofthese grants.

24.     Vulnerable Grouos: Also important for national reconciliation i s the issue o f veterans. A
National Dialogue betweenveterans and State institutions was held on 21 August 2004 and a final
declaration was issued outlining the commitments of the two sides. Based on the work o f the
Commission for Former Combatants Affairs and the Commission for Veterans Affairs, the
Parliamentary Ad Hoc Committee on Veterans Affdrs submitted its report on July 14,2005, which
included a set of recommendations regarding a fkture law on veterans. Furthermore, the President
of the Republic has constituted the Commission for Resistance Cadre Affairs to identify civilian
memberso fthe resistance.

25.     Infrastructure: Although infrastructure was not included in the TSP 111, it is an important
sector that is critical for achieving the overarching goals o f the National Development Plan        -
povertyreduction and sustainable and equitable economic growth. Improved inhstructure will be
the foundation for private sector development, particularly indistrict areas. Public investment in
infrastructure will also contribute to creating employment inthe medium-term.

26.     Power: In the power sector, significant progress has been made in the provision o f
electricity service inDili. Electricity has become available for almost 24 hours a day inDili. The
replacement andor rehabilitation of power generators in the Comoro power station are ongoin




                                                   39

and the power distribution network inDiliwas rehabilitatedwith external assistance. Inaddition,
the successful introduction of prepayment meters, with 22,000 already installed, has extensively
improved costrecoveryinelectricity inDili.The Governmenti s planningto increasethe number of
prepaid meters, extending to Baucau as well as Dili, with provision o f Government's counter
budget to external assistance. Now the priorities in the power sector will be given to electricity
serviceindistricts, includingdistrict centers and 32 ruralpower systems rehabilitated, as well as to
further improvement ofcollection efficiency inDili,

27.      Transportation: Inthe transportationsector, management o froadnetwork is akey issue. A
study for road development and strategy is being undertaken, with external assistance, having
commenced in February 2005. The output o f this study will include the preparation of a detailed
five-year development strategy andan indicative 10year investmentplan, as well as optimal levels
ofexpenditure for roadconstructionandmaintenance. Community-basedmaintenanceo froadshas
beencontinuously important from thepoint of view ofjob creation as well as roadmaintenance. It
is reportedthat 517 and 451 actualjobs were created throughcommunity-based roadmaintenance
inthe first and second quarters of FY2005, respectively. The Government is planningto create
1,000 annualizedjobs inthe next year.

28.      Water and Sanitation:     In the water and sanitation sector, considerable investment is
required to achieve targets in the National MillenniumDevelopment Goals on access to safe
drinking water andsanitation inbothurbanandruralareas. The progressduringFY2005 included
the periodic maintenanceof the Water Treatment Plants, a series o f maintenance o f water supply
facilities in district towns, and the development of water and sanitation facilities in rural areas.
Basedonthe Water Servicedecree promulgatedinFebruary2004, the Government has commenced
to collect water user charges, mainlyfrom bigcustomersinthe frst instance.

Job Creation

29.      Aaiculture: Agriculture is the primary economic activity in Timor-Leste, accounting for
about 26 percent of GDP and employing 80 percent of the labor force. InSeptember 2004, the
Policy and StrategyFramework ofthe Ministry ofAgriculture, Forestry andFisheries was approved
by the Council of Ministers. The Framework focuses on better food security through improving
productivity o f farm crops and nutritional quality as well as on the promotion o f market oriented
agriculture and agro-industry. Inaddition, the Food Security Policy, the Pesticides, Seeds, and
Fertilizers laws and regulations, the Quarantine laws, and the Livestock laws and regulations are
under preparation with external assistance. The National Water Resource Policy document was
draftedandpresentedto some donorsandN OrepresentativesinMay2005.

30.      Inthe field of food production, aprogram for seedandtuber multiplication anddistribution
is on-going for standardizing introduction, evaluation, distribution and quality assurance of new
plants; two peanut, two maize, andtwo sweet potato new varieties were distributedbythe Ministry
andare beingmultipliedbyfarmers inthe districts. The Ministry has also commenced to develop a
Timorese model for extension and service delivery through reviewing local and international
experiencewith service delivery.

31.      Private Sector Development: The private sector must increasingly become the primary
source of growth inincomes and employment for Timor-Leste. The Government recognizes that a
major effort is needed to stimulate private business and investment actively. Therefore, the
Governmentcontinuesto develop legalandregulatory frameworks for business andinvestment.

32.     DuringFY2005, the domestic andforeign investment lawswere approvedbythe Parliament
and promulgatedby the President. A decree law on cooperative was also approved by the CouncA




                                                 40

of Ministers. The insurance law and its associated instructions were approved in general by the
Parliament, and are presently inthe Commission of Economics and Finance o f the Parliament for
development o f specific detailed provisions. A drafi law on bankruptcy has been prepared. With
regard to land andproperty, a decree law on the leasing o f government property was approved by
the Council o f Ministers and was promulgated in December 2004. A draft law on the leasing
betweenprivatepartieswas approvedbythe ParliamentinMay2005.

33.      With the appointment of a Chief Executive, the Investment and Export PromotionAgency
(IEPA) is expectedto be fully operationalby the endof 2005, The BankingandPaymentAuthority
(BPA), which has been carrying out most o f the functions o f a central bank, is planned to be
officially transformed into the central bank in the near future. The central bank law is being
drafted.

34.      The Government recognizes the need to develop entrepreneurship to underpin continued
progress towards the objective of aneconomy drivenprimarilyby the private sector. FourBusiness
Development Centers have been providing training for self-employed workers. The iirst national
Business-GovernmentDialogue Forumtook placeinJune 2005.

35.      Based on the contract concluded with a South Koreancompany inrelation to the Emigrant
Worker Program (EWP), the first batch of 100-200 workers, out o f 1,000 targeted in a year, will
depart to the Republic of Korea by the endof 2005, The Government continues to explore similar
arrangements with other countries.


III. GOVERNMENTSTRATEGYANDPROGRAMFORCSPI

36       The Government's program for FY2006can be summarized in the attachedResults Matrix
for CSP I.It is based on and reflects the Government's strategy for achieving the NDP and the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) through promoting strong growth and accelerating
poverty reduction. While Irefer you to the Matrix for the details o f our CSP Iprogram, Iwould
still like to briefly outline our strategic direction and corresponding priorities of the Government
that haveprovidedthe guidingbasisfor elaboratingour program.

Strategic Direction and ProgramPriorities for CSP I

37.      The Government attaches great importance to achieving progress indevelopment insuch a
way that tangible benefits are felt immediately in everyday life o f average Timorese. The current
level of economic growth, however, is insufficientto increaseper capita income levels, as required
underthe NDP, andto reducepoverty. Accordingly, the Government ispursuingpoliciesaimedto
obtain non-oil GDP growth rates of 6 percent in the medium term. This would be the level
sufficient to absorb the rapidly-growing labour force andmake positive impact on average income
level ofthe Timoresepeople.

38.      To this end, the Government is pursinga two-pronged approach. Inthe long-term, it will
promote private sector growth, through creating a pro-business regulatory environment and
providing public infrastructure. With a small population and still widespread poverty, domestic
demand is not large enough to provide a basis for this,            Therefore, the emphasis o f the
Government's efforts in the long-term must be on catering to export demand for products and
services andonpromoting foreign investmentrequiredto take advantageo fit.

39.     In the more immediate term, the Government will continue its efforts to promote and      9
acceleratepoverty reduction. Givenits highpopulationgrowth, Timor-Leste's averak income p




                                                    41

capita is expected to M e r decline, presenting ever increasing demands for government services
targeted at those living insevere poverty. While pursuingstrong growth policies inthe long-term,
the Government is committed inthe medium term to continuing to strengthenits efforts to improve
the delivery of basic servicesto the population, particularlythe most vulnerable people, andcreate
employment throughpublic investment particularly inconstruction andinfrastructure.

40,     In order to achieve the strategy of strong growth and acceleratedpoverty reduction, it is
critical to continue to build the capacities o f the Government andthe entire public administration.
As shown in the attached Results Matrix, the CSP Iprogram is designed to focus on this,
particularly to strengthenthe Govemment's abilities to assumegreater responsibilities for planning,
executing, and monitoring its programs. Furthermore, it i s critical to expand capacity building
efforts beyond the public administration, to also strengthenthe other important bodies o f the State-
the Office o f the Presidentof the Republic, theNational Parliament, and the Courts. The ability of
these institutions to fully assume their functions attributed by the Constitutioni s critical to ensure
the consolidation ofthe democracyandthe rule of law.

41.     The above-describedstrategy is incorporated andreflected inour CSP Iprogram elaborated
in the attached Results Matrix. In this context, it is important to highlight that this year the
Government decided to add infrastructure as part o f the program. Infrastructure i s an important
sector for implementing our future strategy. Improved infkstructure will be the foundation for
private sector development, particularly in district areas. Public investment in infrastructure will
also contribute to creatingprivate investment inthe medium-term, which will be the main vehicle
for long-term growth.

ScopeofAssistanceRequired

42.     There are two mainareas where Timor-Leste requires strong support from its Development
Partners inthe medium-term. First, we require external resources to meet the budgetary gap inour
CombinedSourcesBudget. The SIP Overview indicates that inorder to meet the goals o fthe NDP
and MDG, annual expenditures of around $250 million will be required inthe foreseeable future.
However, the availability of funding fiom the Government's own sources in the medium term is
estimatedat $150 million annually when taking our savings policy into account. There is thus a
clear and ongoing gap, at around $100 million per year, between expenditure plans and the
Government's on-going capacity over the medium-term. Giventhis, the Government is requesting
for a CSP of$1Omto $15mper year for the nextthreeyears,

43.     At the same the, we are l l l y aware ofthe needto strengthenpublic financial management
capacity. The FY2006 budget estimates do not attempt to spend up to the sustainable expendim
amount. Instead, it sets intrain a measuredpath towards increasing our expenditures gradually, in
proportion to the improvement inour budget execution capacity. Through CSP I, Government
                                                                                     the
hopes to receive support not only in meeting the budgetary gap, but also in strengthening the
executioncapacityso that itwill graduallybe able to cope with increasinglevel ofthebudget.

44.      Second, it is critical that priority development projects identified under the SIPS get
implementedinatimely andeffective manner. With the MDGandNDP as the reference basis, the
SIPS emerged from a broad analysis o f the policies and programs that Timor Leste needs to
introduceinthenext few years. Itelaborates the Government's sector frameworks for the medium-
term for the 17 key sectors and presents a menu o f priority development projects that are essential
to achieving these sector fiameworks.        Most of these need to be financed by bilateral and
multilateral contributions, while some that are directly related to core and ongoing government
servicesmaybefinanced withinthe StateBudget.




                                                    42

45.      As the primary vehicle for implementingthe SIP, the Government has begun to establish
Sector Working Groups to facilitate dialogue and coordination with Development Partners, under
the Government leadership. They provide a forum for the Govemment and Development Partners
to develop a common understanding o f sectoral priorities and match donor interests with specific
projects identified as priority by the Government. This mechanism provides an opportunity to
strengthenthe Government's leadership inmobilizing the necessaryresources to carry out the SIPs
andat the sametime ensuring coordination ofactivitieswithinthe sector.

46.      Integrated into the Government's own work plans, the priorities elaborated under the SIPs
are reflected inthe CSP IResults Matrix. We hopes that the strong focus of CSf Ionbuildingour
capacities, especially inthe areas o fprogramplanningandexecution, will inturn help improve our
abilities to implement SIPs effectively, increasing the prospects o f our being able to mobilize
sufficient resourcesfor them andrealize the prioritySIP goals efficiently and effectively.




IV.      CONCLUSIONS

47.      We recognize that pursuing the ambitious agendas outlined above will not be without
difficulties; particularly given the daunting task we face in the immediate future of building the
capacities of national institutions and staff to manage successhlly the changing development
requirements of our country. The benefit o f the CSP Iextend beyond the welcome infusion of
additional financial resources into the State Budget. Itwill also help Timor-Leste progress toward
achieving its development goals through continued policy dialogue. We hope that Development
Partners will continue their strong support to CSP I,thereby helping Timor-Leste move closer to
whereitwants to reach: self-reliance andself-sustainability.

48.      Moving beyond the post-conflict phase into the more advanced stage o f development,
Timor-Leste envisages a new approach to its collaboration with Development Partners. The
guidingprinciple o f our partnerships at this new stage is stronger national leademhip at all levels.
Timor-Leste is now keen to assume more responsibilities and exercise greater leadership for
articulating andrealizing its own development agendas, supported by Development Partners. We
were pleased to note such a shift inour partnerships was already apparent in the process of CSP
programconsultations withthe World Bankmissionthat visitedTimor-Leste inMarch2005.

49.      The Government of the Democratic Republic o f Timor-Leste reaffirms its commitment to
the implementation o f CSP Iandrequests the financial assistanceof the International Development
Association and other Development Partners for implementation of the Program in FY2006. We
understand that -the support o f the International Development Association, if approved, will be
utilized exclusively toward implementationo fthe activitiesproposed andoutlinedinparagraphs 36
to 46 o fthis letter, andsections A.l to A.4, A.6, B andC o fthe attachedResults Matrix.


Sincerely yours,




Mariu Maddenajrites Boavida
Minister ofPlanning andFinance



                                                43


sp
u-
.4 a
B P
5 :
4 -


             h




        &,


1 .n

J

I
-r
c




      .-F




             Y



P


P


I




it
ic
-1

s
0
d
VI

e




*
0
s
VI
e




3
s
VI
e




.g
-r
VI
e


z
14

      g g
0
35           in
E            in
      E b




B
E    t-.
     0


'I:
.sB4g

u o s&


'I:       B
.$        'C m
           E

v o
8bh        Bb
e B      3

.*
6
u




        h.
    P
    c 2

     m
     W




c

                                                                                              ANNEX 2

                                           IMFRelationsNote




 Press ReleaseNo. 05/92                                                       International MonetaryFund
 FORIMMEDIATERELEASE                                                          Washington, D.C. 20431USA
 July 20,2005

    IMFExecutiveBoardConcludes 2005Article IVConsultationwith the
                              Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste
- . - - ~
l
j Public ~nformatjo~Notices (PINS)form part of the IMF's efforts to promote transparency of the IMF's
' views and analysis of economic developments andpolicies.    Withthe consent ofthe country (or countries)
I concerned, PINs are issued after Executive Board discussions of Article 1V consultations with member
! countries, of its surveillance of developments at the regional level, ofpost-programmonitoring, and of ex
  post assessmentsof member countries with longer-term programengagements. PINs are also issued after
  Executive Board discussions of general policy matters, unless otherwise decided by the Executive Board
  inaparticular case.
~




On June 15, 2005, the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund (IMF)
concludedthe 2005 Article l3' consultation with Timor-Leste.l

Background

Five years after the international community stepped in to assist Timor-Leste in the
aftermath of post-referendum violence, the country is successfully transitioning from post-
conflict status to relative calm. Secwjty has been broadly restored and macroeconomic
stability re-established and maintained through the adoption of the U.S. dollar as legal
tender and through cautious fiscal management. However, the economy remains fragile.
Cumulative growth over the last three years was near zero-mainly                            reflecting the
drawdown inthe presence o f international agencies. Unemployment is high, 40 percent of
the population lives below the poverty line, and social indicators are poor. At the same
time, human capital remains scarce, physical infrastructure inadequate and financing
opportunities limited. The winding down o f international financial and technical support at
a time when domestic capacity is still weak and large oil and gas revenue i s coming on
stream present new challenges andopportunities.

Looking ahead, the pace and quality o f economic development will depend on Timor-
Leste's ability to manage its new oillgas wealth effectively, and on the establishment o f the
environment needed for investment and growth in the non-oil sector. The authorities have


                                                      64

designed a development strategy, with the objectives set out in the 2002 National
Development Plan (NDP) and subsequent documents, that is incorporated in the Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper and assessed in the Joint Staff Advisory Note o f the IMF and
WorldBank.

More recent developments indicate a modestrecovery innon-oil economic activity in2004,
subdued inflation, and large oillgas revenue inflows. Despite a further decline in donor
activity, non-oil GDP growth recovered, reflecting a post-drought rebound in the
agriculture sector and expansion in banking sector activity. Inflation declined over the
course o f 2004, leveling off at about 2 percent since August 2004 (year-over-year), in
response to moderate domestic demand and stable non-oil import prices. The external
current account surplus (including international assistance) widened sharply to 35 percent
o f non-oil GDP in 2004, due to large oillgas tax and royalty income. Coffee exports rose,
mainlyreflecting a supplyresponseto higher world prices. Measured against Indonesia and
Australia, Timor-Leste's main trading partners, overall external price competitiveness
deteriorated somewhat through March 2005, reflecting the significant depreciation o f the
rupiah against the US. dollar (Timor-Leste legal tender). Inthe absence of labor market
data, anecdotal evidence suggests that Timor-Leste wages remain well above those in
Indonesia, continuing to reflect the impact o fthe international presence.

The fiscal outcome for FY 2004105 is now expectedto be stronger than envisaged, due not
only to better-than-expectedoillgas revenue but also stronger non-oiltax administration and
weak expenditure execution. A central government surplus (including grants) of 68 percent
o f non-oil GDP is now expected, compared with the surplus of 33 percent of non-oil GDP
expected in the revised FY04105 budget. On a "combined sources" basis (the authorities'
broad estimate of the total public sector including off-budget donor activities), the fiscal
balance will moveinto a surplus o f29 percent o f GDP inFY04105.

The government is making good progress with the measures necessary to handle its new
oillgas wealth responsibly. The Norwegian-style petroleum fimd i s on track to be
operational by July 2005 and a long-termfiscal savings policy hasbeen adopted. Under the
new savingspolicy, annual budget "sustainable" spendingis set equal to the sum ofnon-oil
revenue and the estimatedpermanent income fiom the oillgas wealth. The government has
indicated its commitment to transparency and accountability principles in line with the
Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). Finally, the preliminary Sector
Investment Programs (SIPS) set out a public investment strategy for Timor-Leste's long-
term economic development to be financedby domestic revenue anddonor funds.

Bank lendingto the private sector increased rapidly during 2004. As a share of non-oil
GDP, credit tripled to 21 percent at end 2004. Financial intermediation remains
concentratedinDili, while access to financinginrural areas is limitedto the operations of a
few rural cooperatives and microcredit institutions. Net foreign assets o f the Banking and
Payment Authority (BPA) rose sharply, reflecting the sizable accumulation of government
deposits fiom strong oillgas revenue. At end-March net foreign assets reached US$284
million, more than 15 months of projectedimports for 2005. Capacity buildingat the BPA
progressed over the past year. A central bank law, and payment system and anti-money
laundering legislation are in final stages o f preparation, and a financial intelligence unit is



                                               65

plannedfor the BPAbythe endo fthe year.

The pace o f establishing the necessary environment to encourage private sector activity has
accelerated; nonetheless, the agenda ahead remains heavy, Over the past six months good
progresshas beenmade insome areas, with key land legislation, the insurance law, and the
domestic and foreign investment laws all either approved or submitted to Parliament.
However, the overall legal framework is still incomplete, and complex regulations, an
ineffective administration mcl weak judiciary continue to discourage private activity.
Finally, while administrative skill levels are improving slowly, localcapacity remainsthin.

Executive BoardAssessment

Executive Directors welcomed the progress that Timor-Leste has made towards
establishing the basis for a stable andhealthy economy. Inparticular, Directors commended
the authorities for maintaining prudent macroeconomic policies at a time when the country
i s transitioning from post-conflict status, donor support i s declining, and oillgas revenue i s
coming on stream. While a moderate recovery in the non-oil economy is underway,
Directors stressed that stronger performance will be needed to reduce poverty and create
sufficientjobs for a rapidly increasinglabor force.

Directors agreed that the pace and quality of Timor-Leste's economic development will
depend on the effective management of its new oillgas wealth and creation o f an
environment conducive to private investment and activity in the non-oil economy. They
concurred that the authoritie2 'long-term strategy based on a fiscal sustainability policy, a
sound public investment strategy as set out inthe Sector Investment Programs (SIPs), and
the productive use of the oillgas resources, including through the establishment o f the
petroleum fund, provides a solid basis for addressingthese challenges and makingprogress
towards achieving the MillenniumDevelopment Goals.

In light of Timor-Leste's considerable development needs, Directors supported the
authorities' budgetary objective o f moving quickly toward the sustainable spending level,
without creating inflationary pressures or undertaking non-priority expenditure. The
proposed spending increase for fiscal year 2005106 appears nevertheless ambitious, given
still limited administrative capacity and limited absorptive capacity in the domestic
economy. While welcoming recent measures to remove obstacles to smooth budget
execution, Directors called for early additional steps to eliminate remaining bottlenecks,
particularly for capital spending. They welcomed the provisiono f Fundtechnical assistance
inthis area. Considerationmight also be givento spreading out the spending commitment
over a somewhat longer period. Directors also encouraged further efforts to shift spending
toward improving human capital and basic infrastructure, and welcomed the authorities'
intention to maintain the restraint on the wage bill.

Directors saw the SIPs as providing an appropriate framework linking Timor-Leste's
development needs, available donor assistance, and the budgetprocess. While the SIPs will
help ensure that donor support is in line with the government's priorities, it will be
important to strengthen SIP prioritization further in light o f the still large amount of
uncommitted extemal financing,     andDirectors welcomed the authorities' assurances inthis



                                               66

regard.

Directors commended the progress made in establishing the legislative framework needed
to make the petroleum fund operational by the beginningo f the new fiscal year. They saw
the establishment of the investment advisory board and the petroleum fund consultative
council as key steps, and especially welcomed the intention to operate the fund in a
transparent and accountable manner consistent with the Extractive Industries Transparency
Initiative. They cautioned the authorities to carefully weigh the costs and benefits o f the
intended creation o f a national oil company. Directors also noted the favorable
developments innon-oil revenue. They encouraged a further strengthening o f the tax and
customs administration, and stressed the need for careful administration of the tax
incentives inthe new investment laws.

Directors endorsedthe authorities' planto maintainthe current monetary and exchangerate
regime, which provides a credible nominal anchor and continues to serve the country well.
They agreed with the authorities' view that stronger institutional capacity and a well-
developed foreign exchange market are essential preconditions to the introduction o f a
national currency. Going forward, continued cautious fiscal and wage policies will be key
to preserving external competitiveness.

Directors welcomed progress at the Banking and Payments Authority in developing a
strong supervisory andregulatory environment, particularlyinlight ofthe recent increase in
financial intermediation. They encouraged continued vigilance over bank portfolios and
looked forward to the early approval of central bank, payment system, and anti-money
laundering legislation. The authorities were also encouraged to support the expansion of
financial institutions to rural areas.

Noting that strong, sustainable growth and poverty alleviation require a dynamic labor-
intensive private sector, Directors urged the authorities to accelerate efforts aimed at
establishing an environment conducive to private investment and non-oil private sector
activity. They welcomed the maintenance o f a liberal trade and investment regime, and
called for early enactment o f pending economic legislation and the issuance o f regulations
that are transparent and simple to administer. Directors stressedinparticular the importance
o f finalizing bankruptcy legislation, developing a strong and independentjudiciary system,
and establishing a comprehensive land-titlingsystem. Given that local capacity and strong
institutions will be critical for effective economic management and rapid economic
development, Directors urgedthe prompt implementation o f the new planningand capacity
building program. Close coordination with, and continued technical assistance from, the
donor community will be keyinthis respect.

To address weaknesses in macroeconomic data, Directors encouraged the authorities to
seek additional assistance to strengthendomestic capacity, particularly for the compilation
of national account andbalanceo fpayments statistics.




                                             67

                             Timor-Leste: SelectedEconomic Indicators,2000-2005

                                                        2000 2001 11 2002 1,     2003 11   2004   2005
                                                                                            Est.  Proj.


Outputandprices 11
Non-oilGDP                                               316      368      343      336     339    349
Real non-oil GDP growth (percentage change)              15.4     16.6     -6.7     -6.2      1.8  2.5
Inflation (percentagechange; end-period) 21              3.O      -0.3      9.5      4.2      1.8  2.5

                                                                     (Inpercentofnon-oil GDP)
Investment-savingbalance
Gross investment 31                                       41       42       36        31      28    32
Non-government                                              7        9        7         9      9     9
Govemment                                                 34        32      28        23      19    23
Grossnational savings                                    -46       -44     -48       -34        6   27
Non-government                                           -51       -50     -54       -44     -36   -26
Government                                                  5        6        6       10      42    53
External savings                                          87        86       84       65      23     5

Central govemment budget41
Revenues                                                  17        15       24       31      90    57
Domesticrevenues                                            4        6        6         9     10     9
Oiligas revenues                                            4        3        9       12      71    45
Grants                                                      9        6       10       10        9     3
Expenditure                                               15        15       21       21      22    30
Recurrentexpenditure                                        9       12       17       19       19   20
Capital expenditure                                         6        3        4         3       2    10
Overall balance                                             2        0        3       10      68    27
Public debt                                                 0        0        0         0       0     0

Combined sources fiscal operations4151
Revenues                                                  18        16       25       33      92     15
Expenditure                                               69        70       73       66      62     70
Recurrentexpenditure                                      35        38       44       44      45     41
Capital expenditure                                       34        32       30       22       18    29
Overall balance                                          -52       -53      -48      -33      29    -55

Moneyandcredit
Broadmoney (end-period) 61                                  6       14       16       22       25    28
Net domestic assets {end-period)                           -4        -4     -10        -9     -11   -18

                                                                     (InmillionsofUS.dollars)
External sector
Current accountexcl. intemational assistance            -275      -316     -288     -218      -77   -18
Current accountincl. international assistance             37        46       26        17     119   149
Tradebalance                                            -237      -280     -260     -213     -194  -204
Merchandiseexports 71                                       5         4       6          7      8    10
Merchandiseimports 81                                   -242      -284     -266     -221     -202  -214
Overall balance                                            16         8      20        18     122   216

                                                                     (Inpercentofnon-oil GDP)
Current accountexcl. international assistance            -87       -86      -84      -65      -23    -5
current accountincl. international assistance              12       13        8          5     35    43
Trade balance                                            -75       -76      -76      -64      -57   -58
Merchandiseexports71                                        2         1       2          2      2     3
Merchandiseimports 81                                    -77       -77      -78      -66      -60   -61
Overall balance                                             5         2       6          5     36    62

Sources: Dataprovided bythe Timor-Leste authorities; andIMF Staff estimates.


                                                     68

11Non-oil GDP andnational accounts data for 2000-2003 are based on estimates preparedbyBIDEconsultants in
October 2004.
21 CPI for Dili.
31 Excludes oillgas sector investment.
41Fiscal year basis (July-June); for example, 2000 refers to FY2000101.
51Includes fiscal andquasi-fiscal expenditure programs undertakenbybilateral donors and international financial
institutions outside the central government budget. The sharp revenuedecline inFY2005106 reflects the adoption
of the new savings andpetroleum fundpolicyaccording to which only the sustainable income from the oil wealth
is transferred to the budget.
61Excludes currency holdings bythe public, for which no data are available.
71Excludes oillgas revenue, which arerecorded under the income account {royalties) andtransfers (tax revenues).
81In2005 includes the transfer o f assets from UNMISET, valued at approximately US$l2 million.


].UnderArticle IV of the IMF's Articles o f Agreement, the IMFholds bilateral discussions with members, usually
every year, A staffteam visits the country, collects economic and financial information, and discusseswith
officials the country's economic developmentsandpolicies. Onretum to headquarters, the staffprepares a report,
which forms the basis for discussionbythe Executive Board, At the conclusion o f the discussion, the Managing
Director, as Chairman o f the Board, summarizes the views o fExecutive Directors, andthis summary is transmitted
to the country's authorities.




                                                         69

                                                                                                                       ANNEX 3

                                   Timor-Leste at a dance                                                                       5/25/05


                                                                         East
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                           Timor-    Asla 8     Low-
                                                             Leste    Pacific  income     Developmentdiamond'
2004
Population,mid-year (millions)                                0.93      1,855    2,310                   Lifeexpectancy
GN1percapita(Atlas method, US$)                                550      1,080     450
GNi (Atlas method, US$ billions)                              0.51      2.01 I 1,038

Average annual growth, 199763
Population(%)                                                  0.6        1.o      1.9
Laborforce (%J                                                            1.1      2.3    GNi                                   Gross
                                                                                          per                                primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available.199763)                                       capita                           enrollment
Poverty(% ofpopulationbelownationalpoverty/ineJ
Urban population(% of f~alp~u/afion)                             8         40       30
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                                  62         69       58
Infantmortality(per 1,000livebitths)                            87         32       82
Childmalnutrition(% ofchildrenunder5)                           43         15       44           Accessto improvedwater source
Accessto an improvedwatersourcef% ofpopulation)                 52         76       75
Illiteracy(% ofpopulationage 15+)                                          10       39             -
Grossprimaryenrollment (% ofschool-agepopulation)              143        111       92                    Timor-Lesfe
    Male                                                                  112       99                    Low-incomegroup
    Female                                                                111       65

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                   1984       4994       2003    2004     Economicratios'
GDP (US$ bil/ionsJ11                                                     0.34     0.33
GrossdomesticinvestmenffGDP                                              31.O     27.0
Exportsof QOOdSand serviceslGDP2/                                          2.0     2.0                        Trade

GrossdomesticsavingslGDP                                                 -27.9   -26.9
GrossnationalsavingslGDP                                                 -29.0     9.0

CurrentaccountbalancelGDP31                                              21.o    115.0
interestpaymentslGDP                                                       0.0     0.0
TotaldebtlGDP                                                              0.0      0.0
Totaldebt servicelexports                                                  0.0      0.0
Presentvalue of debtlGDP                                                   0.0      0.0                         i

Presentvalue of debtlexports                                               0.0      0.0
                                                                                                            Indebtedness
                                       1984-94 199444         2003       2004  200547
(averageannualgrowth)
GDP 11                                                         -6.2        3.4      3.0                     Timor-Lesfe
GDP percapita                                                 -11.0       -3.5                       -Low-incomegroup
Exportsof QOOdSand services


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY

(% of GDPJ
Agriculture
Industry
    Manufacturing
Services
Privateconsumption51
Generalgovernmentconsumption41                                            18.7     20.0
 importsof goodsand services61                                            61.0     56.0


                                                1984-94    199444        2003     2004
(average annualgrowth)
Agriculture
 industry
    Manufacturing
Services
Privateconsumption
Generalgovernmentconsumption
Grossdomesticinvestment
 importsof goodsand services

Note:2004 data are estimates.
This table was producedfrom the iMF database.
* The diamondsshowfour keyindicatorsinthe country(in bold)ccmparedwith itsincomegroupaverage. Ifdata are missing,the diamondwill

 I1 Non-oilGDP
     be incomplete.

21 Merchandiseexports. ExcludesoiUgasrevenuews,whichare recordedunderthe incomeaccount(royalties)and transfers(tax revenues)
31 Includinginternationalassistance
41 Recurrentexpendituresinthe central governmentbudget(the ConsolidatedFundfor EastTimor)
51 ~otalconsumptionminusrecurrentgovernmentexpenditures
61 Merchandiseimports. Includesinternationalassistance-relatedimportsof goods
                                                                    70

                                                                                                                                  Timor-Leste

PRICESand GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                                       1984     1994         2003       2004        inflation(%)
Domestic prices                                                                                                                              I
(% change)                                                                                         14 T


Consumerprices                                                                4.2        1.8
ImplicitGDP deflator                                                          4.2       -0.8

Governmentfinance
(% of GDP, includesCi"t      grants)
Current revenue71                                                            31.6       93.7
Current budgetbalance                                                        12.9       73.7       I          -GOPdeflator      +CPI         I
Overallsurplusldeficit                                                       10.0       72.0

TRADE
                                                       1984     1994         2003       2004
(US$ millions)                                                                                      Exportand importlevels (US$mlll.)

Total exports (fob)81                                                           7          a        250T
 Coffee                                                                         6          7
 ma.                                                                                                200

 Manufactures                                                                                       150
Total imports (ci091                                                          205        186        1W
 Food
 Fueland energy                                                                                      50
                                                                                                   I                                         I
 Capital goods                                                                                        0

Exportpriceindex(lg95=100)                                                                                       2oMI   2031  2Mn    2003

import priceindex (1995=W                                                                                     EaExpMts      .InpMts
Terms oftrade (1995=100)

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                                       1984     4994         2003       2004
(US$ millions)                                                                                       Currentaccountbalanceto GDP (%)

Exportsof goods and services81                                                   7          8                                                I
Importsof goodsand services91                                                 205        186
Resourcebalance                                                              -244       -212

Net income                                                                       3        28
Netcurrenttransfers                                                           262        299

Currentaccount balance 101                                                     21        115

Financingitems (net)                                                           -1           6
Changesin net reserves111                                                     -18       -122        I            2MxI   2W1   2Mn   2003  2w41
Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$millions) 121                                        1.o
                                                                               61        183
Conversionrate (DEC, iocal/US$)                                                           1.o

EXTERNALDEBTand RESOURCE FLOWS
                                                       1984     1994         2003       2004
(US$millions)
Totaldebt outstandinganddisbursed                         0         0            0          0
  IBRD                                                    0         0            0          0
  iDA                                                     0         0            0          0

Totaldebt service                                         0         0            0          0
  IBRD                                                    0         0            0          0
  IDA                                                     0          0           0          0

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants 131                                                           46         39
  Officialcreditors
  Privatecreditors
  Foreigndirect investment141                                                  4 7       -32
  Porffdioequity

World Bank program
  Commitments                                             0          0           0          0
  Disbursements                                           0          0           0          0
  Principalrepayments                                     0          0           0          0
  Netflows                                                0          0           0          0
  interest payments                                       0          0           0          0
  Nettransfers                                            0          0           0          0


Note:This table was prOdUcedfromthe IMFdatabase.
71 Consistsof domesticrevenues,oillgas revenues,and foreign grants
81 Merchandiseexports. Excludesoii1gas revenues,which are recordedunderthe incomeaccount (royalties) andtransfers (tax revenues).
91 Merchandiseimports. Includesinternationalassistance-related imports of goods.
101 Includesinternationalassistance
I11Changesingrossforeignassets(-=increase)
 121 Grossforeignassets
 131 Officialcapitaltransfers, Currenttransfers are recordedinthe current account balanceafter international assistance.
141 Financialaccounts


                                                                      71


