Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
IDA GRANT NUMBER H186 -TP 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Consolidation Support Program Development Policy Grant) 
 
between 
 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated 12 December, 2005 
 
Page  2
IDA GRANT NUMBER H186 -TP 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated 12 December, 2005, between DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
OF TIMOR-LESTE (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS  (A) the Recipient has provided to the Association and to Australia, 
Finland, Ireland, New-Zealand, Norway, Portugal, the United Kingdom of Great Britain  
and Northern Ireland, and the United States of America, a letter and attached Results 
Matrix, dated August 2, 2005, (the Letter of Development Policy), describing a program 
of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote growth and achieve sustainable 
reductions in poverty (the Consolidation Support Program)
,
declaring the Recipient’s 
commitment to the execution of the Consolidation Support Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Association in support of the components and sub-components 
proposed and outlined in paragraphs 36 to 46 of the Letter of Development Policy and in 
sections A.1 to A.4, A.6, B, and C of the attached Results Matrix (which components and 
sub-components are hereinafter called “the Program”) during the execution thereof;  
(B) 
the Recipient has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and  
(C) on 
the 
basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Association has decided, in 
support of the Program, to provide such assistance to the Recipient by making the Grant 
in one tranche as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth; and the term “Fiscal Year” and 
“FY” mean the Recipient’s fiscal year starting July 1 and ending June 30. 
ARTICLE II 
Page  3
-
2
-
The Grant
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to three hundred and forty two thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR342,000).  
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Grant from the 
Grant Account in support of the Program. 
(b) 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:  (i) all withdrawals from 
the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Association into an account in United States 
Dollars designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the Association; and (ii) the 
Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Grant into said account, 
an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget management system, in a 
manner acceptable to the Association. 
(c) 
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Grant shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Association determines at any time that an amount of the Grant was 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Recipient shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of said payment 
to the Association.  Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 2006, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.05 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
Page  4
-
3
-
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in United States Dollars or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.05. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on April 15 
and October 15 in each year. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment, a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Grant which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including 
any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01(a) of the 
General Conditions, the Recipient shall promptly furnish to the Association such 
information relating to the provisions of Article II of this Agreement as the Association 
may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
ARTICLE IV
 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE V 
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Planning and Finance of the Recipient is 
designated as the representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Planning and Finance 
 
Palácio do Governo 
 
Edificio No. 5, 1
o
andar 
 
Dili, Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste 
 
Facsimile: 
 
670-321339 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 248423 
(MCI) 
 
(202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  6
-
5
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Dili, 
República Democrática de Timor-Leste, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE 
 
By  
/s/ Maria Madalena Brites Boavida 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ 
Xian 
Zhu 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Grant shall not 
be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have financed or 
agreed to finance under another credit, loan, or grant; 
2. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations 
in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
Page  8
-
7
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
4. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which the 
Recipient is a party);  
5. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, 
if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
6. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or of a beneficiary of the Grant during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Recipient having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association 
to remedy the situation. 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
 
1. 
The Recipient has appointed the 
Provedor de Direitos Humano
s
e
da
Justiça
 
(Ombudsman) pursuant to the Statutes of the Ombudsman (
Lei 7/2004 que Aprova os 
Estatutos do Provedor de Direitos Humanos e Justiça
). 
2. 
The Recipient has published the summary reports of at least seven (7) 
investigations carried out by the Inspector General between May 1, 2002, and 
May 1, 2005, which investigations did not result in a referral to the 
Procurador Geral da 
República
.
3. The 
Recipient
’s Parliament has approved the Petroleum Fund Law including 
the public savings policy for petroleum revenues. 
4. 
The Recipient has adopted disciplinary regulations and procedures for its civil 
service in accordance with the Law on Public Service (
Lei 8/2004 que Aprova o Estatuto 
da Função Pública)
.
5. The 
Recipient
’s Parliament has approved the FY2006 Annual Budget and 
Medium-Term Expenditure Framework. 
6. 
The Recipient has implemented a pilot grant mechanism for the transfer of 
resources to selected primary schools to improve resource availability at the primary 
school level. 
7. 
The Recipient held a business forum session during FY2005 with the private 
sector for the identification of regulatory barriers to private investment. 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04(a), 3.04(b), 6.05 and Article VII are deleted in their 
entirety. 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient.” 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant.” 
(c) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account.” 
(d) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement.” 
3. 
Section 1.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 1.01. 
Application of General Conditions
 
These General Conditions set forth the terms and conditions generally 
applicable to the Development Grant Agreement to the extent and subject 
to any modifications set forth in such agreement.” 
4. 
Paragraph 3 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
“3. ‘Recipient’ means the party to the Development Grant Agreement to 
which the Grant is made.” 
5. 
Paragraph 12 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Grant Agreement, in support of which the Grant is made.” 
6. 
Article III is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The heading of Article III is modified to read “Grant Account; Partial 
Payment,” and the heading of Section 3.04 is modified to read “Partial 
Payment.” 
Page  11
-
10
-
(b) 
The words “The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit” in 
Section 3.05 are modified to read “All amounts required to be paid under 
the Development Grant Agreement.” 
7. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
(a) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
“Except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Grant account shall be made in the currency 
specified in Section 2.02(b) of the Development Grant Agreement; 
provided, however, that withdrawals in the currency of the Recipient 
shall be made in such currency or currencies as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably select.” 
(b) 
Section 4.02(a) is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.02.
 
Currencies in which Payments are to be Made
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall pay all amounts required to be paid by it 
under the Development Grant Agreement in the currency specified in 
such agreement or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may 
from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or 
(e) of this Section.” 
(c) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02(c) and (e) of the General Conditions, the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “amounts”. 
(d) 
Section 4.03 is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.03.
 
Amount of the Grant
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the 
equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates 
of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn.” 
(e) 
Section 4.06(b) is modified to read as follows: 
“(b) 
All amounts which the Recipient shall be required to pay under 
the Development Grant Agreement shall be paid without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Recipient.” 
Page  12
-
11
-
8. 
Section 5.01 is modified to read a follows: 
“The Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Grant 
from the Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Grant Agreement and of these General Conditions.” 
9. 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted. 
10. 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Development Grant Agreement, the 
proceeds of the Grant may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, the Recipient on the goods or services to be financed 
under the Grant, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or 
supply.  Financing of such taxes is subject to the Association’s policy of 
requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its credits 
and grants.  To that end, if the Association shall at any time determine 
that the amount of any taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant is excessive or otherwise 
unreasonable, the Association may, by notice to the Recipient, adjust the 
percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item 
in the Development Grant Agreement as required to be consistent with 
such policy of the Association.”  
11. 
Article VI is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The word “credit” in paragraphs (a)(ii) and (c)(i) of Section 6.02 is 
replaced with the words “credit, grant or financing”. 
(b) 
Section 6.03(c) is modified by replacing the words “corrupt or 
fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
Page  13
-
12
-
12. 
Section 8.01(a) is modified to read as follows: 
“(a) 
All amounts which the Recipient shall be required to pay under 
the Development Grant Agreement shall be paid without deduction for, 
and free from, any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Recipient.” 
13. 
Section 9.06(c) is modified to read as follows: 
“(c) 
Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the 
Association, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Development Grant Agreement, the performance by the 
Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under the 
Development Grant Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes 
of the Grant.” 
14. 
Section 9.04 is deleted in its entirety and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 
9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.5, 9.6 and 9.07. 
15. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“Section 12.05.
 
Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant 
Agreement shall terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the 
Development Grant Agreement.”
 
