Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1455 
Operation Name 
Fourth Transition Support Program 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
General public administration sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P088181 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF TIMOR-LESTE 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Planning and Finance 
GPA Building 5 
Timor-Leste 
Date PID Prepared 
March 11, 2005 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 21, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
July 28, 2005 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The rationale for the continuation of TSP is two-fold. On the policy side, the Government of Timor-Leste has 
argued that TSP is a key tool to help them: i) establish priorities; ii) monitor progress in policy implementation 
and the achievement of results; iii) build Government capacity; and iv) support donor coordination. On the 
funding side, despite increased oil revenue, Timor-Leste will continue to require substantial funding from 
development partners due to: (i) large development needs and related funding gaps for the achievement of NDP 
goals and MDGs; (ii) the country
’s sound savings policy; and (iii) the volatility of petroleum revenue.  
 
The Government’s strategy is to use TSP IV to fund the progressive bringing of off-budget expenditures on-
budget. The three criteria selected jointly between Government and its development partners for bringing 
expenditures on-budget are: a) core Government functions; b) high development impact; and c) easy execution. 
TSP IV will thus aim to continue to focus on supporting Government in its implementation of the National 
Development Plan, both from the policy and the financing points of view. Moreover, the planned Public Finance 
for Service Delivery capacity-building project would focus on strengthening government’s budget execution 
capacity, hence supporting the feasibility of effectively bringing more expenditures on-budget.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
TSP IV, like its predecessors, will be a grant-financed budget support operation with a strategic whole-of-
Government approach. The ultimate goal of the operation is to foster poverty-reduction and sound governance by 
supporting the implementation and monitoring of Timor-Leste’s strategic planning instruments (notably the 
National Development Plan, the Road Map, sector policies and Sector Investment Programs). Within this broad 
framework, TSP IV will focus on establishing milestones and performance targets to monitor progress on a subset 
of priority areas agreed with Government and in consultation with Parliament and civil society. It will also seek to 
support the development of institutions and policy processes conducive to sound governance and poverty-
reduction. 
 
While the thematic pillars will constitute the “what” or substantive content of the results sought by the operation, 
the principles of engagement will address the “how” or the political economy of achieving the results identified. 
The three thematic pillars, as in previous TSPs, will be service delivery, governance and job creation. The 
principles of engagement are--deepening the results-orientation; transparency and communications; building 
institutional capacity; and strengthening partnerships with donors.  
 
3. Preliminary description 
Page  2
The annual Transition Support Program (TSP) provides a framework for grant-financed multi-donor budgetary 
support to the implementation of the National Development Plan (NDP). The program has focused on three 
thematic areas: service delivery for poverty reduction, good governance and job creation, reflecting 
the country’s 
strategic priorities. Although TSP operations were initially planned to cover FY2003 to FY2005, the Government 
has requested the Bank to extend the program up to FY2008. Though the narrowly-defined financing gap no 
longer exists, budget support remains appropriate to allow the integration of a larger fraction of the combined 
sources expenditures into the national budget, while respecting the Government’s savings policy for petroleum 
revenues. TSP IV (FY2006) will continue to focus on the same thematic areas as preceding operations, with the 
proposed addition of infrastructure under the service delivery component. 
 
TSP IV will continue to focus on the Government’s three thematic priority areas: service delivery, governance 
and job creation. Gender and monitoring and evaluation will receive special attention as cross-cutting issues. The 
magnitude of tasks ahead, limited Government capacity, rising popular and political pressure for results and the 
urgency of establishing sound policy processes before oil revenues surge all speak in favor of the need for 
strategic interventions. Hence, the TSP IV program and its accompanying matrix will seek to establish milestones 
and results targets on a small number of key areas (3 or 4) in each sector.  These milestones and results will 
attempt to strike a balance between monitoring progress in the achievement of tangible results on-the-ground and 
the development of the institutional and policy processes that lay the basis for progress in the medium-term. The 
criteria for selection of these areas will be four-fold: a) clear link to the achievement of tangible results on the 
ground or to the development of critical institutions and policy processes; b) Government ownership; c) 
administrative and technical feasibility; and d) potential for multiplicative effects and sustainability.  
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
There are no environmental impact risks associated with this program at this stage of the preparation.  
Based on the experience of the previous operations, activities supported under the transition support 
program did not engender any safeguards issues.  This assessment will be revisited in later phase of the 
preparation. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 3.9 
IDA GRANT FOR POOREST COUNTRY 
4.0 
UK: BRITISH DEPARTMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
(DFID) 
4.0 
NORWAY: NORWEGIAN AGENCY FOR DEV. COOP. (NORAD) 
0.0 
 
Total 
11.9 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Rosa Maria Alonso Terme 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel:  (202) 473-4362 
Fax:  (202) 522-1557 
Email: ralonsoiterme@worldbank.org
 
