Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB1606 
Operation Name 
First Consolidation Support Program 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
General public administration sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P088181 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF TIMOR-LESTE 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF PLANNING AND FINANCE 
Ministry of Planning and Finance 
GPA Building 5 
Timor-Leste 
Date PID Prepared 
July 5
th
,
2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
July 20, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
October 11, 2005 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Since becoming independent on May 20, 2002, Timor-Leste has made solid progress in nation building, 
maintaining peace and stability, and restoring public services and private sector activity. The country now 
faces the challenges of building on its early progress in the context of very limited human resources, 
embryonic institutions, a stagnant economy, and high levels of poverty and unemployment. 
 
The National Development Plan, prepared shortly before Independence, outlines Timor-Les
te’s development 
and poverty reduction objectives. A Stability Program and Road Map, announced in January 2003, 
highlighted the areas of the NDP considered by Government to be immediate priorities, notably 
improvements in governance arrangements and law and order, service delivery in the social sectors, and job 
creation. 
 
In 2004, with the coming on-stream of oil production, overall GDP grew at about 47 percent. Non-oil GDP, 
however, grew by only 2 percent after a 6 percent decline in 2002 and 2003. The recovery in non-oil GDP 
reflects an increase in agricultural production following a period of drought as well as a significant expansion 
in banking sector activity which compensated for the continuing decline in international presence. Since the 
2004 census and Demographic and Health Survey data show yearly population growth of almost 4 percent 
and oil GDP does not have a direct impact on the individual income of Timorese citizens, GDP per capita has 
likely been declining and poverty increasing. 
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
In line with the CAS, the First Consolidation Support Program emphasizes three thematic pillars and four key 
principles of engagement. While the thematic pillars constitute the “what” or substantive content of the results 
sought by the program, the principles of engagement attempt to address the “how” or the political economy of 
achieving the results identified.  
The 
three thematic pillars
,
as in previous programs, are service delivery for poverty reduction, job creation 
and good governance. Gender and monitoring and evaluation have received special attention as cross-cutting 
issues. 
The 
four key principles
 of engagement are : deepening the results orientation; fostering transparency and 
communications; building institutional capacity; and strengthening partnerships with donors.   
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
Page  2
The rationale for the continuation of multi-donor budget support under CSP I is two-fold. On the policy side, 
the Government of Timor-Leste has argued that the program brings critical support in: (i) establishing 
priorities; (ii) monitoring progress in policy implementation and the achievement of results; (iii) building 
Government capacity; and (iv) supporting donor coordination. On the funding side, despite increased oil 
revenue, Timor-Leste will continue to require substantial funding from development partners due to: (i) 
considerable development needs and related funding gaps for the achievement of NDP goals and MDGs; (ii) 
the ongoing process of shifting off-budget spending onto the central government budget (CGB); (iii) the need 
for a more expansionary fiscal stance; iv) the importance of respecting the country’s sound savings policy; 
and (v) the volatility of petroleum revenues. 
 
4. Financing 
 
Despite increased oil revenue, Timor-Leste will continue to require substantial funding from development 
partners due to: (i) considerable development needs and related funding gaps for the achievement of NDP 
goals and MDGs; (ii) the ongoing process of shifting off-budget spending onto the CFET budget; (iii) the 
importance of respecting the country’s sound savings policy; and (iv) the volatility of petroleum revenues. 
Given increased revenues and low budget execution capacity, a smaller amount is envisaged for CSP I (about 
US$10.0 million equivalent). The program will be Government-implemented and executed.  Were the budget 
execution capacity of Government to improve significantly, an increase in the program amount would be 
considered for the two succeeding years. Six bilateral donors have confirmed they will provide co-financing 
for the Consolidation Support Program through a World Bank-administered Multi-Donor Trust Fund 
(Australia, Ireland, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal and the United States) while two additional donors have 
yet to confirm their participation. 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
CSP I will have similar implementation arrangements as TSP. The program will be implemented by the 
Government agencies designed as responsible for each policy area in the results matrix under the overall 
guidance of the Ministry of Planning and Finance. The program will be managed by the Vice-Minister of 
Planning and Finance and the Ministry’s National Directorate of Planning and External Assistance 
Coordination (NDPEAC). 
The Bank, working jointly with other development partners and in consultation with Parliament and civil 
society, will assist the Government in monitoring progress under CSP I. The Government intends that CSP 
partners should monitor progress through its quarterly reports and biannual progress missions, in order to 
reinforce its internal monitoring systems. The annual NDP/PRSP progress report will also contribute to 
monitoring progress in program implementation as well as support the development of the Government’s own 
monitoring and evaluation capacity.  
In addition, after the first quarter of the fiscal year (end-September 2005), a detailed analysis of progress 
achieved in budget execution will be carried out. If budget execution is not on-track, the Bank task team will 
encourage the Government to consider a variety of mechanisms for increasing public spending.  Bank task 
team would also provide recommendations on emergency measures for streamlining the budget execution 
process. Over the course of the program period, the Bank would also carry out an analysis of the FY06 budget 
with a view to providing advice on the FY07 budget.  
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
The benefits of the program will bring critical support in: (i) establishing priorities; (ii) monitoring progress in 
policy implementation and the achievement of results; (iii) building Government capacity; and (iv) supporting 
donor coordination. 
 
Page  3
Some of the risks that are challenging for this operation are the: (i) limited Government implementation 
capacity; (ii) low budget execution capacity; (iii) fragile fiduciary assurances particularly due to the departure 
of international advisors; (iv) corruption and poor governance and (v) rising unemployment and social and 
political instability.   
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The resources 
provided by CSP I will amount to only 10 percent of the Government’s budget (compared with 
40 percent in previous operations). Moreover, the CSP intervention in the infrastructure area will focus only 
on monitoring and is not meant to finance any specific infrastructure projects. Therefore, this operation does 
not support measures that would appear significant in terms of environmental impact. 
 
8. Contact 
point 
Contact: Rosa Maria Alonso Terme 
Title: Sr Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-4362 
Fax:  
Email: ralonsoiterme@worldbank.org 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
