Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5834a-NEP
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NEPAL
RASUIWA-NUWAKOT RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II (RASNUDEV)
June 20, 1986
South Asia Projects Department
General Agriculture Division II
This document has sk restricted distribution gand may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents mnay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Nepalese Rupees (NRs)
US$ 1.00      =  NRs 18.0
NRs 1.00      =  USS 0.056 (approx.)
NRs 1 M       =  USS 55,555
WEICHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Fiscal year
July 16 - July 15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AA          -       Agricultural Assistant
AADO        -       Assistant Agricultural Development Officer
ADBN        -       Agricultural Development Bank, Nepal
ADB         -       Asian Development Bank (Manila)
ADO         -       Agricultural Development Officer
AHW         -       Animal Health L4orker
AIC         -       Agricultural Input Corporation
APROSC      -       Agricultural Projects Services Center
ARU         -       Adaptive Research Unit
ASC         -       Agricultural Service Center
ATU         -       Appropriate Technology Unit
CDO         -       Chief District Officer
DADO        -       District Agricultural Development Office
DAP         -       District Annual Plan
DDG         -       Deputy Director General
DFO         -       District Forest Officer
DC          -       Director General
DIHM        -       Department of Irrigation, Hydrology & Metereology
DLAH        -       Department of Livestock Development & Animal Health
DOA         -       Department of Agriculture
DP          -       District Panchayat
DTO         -       District Technical Office
FAO/CP      -       Food and Agricultural Organization/Cooperaive Program
HMG/N       -       His Majesty's Goverment of Nepal
IAAS        -       Institute of Agricultural & Animal Science
ICP         -       Integrated Cereals Project
IDA         -       International Development Association
IPDD        -       Integrated Panchayat Development Design
IRDB        -       Integrated Rural Development Board
IRDP        -       Integrated Rural Development Project
JT          -       Junior Technican
JTA         -       Junior Technical Assistant



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
LDO         -        Local Deveopment Officer
LHF         -        Leasehold Forest
MOA         -        Ministry of Agriculture
MPLD        -        Ministry of Panchayat & Local Development
NPC         -        National Planning Commission
PC          -        Project Coordinator
PCO         -        Project Cordinator's Office
PDO         -       Panchayat Development Officer
PF          -        Panchayat Forests
P0          -        Production Officer
PPF         -       Panchayat Protected Forests
RDI         -       Rural Development Project I
RTC         -       Regional Training Centre, Trishuli
SFDP        -       Small Farmers Development Programme
SMS         -       Subject Matter Specialists
SPO         -       Sub-Project Office (SFDP)
TA          -       Technical Assistance
T&V         -       Training & Visit System (of Extension)
UG          -       Users Group
UNDP        -       United Nations Development Programme
VP          -       Village Panchayat
VSO         -       Voluntary Services Organization
IVS         -       International Voluntary Services
WUG         -       Water User Group
I Thi document has a restrkced distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oficil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authori2tion.



NEPAL
RASUWA-NUWAKOT RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II (RASNUDEV II)
Credit and Projezt Summary
Borrower:           His Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMG/N)
Executing Agency:  Ministry of Panchayat and Local Development (MPLD)
Amount:             SDR 16.6 Million (US$19.1 M equivalent)
Terms:              Standard
Project             The proposed project is the second phase of the IDA
Description:        financed Rural Development Project (Credit 617-NEP)
covering the Rasuwa & Nuwakot districts in the Central
Development Region of Nepal, which was completed in June
1984. The proposed project would aim: (a) to consolidate
the investments made during the earlier phase of develop-
ment by making all physical facilities fully operational,
and by improving the qualities and coverage of agricul-
tural support services and the services of the institu-
tions responsible for rural infrastructure development
and maintenance; (b) to further improve the agricultural
production base and the socio-economic infrastructure
(roads, bridges, drinking water); (c) to expand forestry
plantation and soil conservation programs; and (d) to
promote development of effective local level planning
and implementation of rural development projects.
The project would be implemented over an eight year period
and at full development would benefit some 20,000 farm
families and generate incremental annual production of
22,000 Mt of foodgrains, 0.8 M litres of milk, 0.6 M3 of
fuelwood, and some 250 tons of tropical and sub-tropical
fruits, apart from additional sustained employment
equivalent to about 5000 manyears annually. Unquantified
benefits would also accrue from the development of rural
infrastructure, forestry and soil conservation works, and
human resource and institutional development.
The project does not face any unusual technical or
engineering risks. It would be implemented under a more
stable administrative environment as a result of HEG/N's
commitment to the implementation of new administrative
arrangements for decentralized rural development planning
and implementation. Nevertheless, organizati4)nal, staffing
and local funding problems could conceivably affec. timely
implementation. These risks, however, would be partly
offset by the strong implementation support, technical
assistance, and staff development provided under the
project, and by the fact that the project is focussed on
selected activities for which experience was gained under
the first phase development program.



Estimated Cost: 1/                                      (US$ Million)
Local           Foreign          Total
Extension, Training and
Research, Farms and ATU                  2.1               0.6             2.7
I rigatio0                                  2.4              1.2             3.6
Agricultural Cre-1it                        0.6              0.0             0.6
Agricultural Inputs                         0.2              1.0             1.2
Livestock Development                       0.7              0.2             0.9
Rural Infrastructure                        1.5              0.9             2.4
Forestry                                    1.7              0.1              1.8
SoiL Conservation                           0.5              0.2             0.7
ImpLementation Support &
Institutional DeveLopment                1.5               0.7             2.2
Technical Assistance, Overseas
training and studies                     0.2               1.6             1.8
Total Base Costs                        11.4              6.5            17.9
Physical Contingencies                      0.5              0.4             0.9
Price Contingencies                         2.9              1.8             4.7
Total Project Costs                     14.8               8.7            23.5
Financing Plan:
US$ Milli^n
IDA            UNDP           HMGIN           Total
Local Costs             11.0           0.5              3.3            14.8
Foreign Costs            8.1            .6              -               8.7
TOTAL                 19.1           1.1             3.3 1/          23.5
Z                   81.0           5.0            14.0            100.0
Estimated Disbursements: 21
(US$ Million)
FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93    FY94
Annual        1.0    1.8    2.0    2.5    3.0    3.7    3.5          1.7
Cumulative    1.0    2.8    4.8    7.3   10.3   14.0   17.4    19.1
Z          5.0   15.0   25.0   38.0   54.0   73.0   91.0   100.0
Economic Rate of Return: 21Z 31
1/ Including taxes and duties of US$0.2 h (approximately).
2/ According to IDA Fiscal Year. Credit closing date 12/31/93.
3/ With 85Z of project costs (excluding price contingencies)
included as economic costs.



-ii-'
Table of Contents (continuation)                                             Page No.
VII.  PRODUCTION. YIELDS. FARM INCOME AND COST RECOVERY............             45
Sources of Increased Production                                           45
Farm Budget Analysisn.. ....        .     ............ *  **              48
Marketing and Prices.                         ..........   49
VIII. BENEFITS, ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN AND RISKS..................              50
Overall Benefitsn                 e      f       i      ts............    50
Economic Analysis.                                                        51
Project Risks and Sensitivity Analysis   .              .52
IX.  CONDITIONALITIES AND ASSURANCES.                                           54
List of Tables in Text
3.01 - Major Cropping Systemsy            s      t      e      ms.. ... .... . ......  14
3.02 - Yield and Production of Major Crops    .               .14
5.01 - Stmmary of Project Costs             ..32
5.02 - Proposed Financing Plan                . . .33
5.03 - Procurement Arrangements             ..35
7.01 - Present and Projected Yields per ha    .               .46
7.02 - Overall Incremental Crop Production.                                      47
7.03 - Per Ha and Total Incremental Production of Forestry Produce.              48
7.04 - Farm Budget for a Typical 0.8 ha Farm   .               .49
8.01 - Economic Analysis and Sensitivity Tests          ..54
List of Table in Annexes
Annex 1, Table 1 - Land use in Project Area
Table 2 - Land use by Physiographic Region & Land Type
Table 3 - Present Cropping Pattern & Land Use in
Nuwakot District
Table 4 - Present Cropping Pattern & Land Use in
Rasuwa District
Table 5 - Present Cropped Area. Yield & Production in the
Project Area
Annex 2. Table 1 - Phasing of Crop Development Program
Table 2 - Training Programs for Extension Staff & Farmers
Table 3 - On-farm Adaptive Research
Table 4 - Appropriate Technology Unit
Table 5 - Technical Assistance, Overseas Training & Studies



NEPAL
RASUWA-NUWAKOT RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II (RASNUDEV II)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    INTRODUCTION ...........       .....................................    1
II. SECTOR BACKGROUND.                                                        1
The Agricultural Settin.                                                1
Agricultural and Rural Development Strategy.                            5
IDA Sector Lending Strategy.                                            7
Review of Implentation of IDA Assisted Rural Development
Projects.                                                         8
Implication for Future Projects.                                        9
Rationale for a Second Phase of the RD I Project .10
III. THE PROJECT AREA .11
General .11
Present Land Use and Crop Production .12
IV. THE PROJECT .15
Ceneral .15
Summary of Project Components .16
Detailed Features .17
Agricultural Development .17
Forestry, Soil Conservation and Watershed Management....         25
Rural Infrastructure Development .28
Institutional Development and Implementation Support....         30
Technical Assistance, Overseas Training and Studies.             30
V.    PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCURMENT, DISBURSEMENT, FISCAL
IMPACT AND COST RECOVERY .31
Project Costs and Financing .31
Procurement .34
Disbursements .37
Fiscal Impact and Cost Recovery .38
VI.   PROJECT ORGANIZATION & IMPLEMENTATION .40
Broad Framework .40
The Project Coordinator's Office .40
Reorganization of the DTO .42
Village Panchayats and Users' Groups .42
Trained Manpower and Project Staffing .42
Staff Development .44
Monitoring and Reporting .44
Status of Preparation.                                                 45



-ii i-
Annex 3, Table 1 - Summary of Project Costs (by categories of expenditure)
Table 2 - Summary of Project Costs (by components)
Table 3 - Summary of Project Costs (by year)
Table 4 - Project Coordinator's Office
Table 5 - Incremental Staff Requirements
Table 6 - Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Table 7 - Economic Analysis of Total Project
Annex 4 Selected List of Documents in Project File
Maps
World Bank 18881
World Bank 18882
World Bank 18920



NEPAL
RASUWA-NUWPKOT RURAL DEVELOPMENT (PHASE II) PROJECT
(RASNUDEV)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    The IDA financed Rural Development Project (RDI), Cr. 617-NEP,
covering the two hill districts of Rasuwa and Nuwakot in the Bagmati zone.
was the first major rural development project designed to develop agricul-
ture, as well as the socio-economic infrastructure outside the better
endowed Terai and Kathmandu valley. It was completed in December 1983,
two years after the originally scheduled date. The credit was fully
disbursed in June 1984, a Project Completion Report has been prepared and
a Project Performance Audit Report is under preparation (see paras
2.20-2.23 for details).
1.02    To consolidate the gains made under the first project (RDI), His
Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMG/N) requested the Bank to assist with
the preparation of a follow-up project. With UNDP funds, project prepara-
tion was undertaken by the Agriculture Projects Services Centre (APROSC)
and was completed in July 1983. An IDA pre-appraisal mission visited
Nepal in May-June 1984, when broad agreements were reached with HMG/N on
the scope, components and size of the proposed project. This report is
based on the findings of an appraisal mission, consisting of Mr. M.O.
Farruk (mission leader), Ms. Chingboon Lee (IDA), Messrs. M. Sugimura,
D. Kraatz (FAO/CP), and P. Mould (Consultant), which visited Nepal in
January/February 1985.
II. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
The Agricultural Setting
2.01    With 93% of the labor force engaged in agriculture, the economy of
Nepal is almost completely agrarian. Some 8.5 M people out of a national
population of 15 M still live in the mountains and hills in the steeply
dissected Himalayan Range. The resource base for agricultural production
is relatively restrictive due to the rugged terrain. Only about one-sixth
of the total land area is suitable for cultivation, of which some 15% is
irrigated. The man-land ratio for the whole country is estimated at about
five persons per ha of arable land compared to 9 persons per he for the
Hills. The distribution of land ownership is still skewed, despite the
implementation of the Land Act and Rules of 1964. Tenant sharecroppers
are estimated to number about 2 million, a vast majority of whom operate
without security of tenancy rights.



-2-
2.02    The traditional methods of farming in the HilLs are continuous
and exhaustive cropping of limited areas of terraced hilLside. The exces-
sively rugged terrain and the sparse road network restrict the supply and
use of chemical fertilizer inputs; consequently, productivity is rela-
tively low and maintained from a small supply of livestock manure and
mineral nutrients of the forests. Agricultural development is also hand-
icapped by a relatively low production and processing technology base and
extremely weak institutional arrangements for introducing and supporting
new and improved production technology. Consequently, agricultural
production during the last decade increased only by about 0.7% per annum.
while population grew by about 2.7% per annum, thus Leading to a progres-
sively deteriorating food balance. It is estimated that 39 out of 75
districts are deficit in food production and by the year 2000, domestic
production of cereals would meet only about 65% of Nepal's consumption
requirements. The Hills will be deficit by 60% and the Terai (which is
now in surplus) by 10%.
2.03    Crops Production.  Food crops, mainly paddy, maize, wheat, millet,
barley and potatoes, occupy some 2.2 million ha, or about 90% of total
cropped area. Cash crops, mainly oilseeds, sugarcane, tobacco and jute,
are grown on some 240,000 ha (10% of the total cropped area), primarily in
the Terai. About 40% of all cereals grown in the Hills are maize, 28% are
paddy and 13X millet. Legumes are virtually not grown. Current yields
are very low with maize at 1.7 tons per/ha and decreasing; millet 1 ton/ha
and decreasing and wheat 1.3 tons/ha with an upward trend. Cropping
intensities vary between 110-130%. Average fertilizer consumption is
about 28 kg/ha, equivalent to about 13 kg of nutrients per ha of cropped
area, one of the lowest levels in the world. Nearly 70% of the applica-
tions are on paddy and wheat and 75% of the total consumption is in the
Terai and Kathmandu valley. At the lower edges of the hiLls, where there
is occasional road access, use of fertilizers is increasing, but most
settlements on the less accessible slopes use compost and animal manure to
augment soil fertility. Altijugh horticulture offers scope for agricul-
tural diversification and lnt2nsification, production is still sporadic
and on a modest scale.
2.04    Livestock.  Total livestock population is estimated at over 15
million head with cattle accounting for about 45Z, buffaloes 25% and small
ruminants, yaks!chauries comprising some 30Z. Nearly 70% of the animals
are in the Hills. Productivity of the animals is very low due to poor
nutrition (available fodder supply can meet less than 70% of the nutri-
tional needs), high incidence of de ilitating disease and low genetic
potential. Nevertheless, farrers continue to maintain a sizeable number
of such low yielding animals as sources of milk, meat, manure and draught
power. Livestock provides some 25-30% of household incomes.



-3-
2.05    Forest Resour%;es.  The present forest area of NepaL is about 4.3 M
ha (3.9 M ha iri the Mountains & Hills and 0.4 M ha in the Terai). 1/
These figures represent a 33% reduction in forest area between 1064 and
1980. The situation is, however, much worse than statistics suggest,
because many areas in the Hills now classified as forest are, in fact,
degraded wasteland with few or no standing trees. FueLwood harvesting has
increased progressively, greatly exceeding the sustainable yield, while
uncontrolled overgrazing has all but destroyed regeneration. Projections
show that with present usage and increasing demand from a growing popula-
tion, accessible forests in the Hills will disappear within 14 years and
those in the Terai within 25 years.
2.06    Agricultural Institutions.  Agricultural development and policy
are the concern of four mninistries: the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), the
Ministry of Forests and Soil Conservation, the Ministry of Water Resources
and the Ministry of Land Reform. MOA includes the Department of Agricul-
ture (DOA) and the Department of Livestock Development and Animal Health
(DLAH), which are responsible for promoting production through research,
training and extension in their respective subsectors. The Directorate of
Irrigation, Hydrology and Meterology (DIHM) is responsibLe for development
of large and medium size irrigation schemes. Each of these directorates
is headed by a Director General. MOA also has overall responsibility for
the Agricultural Input Corporation (AIC) and the Agricultural Development
Bank, Nepal (ADBN) (paras 2.10-2.11).
2.07    Agricultural Extension.  Under the Director General of the DOA,
four Deputy Director Gcnerals (DDG) are responsible for Crop Development,
Extension and Services, Horticulture and Fisheries, and Planning & Coor-
dination. The extension wing is represented at the region by a Regional
Director of Agriculture who supervises district level extension programs
headed by an Agricultural Development Officer/Assistant Agricultural
Development Officer (ADO/AADO). Each ADO/AADO is assisted by a number of
Junior Technicians (JT) and Junior Technical Assistants (JTA), each
receiving two years and one year training, respectively. DOA extension
staff currently includes some 150 graduate staff and over 1,000 JT and
JTA. A recent innovation has been the employment of Agricultural
Assistants (AA) at the village level, who are selected from among progres-
sive farmers and retired servicemen. MAs receive minimal training and
serve on a part-time basis in areas adjacent to their homes for a nominal
allowance ranging between Rs 50-150 per month. The performance of the MAs
varies, depending on the extent of supervision by the JTAs, but on the
whole this represents a relatively cost-effective way of providing exten-
sion at the farm level. In recent years, agricultural extension services
1/ Based on the 1980 UNDP/FAO satellite mapping with aerial survey sup-
port.



-4-
in the Terai have been reorganized along the principles of the "Training
and Visit" (T&V) system through a number of IDA-assisted projects and with
promising results. Of the 20 districts in the Terai, 14 are now covered
by T&V. Agricultural extension services in the hills, however, would not
be amenable to the principles of intensive training and visit system
because of logistic constraints. The primary thrust in the Hills there-
fore has been the establishment of Agricultural Service Centers (ASCs),
which serve as focal points for the provision of advisory services,
inputs, demonstration, leader farmer training, mini-kit distribution, etc.
2.08    The effectiveness of agricultural extension activities are
generally considered to be lacking. Shortage of competent agricultural
extension staff, low productivity and Lack of proper motivation, both
resulting from the inadequacies of the pre-service and in-service training
programs and unsatisfactory administrative, personnel and operational
policies in the civil service system, are important impediments to the
effectiveness of the system. However, the situation has been improving
during the recent years as a result of technicaL and project assistance
provided by IDA and other donor agencies (see para 2.18-2.19). The
IDA-financed Agricultural Manpower Development Project (Credit 1534-NEP)
will also specifically address the issue of increasing the output as well
as the quality of training progr4ms of the existing pre-and in-service
training institutes.
2.09    Agricultural Research.  Agricultural research is the respon-
sibility of DOA and is administered by a Deputy Director General (DDG)
working under the Director General of Agriculture. The research s!rvice
operates a total of 52 centers located throughout the country: 7 in the
Eastern Region, 25 in the Central Region, 10 in the Western Region and 10
in the Far Western Region. These consist of (a) research stations (for
cereal crops); (b) research centers (for cash crops); and (c) research
farms, the latter being mainly engaged in seed multiplication. Con-
siderable progress in the development of appropriate farming recommenda-
tions under irrigated and rainfed conditions in the Terai has been made
largely as a result of the Integrated Cereals Project (ICP) and the Crop-
ping Systems Program (an integral part of ICP), financed by the USAID.
However, development and testing of crop production technologies, specific
to the different micro-climatic areas of the Hills have not received much
emphasis except for the work that is being done at the two hill research
centers at Lumle and Pakribas.
2.10    Agricultural Inputs.  The Agricultural Inputs Corporation (AIC) is
the sole governme.at agency responsible for (a) importation and distribu-
tion of chemical fertilizers; (b) maintenance of a buffer stock sufficient
for at least one cropping season; (c) collection, processing, storage and
distribution of improved seed and assistance to DOA in conducting seed
multiplication programs; and (d) distribution of locally manufactured and
imported agricultural tools, implements and agrict!'tural machinery. In



-5-
general, AIC suffers from lack of finance to import fertilizer on time and
in adequate quantities. In recent years, about 40X of fertilizer imports,
largely urea and complex mixtures, was obtained in the form of external
commodity aid. Fertilizer prices are subsidized by over 50%, on the
average, and selling prices are uniform throughout the country, reflecting
transport subsidies as well. In 1982/1983 budgetary subsidies to AIC
amounted to NRs 56 million, equivalent to about 32 of HMC/N regular expen-
diture and 2% of current revenue for that year. Most of AIC's fertilizer
and other inputs are retailed through the cooperatives (para 2.12) and
private sector involvement is minimal and sporadic. In recent times,
however, AIC has been considering steps for increasing distribution
through licensed private dealers.
2.11    Agricultural Credit.  Institutional credit accounts for some 40%
of total amount borrowed by farm famiLies. The rest is provided by
money-lenders, landlords and traders. The single major source of institu-
tional credit is the Agricultural Development Bank, Nepal (ADBN). Nearly
702 of ADBN credit is provided directly to the individual farmers, while
some 30% is on-lent through Coo73ratives (Sajha, para 2.12 below,. Lend-
ing by ADBN increased four-fold during the five-year period between
1972/73 (NRs 36 million) and 1981/82 (NRs 140 milLion). Further increases
were registered during the subsequent years. Asian Development Bank has
been providing assistance to ADBN for general agricultural lending as well
for implementing the Small Farmer Development Program (SFDP), which is a
supervised credit program focussing on the provision of credit to small
farmer groups bearing joint and individual repayment obLigation (see para
2.13).
2.12    Cooperatives.  The Sajha development program was introduced in
early 1976 to provide credit, agricultural inputs and marketing
facilities, as well as to sell consumer goods (salt, kerosene, coarse
cloth, diesel oil, rice and sugar). At present, one Sajha serves, on an
average, three to four panchayats. At che village panchayat level, they
also act as the local agent of the AIC. There are 1,170 registered
societies, the majority of which suffer from poor management and lack of
resources.
Agricultural and Rural Development Strategy
2.13    Nepal is on the threshold of implementing its Seventh Five-Year
Plan (1985-1990). The Fifth Five-Year Plan (1975-80) marked the beginning
of an era of increased resource allocations to the agricultural sector and
emphasis on rural development through Integrated Rural Development
Projects (IRDP). Consequently, during the last two plan periods, 27Z and
30%, respectively, of cotal plan allocations were made to the agricultural
sector and seven IRDPs, two Watershed Development projects, two Integrated
Agricultural Development projects and one Rural Development Project



-6-
designed to meet specifically the credit needs of the small and marginal
farmers/landless labors (SFDP, were initiated.
2.14    The quest for appropriate institutional arrangements and policies
for effective rural development began in the mid-fifties with the intro-
duction of the Village Development Programme under the Village Development
Department. Since then a number of attempts have been made for devolution
of planning and implementation activities. In 1962, the institution of the
Panchayat System introduced a new structure of local government which made
the Chief District Officer (CDO) responsible for planning and coordination
of development programs in their respective districts. This was abandoned
in 1970 and the district line departments again became individually (inde-
pendently) responsible for development activities. In 1974, the concept
of District Administration Plan was introduced with a view to prepare and
implement integrated multi-sectoral development programs under the overall
leadership of the CDOs, supported by a newly created position of Panchayat
Development Officer (PDO). This arrangement brought rural development
within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Home and Panchayat, a role
which the other line departments found difficult to accept. In 1978
another new institutional arrangement for RD programs, the Integrated
Panchayat Development Design (IPDD), was introduced whereby the role of
vilLage and district Panchayats were enhanced and mechanisms for inter-
ministerial coordination at the different leveLs of the government were
introduced. In i980 a new Ministry of Panchayat and Local Development
(MPLD) was created with interministerial cocrAination of rural development
projects and local infrastructure development a. two of its primary func-
tions.
2.15    Notwithstanding the above, the basic organizational problems
afflicting rural development in Nepal were not resolved and all IRDPs
were/are being implemented in an environment characterized by (i) unsatis-
factory involvement in and priority given to IRD projects by most of the
participating line ministries; (ii) staff shortages and excessive staff
turnovers; (iii) delays in fund releases; (iv) lack of support to district
level implementation agencies from central level bodies in terms of policy
guidelines, design standards, and implementation, monitoring and evalua-
tion procedures, and most importantly; (v) by the inability of the MPLD,
as the Coordinating Ministry, to influence the programming, budgeting and
implementation of projects by the participating line ministries (para
2.20).
2.16    The Decentralization Act of 1982 and The Decentralization Rules of
1984. The Decentralization Act and Rules became effective, intensively in
14 districts and broadly in the others, as of July 1985, and represent the
rurrent institutional arrangement for planning and implementation of
IRDPs. The Act and the Rules accord the District Panchayats (DP) con-
siderable administrative, supervisory and financial control over the



-7-
various line departments at the district level in matters of plan formula-
tion and project implementation. The Local Development Officer, an
employee of the MPLD, will act as secretary of the DP and through him the
power of the DP will be exercised. The Act also provides for formuLation
of annual and five-year district development plans with active invoLvement
of the ward, viLlage and town panchayats and technical support from the
Regional Office of the National Planning Commission (NPC).
2.17    Implementation of the Act should, in principle, overcome many of
the organizational weaknesses impeding effective implementation of rural
development programs (para 2.15). However, in light of earlier attempts
at devolution which ran into serious procedural and operationaL difficul-
ties, the succtss of the new arrangements will need a strong and sustained
commitment from the government to improve rural development management.
IDA Sector LendinE. Strategy
2.18    The IDA lending strategy for the agriculture/rural deveLopment
sectors had the following underlying imperatives: (i) to accelerate the
production of essential foodgrains and fuelwood in order to cope with
increasing deficits of these basic commodities; (ii) to prevent the
progressive deterioration of the environment and agro-ecological condi-
tions in the hills; (iii) to improve the socio-economic and physical
infrastructure and the availability of basic amenities in the hills/rural
areas; (iv) to improve the technological and institutional basis for
agricultural/rural development; and (v) to promote development of local
and national level institutions for pLanning, programming and implementa-
tion of sector development programs.
2.19    In line with the above strategy and objectives, the IDA lending
program in the past was designed for (i) intensification and diversifica-
tion of crop production in the Terai through fuller exploitation of the
surface and groundwater resources, 1/ and strengthening of the institu-
tional and manpower bases for agricultural support services 2/;
(ii) integrated area development in the hills to improve agricultural
productivity, rural infrastructure and basic social services, and to
1/ The Birganj and Narayani Irrigation Projects (Crs. 373-NEP and
856-NEP); the Sunsari-Morang Irrigation Project (Cr. 812-NEP);
Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Projects I and II (Crs. 654-NEP and
1316-NEP); and the Mahakali Irrigation Project I (Cr. 1055-NEP).
2/ Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 1100-NEP); Agricul-
tural Extension and Research Project II (Cr. 1570-NEP); Cash Crops
Project (Cr. 1399-NEP); Agricultural Manpower Development Project
(Cr. 1534-NEP).



-8-
protect environment and ecology 1/; and (iii) forest replantation, protec-
tion and managen.ent through community participation. 2/
Review of Implementation of IDA Assisted Rural Development Projects
2.20    Rural Development Project (Credit 617-NEP) I. 3/  The project was
the first large scale attempt at addressing the problems in the mid-Hills
of Nepal (in the districts of Rasuwa and Nuwakot) and was also among the
earLy RD projects to be assisted by the Bank. The project, which turned
out to be complex with a large number of components, was to be implemented
through a coordination mechanism, novel to the existing institutions and
operational procedures. The project commenced on time and made con-
siderable progress in most of its components up to 1979. At that time,
HMG/N introduced new administrative arrangements for rural development
(most important of which was the creation of the MPLD and a hierarchy of
committees for project coordination, para 2.14). This, combined with the
then prevailing political uncertainties, severely affected project
implementation and the project lost momentum. The Coordinating Ministry,
MPLD, failed to carry out effective coordination and the overall perfor-
mance of most of the implementing agencies also gradually deteriorated.
Frequent staff transfers, staff shortages, shortages of local funds,
apathy of most line agencies towards a so-called "MPLD" project, all
contributed to implementation delays, and the project had to be extended
by two years.
2.21    Despite the implementation constraints, most of which were of an
erg- iizational nature, the project achieved most of its broad objectives,
particularly in the case of the agricultural sector, rural infrastructure
and forestry/soil conservation. The project introduced an extension
organization in an area which had no such tradition. Important tech-
nological changes affecting cropping patterns and husbandry practices were
introduced and use of improved seeds and fertilizers increased sig-
nificantly. However, the improvements are believed to have taken place
mainly on the more accessible areas and on irrigated areas, and only to a
very small extent on the remote and rainfed areas (for which the
1/ The First Rural Development Project (Cr. 617-NEP); Second Rural
Development Project, Mahakali Hills (Cr. 939-NEP); Hill Food Produc-
tion Project (Cr. 1008-NEP).
2/ Community Forestry Development Project (Cr. 1008-NEP); Second Forestry
Project (Cr. 1400-NEP).
3/ The Credit is fully disbursed now and a Project Completion Report has
been prepared.



-9-
availability of sustainable and cost effective technology is much more
limited).
2.22    The effects of the other components have been mixed.  There is no
doubt that the bridges constructed by the project have had a positive
impact and have enabled year round communication between villages Located
on opposite banks of the rivers. Positive results can also be claimed for
the drinking water supply component and for the improved trails and
tracks. On the contrary, the impact of other sc,cial components such as
those for cottage ;ndustry, health, and education, has been minimal,
primarily because the project was unable to influence the major sectoral
problems that beset the implementation of these components.
2.23    While the wheel of change has been set in motion, engendering
economic and social advancement in the area, development in the project
areas is only at a rudimentary stage. To further accelerate economic
growth in keeping with local resources, additional investments would be
required to intensify agriculture under irrigated and rainfed conditions,
to protect the environment from further degradation, to expand and modern-
ize the physical infrastructure, and to strengthen agricultural support
services.
2.24    Second Rural Development Project (Mahakali Hills).  This was
prepared and appraised at a time (1978-79) when the implementation of the
RDI was proceeding satisfactorily and the organizational and institutional
constraints had not yet emerged. The project design, therefore, could not
take into account the experiences of RDI, hence this too turned out to be
a complex project with a large number of components involving some 18
implementing agencies. Moreover, the project area comprises three very
remote districts with poor accessibility, particularly during the rainy
season. To make things worse, a severe earthquake during the second year
of the project forced HMG/N to give priority to reconstruction and
implementation of the project was temporarily kept in 'abeyance'. All
these contributed to substantial delays in project implementation and
during the fir_.  "ive years of the project only about 25% of the credit
had been disburseL. Since a large number of civil works (including some
95 buildings and three irrigation schemes) would have remained incomplete
by the original credit closing date (February 28, 1985), the credit was
extended by a year. Recently, however, project implementation has
improved and by current credit closing date, disbursements are likely to
reach about 60% of SAR estimates. Follow-up emphasis emphasis on the
productive sectors and on consolidating previous activities will be impor-
tant in sustaining the improvements.



-10-
Implication for Future Projects
2.25     Implementation experiences of the RD projects in Nepal, Bank
financed as well as those of other donors, have the following implication
for the design of future projects: (a) RD projects should be simple and
focussed on key sector(s)/subsector(s) such as agriculture, incLuding
crops, horticulture, irrigation and livestock development; forestry, soil
conservation and natural resource management; and rural infrastructure
development in direct support of the above activities; (b) compLex and
centralized interministerial coordination requirements should be kept to a
minimum; emphasis should instead be given to program coordination at the
district level with the provision of effective central support; (c) proper
financial and personnel management, including timely flow of funds to
impLementing agencies and timely posting and retention of qualified staff
are crucial to proper project implementation; (d) project components need
to be an integral part of the work program of the Line ministries;
(e) local level institutions, e.g., Users' Groups (para 6.06) must par-
ticipate not only in the operation and maintenance of infrastructure, but
also in their construction; (f) design of civil works should be kept
simple and to standards that can be easily maintained with available local
skills and materials; and (g) recommended production technologies should
be consistent *with the logistic situation of the respective areas and
based on already available recommendations.
Rationale for a Encond Phase of the RD I Project
2.26     Experien-e in Nepal and elsewhere has shown that the problems
of rural development are far too complex and deep rooted to expect iso-
lated or relatively short-term intervention to make a fully significant
and sustainable impact. This is even more applicable in respect of the
Hills of Nepal where intensive and sustained efforts would be required for
correcting decades of land misuse and agro-ecological imbalances. While
rural development in the country has experienced a number of shortfalls,
it is imperative for the government to continue with its rural development
program to augment food production, correct regional imbalances, and
improve the economic and social conditions in rural areas. Also, resolu-
tion of some of the basic ecological and land use issues is not amenable
to simple solution and various facets of the issues must be confronted
simultaneously. The first RD project met its broad objectives, but more
importantly, it has generated some fundamental institutional, technologi-
cal and attitudinal conditions which provide the necessary pre-conditions
for accelerated gains in agricultural production, forestry development,
introduction of more rational land use system, and for institutional and
infrastructural development in the two project districts. However, in
order to consolidate first phase investments and enhance the benefits from
them, further investments would be required for completing/rehabilitating
some of the physical infrastructure including irrigation schemes, roads,
bridges and buildings and for making all facilities operational through



appropriate staffing, operation and maintenance. These considerations
provide the primary justification for the proposed follow-up project,
which taking into account the development framework established under the
first project would focus primarily on the directly productive components
and their operation and maintenance, and relatively less on wholely new
investments. In designing the project and determining its scope, full
cognizance has been taken of the lessons learnt from the first project as
will be evident from the following: (a) compared to the previous project,
the proposed project will have fewer components; it essentially has only
four major components each including activities that were successfully
initiated during the first phase; (b) the project has been processed after
detailed consultation with and agreement of the participating line minis-
tries and agencies; (c) the project would be implemented by three well
established ministries and their constituent departments/agencies, all of
whom have gained substantial experience through the implementation of the
first project; (d) all civil works would be similar to the kind of struc-
tures that were built during the first phase and would not require complex
design or special construction and supervision skills; and (e) following
the Decentralization Act, coordination of project would be at the district
level with technical support and implementation assistance provided by a
well staffed (local and expatriates) Project Coordination Unit, whose role
and functions have been more clearly defined (para 6.03)
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01    The proposed project area includes the two hill districts of
Rasuwa and Nuwakot in the Bagmati zone of the Central Development Region
of Nepal. It includes 80 village panchayats (62 in Nuwakot and 18 in
Rasuwa) and has a total population of about 230,000 (200,000 in Nuwakot
and 30,000 in Rasuwa).
3.02    The topography of the project area is domirated by the Trishuli
River Valley and to a lesser extent by the Tadi and Likhu river valley
floors. Smaller river valleys of the Phalanku Kohla, Silanku Khola, the
Samari Khola and the Kalphu Khola also add to this area of relatively flat
land (locally known as khet) where most of the paddy is grown. Most of
the project area is characterized by steep slopes rising from valleys, and
small terraces which cover the hills from the valley floor to elevations
up to 3000 m. The major river valleys are broken into numerous smaller
micro-climatic areas by 'kholas' (small streams) and hills which face in
all directions and are exposed to wide variations of sunlight, rain and
wind. Average annual rainfall is between 1600-1800 mm (80X between aune
and September), but varies a great deal in different valleys. Geologi-
cally the project area consists of gneisses, schists, crystalline lime-
stones and quartzites. Soils are principally silt-loams (50% of all



-12-
soils) with loams (15%) and clay loams (152) also being important soil
types. Soil reaction is moderately acid with medium levels of nitrogen
and organic matter, and available levels of P205 and K2 are medium to
high.
3.03   The hydro-electric potential of the Trishuli Ganga and its
tributaries is estimated at about 675,000 kw. One hydro-electric plant at
Trishuli of 18,000 kw has been in operation since 1966; a second one at
Devighat, using the tail waters of the Trishuli turbines and with a
capacity of 14,000 kw, was commissioned in 1983-84. There are only two
mini-hydro plants, one of which is not in operation for Lack of essential
maintenance and spare parts. Trishuli is connected with Kathmandu by a
macadamized road of 72 km. A new road (114 km) connecting Trishuli with
betrawati, Dhunche, Syafru and Somdang (in Rasuwa district) is under
construction. It has already been constructed up to Dhunche- Syafru and
the remaining stretch is expected to be completed by 1990. This would
open up many of the agricultural areas and settlements in the Rasuwa
district for accelerated development. Total length of small feeder roads
(all weather non-macadam and jeepable fair weather tracks) in the project
area is about 40 km.
3.04    The ethnic and caste composition of the project area population is
quite diverse and all the nine major groups are present. Hjowever, nearly
80% of the population consists of four major castes -- Tamangs (44%),
Brahman (18Z), Chhetri (12%) and Newars (6%). In both Rasuwa and Nuwakot,
Tamangs represent the largest group with 67% and 41% of the population,
respectively. Gross annual incomes per household in Rasuwa and Nuwakot
are estimated at NRs 4,700 and 5,530, respectively. Some 60% of it is
contributed by crops/horticulture and about 25Z by livestock.
3.05    Each village panchayat (VP) typically has 10-20 settlements.  The
lowest level settlement clusters are of 10 to 15 households. The
geographic area of a village panchayat is quite extensive typically vary-
ing from 1,000 to 2,500 hectares and stretching from the valley floor at
less than 1,000 m up to 2,400 m. The number of families range from
300-400 to 1,000. The upper part of Rasuwa has much smaller panchayats
ranging from 100-300 families. Cultural diversity also varies from
predominantly homogeneous single ethnic group/caste to multi-ethnic and
multi-caste panchayats. Each panchayat is divided into 9 wards
statutorily; a ward may be a single settlement or may comprise several
villages.
Present Land Use and Crop Production
3.06    Present Land Use.  Agricultural land occupies about 36% of total
project area. The remainder is under forest (38%) and other forms of
land, including perpetual snow and rock areas (26%). Total net cultivated
area including grazing land is estimated at about 65,300 ha, of which



-13-
about 29,300 ha are in Rasuwa district and about 36,000 ha in Nuwakot
district. Since over 80% of the agricultural lands i:i Rasuwa district is
grazing land, the cultivated area for crop production is only about
5,200 ha. I.. iuwakot district, about 31,800 ha are used for crop produc-
tion and the grazing land is some 4,300 ha. Annex l, Table 1 sets out the
present land use in the project area. I/
3.07    Cultivated lands, excluding grazing lands, are broadly classified
into three types: level terraces, sloping terraces (known as "Pakho" or
"Bari" land) and valley floors ("Khet" land), the latter including tars,
alluvial fans and foot slopes. Level terraces are the most dominant type
occupying some 72% of the total. "Khet" Lands in the Rasuwa and Nuwakot
districts are only about 3% (140 ha) and 18Z (5,800 ha), respectiveLy, of
the totaL cultivated lands.
3.08    Nearly 60% of all agricultural land is located in the
physiographic division known as "mid-mountains" (sub-tropical to warm
temperate), 20% in "high mountains" (warm temperate to Alpine) and 20% in
High Himals (Alpine to Arctic). Over 90% of agricultural land in the
Rasuwa district fall in the last two categories, whereas most lands (93%)
in Nuwakot fall into the first category. Available information puts some
8,000 ha under some form of traditional and/or improved irrigation in the
two project districts. These are mostly located in the valley floors and,
to a lesser extent, on the level terraces (Annex 1, Table 2).
3.09    Present Cropping Patterns Yield and Production 1/.  The cropping
patterns according to different land types, estimated cropped area and
cropping intensities are shown in Annex 1, Tables 3 and 4. About 15
different cropping patterns have been identified in the project area and
are grouped into maize based cropping, paddy based cropping and other
cropping systems as summarized below:
1/ Source: Preliminary (1985) data from CIDA - Land Resource mapping
project.
1/ The yieLd estimates are based on the following: (i) annual crop
survey conducted during Phase I pnriod; (ii) Phase I Project Component
Analysis Series, Vol. 1,2 and 3; (iii) Official Crop Statistics (see
TabLe 6); and (iv) Sample Survey for Central Development Region -
Middle Mountain (CIDA - Land Resource Mapping Project).



-14-
Table 3.01: MAJOR CROPPING SYSTEMS
Rasuwa     Nuwakot             Total
-----'000 ha------         '000 ha    Z
Maize based cropping            6.0          30.8           36.8    57
Paddy based cropping            1.2          23.8           25.0    39
Other                           1.1           1.3            2.4     4
Total cropped area              8.3          55.9           64.2   100
3.10    In maize based cropping, maize accompanied by interplanted millet
is the dominant sequence and entails often no winter cropping.  In paddy
based cropping, paddy-wheat and double cropping of paddy predominate, with
wheat as a winter crop. On level terraces, both maize-millet and
paddy-wheat (irrigated) rotations are found whereas on sloping terraces
which are entirely rainfed the cropping pattern is dominated by
maize-millet (intercropped).
3.11    Annex 1, Table 5 gives estimated average yield and production,
for major crops which are summarized below:
Table 3.02: AVERAGE CROP YIELD AND PRODUCTION
Crops                    Yield            Production
(tons/ha)         ('000 tons)
Paddy                     2.1                 37.5
Maize                      1.2                25.1
Wheat                      1.2                 7.3
Millet                    0.9                 13.5
Barley                    0.7                  1.1
(Total grain)            (1.4)               (84.5)
Potatoies                 7.0                  9.7
Others                     0.5                 0.9
3.12    Other Crops, Vegetables and Fruits.  Less than 2% of the cropped
area is devoted to sugarcane, soyabean, mustard, barley, black lentil,
etc. A wide variety of winter and summer vegetables are grown in both
project districts, primarily to meet family subsistence and for some cash
sales. Given the climatic variations, subtropical (mango, guava, papaya,



-15-
oranges) as well as temperate (apple, pear, plum, peach) fruits are grown
in the project area.
3.13    Livestock.  The total livestock population in the project area is
estimated at 152,000 cattle, 83,000 buffaloes, 165,000 goats and sheep and
some 2,500 yak and chauries. On average each househoLd in the project
area owns 5-6 large and 4-5 small ruminants, but productivity of animals,
as elsewhere in Nepal (para 2.04), is very low. Buffaloes are usually
stall fed but cattLe are grazed freely in forest areas and barren lands
adjacent to households. Nearly 90% of milk production (some 12 M liters
in Nuwakot and 2 M liters in Rasuwa) is consumed locally with the
remainder being processed as curd and ghee (clarified butter).
3.14    Forestry Resources.  Forest areas comprise about 100,000 ha (37%
of the total area) in the project districts. However, in Rasuwa where the
Langtang National Park is situated, nearly 45% of the total area is under
forest. Forests up to 1,500 m generally have mixed stands of Sal (Shorea
robusta) and species of Terminalia, jamun, Lagostromia, Mitrangina,
Chilaune and Chir pine. At elevations between 1,500-3,500 m, Chir pine,
Hemlock, Fir, Oak and Coniferous species are dominant. Daphne (Lokta) and
Nigalo are found at elevations over 5,000 m. As elsewhere in the
mid-mountains, forestry resources in the project area have been
over-exploited and are in a stage of degradation and rapid depletion. On
an average, farmers in the project area have to travel between 3-4 hours
to collect their fuelwood, fodder and small timber requirements.
IV. THE PROJECT
General
4.01    Project Objectives and Strategy.  The proposed project, in line
with the overall objectives of HMG/N for the development of the Hills
would: (a) intensify agricultural and forestry development and further
the impetus created by RDI in increasing production, employment and rural
incomes in the two project districts; (D) ensure that investments made
under RDI continue to yield the expected benefits; (c) expand and improve
the quality and coverage of support services and improve support provided
by institutions responsible for rural infrastructure; and (d) strengthen
regional, district, panchayat and village level capabilities for prepara-
tion and implementation of rural development programs and for the main-
tenance of rural infrastructure. In pursuit of these objectives, the
proposed project would focus on activities that are directly production
oriented and would promote changes in existing land use and farming svs-
tems. The project would strengthen physical infrastructure and institu-
tions that would directly support investments in agriculture. Special
emphasis would be given to small farmers as primary beneficiaries of the
project.  Finally, the project would promote farmers' participation,



-16-
individually or in groups, in the production of inputs (seeds, planting
materials, root stocks, etc.), distribution of other farm inputs and in
the construction and maintenance of rural infrastructure. In determining
the scope and content of the proposed project, full cognizance was taken
of the implementation experience of the RD I (paras 2.20-2.23) as welL as
of the likely improvements in the administrative and impLementation
environment (paras 2.16, 2.17 and 6.01 & 6.02). Finally, components
which were relatively better implemented during the earlier phase have
been given priority under this project.
Summary of Project Components
4.02    The proposed project would be implemented over a eight-year
period, beginning with the 1985-86 fiscal year and would consist of the
following components: (a) agricultural development: strengthening of
agricultural extension, research, credit and other key support services;
construction of new irrigation schemes and rehabilitation/maintenance of
existing ones; establishment of private fruit orchards; improvement of
preventive and curative animal health services and the genetic potentials
of large and small ruminants; (b) forestry and soil conservation: affores-
tation, protection, enrichment, and management of existing forests through
cowmunity participation; establishment of preventive and curative measures
for the protection of upper catchments, minor watersheds, and agricultural
lands, infrastructure and settlements on the lower catchments; (c) rural
infrastructure development: construction of new drinking water schemes,
suspension bridges and motorable tracks; rehabilitation and maintenance of
old and existing structures; strengthening of district level capabilities
for operation and maintenance of physical infrastructure; (d) institu-
tional development and imzlementation  assistance: establishment and
maintenance of a Project Coordinator's Office; strengthening of-the plan-
ning, monitoring and implementation capabilities and the account-
ing/financial support services of the district offices; strengthening of
regional offices of the Agriculture, Livestock and Irrigation Departments;
and (e) technical assistance and overseas training: provision of 8 man
years of senior and 38 man years of mid-level specialists/consultants,
short term overseas training of key management and technical staff and
funds for project/sector related studies.



-17-
Detailed Features 1/
Agricultural Development (Total outlay of US$9.0 M; 50% of base costs)
4.13    During the first phase of this project, emphasis was given on
increasing cereal production through improving the quality and overage of
agricultural extension services, increasing the supply of agricultural
inputs and credit and by increasing the area under irrigation. To a
lesser extent, the project also aimed at the develcpment of tropical and
sub-tropical fruit orchards and the production of winter vegetables and
potatoes. In respect of these objectives, the project established 12
agricultural service centers (ASC) and staff training facilities, improved
the physical facilities of the District Agricultural Development Office,
increased the area under irrigation by some 1,400 ha, provided NRs 40 M as
medium and seasonal credit, and distributed 12,000 tons of fertilizer, 800
tons of improved cereal seeds, 120,000 fruit plants and NRs 2.0 M worth of
agrochemicals during the project implementation period. An evaluation
study in 1982 estimated that compared to the base year of the project,
paddy production in the area had increased by 34Z, wheat by 17%, maize by
15%, millet by 14% and potato by 66%. Under the proposed project, these
activities would be further intensified as described below.
4.04    Crop and Horticulture Development.  Improvements in production of
foodgrains and horticultural crops would be made through (i) irrigation
deveLopment (paras 4.05-4.06); (ii) improvement of the quality of crop and
horticultural extension services, farmer and agricultural staff training,
adaptive research and the production of seeds and planting materials
(paras 4.07-4.14): and (iii) improvement of the supply of fertilizer,
agrochemicals and agricultural tools and agricultural credit (paras
4.15-4.16). Since the available package of feasible technology for the
rainfed areas is limited, except for paddy, wheat acd maize(see para
7.02), primary emphasis would be on the realization of the full potential
of the existing and prospective irrigated areas. However, for the rainfed
areas in the mid-mountains, the project would bring about modest increases
in productivity of paddy, wheat and maize through gene-al improvements in
cultural practices, use of better quality seeds (impeoved or local as
appropriate), and by improving soil fertility through iiodest increases in
the use of chemical fertilizer (where possible), but mo-e importantly, by
promoting better composting, appropriate crop rotation and cultivation of
legumes (as cash crops undersown in cereals and fodder legumes grown on
terrace risers). Details of the crop development program are in Annex 2,
Table 1.
1/ Detailed tables in Project File C.1. All costs in this section are
base costs.



-18-
4.05    Irrigation Development.  Irrigation development would include Hill
Terrace Irrigation and Medium Irrigation Schemes. l/ In the case of Hill
Terrace Irrigation, the proposed project wouLd complete/rehabilitate 18
schemes (net incremental command area of 300 ha) that were undertaken
during the RDI project period. The extent and nature of work required
would vary from scheme to scheme, generally incLuding reconstruction of
canals/headworks/crossings damaged by land slides, improving/protecting
canals/headworks and other Structures and, in some instances, extend-
ing/deepening the distribution system. Additionally, 28 small new schemes
(5 in Rasuwa and 23 in Nuwakot) would be constructed (net incremental
command area of 900 ha). Although called 'new', most of these would
essentially be development/expansion of existing rudimentary systems built
bv farmers. The work would not involve any major des.gns or feasibility
studies. A list of such potential schemes proposed by the District Tech-
nicaL Offices (DTO), was reviewed during appraisal. Final selection would
be made during the first year of the project by the DTO in consultation
with the respective panchayats, User Groups and the engineering staff of
the Project Coordination Unit (paras 6.03 and 6.06). It was agreed during
appraisal that HMG/N would give priority to those schemes that would
benefit larger numbers of small farmers, are relatively more cost effec-
tive (average cost below NRs 10,000/ha) and are in areas where no assis-
tance had been provided earlier. Also, an individual panchayat would be
considered for a new scheme only after existing incomplete/deteriorated
systems, if any, had been rehabilitated and put into operation. Under the
Medium Irrigation Schemes program, the proposed project would construct,
through the Directorate of Irrigation, hydrology and meteorology (DIHM),
four gravity irrigation systems in the valleys and lower terraces
(Boketar-Chawkitar, Simra, Thansingh and Ratomate) and rehabilitate the
Labdu-bzikure and Gadhkar schemes, both built under RDI project. The new
schemes would give a net incremental command area of 750 ha. The proposed
1/ The four medium size schemes would be located on the small tributaries
(streams) of the Trishuli River - the Phalangukhola, Tadi Khola and
Likhu Khola. The Trishuli River originates iin Tibet, joins the Gandaki
River below the project area which then flows into the Narayani River
down into the Indo-Gangetic Plain. The insignificant volume of water
that would be withdrawn by the proposed new schemes would not impact in
any meaningful way on the quality and quantity of the flows in the
Trishuli, the Gandaki or the Narayani Rivers, and therefore the
proposed irrigation component of the project will not have any adverse
effects on the lower riparian countries, India and Bangladesh. Nepal
has the unrestrictive right to use the water of the Narayani River
Upstream of the Gandak Power Project pursuant to Section 9 of the
Agreement dated December 4, 1959, as amended, entered into between
Nepal and India.



-19-
rehabilitation/remodeling of the two existing schemes would involve
extending the main canals, constructing bigger intakes, flood protec-
tion/river training works and upgrading of structures, thereby increasing
the command area of Labdu-Dhikure by 100 ha and Gadhkar by 40 ha
(approximate).
4.06    For the medium size schemes to be implemented by DIHM (para 4.05),
preliminary surveys, designs and estimates have aLready been prepared by
consultants and were reviewed during appraisal. However, more detaiLed
engineering design and technical specifications would be required prior to
the start of construction. Therefore, during the first two years DIHM
would complete the necessary design works with assistance from PCU staff
and construction would effectively start from the third year of the
project. All irrigation schemes implemented under the proposed project,
new or rehabilitated, would be owned, operated and maintained by the
beneficiaries of the command area who would be organized into Water Users'
Groups (WUG) (para 6.06). The District Technical Office (DTO) would
provide the necessary technical and other support to the WUGs. The WUGs
would also be responsible for mobilizing local resources for the O&M of
the irrigation systems (para 5.11). An assurance was obtained during
negotiations that prior to undertaking construction of project funded
irrigation schemes, and other rural infrastructure works, User Group(s) in
each respective panchayats would be formed. In order to maximize benefits
from the irrigation schemes, an assurance was also obtained that by Decem-
ber 31, 1986, HMG/N would establish an "Irrigation Agronomy and Water
Management and Utilization Unit," for the project area within the Depart-
ment of Agriculture. Finally, in view of the importance of irrigation
development as a source of rapid increases in agricultural productivity in
the project area in the long run, a sum of NRs 2.0 m would be provided to
DIHM for feasibility studies of potential medium and large schemes, which
would be identified in zonsultation with IDA.
4.07    Agricultural Extension Services.  The proposed project would
strengthen and inEensify the existing agricultural extension services,
both at the district and panchayat levels, by providing funds for
(i) establishing 8 additional agricultural service centers (ASCs), 3 in
Rasuwa and 5 in Nuwakot, constructing additional office buildings and
staff quarters at the District Agricultural Development Offices (DADO) at
Trishuli and Dhunche; (ii) incremental staff salaries (see paras 2.08 and
6.07), essential furniture, equipment, agricultural tools, vehicles and
motorcycles for DADOs and services centers; (iii) plant protection and
seed dressing equipment at each VP; and (iv) extension activities such as
farmer visits, demonstration and exhibition.
4.08    The Agricultural Service Centers (ASCs), of which there would be
21 at the completion of the proposed project, would be the focal point for



-20-
extension activities in the respective areas. 1/ Production officers,
working under the DADO/AuUDO, would be responsible for guidance and overall
supervision of the ASC staff. In some of the more important ASCs, the
senior most HOA staff in the ASC would be designated as the officer
in-charge of the center. Each of the two DADO office would also have
three Subject Matter Specialists (SMS's) -- one each for agronomy, pLant
protection and extension to provide technical guidance and training to ASC
staff. The extension staff, working directly and/or through panchayat
level Agricultural Assistants (AAs), would provide farmers available
technical recomendations on farming practices relevant to the different
micro-climatic and agroecological zones. Production/demonstration/seed
multiplication blocks of appropriate size, located at panchayats and/or
lands adjacent to the ASCs would be an important means for dissemination
of improved practices. Efforts would also be made for introducing the
'Tuki' system in respect of providing exten.ion services (para 4.15)
whereby progressive farmers would be selected and trained as modeL farmers
for dissemination of improved cropping practices. Additionally, JT/JTAs
would organize periodic group discussions with farmers at the ASCs as well
as in the panchayats. Extension efforts would be coordinated with live-
stock, forestry and soil conservation programs with a view to promoting
appropriate changes in land use and farming systems.
4.09    Agricultural Training.  The proposed project would upgrade and
strengthen the existing Regional Training Center (RTC) and the satellite
training centers at Kakani and Dhunche -- all established under RDI
Project, and improve the scope and content of the currently offered train-
ing courses. Refresher, orientation and seasonal training would be
provided to senior officers, JT/JTAs and to farmers and AAs. The
facilities at the ASCs would also be used, particularly for the training
of AAs. Course materials would be focussed on specific aspects of
agricultural production relevant to the project area. The RTC currently
has two Assistant Training Officers and a JT, which is totally inadequate.
Under the project, a full time Agricultural Training Officer (C II/T)
would be appointed to be the officer in-charge of the center. Addition-
ally, he would have two more Assistant AgricuLtural Officers (C/HII/T) and
JTs and other support staff. They would form the core staff of the RTC,
but the SMSs at the headquarters, specialists from research stations, and
senior extension staff at the DADO office would be extensively used as
trainers, as is presently in practice. Annex 2, Table 2 provides an
indicative training program for field staff and farmers.
1/ The following places were identified at appraisal for establishing new
service centers: Jibjbe, Kalikasthan, Timure (Rasuwa); Balakumar,
Budhasingh, Chaturale, Kumari and Shikre (Nuwakot). Land for these
facilities are available.



-21-
4.10    In support of the above program, the project would provide funds
for (i) constructing additional staff housing and improving the existing
training facilities; (ii) salaries and allowances of incremental staff;
(iii) purchasing of training equipment, vehicles and furniture; and
(iv) direct costs of course/training administration, i.e., production of
audio-visual and other training materials, travelling and daily allowances
and fees for trainers.
4.11    On-farm Adaptive Research.  The proposed project would establish
a small on-farm Adaptive Research Unit (ARU) in Kakani, under the supervi-
sion and control of the Agronomy Division DOA which is adequately staffed.
The objectives of ARU would be to refine existing broad recommendations on
the foLlowing lines to suit specific conditions of the different
agro-climatic zones: (i) an improved maize variety with short duration and
an improved potato variety suitabLe for the high mountain region under
rainfed conditions; (ii) a profit maximizing fertiLizer recommendation for
improved varieties of paddy, wheat and maize under rainfed/irrigated
conditions for different soil types; (iii) the use of chemical fertilizers
for traditional varieties of major crops grown under rainfed conditions;
and (iv) improved millet, barley, buckwheat, pulses and oil seeds.
4.12    The ARU would function in close collaboration with other similar
programs including the Integrated Cereals Project (ICP) and the activities
of the hill research centers at Lumle and Pakribas (para 2.09). Actual
field trials would be carried out by the JT/JTAs stationed at relevant
ASCs under guidance and supervision of the technical staff of ARU. The
proposed project would provide funds for: (i) staff salaries for an
agronomist, a horticulturist, a farm management specialist, an assistant
soil scientist and other supporting staff; (ii) construction of office
building, staff quarters; and (iii) for the purchase of one 4 WD vehicle,
and materials for field trials. Details are given Annex 2, Table 3.
4.13    Improvements of Kakani, Dhunche (for Temperate/Subtemperate Zones)
and Trishuli (for Tropical/Subtiopical Zones) Agriculture/Horticulture
Farms. Production of -egetable potato seeds and fruit plants (for tem-
perate and tropical regions) have been the primary focus of the activities
of these farms. Limited programs for trial and verification of new
varieties are undertaken and the farms also provide facilities (built
under RDI) for farmer training. The full potential of these farms as
centers for diffusion of innovation in their respective agroecological
zones is, however, not being realized. Under the project, these would
function as the field units of the proposed Adaptive Research Unit (para
4.11) and better linkages with the national/regional research centers
would be established. The quality of seed/seedlings produced on the farms
would be improved and the quantity and varieties propagated rationalized.
In support of the above program, the proposed project would provide funds
for (i) additional professional and non-professional support staff;
(ii) improving physical facilities including land development, protective



-22-
fencing, provision of irrigation systems, construction of staff quarters;
(iii) the purchase of vehicles, equipment and furniture; and (iv) annuaL
operating and maintenance costs.
4.14    Orchard Development.  Under the RD I, assistance had been provided
to the Kakani, Dhunche and Trishuli horticulture farms (para 4.13) for
improving the production and distribution of fruit plants (para 4.03).
However, the distribution of planting materials was not followed up with
sufficien: extension and other support (i.e. credit, marketing, etc.),
hence farmer adoption was somewhat sporadic. Under the proposed project,
the extension staff of the DADO and the relevant horticulture staff in
three farms would work in close collaboration to improve the quality,
scope and intensity of technical and advisory services in respect of
orchard development. Furthermore, credit would be provided through ADBN
(see para 4.16) for establishing ten temperate fruit orchards in the high
mountain region, 60 tropical/subtropical fruit orchards in the mid-hills
and valley, and 24 small fruit preservation/processing units (for which
there is a strong demand among the growers). Individual orchards would be
about 0.5 ha in size but larger community/group owned orchards would also
be eligible for assistance. The main thrust of the program would be to
assess the technical and economic viability of commercial production and
marketing of temperate and tropical fruits in the project area.
4.15    Agricultural Inputs Supplies.  The proposed project would provide
NRs 18.4 M to AIC as working capital for the importation and distribution
of incremental fertilizer (approximately 3,100 tons) and agro-chemical
requirements of the project area; NRs 1.7 H for the construction of addi-
tional godowns (one 500 mt at Bidur and one 100 mt at Dhunche) and expan-
sion/improvement of existing offices; NRs 0.8 M for vehicles and equipment
and NRs 1.16 M for incremental salaries and wages, and operating costs.
In the project area AIC would intensify its current policy of encouraging
privatization of agricultural inputs retailing (see para 2.10). Measures
to be taken would include simplification of the procedures for granting of
retailing licenses, using AAs as commission agents (the so-called 'Tuki'
system as already successfully practice in some areas) and giving volume
discounts to User Groups for input retailing.
4.16    AgriculturaL Credit.  Under the RD I, agricultural credit opera-
tions in the project area increased substantially. A total of NRs 38 M
was provided by ADBN directly to individual farmers and cooperatives. Of
this amount, NRs 14 H was provided as short-term production credit, and
the remainder consisted of medium- and long-term credit mainly for live-
stock purchase, horticulture, farm equipment and machinery, etc. Overall
recovery rate has been estimated at about 60%, which is better than the
national average. Under the proposed project, incremental seasonal credit
requirements for farm inputs (fertilizer, agrochemicals) would be provided
by ADBN out of its own resources (see para 2.11); however, the project
would provide NRS 4.3 H covering ADBN medium-term credit for (i) orchard



-23-
establishment and maintenance (NRs 1.6 M); (ii) establishment of fruit
preservation units (NRs 0.4); (iii) purchase of miLch animals and small
ruminants (NRs 1.5 M), (para 4.17); (iv) purchase of agricultural/dairy
equipments (NRs 0.4 M); and (v) support to the Animal Health Workers
Programme (NRs 0.4 M). Additionally, NRs 7.3 M would be provided for
establishing and operating ten new small far-ners development sub-projects
(8 in Nuwakot, 2 in Rasuwa) under its ongoing SFDP program. Interest
rates for lending institutions are fixed by the Nepal Rastra Bank which
provides refinancing to ADBN at rates ranging from 6-8%, depending on the
purpose of the loan. Interest rates charged by ADBN to individuals for
short and medium term loans ranges from 1OZ to 15%, depending on the
purpose of the loan. Longer term loans (tree crop development) normally
carry interest rates of 10%, medium term loans (livestock and irrigation
development are lent at 12% and for short term lending an interest rate of
15% is charged. Interest rates for loans from ADBN to Sajha Cooperatives
are 4% less than those made direct to individuals. Interest on loans from
cooperatives to individuals bear the same interest rates and those made
direct by ADBN to individuals.
4.17   Livestock Development.  Under RD I, preventive and curative veteri-
nary services were improved through establishing 11 livestock service
centers, providing additional staff, medicines, drugs and drenches and
improving the physicaL facilities at the two district veterinary hospi-
tals. Additionally, improved sires (77 Murrah buffaloes, 64 Jersey bulls
and 74 improved billies) were distributed for upgrading of the local
stock. The proposed project would further intensify and expand these
activit;es while concentrating on improving the quality, coverage and
effectiveness of these programs (para 4.18-4.21). In view of
agro-ecological and socio-economic variations within the project area,
some locations have relatively greater potentials for rapid productivity
improvements in the short- and medium-term. Twenty such panchayats/areas
would be identified where special programs covering animal health, nutri-
tion, feed and fodder development and breed upgrading would be implemented
through intensive technical and advisory provision of services and special
livestock credit (para 4.16).
4.18    The district veterinary hospitals at Trishuli and Dhunche and the
existing livestock sub-centers would be strengthened not only for provid-
ing veterinary services but also for animal production extension, par-
ticularly for feed and fodder development. Each livestock sub-center
would be staffed with at least 1 JT, 2 JTA (one of whom would deal with
feed and fodder) and 4 stockmen. Project funds would cover (i) expansion
of the physical facilities at the two hospitals, construction of four new
livestock centers, and 6 dipping tanks; (ii) salaries and allowances for
incremental technical and support personnel; and (iii) purchase of
vehicles, surgical and other equipment, and medicines, drenches and vac-
cines. It is estimated that during the eight-year project implementation



-24-
period, approximately 25X of the total livestock population would benefit
from the improved curative and preventive health care services.
4.19    Animal Health Workers (AHW).  Recently the livestock department
introduced a program for training selected livestock owners/farmers in
elementary health care, disease identification, first aid, and treatment
for common and simple ailments. Last year about 15 such people were
trained under the scheme but in the absence of adequate financial support
and technical follow-up, the trained AHWs have remained largely ineffec-
tive. The proposed project would, on a pilot scale, strengthen and expand
the program. About 100 leading livestock owners/farmers would be trained
at the district veterinary hospitals in Dhunche and Trishuli (in batches
of ten) for about 4 weeks covering the subjects/topics that are normally
dealt with in the training of the livestock assistants. Upon completion
of the training, they would be given small 'creatment kits' containing
instruments for minor surgery, syringe, first aid and other medicines for
treating common illness, and for vaccination. They would be allowed to
charge farmers appropriate fees for their services and alsc be entitled to
get their supplies of drugs, etc., from the district hospitals/livestock
service centers at nominal costs. Finally, ADBN would, upon recommenda-
tion from the relevant district veterinary officer, provide short-term
credit to selected AHWs for starting formal practice in preventive and
curative veterinary health care through opening of small outpatient
clinics/dispensaries. The objective of the program, which would be
closely monitored and supervised by the livestock department, would be to
create a cadre of self-sustai ing Village Animal Health Workers (AHW).
Funds provided under the project would cover the costs of training of the
selected individuals, supplying the treatment kit and its subsequent
replenishment and for the ADBN credit.
4.20    Feed and Fodder Development.  The pasture development farm at
Rasuwa, established under RB I, would be improved and expanded to increase
its production of grass seeds, napier grass cuttings and other herbacious
fodder. It would also promote cultivation of legumes and forage crops (in
cooperation with the Department of Agriculture) and planting of fodder
trees (in cooperation with the Forestry Department) on private and public
lands. Four additional range units (each having a JT, one JTA and one
Stockman) would be established and the operation of the Chandanbari and
Langtang fodder development sub-centers, established under RD I, would be
strengthened. Some 500 ha of range lands in various locations in the
upper and lower mid-hills would be sown with grass seeds such as perennial
rye, oats and white clover, alongside a program for training and educating
livestock farmers in the techniques of seeding, protection, regeneration
and management of seeded rangelands. Additionally, experimentation with
urea treatment of straw would be initiated, and chaffing machines and
mineral blocks would be distributed in order to improve the nutrient value
of roughages and other on-farm feed.



-25-
4.21   Breed Improvement.  The proposed project would provide funds for
(i) the purchase and distribution nf 75 murrah buffaLo bulls, 150 improved
rams/bucks/goats, 5 yaks, and (ii) developing breeding herds of promising
local breeds of cows and other ruminants. Sire distribution and its
follow-up would be better organized and supervised and emphasis would be
on the development of breeder farmers in strategic locations. As in RD I,
the animals would be given to panchayats free of cost, which would be
responsible for their upkeep and maintenance, but veterinary services
would be provided by the nearest livestock sub-center. Most murrah bulLs
would be procured from Janakpur livestock farm and/or from India. Funds
would also be provided for the purchase of 50 animals of exotic breeds of
ewe/ram and 95 local sheep for the Pansykhda sheep and goat farm in
Nuwakot in order to replace the old stock.
4.22    Appropriate Technology Unit (ATU).  The ADBN has been successfully
operating three Appropriate Technology Units (ATU) in three different
areas in Nepal with the purpose of field testing and disseminating tech-
nologies that would make the most use of available natural resources in
the rural areas. Its current activities cover such diverse fields as
development of small water turbines for grain milling and power generation
(2-4 kw units), bio-gas plants for fuel and light, wood-saving stoves,
beehives, solar dryers, pedal pumps for irrigation, etc.  The proposed
project wouLd provide funds to ADBN for establishing and operating an
Appropriate Technology Unit at Trishuli (or at any other suitable place in
the project area).  The work program of the Unit would be developed in
consultation with the Project Coordination Unit (para 6.03). Details are
given in Annex 2, Table 4.
4.23    Strengthening of Regional Offices.  In order to ensure effective
technical support to and supervision of the district offices, the project
would provide funds for strengthening the Central Regional Offices of the
Departments of Agriculture (DOA), Livestock Development and Animal Health
(DLAH) and Irrigation (DIHM). Funds provided would cover incremental
staff salaries and allowances, essential vehicles, equipment and furni-
ture.
Forestry, Soil Conservation and Watershed Management. .Total outlay of
US$2.4 M; 14Z of base costs)
4.24    Forestry Plantation and Management.  To promote afforestation, the
project would Ci) establish and maintain 3,000 ha Panchayat Forests (PF),
250 ha of Leasehold Forests (LHF), private/homestead plantings on 500 ha
and public pLantings on 1,000 ha; (ii) protect and maintain 3,000 ha of
degraded forests as Panchayat Protected Forests (PPF); (iii) promote the
usage fuel saving stoves; (iv) carry out enrichment planting on and
protection of 1,200 ha of public forests; (v) construct demarcation on
375 km; and (vi) maintain some 750 ha of RD I project plantings. Funds
provided wouLd cover the following: (i) direct costs of plantation



-26-
development, i.e., cost of raising seedlings, labor for planting, initial
maintenance, guarding; (ii) construction of new office buildings, expan-
sion/remodelling/completion of existing ones; (iii) purchase of vehicles,
motorcycles, survey equipment and planting tools; and (iv) incremental
staff salaries and allowances.
4.25    Seedlings (approximately 16 M) would be raised on the existing
central nurseries (5 in operation) and on smaller nurseries to be estab-
lished on suitable locations based on plantation sites. Development of
private/panchayat nurseries would be promoted through supply of polybags,
seeds, root stocks and technical advice. At least 30Z of the seedlings
raised would be of fodder species. Training on forest development,
protection, and utilization would be organized for school students,
teachers, panchayat leaders and others. Such training would be practi-
cally oriented, simple and would emphasize dissemination of knowledge on
forest maintenance, protection, suitability of various plant species under
the respective ecological conditions.
4.26    Trees planted in PF would be mainly species suitable for fuelwood
production and preference would be given to faster growing species. Fod-
der grasses and legumes would be produced in PF, usually from indigenous
species naturally regenerating, but high yielding species would also be
undersown, depending on the availability of seeds. All seed would be
provided through the DFO, who would either arrange for its collection from
trees locally or would obtain it from seed stores maintained by the Com-
munity Forestry and Afforestation Division (CFAD) of the Ministry of
Forests. Development of LHF would be on a pilot basis. Each participat-
ing panchayat would be leased about 20 hk of public land for planting,
primarily with fodder tree and herbacious fodder plants and grasses.
Planting on private lands would be implemented through provision of seed-
lings and technical advice. Species planted would primarily be fruit and
fodder trees. Project objective would be to cover some 50% of all
households in the proiect area. Finally, some 1,000 ha of public lands
would be reforested by DFO through hired labor and would include areas
which, due to topography and location reasons, would not be suitable for
development through community participation.
4.27    Forest Management and Protection.  Activities under this component
would include rehabilitation of degraded forests (protection, regeneration
and enrichment planting) through establishment of PPF (covering areas that
are close to villages and which could be restored by simple protection and
enrichment planting), demarcation, and enrichment planting by the DFOs.
Most remnant forests vary in location, species content and condition and,
therefore, management practices would vary. On an average, however, a 10%
new planting would be required in these areas although in some, such as
Sal forests at lower attitudes, a substantial coppice crop could be
obtained only through protection measures.



-27-
4.28    Implementation.  In implementing the aforementioned programs, the
following procedures, which are being followed at present in respect of
other community forestry programs, including the IDA-financed Community
Forestry Development Project (Cr. 1008-NEP), would be adopted. Vi]lage
panchayats would prepare proposals for participation in PF, PPF, and LHF,
which would be approved by the respective district panchayats and the
DFOs. Once land had been declared legally unencumbered, areas to be
planted/protected would then be identified and demarcated by agreement
among village panchayats, Forest Department and the Land Survey Depart-
ment, or according to land ownership records. In accordance with the
forest rules, a Forest Management Plan providing guidelines for plantation
management, protection and distribution of produce, would then be prepared
and formal agreements between the participating panchayats and the DFO
negotiated and executed. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that HMG/N would (a) provide the participating panchayats legally unencum-
bered lands for the development of Panchayat Forests, Panchayat Protected
Forests and Leasehold Forests, by December 31 of each calendar year of the
project implementation period commencing on December 31, 1986; and (b)
prepare and furnish to the IDA by July 31, 1987, for its approval, draft
Forest Management Plans providing guidelines to District Panchayats in the
project area for the protection and maintenance of forest plantations and
distribution of produce.
4.29    Soil Conservation and Watershed Management. The proposed project
would implement a program for (i) protecting 500 ha of upper catchments
and minor watersheds of the Tadi, Likhu and Samarikhola through conserva-
tion of natural vegetation and construction of structures at strategic
places; (ii) intensive watershed conservation on some 470 ha covering
highly degraded minor watersheds, drinking water and irrigation sources;
(iii) rehabilitation of 500 ha of erosion prone areas designed to protect
agricultural lands, settlements, major roads/hydro schemes/canals and
other infrastructure; and (v) strengthening of conservation education,
extension and training. Demonstration aspects of all departmentally
implemented conservation works, greater dependence on curative measures
and biological control and coordinated program development with the
forestry, roads, irrigation, MPLD and other relevant departments would be
the basic strategy for implementing this component. Funds provided under
the project would cover the costs of civil works (for soil conservation,
offices, staff quarters etc.), salaries and allowances for incremental
staff, costs of raising seedlings, purchase of vehicles and equipment and
maintenance and operating costs.
4.30    HMG/N with assistance from the FAO made an assessment of the
watershed condition of the project area, including general indications for



-28-
priority action, in 1983. 1/ During the first year of the project, a
semi-detailed watershed management plan would be prepared by the planning
wing of the Department of Soil Conservation based on the above study and
other pertinent information. The plan would identify, on the basis of
bio-physical status, priority areas for soil conservation and provide
preliminary estimates. Schemes for implementation under the project would
then be selected based on factors such as cost effectiveness of individual
schemes, the urgency of intervention, number and type of beneficiaries,
the extent of locaL contribution and land availability. An assurance was
obtained during negotiations that a semi-detailed watershed management
plan for implementing the soil conservation works in the project area
would be prepared and submitted to IDA for its approval by September 30.
1987.
Rural Infrastructure Development (Total outlay of US$2.4 M; 14Z of
base costs)
4.31    Village Drinking Water Supply.  Under RD I, 133 drinking water
schemes were started of which 105 were completed. In order to ensure
maximum benefit from previous investments, priority would, therefore, be
given to the completion of schemes that were unfinished or are in need
of rehabilitation. A total of 56 such systems (Rasuwa 24, Nuwakot 32),
including one in the Dhunche district HQ, would be included for comple-
tion/rehabilitation. On average, such work would cost about NRs 60,000
per scheme. In addition, the project would construct and maintain 45 new
systems (Rasuwa 15, Nuwakot 30). A typical village water supply system
would be normally gravity fed and cost about NRs 190,000 and would serve
about 125 households. New drinking water schemes would be constructed
only in those panchayats where previous schemes have been completed and
are adequately maintained by the panchayats/users. Selection and ranking
of schemes for implementation would be determined by the district
panchayat based on proposals made by village panchayats and based on
further investigation by DTOs. Selected schemes would be finally designed
and costed by DTOs who wouLd also supervise construction and provide the
skilled labor input. In properly designed and constructed systems the
maintenance requirements would be limited to periodic cleaning of reser-
voir and break-pressure tanks and intakes. The necessary labor input for
such maintenance, including regular inspection, would be the respon-
sibilities of the Panchayats/User groups. More complicated repairs and
those requiring new parts would usually be beyond the local capabilities
and would be done through assistance by DTO, with likely financial support
from the DP. The project would strengthen the maintenance capabilities of
1/ A Watershed Management Plan for the Trishuli Watershed; FAO/HMCN,
1983.



-29-
the respective DTOs (para 6.05) and also provide training to villagers on
routine maintenance and repair of these installations.
4.32   Suspension Bridges.  Under RD I, 8 suspension bridges and 39 small
wooden bridges were constructed. The program generated substantial
socio-economic benefits and the proposed project would further expand and
consolidate this program. Funds would be provided for the rehabilitation
of some 20 bridges, which have been damaged primarily because of natural
causes (land slides, scouring of foundations) and to some extent by inade-
quate preventive maintenance; construction of 18 new ones (9 in each of
the two districts) and; maintenance of the new ones constructed during
project implementation. During appraisal, a tentative list of existing
bridges for rehabilitation and sites for the new ones prepared on the
recommendations from the various village panchayats was agreed upon.
These would be finalized in consultation with the panchayats during
project implementation. The Suspension Bridge Division (SBD) of MPLD and
the PCU would provide technical guidance and supervision to the respective
DTOs in respect of finalization of sites, designs, specifications and
estimates. Standard designs and specifications have been developed in the
course of implementation of RD I and only simple modifications and surveys
would be required to suit specific site needs.
4.33    Motorable Track Development.  The project would rehabilitate the
Sera-Chahare (10 km), Chaughada-Apraha (6 km), Trishuli-Samari (4 km)
motorable tracks and finance the completion/rehabilitation of the
Betrawati-Pairabesi (4 km), and Labdhu-Kharenitar (8 km) tracks.
Rehabilitation would include the repair of flood or traffic-damaged struc-
tures, provision of culverts for irrigation canal crossings, landslide
protection, drainage works, surface grading and widening where necessary.
Additionally, the project would construct the following new tracks:
i) Dhaibung-Jibjibe in Rasuwa (3 km); (ii) Trishuli-Deorali in Nuwakot
(10 km); and (iii) Dhunche Service road in Rasuwa (1 km).  The first two
of these would connect important agricultural production areas to the
existing district road network, thereby serving as outlet for substantial
quantities of agricultural produce as well as transport of inputs and
building materials and other goods and services. Dhunche service road
would connect important project-related offices and a dispensary to the
new district road. All tracks would be constructed to truckable standards
and would have at least 4 m width and a gradient not exceeding 10%.
Appropriate slope stabilizations, retaining walls and other protection
structures would also be provided. Survey, design, suaervision, construc-
tion and provision of special equipment such as rock drills, compaction
rollers, as well as blasting material, gabion wire, hume pipe and other
materials would be the responsibility of DTOs.



-30-
Institutional Development and Implementation Support (Total outlay of
US$2.2 M; 12% of base costs)
4.34    In addition to strengthening of the participating line departments
(Agriculture, Livestock, Irrigation, Forestry and Soil Conservation), the
proposed project would provide funding for incrementaL technical,
managerial, financial and other staff, as required, for the LocaL Develop-
ment Offices and the District Technical Offices of the two project dis-
tricts. Appropriate technical assistance (para 4.35) and training would be
provided to improve staff capabilities and also to streamline operational
methods and procedures. The assistance would support HMG/N in its currenc
program for decentralization of administration at the district level
(para 2.16). In addition to these, the project would provide furnds for
continuing the operation of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU;
para 6.03), which was established during the RD I project and which would
be responsible for assisting the district level entities in the implemen-
tation of the proposed project. Funds provided would cover (i) salaries
of the incremental professional, technical and support staff; (ii) pur-
chase of essential equipment, vehicles, furniture; (iii) construction of
offices, residences; and (iv) operating and maintenance costs.
Technical Assistance, Overseas Training and Studies (Total outLay of
US$1.8 M; 1OX of base costs)
4.35    The project would provide funds for 8 manyears of senior
speciaList staff/consultants (both resident and visiting) and 38 manyears
of mid-level professionals (international volunteers) to assist in project
implementation where expertise would not be locally available and/or
trained manpower is in short supply. Volunteers from a number of agencies
such as the Peace Corps, the VSO, IVS and the UN are already involved in a
number of externally funded HMG/N projects in Nepal, and with satisfactory
results. Preferably, TA staff would be made available during the first
four years of project implementation and would be attached to the PCO.
HMG/N would ensure that adequately qualified Nepali staff wouLd be posted
to counterpart positions, and who would take over from the T.A. staff at
the end of their respective tenures. International volunteers would be
given specific assignments, most of which would involve working closely
with field level officials in line agencies or District Panchayat offices.
Details are in Annex 2, Table 5.
4.36    The following TA staff requirements were identified at appraisal
and agreed with HMG/N during negotiations: (a) Senior Specialists: Plan-
ning Monitoring and Evaluation Advisor--39 mm; Civil/Irrigation
Engineer--39 mm; (b) Short-term ConsuLtants: training, adaptive research,
water management, vocational training--6 mm; financial management and
accounting--14 mm; (c) International Volunteers: Planning aides--75 mm;
Agronommist/Adaptive Research--72 mm; Vocational Trainer--72 mm;
Silvi-pasture/Fodder Specialist--72 mm; Sub-engineers/Overseers--160 mm.



-31-
Terms of reference for the above TA personnel have been prepared and were
agreed with HMG/N during negotiations.
4.37    Funds would be provided for short-term overseas training of key
management and technical staff, including 4 Local Development Officers
(LDOs), 4 Planning Officers and 2 Engineering staff. Trainees would be
sent to attend structured and formal courses/programs at appropriate
overseas institutions, although up to 10% of total funds for overseas
training would be available for short-term familiarization visits.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that (i) trainees for over-
seas training would be individuals with experience and qualifications
satisfactory to IDA; (ii) trainees would be trained in institutions and
programs accentable to IDA; and (iii) upon completion of the training, the
returnees would be provided with adequate jobs to serve for at least five
years in rural development projects in Nepal.
4.38    Funds would be provided for undertaking studies designed to iden-
tify key project/sector related issues (socio-economic, organizational,
technical, financial), as well as to generate -information on the impact of
the project in reLation to its objectives. Except for the mid-term
review, most of the studies would be micro-level investigations covering
topics such as (i) farmers' response to agricuLtural support services.
(ii) changing cropping patterns, yields, farm income in the irrigated and
non-irrigated areas; (iii) field level implementation constraints;
(iv) nature of employment generation by project works; (v) constraints to
adoption of new technology. In addition to these, a review of HMCN's cost
recovery and input pricing and distribution policies would also be made
(para 5.12).
V. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
Project Costs and Financing
5.01    Total project costs based on February 1985 prices and updated to
reflect November 1985 prices and an eight year implementation period are
estimated at NRs 423 M (US$23.5 M), including price and physical contin-
gencies (US$5.7 M) and a negligible amount of taxes and duties (US$0.2 M).
The foreign expenditure component is estimated at US$8.6 M, equivalent to
about 37% of total project costs. Details, summarized below, are in
Annex 3, Tables 1 & 2 and in Project File C.1.



-32-
Table 5.01:  SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST (BY COMPONENTS)
(lb  1011                   U   e000                    2 Totl
Low,   Foels  Tyotl-    toal  Tta   Toa              W_m    Costs
A. NMMEOIL KISLWIW
1. SI           XIUUI      I SON=                             16It.10,5  4,206.3 20116.7      Mo.o  2.7  ,13.7            21       6*
Z. 1?311                                                      11,1.3  1,613.4 12u?M.6  n2.    '1.1   72e3                 13        4
3.      TU                                                    43,126.0 21o,=.   64361.0  2WPM  iti.  34513.6              33        t
4.   LIULE  I  N IOL1IE FA4                                   6U.6564  3,113.6  960s.0    369.3  175.2  5m50             32        3
L LhUfuPE!uUP.T                                              12,375.3  3,614.8 15,990         7.5  206.3   3.3           23        5
6.  E13jaJIIT                                                t11,66.5         - 1U11         647.9      -   6.9            -        4
7. AM!0 1    lo                                                3.60.4  13,68.1 2229.2    203.4 1234.4  1.2.7              84        7
L         l I-VWWM  ROOM                                       1MIA0   11971  2177             7.3   Ua.!   14s3          43        1
9.  91EPI1 IMU            tEUT                                 1,630.0    245.0   I95.0       93.3   16   106.9           13        1
S*uf-YT    IMRZOL      lTuS wIUi                                10     .3  3,924.5      Ms.  6,0.0 25.1 *.3                  31      5S
1. ML  EWElIE    DIM00 WM  EMT   m 1                 3           2503.5  15,34.0 43U51.   1.132.5 4        7 5.436.2         35       14
C. FIUWI , SOL C9TOI 1 MM .InM
1. PUS   LTEI m  CUNI1T P0W6M  CUWINU                         2U9,1.. 2,451  31P5a.7  I.U7.7  123.3 1,13.              11          1O
2. SO1L  -IMI                                                  9.60.6  3,473.9  1      5     503.0  193.0   6.0           2         4
Su*-Toal       F PUllET   SOL CE3 ng VA 301  IVAD                33173   S59n.0 44,092.3     L-0.7 7       .  2449.6         13       14
L  ZIW IrTI  SW9           NS 1311114  VlEtEIF
1         . 5 nt _  CFII    Wm 8I:5.1  4,311.3 15m.9    457.7  239.5                                           7.3        34        4
2. SIS1TN I OF LU                                              543.   336.2  3970.7    330  13543   493.4  .              37        3
3. OUSl      S MM                                              6,701.3  2,6l91   9139.4    372.3  149.    5.2             :         3
4. sh wTImm  O  mu                                             41.0  1O75    6,49.5    27.6   93.1   30.7                 26        2
5. S    !_ I EN M  W                                             314.5    302.   1,37.0       453     2.9    73.2         33 
6. TEOIIRC. A STM     , P     08 NA I AS SUM                   4440.0 292.0  313.0    2467 1,551.1 179.1                  36       10
Sah-Tia   URg  _        qT WM       Me  DBMS TI     WflM         304.4  0,445.1  7190934  1,7.5 2,246.9  3.94.5              37       22
Total N CIE PIT!                                        205.431,4115,616321, s120.0 1UP415.7 642443 17,t*00          36     10
ial SAi=   mm                                                   9,50.2  6661.7   1201.9    530.0  370.1   9001.            41        S
Pitt,  Caita   eja                                              53,V27.3 3243.  1.175.3  2,961.01,02A.6  4,73.!             31        7
Total F        COST                                               268t31.t0  1s17L2 42372  14906.7 3,20.9 23,m.76              37      132
StuSt_b  23. 1    14:0



-33-
5.02    Physical contingencies (US$0.90 M) were estimated at 7% for civil
works and 5% for other expenditures (excluding salaries, wages and
allowances). Prices Contingencies (US$4.8 M) are about 27% of base costs
and reflect expected inflation rates which currently are estimated to be
as follows: 1986-87:7.0%; 1987-88: 7.3%; 1988-89 to 1989-90: 7.6%;
1990-91: 6.0%; 1991-92 to 1992-93: 4.5% 1/
5.03    The proposed IDA credit of US$19.1 M would be tn HMG/N on standard
terms and conditions and would cover 81% of total project costs (74% of
local and 93% of foreign costs). UNDP is expected to finance part of the
costs of recruiting senior specialist staff, consuLtants and international
volunteers, overseas training and project related studies, amounting to
US$1.1 M, equivalent to about 5% of total project costs, (7% of foreign
and 3% of Local costs). IDA credit and UNDP grant together would thus
finance 86Z of total project costs, including 100% of foreign exchange
costs (US$8.6 M) and 78% of local costs.  HMG/N contribution would be
US$3.3 M (Rs 59 M), equivalent to 14% of total project costs (including
applicable taxes and duties). The signing of the UNDP TA agreement and
appointment of an executing agency acceptable to the borrower, UNDP and
the Association would be conditions of IDA credit effectiveness. Table
5.02 summarizes the financing plan. Since most of the project
beneficiaries would be small farmers producing for subsistence, no cash
contribution from them other than the amounts they would be borrowing from
ADB/N for crop input, purchase of improved animals for milk, meat, wool
and drought power, and for agricultural tool/equipment purchase, would be
expected. However, they would make substantial contribution in kind (in
the form of family labor) for on-farm development works and 0 & M of
irrigation and physical infrastructure.
Table 5.02: PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN
Local       Foreign       Total
--US$ M--------------
HMC/N              3.3            -            3.3 (14%)
IDA               11.0           8.1          19.1 (81%)
UNDP               0.5           0.6           1.1 (5Z)
Total           14.8           8.7          23.5
1/ Calendar year enuivalents: 1986 & 1987: 7%; 1988: 7.5Z; 1989: 7.7%;
1990: 7.6%; 1991 to 1993: 4.5%.



-34-
5.04    Except for ADBN and the AIC, IDA and UNDP funds would be chan-
nelled to the participating line ministries through the Ministry of
Finance of the HMCN through the normal budgetary procedures. However,
HMGN would enter into a subsidiary Loan Agreement with ADBN and a Finan-
cial Agreement with AIC, with terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA,
for providing project funds to these two entities. Execution of the above
agreements and its ratification by HMGN, the ADB and the AIC (as the case
may be) would be a condition of disbursement against expenditures incurred
by these two agencies in respect of implementation of their respective
activities under the project. Assurances were also obtained during nego-
tiations that (a) annual HMG/N budgets would include adequate allocations
covering project expenditure in the two districts, and (b) budgetted funds
for each trimester would be released by no later than the first fortnight
of each trimester.    During negotiations it was also agreed that a Spe-
cial Account in the Nepal Rastra Bank would be opened and maintained by
HMG/N on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA and with in an
authorized allocation of an amount equivalent to US$350,000.
Procurement
5.05    Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:



-35-
Table 5.03: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
-------------US$ M-----------------
ICB       LCB       Other       NA    Total
Cost
Civil Works (including                      10.0                          10.0
building, irrigation,                     (9.0)                         (9.0)
roads, bridges, drinking
water schemes and soil
conservation works)
VehicLes, Equipment and           1.1        0.6                           1.7
Furniture                      (1.0)      (0.6)                         (1.6)
Forestry Development Costs                            2.4                  2.4
(plantation establish-                             (2.2)                (2.2)
ment and maintenance)
Breeding Stock                                        0.15                 0.15
(0.13)              (0.13)
Fertilizer and Agrochemicals    1.7                                        1.7
(1.6)                                    (1.6)
Feed/Fodder Development,                                          1.4      1.4
Technology Testing &                                           (1.3)   (1.3)
Materials for Extension & in Service/Farmer Training
Agric. Credit                                                     0.9      0.9
(0.8)   (0.8)
Salaries and O&M Costs                                            3.0      3.0
(1.4)   (1.4)
T.A./Studies/Overseas                                             2.2      2.2
Training *                                                     (1.1)   (1.1)
TOTAL                           2.0       10.6      2.5         7.5    23.5
(2.6     ( 9.6)    (2.3)        (4.6)  (19.1)
* US$ 1.1 M to be financed by UNDP.
(Figures in parentheses show the amount to be financed by IDA):
5.06    All civil works (US$10.0 M) would be simple structures of stand-
ardized designs, widely dispersed geographically and over time, thus
rendering them unsuitable for International Competitive Bidding (ICB).



-36-
Contruction of buildings, roads, bridges, drinking water supplies, soil
conservation structures and irrigation works would, therefore, be awarded
to local contractors following Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures,
which were found at appraisal to be satisfactory to IDA.  Provided,
however, that civiL works contracts estimated in the aggregate to cost
US$2.4 M or less may be procured through force account or user groups.
However, in order to ensure quality in construction, assurances were
obtained during negotiations that all civil works under the project would
be undertaken by qualified and experienced contractors registered by the
Ministry of Works & Transport of HMCN, or by bonifide and properLy con-
stituted User or Beneficiary Groups. Vehicles, Equipment and Furniture
(US$1.7 M) would be grouped in appropriate bidding packages to facilitate
competitive bidding. Procurement would be by ICB in accordance with Bank
guidelines, except where individual items are valued at less than
US$30,000 and the total order does not exceed US$150,000, in which case
procurement would be by LCB procedures. Following standard practices,
breeding stock (US$.15 M) would be purchased from local and Indian markets
at prevailing market rates and would not be suitable for usual bidding
procedures. AIC currently imports fertilizers and agro-chemicals through
ICB. Project requirements (US$1.7 M) would be too small to justify inde-
pendent importation and therefore as far as practicable these would be
bulked with the normal AIC procurement of these commodities. Nearly 50Z
of the total expenditures for plantation works for forestry and 3oil
conservation (US$2.4 M) would be for hired labor, 35% for planting
materials, and 15Z for transportation costs. None of these would be
suitable for competitive bidding, and hence these would be procured
through contract labor and/or under force account as per schedule of rates
annually published by HMG/N and in accordance with procurement procedures
satisfactory to the Association. The balance of project costs (US$7.6 M)
would be for staff salaries, vehicle operating and maintenance costs,
adaptive research costs, in-country training, agricultural credit, and
technical assistance, and overseas training which would not be suitable
for any form of competitive bidding.
5.07    Contract Review.  Bidding documents, including text of the Invita-
tion To Bid, specifications, procedures for advertisement, draft contract
documents and aLl such other pertinent information would be submitted to
IDA for review and comments for civil works contracts costing US$100,000
or more, and for vehicles, equipment and other goods costing US$50,000 or
more. Prior to award of contract, bid evaluations for such contracts
would also be submitted to IDA for its review and concurrence. It is
estimated that the total value of procurement under the above would be
about US$2 M and 0.5 M respectively. Contracts below these amounts wouLd
be subject to post-award review by IDA.



-37-
Disbursements
5.08    Disbursements under the proposed IDA credit would be completed by
December 31, 1993, and the proceeds would finance the various categories
of expenditure as follows: (a) 90X for civil works (US$9.0 M); (b) 100%
of foreign expenditure for directly imported vehicles, equipment, furni-
ture and construction materials, or laoZ of local expenditures (ex-factory
costs) and 70% of local expenditures for other items procured locally
(US$1.6 M); (c) incremental staff salaries and aLlowances, and operating
and maintenance costs disbursed at a declining scale of 80X of total
expenditures in FY86, FY87, and FY88, 70% in FY89, and FY90, 50% in FY91.
40% in FY92 and 20% in FY93, (US$1.5 M); td) 100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory costs and Local breeding centres,
as the case may be) for fertilizer, agrochemicals, agricultural equipment,
and breeding stocks and 70% of local expenditures for other items procured
locally (US$1.5 M); (e) 90Z of the medium term credit disbursed by ADBN
for the livestock and horticulture components, anu for operating the
project's SFDP programme and the ATU (US$1.0 X); (f) 90% of total costs
for forestry plantation, soil conservation activities, and improved stove
programme (US$1.8 M ); (g) 90% of the costs for extension activities, i.e.
minikit, demonstration and materials for adaptive research and the costs
of in-country training of farmers, extension workers and other project
staff (US$1.2 M); and (h) 10OZ of total costs for studies, and technical
assistance (US$1.1). The remaining US$0.4 million would be under the
unallocated category of the credit. Disbursements against expenditures
for the categories (c), (e), (f), (g) and (h) would be made against cer-
tified statements of expenditures, the documentation for which would not
be submitted to IDA for review, but would be retained by HMG/N and made
available to IDA supervision missions for their review.  Disbursement
against all other categories would be fully documented.  Retroactive
financing of up to US$300,000 would be provided to cover the following
expenditures incurred after July 16, 1985: (i) salaries, allowances of
incremental staff and other operational costs; (ii) purchase of vehicles,
equipment and furniture; (iii) feasibility study and design of irrigation
schemes and other civil works; and (iv) staff training.
5.09    Accounts and Audit.  Under HMG/N rules, it is the responsibility
of the Ministry of Finance to maintain, through the officers of the Finan-
cial Comptroller General, all government accounts, while the Auditor
General is responsible for auditing of all such accounts. HMG/N seeks to
ensure that all accounts are maintained according to sound accounting
principles and the scope of the audit is sufficient to evaluate the
regularity, propriety, economy, efficiency and effectiveness of public
expenditure. However, the performance of HMG/N in respect of the IDA
audit and accounting requirements has been weak and in case of most of the
projects, the audited accounts have frequently been substantially in
arrears. This is partly because expenditures related to IDA-financed
projects are audited by the Auditor General as part of the implementing



-38-
government department's overall financial records and the Auditor General
does not release the full audit report until it is cleared through several
steps, including presentation of the main report to the National
Panchayat. In order to ensure that covenants related to audit in IDA
assisted projects are complied with on time, IDA has been assisting
project accounting staff in preparing separate project accounts in such
detail as required for audit, soon after the end of each fiscal year, and
presenting these to the Auditor General. IDA has also proposed the format
and content of the auditors report on such accounts which can be completed
and forwarded to IDA without waiting for the full audit report of the
concerned department's overall annual financial accounts. Similar proce-
dures are being instituted for a separate annual audit of all withdrawal
applications based on Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that HMG/N would cause the participating line
departments, the AIC and ADB/N. (i} to maintain separate records and
accounts for all project expenditures in accordance with sound accounting
principles, (ii) to have such accounts audited by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA, in accordance with sound auditing principles, (iii)
forward to IDA, such accounts together with certified copies of the
Auditor's reports om such detail as shall be requested by IDA, within nine
months after the end of each fiscal year; (iv) to include in the annual
audit reports, submitted to IDA, a separate opinion from the Auditor as to
whether the disbursements made on the basis of SOEs were in respect of
goods and services receized and incurred for the purposes of :he project.
The project would provide additional staff and in-service training to
existing accounting staff in the two project districts to improve finan-
cial management.
Fiscal Impact and Cost Recovery
5.10    Fiscal impact.  Since the beginning of the 80's, Nepal has been
experiencing an unfavorable budgetary situation with deficits running
between llX-12Z of GDP. Nepal is consequently faced with the problem of
maintaining a reasonable level of development expenditures while reducing
the growth of regular expenditures, and at the same time, increasing
mobilization of public resources. During project implementation, HMG/N
would be required to provide, on an average, about URS 8.0 M annually as
incremental local funds, equivalent to less than one tenth of one percent
of current levels of regular pubLic expenditures and revenues, respec-
tively. During the post-project phase, after eight years of project
implementation, the average annual recurrent cost for maintaining project
related services and OEM costs for the physical infrastructure would
amount to about NRS 7 M. This level of incremental public expenditure
would be justified in view of the project's expected contribution to
improving agricultural productivity, employment and -ural income of the
poor and in preventing further deterioration of the environment in the
project areas. However, it is expected that during implementation efforts
would be made by the government to keep overall incremental salary and



-39-
wage costs at a minimum by giving priority to redeployment/reallocation of
existing personnel in meeting the project's incremental staff require-
ments. Secondly, steps for mobilization of resources at the
panchayat/village levels would also be intensified in order to reduce the
O&M burdens of the public sector. Furthermore, dialogue with HMG/N on the
broader issues relevant to national policies cost recovery policies, input
and price subsidies would be initiated during the implementation of the
project (paras 5.11-5.12).
5.L1    Cost Recovery.  The stated objective of HMG/N is to generate
increased amounts of financial resources at the local levels with a view
to ploughing those back into the local economies, either for new invest-
ments or for operation and maintenance of physical infrastructure. Conse-
quently, there is provision for levying irrigation water charges (cur-
rently fixed at about NRs 62 per ha per crop for the hill and small
irrigation schemes, and NRs 100 per ha per crop in the larger command
areas). The District Panchayats are also empowered, under the
decentralization by-laws, to collect tolls on roads, bridges, irrigation
canaLs etc. Notwithstanding the above, cost recovery measures are not
diligently enforced; the underlying principles, policies and guidelines
for the levy and collection of relevant charges are ambiguous and often
confLicting. The current levels of irrigation water charges were estab-
lished in 1975 and the rates do not recover the operation and maintenance
costs. Moreover, only small amounts are collected, and the system is not
flexible enough to take into account unforeseen circumstances suc' as land
slides, drought, power failure, etc.
5.12     Broad issues such as collection of water charges, beneficiary
and user taxes, and input subsidies need to be addressed and resolved at
the national policy level. Nevertheless, the proposed project, while
promoting development of cost recovery in the first instance relevant to
the project area and designed to generate sufficient local resources and
beneficiary participation for the operation and maintenance of the irriga-
tion systems, drinking water supply, roads, bridges and other physical
infrastructure, would also initiate dialogue with HMG/N on the broader
policy issues. During negotiations IDA and the HMGN delegation reached
agreement on the need for formulating and implementing more broadly
appropriate national policies and methods for cost recovery and reduction
of input subsidies. Assurances were obtained that {i) by September 30,
1987, HMGN would, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to IDA,
complete a review of its cost recovery policies (i.e. water charges on
small and medium irrigation schemes, benefit taxes on rural infrastruc-
ture) and input subsidies, and furnish the findings and recommendations of
the review to IDA for its comments; and (ii) by December 31, 1987, prepare
and furnish to IDA, on the basis of the above study and taking into
account IDA's comments, detailed proposals and an action plan, including
guidelines, principles, policies and implementation schedules, for estab-
lishing irrigation water charges, benefit taxes and for phased elimination



-40-
of farm input subsidies as well as for the development of broader channels
of input supplies.
VI. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
Broad Framework
6.01    The Decentralization Act of 1982 and the Decentralization Rules
and Regulations of 1984, which became effective from July 1985, provide an
institutional framework and working procedures for peoples' participation
(through viLlage, town and district panchayats) in the planning and
implementation of development activities, and for coordination of these
activities at the district level. Implementation of the Act should, in
principle, overcome many of the organizational weaknesses impeding effec-
tive rural development. Therefore, the organizational framework and
implementation arrangements recommended for the proposed project are
essentially in line with the provisions of the Decentralization Act and
Rules.
6.02    The proposed project would be implemented by the relevant line
departments and agencies operating at District and Sub-District levels
under the overall guidance and supervision of the District Panchayat (DP).
The central and regional head offices of the respective line ministries
would provide technical supervision (in regard to programming, budgeting
and implementation) and exercise control over fund release. Within the
two project Districts, the LDO, as DP Secretary, would have overall
responsibility for coordinating both planning and implementation, with
support and policy guidance provided by a Project Coordinator's Office
(PCO), acting as the field arm of the MPLD and the Integrated Rural
Development Board (IRDB).
The Project Coordinator's Office (PCO)
6.03    PCO established under the RD I project would be strengthened for
providing overall coordination, supervision, monitoring/evaluation and
implementation support to the district line agencies. PCU would be headed
by a Project Coordinator (PC) of confirmed Class I status and be located
at Betrawati, in Rasuwa District. 1/ The project coordinator would have no
direct administrative control over the LDOs or any of the other line
department officials at the project districts; nevertheless, he would have
considerable influence on them through his participation in the District
Plan Formulation and the District Supervision Committees established under
1/ A Project Coordinator of the required qualifications has already been
appointed.



-41-
the Decentralization Act (para 6.04). PCU would have the following func-
tions: (a) Planning: to assist in developing district-level planning
capabilities and to ensure that all project activities are incorporated in
the District Annual Plan (DAP) for each district; (b) Monitoring: to help
establish a system foe physical and financiaL monitoring within each
district and its effective use for management purposes and to prepare
annual progress reports; (c) Evaluation: to help DP conduct routine crow
and household surveys and ad hoc surveys of project components and areas
according to sound evaluation principles (para 4.38); (d) Training: to
help provide in-service, job-related training, :esigned in accordance t-ith
principles of skills-gap analysis, model training programs and materiaLs,
and to assist project agencies in organizing appropriate training;
(e) Supervision: to ensure quality control of rural works under the
project, including certification of major works (para 5.06), and field
visits by multi-disciplinary, District Supervision Committees and other
teams to review progress and problems. (f) Liaison? to establish effec-
tive working relationships with all project agencies, their respective
central and regional offices and with IDA (for preparation and submission
of reimbursement claims and progress reports) and to effect inter-district
coordination, as required.
6.04    PCO would be organized into seven sections, namely:  (a) Coor-
dinator's Office, (b) Financial Management, (c) Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation, (d) Training and Communications, (e) Engineering Services,
(f) Administration, (g) Kathmandu Liaison Office. All except (e) and
(g) would be headed by a Gazetted class IIIINT official. The Engineering
Services Section would be headed by a Divisional Engineer (G/IIIT officer)
and the Liaison Office by an NG/I/NT officer (details are presented in
Annex 3, Table 4). A condition of IDA credit effectiveness would be that
the Project Coordinator's Office established during RDI would be reor-
ganized in a manner satisfactory to the IDA and would be assigned with
adequate powers functions, funds and staffing as would be necessary to
ensure its effectiveness. Assurances were also obtained during nego-
tiations that Ci) the head of the PCO (Project Coordinator) would at all
times be an Officer of HMG/N with qualifications and experience satisfac-
tory to IDA, and that the PC shall, at all times, be assigned with such
powers, functions, responsibilities, funds and staffing as shall be
required for achieving its purposes; and (ii) the Project Coordinator
would actively participate in the meetings and deliberations of the Dis-
trict Plan Formulation and District Supervision Committees of the District
Panchayats in the project area.
Reorganization of the DTO
6.05    The DTOs of the two districts would be reorganized into three
functionally separate sections: Ci) civil works (bridges, tracks, build-
ings); (ii) minor irrigation and drinking water supply; and (iii) opera-
tion and maintenance. These technical sections would be supported by an



-42-
administration section and an accounts section and a drawing/record keep-
ing office. Each technical section of the DTO wouLd be headed by an
engineer, except for the maintenance section in Rasuwa which would be
headed by senior overseer for the time being. The most senior of the
engineers in the DTO would be designated as the officer-in-charge.
However, overall technical supervision of the DTOs would be provided by
the Divisional engineer in the PCU, who would also be assisted by the
engineering adviser provided under the TA program. The operation and
maintenance program would be implemented in collaboration with the main-
tenance teams (brigades) to be formed at the various panchayats (para
6.07).  These were agreed with MPLD during appraisal.
Village Panchayats and Users' Groups
6.06    In line with provisions of the Decentralization Act and Rules,
greater use of these entities would be made for planning, supervision and
implementation of project activities at the local level, as well as for
operation and maintenance of physical infrastructure. The VPs would be
responsibLe for identifying and prioritizing development schemes in their
respective areas, estimating total resource requirements and mobilizing
local resource contributions. Wherever possible, User Groups would be
formed and they would assist the VPs in the above activities. The respec-
tive District Panchayats, with the help of the two districts' planning,
engineering, financial and other relevant staff would provide the required
assistance to the VPs/user groups in these matters.
Trained Manpower and Project Staffing
6.07    The availability of trained agricultural staff, both for officers
and JT/JTA level staff, has increased substantialLy during the last two
decades. Currently available trained agriculturaL staff is estimated at
some 1,650 officers and over 5,000 JT/JTAs, compared to 770 officers and
2,450 JT/JATs in 1980 and 56 officers and 214 JTs in the year 1962.
Institutional capacity for formal, in-service and non-formal training in
different areas of agricultural expertise has also increased, and at
present the total output of diploma and certificate level graduates are
estimated at 150 and 800 (450 JTAs and 350 JTs) per annum, respectively.
Notwithstanding these impressive gains, implementation of agricul-
tural/rural development projects in Nepal has suffered due to delays in
the deployment of incremental project staff and, more importantly, because
of the low productivity and motivation among a good many of the available
staff (arising from unsatisfactory quality and content of pre- and
in-service training, low levels of salaries, allowances, benefits and
performance incentives, and inadequacies in the administrative and opera-
tional environment). HMG/N, however, is fully aware of these problems and
recently has taken a number of steps to meet the short-term requirements
of the externally funded projects as well as to bring about long-term
improvements. These include {i) creation of a special pool of staff at



-43-
the central level to be made available to projects; (ii) implementation of
a number of programs, including an IDA financed Agricultural Manpower
Development project, for increasing the quality and relevance of training
in the existing institutes; and (iii) intensification of overseas training
program for higher level technical and management staff with bilateraL
assistance (currently about 50 overseas trained staff return to Nepal
annually). Furthermore, recently IDA has completed a comprehensive review
of the public administration improvement and training needs based on which
HMG/N is expected to embark on a major programme for enhancing the qtality
and number of trained manpower in the coming years.
6.08     Project incremental staff requirements are shown in Annex 3,
Table 5. During appraisal HMG/N agreed to provide project requirement of
staff on a priority basis, starting with filling up of the existing vacan-
cies in the established posts in the two project districts. It was also
agreed that in meeting the project's incrementaL staff requirements,
priority would be given to reallocation of existing staff within the
respective ministries, particularly those that are found to be
non-optimally utilized in their current assignments. The balance of the
requirements would be met through new recruitment. The staff training
facilities and programs initiated in the first phase of the project would
be further improved and strengthened to improve the productivity and
performance of lower and mid-level staff (para 6.09). The provision of
technical assistance staff including international volunteers would also
contribute in these respects. Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that (i) key project staff in the two districts and in the PCO
would be appointed, deployed and maintained in a manner that shall con-
tribute to timely implementation of the project and achievement of the
objectives; 1/ (ii) the LDOs in the two project districts would be at
least confirmed Class II Gazetted Officers with other qualifications and
experience satisfactory to IDA; and (iii) incremental posts created under
the proposed project and determined during the mid-term review (para 6.12)
to be essential for post-project development in the two project districts
would be absorbed in the regular budget of the HMG/N beginning its 1990-91
fiscal year.
Staff Development
6.09    Under the proposed project, the following training would be
provided at the following levels:
1/ HMG/N staff are normally required to serve in one particular assign-
ment for at least 466 working days. During negotiations it was under-
stood that stricter adherence to this provision in respect of project
staff would be expected.



-44-
(a)  Agency Level:  Routine, mainly technical, job-related training,
particularly to enable junior staff (e.g., JTA, AA and overseers)
to deliver effective services to farmers and villagers;
(b) District Level: (i) Short-term courses, seminars and workshops
for officials involved in project activities (e.g., monitoring,
evaluation, accounting, organization and effective use of train-
ing). These would be organized either by the LDO's office (Train-
ing Section) or by PCU. Use would be made both of their own
manpower or of consultants as resource persons to give the train-
ing; (ii) Seminars and workshops for peoples' representatives and
officials together about the project and various aspects of the
main processes, such as planning, supervision, organizing rural
works using voluntary labor and organizing operation and main-
tenance of rural facilities. Some of these deliberations would be
conducted at village level and the VP Secretaries would be
expected to play an organizing and training role.
(c)  Central Level:  Short-term courses, seminars and workshops for
officials and panchayat leaders on more technically advanced
aspects of project pLanning and implementation.
(d)  Overseas:  Medium duration courses for senior officials to upgrade
basic skills where suitable courses are not available in the
country. Such training could be in collaboration with Nepali
institutions.
Monitoring and Reporting
6.10    Project monitoring would be based on trimesterly reports prepared
by project agencies in accordance with a system, including formats,
approved b;, IRDB/PCU and acceptable to IDA. The system to be used would
closely follow the proposals of the MPLD's IRDP Monitoring Task Force, but
modified in the light of the Decentralization Rules and in order:to gener-
ate more meaningful information for project management. The LDO office
with the help of PCU, would organize training courses for the planning and
monitoring staff of project agencies to facilitate the introduction of the
system. Each LDO's office would have a team of two supervisors and 13
emnunerators within its planning section, (8 in Nuwakot and 5 in Rasuwa)
who would be responsible for conducting monitoring surveys. The LDOs
would have responsibility for consolidating reports at the District level.
PCU would provide help to agencies, as necessary, to ensure accurate
completion and timely submission of reports. PCU would also check and
consolidate agency reports from both Districts and submit them to MPLD,
NPC, IDA and other project agencies.



-45-
6.11    PCU staff to be engaged, part time, on evaluation would be the
Planning Officer, 2 Research Assistants (for field visits) and the Plan-
ning, Monitoring and Evaluation Advisor. PCU would also: (i) provide
operational guidance to LDO staff; (ii) provide supervisor and enumerator
training; (iii) prepare terms of reference for evaluation studies/surveys
(para 4.38); and (iv) undertake technical reviews of draft reports and
organize seminars/workshops to discuss the findings of evaluation surveys.
6.12    Assurances were obtained during negotiations that (i) HMG/N shall
carry out a mid-term review of project implementation, the terms of
reference of which would be submitted to IDA for its approval by
January 31, 1989; and (ii) the review wouLd be completed and its findings
furnished to IDA by December 31, 1989.
Status of Preparation
6.13    All implementing agencies are established reguLar departments of
HMCIN and the only ad-hoc body, the Project Coordination Unit, has been in
existence since the implementation of RD I. While there are some vacan-
cies in the mid-level positions, all project entities have the required
staff to implement the first year's program and prepare for the subsequent
years. Adequate financial provisions have also been made in the 1986-87
budget of the government. For the larger irrigation schemes, preliminary
design, surveys and cost estimates have been prepared. For other civil
works, i.e., bridges, minor irrigation schemes, drinking water supply,
etc., the standard design and estimates based on the implementation of
such works during the Phase I project are available. UNDP project docu-
ment covering the Technical Assistance, overseas training and studies
componcnt has been drafted.  TORs for Technical Assistance staff have also
been drafted and were reviewed with HMG/N during negotiations. Institu-
tions for overseas training of Nepalese staff have also been tentatively
identified.
VII. PRODUCTION, YIELDS, FARM INCOME AND COST RECOVERY
Sources of Increased Production
7.01    The proposed project would bring an additional 2,000 ha of cur-
rently rainfed (or partially irrigated) crop lands under irrigation,
improve productivity on some 8,000 ha of existing irrigated areas through
better water utilization and higher cropping intensity, and improve crop-
ping practices on some 15,000 he of rainfed areas (para 7.02). In the
newly irrigated areas, rainfed maize and millet would be gradually
replaced by more profitable paddy anc wheat grown under irrigated condi-
tions. Some increases in the net cropped area in the existing irrigated
areas are also expected.



-46-
7.02    Current and projected per ha yield increases under the project are
summarized in Table 7.01 below. Incremental yields on newly irrigated
lands are expected to be substantial but only modest increases would be
possible on currentLy irrigated areas because yields on those areas are
already quite high. It has been assumed that on irrigated lands, roughly
10 kg output increase per 1 kg of additional nutrient would be achieved.
Although the poLential for increasing crop production in the rainfed areas
in the two project districts is relatively limited compared to the
irrigated areas, the current levels of production of rainfed paddy, wheat
and maize would be increased with the use of available improved varieties,
moderate increases in the use of chemical fertilizer, better composted
farm manure and improved husbandry practices.
Table 7.01: PRESENT AND PROJECTED CROPS YIELDS PER HA
With Project at
Present                    Full Development *
Crop                Irrigated        Rainfed         Irrigated         Rainfed
Early Paddy                2.9              _           3.5 (21%)
Monsoon Paddy              2.2             1.7          3.0 (36%)        2.0 (18%)
Maize                      1.5             1.2          2.0 (33%)        1.6 (33Z)
Wheat                      1.5             1.0          2.0 (33%)        1.5 (50%)
Pulses/oilseeds            0.7             0.5          0.8 (14%)        0.5 (0)
Millet                      -              0.9 g                         0.9 (0)
Potato                     7.0              -           7.5 (7%)          -
Z increase in parenthesis.   Full development yields would occur in the
3rd year of a farmer's participation.
7.03    Overall Incremental Production.  Based on the yield assumption in
Table 7.01 above, the incremental production of various crops is estimated
as follows:



-47-
Table 7.02: OVERALL INCREMENTAL CROP PRODUCTION
Irrigated Crops
Rehab. & New    Intensification    Rainfed Crop
Crop                   Schemes     Existing Areas       Development       Total
------------------------(tons)----------------------------
Paddy                 6,030             6,920              1,050         14,000
Wheat                 1,700             1,250                675          3.625
Maize                 (670)               280              4,800          4,410
Millet                (720)               -                   -            (720)
Pulses/Oil Seeds       110                -                   -             110
Net Incremental       6,450             8,450              6,525         21,425
7.04    Orchard Development.  Expected production benefits from the
development of temperate fruit orchards have not been quantified because
the program would be experimental and on a pilot scale. Fruit production
from the proposed development of tropical/sub-tropical fruit orchards has
been estimated by using a 0.5 ha mango orchard model, some 60 of which
would be established under the proposed project. 1/ Overall incremental
production is expected to reach full development in the project year 18,
producing about 250 tons of fresh fruit (mango) (also see para 7.08).
There would be, however, about 65 tons of annual reduction of maize and
millet production, as the orchards would be established by converting
about 35 ha of crop land.
7.05    Forest Products.  The main forestry produce that would result from
project's new plantation (4,750 ha), enrichment planting (1,200 ha), and
maintenance and protection of degraded forests (3,000 ha) and Phase I
plantings (750 ha) would be fuelwood, small timber/poles, twigs and leaf
and grass fodder. Based on a mortality rate of 50% and an average plant
rotation of 16 years, the following incremental production has been
estimated.
1/  Although the estimation of fruit production was made by assuming that
all fruit would be mango for the purpose of project analysis, planting
of other fruits like litchi, banana, pineapple, guava, etc., which are
becoming popular in the area, would also be promoted under the
program.



-48-
Table 7.03: PER HA AND TOTAL INCREMENTAL PRODUCXION OF FORESTRY PRODUCE
per Ha       Total
J           000' m3
New Plantings a/              Yr 16:      90 m 3        430
Protection/Regeneration                       3
and Enrichment Planting b/ Yr 16-30:    6 m3            77
Phase I Planting c/           Yr 8:       90 in          90
Total Fuelvood                                        599
Leaf Fodder. etc.             Yr 3-30     4 tons/ha    450,000 tons
a/ Includes Panchayat forests, leasehold forests, and private and public
plantings
b/ Includes PPF, and enrichment planting, demarcation by Forestry
department.
c/ Output from only 1/3 of Phase I plantings have been included as project
induced production.
7.06    Livestock Production.  Improvements in curative and preventative
veterinary services would benefit some 25% of the large and small
ruminants in the project area. This would result in some 5% increase in
the production of milk (as a result of increase in the number of female
animals in lactation, improved calving ratio, and freedom from debilitat-
ing disease), and 10 increase in the value of the livestock (due to
reduction in mortality, increased body weight, improved offtake).
Likewise the breed and feed improvement program in the 20 panchayats
(pockets) would improve the productivity of local buffaloes in the long
run. It is estimated that average annual incremental milk production
between years 4-20 would be around 0.8 M liters.  Additionally, an
increase in the marketed value of small ruminants to the extent of about
NRa 4 M per year would also accrue.
Farm Budget Analysis
7.07    Nearly 75% of the households in the project area have farm sizes
below 1 ha and since the primary focus of the project would be the small
farmers, farm budget analysis was done on the basis of 0.8 ha farm models.
Based on the predominant cropping practices, the following approximately
representative farm models were analyzed: (1) valley floors; (ii)
mid-hills (paddy based); and (iii) mid-hills (maize based). The results,
which are summarized below, show that net farm income at full development
of project participation would increase by about 25% in the case of a typical
rainfed mid-hills farm and by over 80% for a representative irrigated valley
farm.



-49-
TABLE 7.04: FARM BUDGET ANALYSIS FOR A TYPICAL 0.8 HA FARM
Without Project                   With Project c/
Net Returns (NRs)               Net Returns (NRs)
per   p/ha      p/ha        per     p/ha         p/ha
farm   area    cropped    farm       area       cropped
I. Valley floors
Financial       3394   4243      2425       6379   7974 (872)   3189 (31Z)
Economic        4322   5402      3087       7949   9936 (84X)   3975 (292)
II. Mid-Hills a/
Paddy-based
Financial    2574   3218       2340       3331   4164          3028 (29%)
Economic      3309   4136      3008       4232   5290          3847 (28%)
Maize-based
Financial    1646   2058       1496       1956   2445          1778 (19Z)
Economic      1964   2455      1785       2383   2979          2166 (21%)
III. Mid Hills b/
Paddy-based
Financial    2553   3191       2321       3260   4075          2964 (28Z)
Economic      3209   4011      2917       4033   5041          3666 (26%)
Maize-based
Financial    1688   2110       1535       1976   2470          1798 (17%)
Economic      1994   2492      1813       2397   2996          2125 (17%)
a/ Nuwakot
b/ Rasuwa
c/ Percentage increase in parenthesis.
Marketing and Prices
7.08    Marketing of agricultural produce in the hills is generally con-
strained by a lack of organized markets and by poor accessibility due to
rugged terrain. HW'IN, through the Nepal Food Corporation, administers a
price support policy for major foodgrains, but normally market prices are
higher than support prices. There are, however, no restrictions on



-50-
private trade, prices and interregional movements of produce, which has
helped in the development of a fairly active private sector involved in
the marketing, transportation and storage of agricultural produce. The
project area has a number of established produce markets, and is welL
connected with Kathmandu, the major urban center. The main tourist route
to the border of China (Langtang) also passes through the project dis-
tricts. These provide a ready market for the disposal of surplus agricul-
tural and horticultual produce in the project area. During the first
phase project (RD I), a number of market sheds were constructed to promote
organized markets, and roads/tracks/bridges were built to connect impor-
tant centers of production to the district roads, a program which would be
continued under the proposed project as well (para 4.32 and 4.33). All
these would help improve further the marketing infrastructure in the
project area and facilitate disposal of incremental marketable surplus.
Given the possibility of widening foodgrains and fuelwood deficits in the
country during the next decade, the projected increase in the interna-
tional prices of paddy and coarse grains in real terms (according to IBRD
projections), and HMG/N's commitment for maintaining renumerative prices
for agricultural produce, prices of the project induced commodities are
expected to be relatively stable in real terms in the longer term
(1985-95).
VIII. BENEFITS, ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN AND RISKS
Overall Benefits
8.01    The project area includes some 45,000 farm families in the two
project districts. Since agriculture is the main occupation of the
people, and as the project assistance would give priority to the needs of
the small and marginal farmers, they would be the major beneficiaries of
the proposed project. It is estimated that approximately 50% of the farm
families would directly benefit from farm production, livestock and
forestry activities. The following summarizes some of the major quantifi-
able and non-quantifiable benefits.
8.02    Production Benefit.  At full development in year 10, (except for
fruits when full development will be reached in year 18) annual incremen-
tal production of foodgrains (21,400 m.t.), milk (0.8 m liters), fuelwood
(.6 M m ), fruits (250 tons - in year 18) and leaf/fodder grasses would
increase the availability of these commodities in the two hill districts.
Incremental foodgrain production would reduce imports and at border prices
provide gross foreign exchange savings (earnings) of nearly US$3.5 M per
year from year 10 of the project. The value of the incremental fuelwood
and leaf fodder is estimated at about NRs 42 M per annum at 1985 market
prices. At fuLl development in year 10, the combined net incremental
income from agriculture and forestry sources are likely to be on the order
of NRs 150 M per year.



-51-
8.03    Employment Benefits.  The more intensive land and input use
associated with the introduction of irrigated agricuLture and improvements
in husbandry practices would lead to the creation of some 5,000 man/years
of additional farm labor annually from year 6. All construction and
forestry plantation work would be labor intensive and it is estimated that
project works would generate some 15,000 manyears of additional employment
during the project implementation period.
8.04    Enviornmental Benefits.  Implementation of the project w'uld have
a number of beneficial effects on the environmental and agro-ecoiogical
conditions in the project area. Forest plantation, protection, and
management of existing forests, and soil conservation measures would
protect the hillsides as well as the agricultural lands, physical
infrastructure and settlements by reducing the rates of surface run-off,
soil erosion and sedimentation. Benefits from these, though not quan-
tified, would be quite substantial. More importantly, implementation of
these components would lay the foundations for long-term changes in the
environmental conditions through fostering appropriate land use and farm-
ing systems.
Economic Analysis
8.05    Economic Rate of Return.  Based on the assumnptions detailed below
(para 8.06) the best estimate of the ERR for the whole project is about
21%; those for the more narrowly defined agricultural development, live-
stock development and forestry components are 30Z, 30% and 31% respec-
tively.
8.06    Assumptions and Derivation of Values for ERR Estimates.
(a)  Project Life:  30 years with no residual value
(b) Opportunity Cost of Capital (OCC): 13.5%
(c)  Standard Conversion factor (SCF):  0.9
(d)  Construction Conversion factor (CCF):  0.86
(e)  Cost Stream:  (i) all identifiable taxes, duties and subsidies
on goods and services were excluded; (ii) price contingencies were
excluded but physical contingencies included; (iii) all investment
and recurrent costs during the project implementation period were
included; however, for research, training, technical assistance,
rural infrastructure and soil conservation components, for which
no direct benefits were quantified, it was assumed that the
benefits from these would not be limited to this project alone
and that the overall contribution of these activities to the



-52-
project's incremental benefits would be sufficient to account for
only 50% of the respective investment costs 1/; (iv) the replace-
ment costs for vehicles and equipment during post project phase
were included; (v) all project costs were adjusted by the SCF and
construction costs by the CCF; (v) economic farm labor wages were
estimated as the average of peak and slack period wages, adjusted
by the SCF; and (vi) O&M costs, (salaries, wages, allowances, and
vehicle, equipment and other operating costs) from year 9-30 were
estimated at 50% of such costs in project year 8.
(f) Benefit Stream: (i) includes the economic vaLues of the net
incremental production of foodgrains, fruits, livestock products
and forestey produce; non-quantifiable benefits accruing from
forestry and soil conservation works, technical assistance, train-
ing, infrastructure development and research were not included;
(ii) economic prices for internationally traded commodities were
derived from IBRD projected 1992 prices, expressed in 1985 con-
stant dollars; all locEl costs for handling, in-country transpor-
tation, storage, etc., were adjusted by the SCF; and (iii)
economic prices for locally traded commodities were derived by
adjusting project. ".e -age market prices by the SCF.
Project Risks ani Sensitivity Analysis
8.07    The proposed project would be implemented in an area and by
institutions which have had conbiderable experience of implementing a
similar but a more complex project in the immediate past (para 2.20).
Moreover, the project is in line with the sectoral/subsectoral objectives
of the government, and the population of the project area, through par-
ticipation in the previous project, have become more aware of the challen-
ges and opportunities facing them. Therefore, the project would have full
political commitment of the government, as well as the cooperation of the
project area population.
8.08    Engineering risks would be minimal because all civil works relat-
ing to the various components would be built to simple standards, using
mostly local labor, equipment and materials.  Production technologies to
be promoted for agriculture, livestock and forestry development are rela-
tively simple and well known to the participating farmers, hence no major
problems in their adoption are anticipated. However, projected yields in
the irrigated areas (which would depend on proper utilization of water and
timely availability of improved seeds, fertilizer and agrochemicals) and
1/ If 100% of investment costs for research, training, rural infrastruc-
ture, soil conservation and technical assistance are included, the ERR
decreases to 17%.



-53-
in the rainfed areas (depending on timely and adequate precipitation)
could conceivably be affected by climatic conditions and inadequacies of
the support services. However, strengthened agricuLtural extension serv-
ices and improvements in the credit and input supply arrangements under
the project would help to minimize such problems. Moreover, in estimating
incremental production, lower than optimum yields have been assumed to
account for such conditions. Yields from the community forestry planta-
tions could be affected by lack of proper maintenance and protection by
participating panchayats. However, based on past experiences in the
community forestry programs in Nepal, it appears that the hill population
are showing a growing concern with their ever deteriorating environment,
and this has been reflected in their increasing willingness to make a
contribution to its restoration. Project implementation procedures
(para 4.27) are geared to help ensure that participating panchayats would
effectively protect and maintain the plantations and in return share the
benefits accruing from them.
8.09      Apart from the above technological and engineering risks,
organizational, staffing and flow of funds problems could, as in the past,
affect timely implementation of the project and realization of its
benefits. Although the administrative environment for project implementa-
tion is expected to be much more stable and certain as a result of the
commitment of HMG/N to the implementation of the Decentralization Act and
Rules (paras 2.16-2.17 and 6.01), it is by no means certain that the new
arrangements would be effective in overcoming the usual impediments to
project impLementation. But these risks would be partly offset by
(i) providing strong implementation support through a restructured and
adequately staffed PCU (paras 6.03-6.04), and appropriate technical assis-
tance and staff development (paras 4.34-4.36 and 6.08); (ii) strengthening
the district level planning and implementation capabilities as well as
central level supervision and guidance (para 4.34); and (iii) better
ensuring adequate project staffing, reducing staff turnover and appointing
senior and appropriately qualified staff to the key management positions
(paras 6.04-6.06). Project assistance for improving financial administra-
tion of the district level entities are expected to help alleviate the
problems of delays in fund reLease by HMG/N and reimbursement by IDA.
Finally, the proposed mid-term review (para 6.12) would provide an oppor-
tunity to introduce measures to deal with any serious project impediments
and thereby ensure proper execution of the project.
8.10    Sensitivity Analysis.  In order to assess the effect of the above
project risks on the project's economic viability, sensitivity tests on
the ERR was done. The results are summarized in Table 8.01 below.



-54-
TABLE 8.01: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND SENSITIVITY TESTS
(a) Tests on ERR
Components
Overall    Agriculture    Forestry    Livestock
_______________________z___________-- - - - - - - - -
(i)   Base Case               21            29            31           30
(ii)  Benefits - 15%           17           23            28           25
(iii) Costs + 15%              17           24             23          25
(iv)  (ii) + (iii)             13           19             26          20
(v)   Benefits -2 yr lag       14           18             34          19
(vi)  Cost + 15% & benefits   12            15             22          17
2 year lag
(b) Switching Values 1/
Benefits               Costs
(i)   Whole Project                        -25                    +34
(ii)  Agric. Component                     -39                    +63
(iii) Forestry Component                   -70                   +237.9
(iv)  Livestock Component                  -44                    +77
_J  Percentage change in benefits/costs that would reduce NPV to zero at the
estimated OCC (i.e., IRR becomes zero).
IX. CONDITIONALITIES AND ASSURANCES
9.01.   The following assurances were obtained during negotiations:
(a) (i) prior to undertaking construction of project funded irrigation
schemes and other rural infrastructure works, Users' Group(s)
would be established; and (ii) by December 31, 1986, HMGN would
establish and, thereafter maintain within its Department of
Agriculture an irrigation Agronomy and Water Management and
Utilization Unit; (para 4.06)
(b) HKGN would (i) make available to Panchayats unencumbered lands
for forestry plantations under the project by December 31 of each
calendar year of project implementation, and (ii) prepare and
furnish to IDA by July 31, 1987, for its approval, draft Forest
Management Plans for the project area plantations; (para 4.28)



-55-
(c) a semi-detailed Watershed Management Plan for implementation of
the soil conservation works in the project area would be prepared
and furnished to IDA for its approval by September 30, 1987 (para
4.30);
(d) (i) trainees for overseas training programs would be persons with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA and would be
trained in institutions/programs acceptable to IDA; (ii) returnees
would be provided with adequate jobs to serve in ruraL developmenc
projects in Nepal for at least five years (para 4.37);
(e)  (i) annual HMG/N budgets would include adequate alLocations cover-
ing project expenditure in the two pruject districts; and
(ii) budgetted funds for each trimester would be released to
implementing agencies by no later than the first fortnight of each
trimester (para 5.04);
(f) all civil works under the project would be undertaken by qualified
and experienced contractors registered with HMGN's Ministry of
Works and Transport, or by a properly constituted User Group;
(para 5.06);
(g) participating line departments, AIC and ADB/N would: (i) maintain
separate records and accounts for all project expenditures in
accordance with sound accounting principles; (ii) such accounts
would be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, in
accordance with sound auditing principles; (iii) forward to IDA,
such accounts together with the auditor's reports within nine
months after the end of each fiscal year; and (iv) include in the
annual audit reports submitted to IDA, a separate opinion from the
auditor as to whether the disbursements made on the basis of SOEs
were in respect of goods and services received and incurred for
the purposes of the project (para 5.09);
(h) (i) by September 30, 1987, HMGN would, in accordance with terms
of reference acceptable to IDA, review its cost recovery policies
including collection of irrigation water charges (for medium and
small irrigation schemes), benefit taxes on rural infrastructure,
and farm input subsidies, and furnish the findings of the review
to IDA for its comments; (ii) by December 31, 1987, HMGN would
prepare and furnish to IDA, on the basis of the findings of the
aforementioned study and taking into account IDA comments thereon,
detailed proposals and an action plan for implementing more
broadly appropriate national policies and methods for cost
recovery, reduction of input subsidies and development of broader
channels of input supply to farmers (para 5.12).



-56-
(i)  the head of the PCO shalL at all times be an officer with
qualification and experience satisfactory to IDA, and would par-
ticipate i: the meetings of the District Plan Formulation and the
District Supervision Committees of the project area District
Panchayats (para 6.04);
(j) (i) Project staff would be appointed, deployed and maintained in
a manner that shall contribute to timely implementation of the
project and achievement of its objectives; (ii) incremental
Project staff which would be required for carrying out
post-investment project activities shall, commencing on the Bor-
rower's Fiscal Year 1990-91, be included in the Borrower's regular
staff budget; and (iii) the Local Development Officers required
for carrying out the Project shall be qualified experienced
officers of at least confirmed Class II Gazetted rank (para 6.08);
(k) terms of reference for carrying out a mid-term review of project
implementation would be furnished to IDA by January 31, 1989, for
its approval and the said mid-term review would be completed and
the results furnished to IDA by December 31, 1989 (para 6.12).
9.02    The following are the conditions of effectiveness of the IDA
credit:
(a) the UNDP Project Agreement would have been duly signed by the
parties thereto; (para 5.03)
(b) an executing agency acceptable to the Borrower, UNDP and the
Association shall have been duly appointed as executing agency
for the Project components financed out of the proceeds of the
UNDP Grant; (para 5.03) and
(c) that the PCO has been reorganized in a manner satisfactory to IDA
and has been assigned with adequate powers, funding and staff
(para 6.04).
9.03    A condition of disbursement wouLtd be that no disbursements against
expenditures for the provision of agricultural credit by ADBN and the
importation and distribution of agricultural inputs by the AIC shall be
made until the subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Financial Agreement have
been signed by HMGN and ADBN and AIC, respectively, and have been duly
ratified by the parties concerned (para 5.04).
9.04    With the above conditions and assurances, the proposed project
would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$19.1 M (SDR equivalent of
16.6 M).



NEPAI.
1111,1uMwr  iMA"  rin er iRf   (PISE I1)1
Sunmry of Dlstrictwise Lad Use (wriculturu/Forastry) 1/
1AWA Olsttct                            Nbaust District                             Total
Wood  eaGms Area  2/ Net Areea2aroe Area I/ N                                      e It  p AreaGross Area  Net Arme
. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - P^A - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1. Aricultural Lad Use 4
Oiltivted laid.s
LeAl Terraces                  7,320          4,620          3,7111         45,840       28,510         22,930          53,160       33,300       26,710
Slirq2I  Terrces               2,110          1.550          I.2'0          6,550         3,803          3,050           9,430        5,350       4.340
Valley Floors                    280            160            140           7,760        6,610          5,800           7,940        6,770        5,940
Grasi.  Lands                   24.070         24.070         24.070           4,250        4.250          4,250          28.32D0      28320        28.320
(sib-total)                 (34,450)       (30,400)       (29,280)        (64,400)     (43,240)       (36,030)        (96,850)    (73,640)    (65,310)
2. Forestry Lord Use
Omittfrs f0e,0                                                                 1,90          -               -             22,060         -
I4Ard1dod                        7,390           -              -             I9,900         -               -            27,290          -          -
Othen                           25,150           -              -              5,870         -               -            31,020          -          -
amb                              9,670           -              -             21,220         -               -            30,890          -          -                                          . J1
(Ob-total)                  (52,290)          -             -             (48,910)        -               -          (101,260)         -          -
3. Other Lad Use
Sad, Crawl, Bouldeirs             -             -              -              1,440         -               -             1,440          -          -
PRdi                           23,630           -              -              3,290         -               -            26,92D          -          -
Peretual Snw AMd Ice           40,3Q            -              -                -           -               -            40,80D         -           -
Others                             tO           -              -              1,110         -               -             1,120          -          -
(sib-total)                (64,440)                        -              5840)          -               -            70,28)          -          -
Total (2) + (2) + (3)              151,180           -              -            119,210         -               -           270,390          -          -
I/ Colsp led frau preliminary district's land yWe data prepared by CIM A  and WResurces It2ap, Project, Kath,uu (1965)
2/ 'tpped Area " nultiplied by land use intensity factor
3/  'ross Area" multipI led by Internal area loss factor
4/ See Tables 4 ard 5 for doWails
'-I-



NEPAL
xEmAN4IMr~ lUUAL DE          l  PRWECI  (PIiSE 1)
Agricultural Lard Use by Rbysotraphic Region and by Land Type in  uisua/M&akot Districts I 
Laind Tpe                                       Physiographic Regions 2/
Hid Notatains          Hih Mwmtains         Hih Hi Hl                                   Total
Rusua District                           - -  -- - - --, -------- (gross area) 3/ 
Level Terraces                         1,600                  3,020                                                        4,620
Sloping Terraces                         -                    1,550                                                        1,550
Valley Floors                             60                     100                -                                        160
Grazing Land                             890                  9,740               13,440                                  24,070
Total (Rusuwa)                 2,550                 14,410              13,440                                   30,400
Nuwakot District
Level Terraces                        27,540                  1,040                -                                      28,5&1
Sloping Terraces                       3,800                     -                                                         3,80M
Valley Floors                          6,610                     -                                                         6,610                       X
Grazing Land                           2,320                  1,820                  110                                   4,250
* Total (Nwiakot)               40,270                  2,860                  110                                  43,240
Total (Rusuwa + Nwakot)
Level Terraces                        29,140 r                4,060                 -                                     33,2ao
Sloping Terraces                       3,8C0                  1,550                                                        5,350
Valley Floors                          6,670                    100                 -                                      6,770
Grazing Land                           3,210                  11,560              13,550                                  28.320
Total                         42,820                 17,270               13,550                                  73,640
(%)                       (58)                    (23)                (19)                                    (100)
1/ Ccqpiled fron preliminary districts land use data prepared by CWl - lad Resouces Mapping Project, Katjm du (1985)
V  Physiographic regions are classified aninly by geooogical and geomorphological basis.  They are however rotighly associated with the following
range of clizatic conditions.
Hid Mountains = Sub Tropical to Wazm Temperate
High oMuntains= Wamn Temperate to Alpine
High Hirmal:    Alpine to Artic
3/  'Mapped area" nultiplied by land use intensity factor (see Table 2)



WU.'AL
-3aMwn Rt.;AL. UlEl DVr IiOJECT I'UA1SK 1 1
Present Crcoppir Patterns nd Estimated land Use' In l&akot District 1/
Net Oltivated AreA                                       Cropped   A r e a
Lvel   Slcpiu   Valley        Total                                                                                                Intensity
Terraces Terraces  Floors 2/                   Paddy    Huize      Millet      let    Potatoes        Others 3/         Total           %
- _______------- - -                          --- -------------------------------
1. Paddy based crnppi
iaddy-allow               470       40      370          80            880         -        -           -           -            -              8D
Paddy-Paddy               SW        -      1,810       2,340         4,61O         -        -           -           -            -            4,68D
P&ddy-o'ISed               40        -        70         llO            110        -         -          -           -           80              190
P 'Paddy-OlIeed            20        -        -           20            40         -         -          -           -           t0               30
Padd4&ewo               7,380       60    1,130        8,570         8,570         -         7       4.820          -            -           13,390
Pa*4d-Pd lsat              50        -       260         310           620         -         -         260          -            -              no
F.My-Ilieat-ize            20       -       490          510            10        250        -         490                       -            1,250
PaddyFallva-lsize       1,230        -       330      1I560           1,560       950        -          -           -            -            2,510
(sb-total)           (9,710)   (IOD)  (4,490)    (14,300)        (16.970)   (1,0)        ( - )    (5,570)      ( - )        (90)          (23.130)          165
2. Huats based crppirig
Hise 4/- Hillet 5/   11,510   2,950          7c0      15,230           -       15,230    13,7          -            -            -           28,930
igs-Cerel                 210      -          -          210           -          210        -         -            -          200              310
lsze-1ulses               120      -          110        230           -          230        -         -            -          170              400
IVtslz otatoes            560      -          -          560           -          560        -         _           560           -            13120
(sbtotal)          (T2,470) T2,930)      -(a I0)   T16,230)                Tt ) (6.230)  (13,700)    (- )       MO)        (270)         (3D,760)      *190
3. Othrs
Careal-Fallow            570      -          -          570           -          -          -         -            -          570              570
HlKcellauuous            18O      -         50          6130          -_                                                                       680_
(sub-total)           (750)  (-)         (50)    (1,250)          (-)        (-)        (-)       C-)          (-)       (1,250)          (1,250)         I00
4. Total (1) * (2) 4 (3)      22,930   3,050      5,800      31,780         16,970    17,430    13. %D      3.570         560       1,610           55,8d0          175
5. Crazirg Lands                 -       -           -        4,250
6. Total Aricultural Lands        -      -           -       36,030
(4) + (5)
1/ Estirates based on preliminary district land use data prepared by CID-Land Resoures 4apping Proje;t. KaEh-.L-du (1985)
2/ Valley floors Includes tars, alluvial fans and footslopes
3/  Includes barley, huk&hac, pulses etc.
4/ Includes swe mlllets
5/ Includes src maiz2u



KPAL
SIA4~ `NE  W I  mv           r F8 T  1Z'IIA  11)
Present Croppirs Patterns znd Eatinatd land Uso.tn RASLs District 1/
Net tbltivated Ame
DI2Ulfl~~~~~~~~t              dTI                                                         Cropped    A reaa                                                 Cr~xojpiwu
C=owou Patterns              Level      Slcptm      Vaeiy 2/      Total                                C                                                                  intrp er*
Terraces  Terras    Floors                           Padft       l tse    HlUlet   Wheat   Potatoes   Odin  3/         Toal          (2)
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -H - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1. Paddy based croppiT
Peddy - Fallow                 10        -           -             so            eo            -        -          -                    - 
Pa&y-Fe6dy                     -         -           10            to            20            -        -          -         -          -           20
Pady - Uet                    4W0        -           20           460           460            -        -        240         -         -      
PO -dy- Falle - Haize         250        -           30           210           240           160       -          -         -          -          440
(V*-total)                 (770)      (-)         (60)         (6a0)         (640)         (160)     (-)      (240)       (-)        C-)      (1,240)                    150
2. Malz based croppirg
Hlzez   / Fallow               60       290         30           380            -            270       110        -         -          -          360
Haltu 4 Hillet S/           1,250       120         -          1,370            -          1,370    1,20          -         -          -        2,570
Haize - Oereal                370        10         50           930            -            930       -          -         -         840       1,770
MHize - Potatoes              640       -           -            640            -            640       -          -        640         -        1,280
(,b-totul)               (2,320)    (920)        (60)       (3,320)         ( - )       (3,210)  (1,310)      ( -)      (040)      (840)     (6,000)                   10
3. OCthrs
Potatoes - Fallo              60       120          -           190            -             -         -         -        18D0       -           ID
Hlscellavms                  630       250          -           380            -             -         -         -         -         8ao         ODD
(sVb-total)               (690)    (370)         (-)       (1,060)           W)          1)         C-)       (-)      (180)      (MO)      (1,060)                   IO0
4. Total (1) . (2) # (3)         (3,780)    1,290        140         5.210           840         3,370    1,310       240        820      1,720       8,300                    160
5  Crang  1s                         -          -          -        24.070
6. Total Agricultural tands         -           _          _        29.280
(4)  (5)
I/ EstImted basd on preominary district lmd use data pripared by ClA - Land Resources Happirg Project, Kathnan  (1985)
2/ Valley floors Inclubs cars, alluvial fans ai footslopes
3/  Includes barley, ItxiLktheat, pluses, oil seds, sarcane etc.
4/ InCludes S. ml let
5/ Includes soiw miize



ANNEX 1
Table 5
11.UU  UfL DDf_ll tlIUIY   l11 NA   I)
EPaclted Promt Crd2e Are,  Yield ad peodutimn in Ptjcut Ar
Cropped Am I/                    Yield V                       Production
RDaw        Nw.kot      Total
-         - - - - - - - h( - - - - - - -  (t   )                          (ton)
Early padd, Irrigated                      10          2,670      2,68D             2.9                            7,770
Manso paddy.  "                            250         7,850      8,120             2.2                           17,8W0
Mosoon pay. mined                        570          6,440      7,010             1.7                           11,917
taI Pady                           (8B0)       (16,970)   (17,810)           (LI)                          (37,547)
"bin. inipted                              30            570        GM0              1.5                             900
Maize, ainaed                            3,3Y0        16,810     20D20D              1.2                          26,210
Total =en                         (3,370)      (17,4J0)   (20,1D1)           (1.2)                         (25,140)
Lnlt. prted                               12D          2,770     2,89               1.5                           4.340
1,1ot, rinfed                              1D          2J100      2,920             1.0                            2.920
Total  ut                          Q2W0J       C5,570)    (5,810)           (1.2)                          (7,250)
HIIkIt.  ainfed                          1.310        13,7D      15,010             0.9                           11,510
IhrIev, rainfed                          8s0             670      1.510             0.7                            1.0Ib)
Total grain                      6.600        54.340     60,960             (1.4)           W,5I7
Potatoes                                  82D            560      1,38D             7.0                            9,0
Others 3/                                 850           940      1,82D              0.5                             910
Total cropd amea                         8,30D        55,820     6.,120
Net cultivated area 4                    5,210        31,780     36.990
.kt irrigated arm                          2o          7,850      8,s2l
V  Es:i aed boend an Tobls 2. 3 e: 4
7/ Roued figrs; Mission (asimte  bed on Ci) Amal crup awwy cmabaced 6wig Pme I perio
(ii)  KuI Project Cwon  Amlyuls Saerin. VoL. 1. 2 and 3.
(iil) Official Crp Stacistics (Sc Table 5)
(iv) Spla Survey foe GmD=l Div. RegionMiddle k5mcain (CIDA - Land Resources Mappirg Project)
3/ Oilseed. pulses. crc.
I/ Exclude grazing lands



-62-
AM=Z 2
NEPAL                                                    Table I
Ratuva-Nuvakot Rural Dewelonmut Proi et Pbase II (RUNUDZV 1I1
Phosins of Crop Dev loummut Prorra
XLYI  XT   ILa   ILYr             mu              DA        mu Y6                Yr 10
ha - cumulative -- -                              -
1. Rainfed Crop Develoment
Monsoon Paddy                                  250      500     800    1200       1800     2600      3500
Noize                                 250      750    1500    2500    4000       6500      8000    12000
Wheat                                          200      350     450      650      1100     1300      1350
Subtotal (Rlinfed)                 250    1200    2350    3750    5850        9400    11900    16850
IL Irrigated Cron Developnent
A. Expansion of existing and
construction of now schemes
1. DIEM Schemes
Rebab. Labdu-Dhikure                        50     100
Rehab. Gadbkar                                               20       40
Boketar-Chovkita                                                               60       100       120
Siur.                                                                                    15        90      240
Thansingh                                                                                75       120      140
Ratomato                                                                                           75      150       250
Subtotal (Incremental
Irrigated Area by DEM)                 70      140     140      140       200      330       545       790      890
2. ill Terrace/Minor Scheme.
by MTO
Rebab Phase I Schemes                       50     100      150     200       250       300      300       300
Rev Schemes                                 -       -        60      120      270       460       720      900
Subtotal (Incremental
Irrigated Area by DTO)                 50      100     210      320       520      760      1020      1200     1200
Total incremental Irrigated
Area by DIRM & DTO                    120      260     350      460       720      1090     1565      1990     2090
B. Crop intensification on
existine areas
Early Paddy                                   500     750    1000    1500       2200      2200      2200     2200
Monsoon Paddy                                 750    1200    2200    4000       5500      S000      7000      7000
Maize                                 60      100     250      400      500      550       560       560       560
Wheat                                100      300     500      900    1500      2200      2500      2500     2500
Subtotal (intensification
on existing Area)                160    1650    2700    4500    7500    10450    11260    12260    12260



-63-                                     ANNEX 2
Table 2
NEPAL
Rasua-Nuvakot Rural Developmejt ProJect Phase II (RASNUDEV II)
TRAINIXG PROGRAM FOR EXTENSION STAFF AND FARMERS
Type of Training        Frequency    Location      Participants      Duration   Trainers
I/
Quarterly Preparation-f  4 x year    RTC           JT/JTA             2 days    DADO/Trainir.
Trisull                                   Officers/
Experts/
Research Sta-
tion Staff
Pre Seascu               2 x year    Sub Center   Agriculture         2 days    JT/JTA
Assistants
Monthly                 10 x year    Sub Center   Agriculture         1 day     JT
Assistants/JTA
2/
Farmers Training-        4 x year    RTC Trisuli Farmers              5 days    Training
FTC Kakani   (25-30 per batch)            Center Staff
FTC Dhunche
Special ad hoc           3 x year    RTC Trisuli JT/JTA               5 days    DADO/Training
courses 3/                                                                    officer/
Experts
Special ad hoc           2 x year    RTC Trisuli AA                   5 days    Training
Courses 3/                         FIC Kakani                                 Officers/
FTC Dhunche                               Selected JT
/ The first -and third sessions should be treated as pre season training to finalize
technical detai. s of prograus for the ensuing cropping season. The second and
fourth sessions should be utilized to reviev activities..
2 Should cover specific crops/plant protection/horticulture development/vegetable
and new set of farmers should be invited for each batch.
3/ Special courses for plant protection/water management/horticulture development/
vegetable cultivation/special crops.



64-
EPL
_10 -   _U        31NN   R iK nIE!T  mECT - P0IW  1C I        1 11 it I                                             IANEK 2
Tile 25. 01- FullN fIrTM                                                                          Table 3
btiled Cat Tile
Pavmter,
hantit.                                                  kwe      s                      Pw.
Cot. For.  or,  Sumerm
BrAi    1          2   3    4    5  6   7  1 lTtalbiht Cot  1    2    3    4    S    6    7    I  Total   Ratbe           . Tu  bW aka
_ _   _ -   _   _  ._  _  *_   _a                   _--          _        __       .__*s *         __ _w_ -  _u                   flu
1.           940IA    1c
A. civil beli
Di"t fu                                         W 5seb  . -  -     -1        --O  1.5  -750 75.0                                             13.0 0.070 .35    o UnLO
Otaftmwrtars                       m                ue -31 1W   ---  -3       0         1.5      - 7 250.0 1!0.0        -    -    -    -   Uo 00.0   0.35             0e W3
S.*-T.tal  ivil be                                                                                  - M.  300.0 150.0    -    -    -    -  6.0
4 UPidk                             no       -   I   -   -  -  -   I  -    2    2e0.05           -200.0     -    -    -    -2e0.0        -     0    0.05 0.95         0    VWl
Si-Total ICelan                                                                                     - 20e.0    -     -    -    - 20.0    -  40.0
C. haterhial for Field Trials
ueriels                             IS       - 21  30  36 45 60 60 40  311              1.0      - 36.0  54.0 64.0  0.0 1".0 10.0 13.0  59.   0.05  0.n5              0    IN
Si-Totd P rlads ftr Field Trials                                                                    -36.0  54.0 64.0  01.0 1n 1.0 113.0 1130   5I
Tstal II   IIEIT 94313                                                                                 - 30U.0 354.0 214.3  01.0 13.0 30.0 113.0 1,S.0
IL M33ym     cogs-                                                                                 -    -           - 
A. SW  srn
Imt .bgMiSt                        no       -  I    I   I 1  1  1    1         7      25.05     - 25.0  25.0  25.0 25.0  25.0  25.0 25.0  175.0       0    0         0      L
Ant.Nm tlultost                    no       -   I      1  1  1  1  1  I    7          25.05    - 2.0  25.0 25.0  25.015.0 25.0 25.0  175.0            0    0         0    S.
MM.S1IIIE iMST                     d        -  I    I   I 1  1  1       1      7      25.05    - 25.0  25.0  25.0 25.0 25.0  25.0 25.0  175.0         0    0         0    SOL
Fmlan aarr                         no       -  I   I   I  I  I  I 1            7      25.05    - 25.0  25.025.0  25.0   .0Z.0          .0   115.0     0    0         0 oSA
Clk                                no       -  I   I   I  I        1    1    7       12.05    - 12.0  2.0  12.0 12.0 12        12.0 12.0   0.0       0    0         0    SOL
wwr                                w        -nI   I   I  I  I 1          1    7       15.05    - 15.0 15.01.0    0 15.0  15.15.0  15.0   105.0        0    0         0    SO
Pas                                no       -2   2 22222                      14       0.05     - 16.0 16.0 16.0 16.0 16.0 16.0 16.0   112.0          0    0         0    SL
li-Total Stff Salaies aod Alie es                                                                  - 143.0 143.0 143.0 143.0 143.0 143.0 143.0 1001.0
D.  1 rLl. ad flinthmoe
OIN      odies                   lump       -    -    -    -  -  -  -  -    -                   - 30.0 30.0 30.0 30.0  30.0 30.0  30.0  210.0  0.05 0.35             0  MM
-Total peration ad KiAntmce                                                                       - 30.0  30.0 30.0  30.0 30.0 30.0 30.0  210.0
C. am u; im cesuman
Ofe   Eems ad Cmmil              o          -  -    -    -  -  -  -  -             -            -  2.0  5.0      -    -    -                  7.0  0.0  0.35         0    aC
1*-Total MmE S0 An CWIML B                                                                        - 2.0 5.0 -7.0
Total E93T  OUS1                                                                                      -175.0 170.0 173.0 173.0 173.0 173.0 173. 1,210.0
Tow                                                                                                    - 561.0 532. 317.0 254.0 211.0 401.0 201.0 2mM.8
latabor 23  15  13:52



-65-
PI*                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~ANUN  2
O  - _NT ML EWN ICT - 111                                     11 I                                        Tb 
Tale 26. MtUUTT  IEOIEII MiT
htalud cut table
in, *mie
Parmwtav
bAilt.                                             hu. cuts                         ft..
-At                             --                     -       t. For.  sris  S_umr
b it 1  2  3    4  3  6  7 U          TOtalb  t  1    2    3       4    3    6    7    *   Total  Rb           Ech. Tm bhb kma
I. E           Um 
A. 115905   ACT7hIBM
baItUI  Turt  mi   ustiatUtm                                            -                  100.0 16s0.        100.0 1 0.0  -0.0 100.01   70.0  0.05    0       0  am
Traitdrni  toar-                                                             -           -  15.0  15.0  15.0  15-  15.6  15.0  15.6  105.0  0.0       e 0      0  ECT
Dburw.Umn- t-i Tour                                                          -           - - --0.0 5.0  50.0 50.0 50.6  0.0  56.0  315.0  0.05    0            0  UeET
pMtd   u bicia                              -  -  -  -  -  -   -  - -                    -  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0 10.6  10.6  10     70.0  0.05      0        0  EXCT
Sab-Total E IN    ICTIW ES                                                                  - 175.0 175.0 175.5 175.0 175.0 175.6 175.0 1,225.0
16 OFFS E I UIES 11 UNUlS-                             -                        -           - -10.0 160.0 100.0 100.0 160.0 10.0 110.0  700.   0.05  0.35         0    On
Totl IEMNE USTI                                                                                - 275.6 275.0 275.0 25.0 275.0 275.0 275.6 1,25.0
_-   _                 _     __m  
70tl                                                                                            - 275.0 2Th.0 275.0 215. 275.0 27.0 275.0 1m2.0
- - _- 2 - I - _ _
Uwtab. 23.19   12:5



34flJ  - IAT  lURURA  IMEIT N        iT - FME 11 I  IE   11 I1AR                                    2
T     0. 3 IWWllML   3IfT       A     TT,NI  -  3 SIU                                  TWbi  5
hOoled CL Table
hiut                                                      BM     ts
Uni t 1  2  3  4  *  A  7  5 TU    u          cost    1      2       3      4      3      a    7    5   Total
I. _OuNEN COM__ 
1-IMMUEAL WSBTS
1. TECHI3 ICILLIsiUr
1. SNIIR VMLlm
PLIIIAa I ODT1        MD EWIUMTHW 301S3              3     3 12 12 12  -  -  -  -   39    200.05   600.0 2410. 24J0. 2400.0              -    -    -    - 7,000.0
UuIE                                                NM     3 12 12 12  -  -  -  -   3           200.e5   600.0 2400.0 2400.0 2.400.0      -    -    -    - 700.0
silTotal S1JU  WEIILISTS                                                                                   I.200.0 4.93.0 4800.0 4.3o0.0     -    -    -    - 15600.
2. hr    113 MNSILTOM
I30N11. APTM  -1   5. 1T  TN . VI. M6.              MN    -  2  2  2    -  -  -           6    300.05       -   00.0  600.0 o00.0        -    -    -    - 1,3e0.0
JtTIIIi  PP9T                                        M1    2  3  3  3  3  -   -           14     20.5    40.0   60.0   60.0   60.0   60.0    -    -    -   230.0
m1 LCL CLTU                                          LS    -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -              -          50.0   50.0    0.0   50.0   50.0 50.0 50.0 50.0   400.0
Sfi-Total l S31 Tom CULTTS                                                                                    0.   710.0  710.0  710.0  110.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 2w40o.0
3. InTEv . uuJUIEEIS
RMIN    ES A                                                3 24 24 24  -  -  -  -   75          20.05    60.0  43.0  460.0  400.0        -    -    -    - 1.000
DIST                                                       - 24 24 24  -  -  -   - 72            20.e5       -  40.0   0.0  490.0         -    -    -    - 1,440.0
TCLDu. 14I33                                         NM    - 24 24 24  -  -  -  -   72           20.es       -  410-0  41*-.  450-0       -    -    -    - 1,440.0
SILWPASrE SPCISI                                     M     - 24 24 24  -  -  -  -   72           2-0.5       -  460.0  460.0  480.0       -    -    -    - 1,440.0
n3-EmD INM                                                 4 36 43 46 24  -  -  -  160           20.0     3.0  70.0    0.0   90.0  400.0    -    -    - 31200.0
Sub-Total Dm3TIUI. VuITES                                                                                   140.0 2640.0 2,3I0.0 2.00.0  410.0    -    -    - 920.0
Sob-Totl  TEUK   ASSISTANU                                                                                   1,430.0 3.150. 5 390.0 ee3s0.0  590.0 50.0 s0.0 SD.0 27.100.0
3.  1R3T mm    sE TNE                                            -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  E1000- 700.0  700.0  700.0  700.0    -    -    - 2.e0.0
C. MECT  ELATD STIS 91E11  NIO-TERI l M                          -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -             -              -  3.0  300.0  300.0  300.0 300.0    -    - 1,500.0
Total D     rIIEIG   aosr                                                                                       1#330.0 95110.0 9,390.0 9.30.0 1.59.0 350.0 50.0 50.0 31500.0
1-.                                                                                                                              _ COM
A. 596*USIAn ILNMU
AMI. OFFEIt                                            MY   15I 1  1  1  1  1  1     22            15.05  2m.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0 15.0 15.0 15.0   330.0
TYPIST am                                              HY  0.5   I  I  1  1  1  1  1  7.5          10.05     5.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0    75.0
LOCAL TLUEL                                            LS  -     -------                     -20.0   30.0   30.0   10.0   50.0 50.0 50.0 1D0J   330.0
tib-To1tal 93.95  No ALL.USi                                                                                  250.0   15.0   15.0   75.0   75.0 75.0 75.0 75.0   M3.0
3. OfflIX SUPLIES II OIa IBNa                             LS                         ----5.0   10.0   15.0   15.0   20.0 20.0 20.0 20.0   I25.
TOtW  EIKFAI  EDITS                                                                                               25.0   65.0   70.0   90.0   95.0 95.0 95.0 95.0  310.0
----- ~ -- --
Tatal                                                                                                            10M.0 9.215.0 9,460.0 9.400.0 1.685.0 445.0 14L.0 145.0 324,60.0
lSwtoioMr 23. 15 IL.57



-67-
NEPAL                                     ~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 3
RAGIJIA - NWNDY  EAL IELOPENT PROI  PH    II (I1491 3                                   Table 1
suER flu DW r WART
(Mg '000)                 CUS '0001                   Z Total
-Z Foiviln   aw
Local   ForeiSn  Total     Local  Fruin  Totl   Echa    Costs
1. DIIESTNENT COSTS
A. CIVJIL MIKS
1. BUILDINGS                                                 10610.9  5,630.9 16,241.7   599.5  312.8   S02.3          35       5
2. IRRISATIDN                                                40,165.0 21,235.0 61400.0  29231.4 1,179.7 3,411.1        35       19
3. ROADS AND JD6IES                                          19,072.0 10,269.5 29i341.5  1b059.6  570.5 1.630.1        35       9
4. IMRINECA AEtR RiPPLY                                       9431.!  5079.5 149510.0    524.0  292.1   806.1          35        5
S. SOIL CONSwAnON                                             3304.6  177M.4  504.0    183.6   98.9   292.4            35        2
SijrTotul CIVIL VERS                                           S2.5S3.9 43.993.3 126,577.2  4v518.0 29444.1 7P,32.1       35      39
B. VENIMlES                                                       652.3 12,393.7 13,046.0      36.2  689.5   724.9        95       4
C. 0E1IPIO                                                        433.6  7,547.9  7,991.4      24.1  419.3   43.4         95       2
D. FINlITtE                                                     1,392.0    343.0  1,740.0      77.3   19.3    96.7        20       1
E. FEASIBILITY AND OER STUDIES                                  4,485.0        -  48495.0    249.2       -   249.2         -       1
F. CREDIT FUNDS                                                 11,661.5       - 11U661.5    647.9       -   647.9         -       4
B. FEED AID FOUR DEELIfPIENT                                    1i101.0        -  10101.0      61.2      -    61.2         -       0
H. BREEDING STOCK                                                1,092.0    72B.0  1,820.0     60.7   40.4   101.1        40       1
I. mRICtL TU0   UTS                                             1,510.7 16999.6 19B410.2    93.9  939.9 1,022.9           92       6
J. FORET PROTECTI AND PLNOTATIN HAIIAENEN                      23,931.9        - 23,931.9  19329.6       - 19329.6         -       7
K. EXTENIOON ACTIVIES                                           4i943.0        -  4,943.0    274.6       -   274.6         -       2
L. TRAIfNE                                                      7,392.6  2,900.0 10,2.6    410.7  161.1   571.8           2B       3
n. TEhIMCAL SSISTANCE                                           2,080.0 25,020.0 279100.0    115.6 1,390.0 1,505.6        92       8
Total INUETNT CLSTS                                              143,259.5 109,830.4 2530S99.   7,95B.9 6,101.7 149060.5    43      79
II.    -     CCOTS
A. SAIARES AM  ALLEICE                                         47M712.9       - 470712.9  2,650.7       - 2,650.7         -      15
3. EIIU111   KHNICLES M   EUIPIENT OPERATI   AND AIINTEIWE  /a  5,950.2  3,262.8  99213.0    330.6  181.3   511.8        35       3
C. IRGATION SOS  OPERATIN M  MNTE IC                            1.161.0       -  1,161.0      64.5      -    64.5         -       0
D. STYES IEROVENEII   PROGRAM                                    714.3        -    714.3      39.7      -    39.7         -       0
E. OFFICE tPPES AND CNUAES                                      4790.6  2,543.4  79334.0    266.1  141.3   407.4         35       2
F. OTHER EXPNWDINE                                              1,895.0       -  1I895.0    105.3       -   105.3         -       I
Total RECENII COSTS                                               629224.0  5,906.2 68030.2  3,456.9  322.6 3,779.5          9      21
Totl DASELINE COSTS                                               205493.4 115,636.6 321,120.0 11.415.7 6,424.3 17,840.0     36      1o0
Physical Contingtwcius                                            9,540.2  6,661.7 16,201.9    530.0  370.1   900.1        41       5
Price Cantinsncies                                              539297.3 32,978.0 86,175.3  2M9U.0 1.826.6 4,797.5         39      27
Total PRLIECT COSTS                                               2689321.0 155,176.2 423,497.2 149906.7 9P620.9 23,527.6     37     132
====
/a ESTINATED AT ABOUT 301 OF INIIESNENT COSTS IN EDILDING 8WHICLES AND EINJ1PHENT.
Swt.tsr 23. 1995 14:07



ANN"1123
Table2
- - TMa  am  wIACT - N 11  MM  11 I
FM CIIJ now
Mes m00                   (El l1o)                    I Toatl
Z Fhrelg   DM
tcad    Fueign  TYotl      LaI     FeIoi   Total  Ebaus   Csts
_ _~       ~~ ._         ..__         3 *         3_33   ....
A. EISOT
1. A^nm  ucc
SIEDI  EIES 0 0INC 131                                       10.1l.4  2p4*4.9  12,02.3   W5.2  136.9   700.1            20       4
TIWNIE                                                        6,760.2  1546.3 10,36.4    4F6.7   15.9   572.6          15       3
BnT                                                          346.4  0.3NAM   56361.0  249.1 1.041.1  39131.2           33       to
011.ILTOE  N  IHITIQLIIK FMNS                                 4,456.2   H13O4   654.5    247.6  113.8   366.4           32       2
LINh   NEWLEEN                                                6434.1  2041.0  3945.0    361.3  135.6   4%.9             2 7      3
3Ia0LTl3  CA3311                                               7.711.0       -  0731.0   4U7.         -   4U7.0          -       I
URI1IIZA11 L 131W5                                            2v963.7 17,211.0 20425.7    164.9  9I 1423.0              E5       6
S-Total HIOTIAL lEmNt                                            9103.5 44M73.4 123640.9  4,94.6 2M45.4 6110.0            36       P
2. RUN. INF3SMICTURE p ,M10C 313TEPLY * NINESSV 30              10.23255.3  9,2.3  2,031O.0   2,014.2  546.1  2It50.3     35        9
3. PtuiT  * SOIL CS fnot    A  OT1  NLMIElI
FDEST tUMATI0 M1 CW      TY  FOIEST EW ENT                   1304438 14339.6  19,334.4  2,42.5   74.4  1,076.,           7       6
SOIL CUSEIETIU                                                4,959.2  I.S9.1   6.I51.0    2o.0  110.7   310.6        29        2
9*S-Totl FUEIl  . SDIL  a      n1310  AN 3*11t 331A300          22#904.0  3.33.4  26,235.4  3,272.4  115.1 1,457.5        13        9
4. IIENwoaTh  MO E        *  INSTTM . mwtwmn
STUSSIIEIS OF 111                                             4.364.7  2.323.7  79193.4    270.3  129.4   39.          32        2
STIUSIEII  OF LU                                              3,127.4  1923.5  5.ss.9    173.7  107.1   230.9          3         '
Sub-Total ZEWENATINSUPF03  AM IDSTITWTK  TIEK WET               7,992.1  4.257.2 12t24S.3    444.0  236.5   am0.5         35        4
Su-Total macn                                                     126,254.3 62.15.7 190430.6  7,125.3 3.453.1 10,578.4       33      59
1. WA
*. TMMUWF  DEIJFNN
3-
STREN91 E X3 0Ns         n 11CES                              5,973.1  I.7.4  7,714.5    331.9    6.7   420.6          23        '
1*2m                                                          2431.1    107.1  2.as.2    141.7    6.0   147.7           4        1
IRSTIDN                                                       5630.0  2,370.0  1,0e.0    312.8  131.7   444.4          30        2
uuILiNE NM HRUnLTI  FmS                                       2.200.3  1,015.3  32135.5    122.2   56.4   17.6         32        1
UWSOi  UEWLOPIH                                               5,671.2  3,173.3  7,045.0    326.2   65.2   391.4        I7        '
upjpTjpL   ssr                                                2.5.5          -  2,5O.5    160.0       -   160.0         -        I
URILIIM. D1n3                                                   69.7  1,336.3  2,02.5       35.4   74.3   112.7        66        1
Sub-Total  310L13  KELWL3EI                                    25,797.3  7,744.4 33,542.2  l.433.2  430.2 1.03.5          23       ID
2. Oft  I;WBtfl31 i  klEI   CUR   SUPPLY * 3I03ES  * ROM        10.241.2  5411.3 15,76.5    569.3  306.6    7.9           35        5
3. FONESntr  * 1313. CESDTIS   arVTE N     Ir
FSSES rPTATIEN ND CP11R117 FT  QDKUWT                        11,073.9  1.1m5.5  12,379.4    615.2   61.4   676.6        9        4
SOIL 033M0*1                                                  4,195.5  142.1  5,677.5    233.1   02.3   115.4          26        2
St-Total FtRhRT , SIL    TNSERVIN Me MR  HIW_EIT                15.20.3  2.5M7.6 17U,5.9    348.3  143.9   992.0          14; 
4. IW IBENT*T3U SRE  a-  DiSTfIlOIt. EIQWIeT
SITTliIN CF 210                                              3,374.4   199I3.1  5,357.5    187.5  110.2   297.6        37        2
STIEEIN  OF UO                                               2,507.1   1407.7  3,914.3    239.3   71.2   217.5         36        1
Sb-Totl IrLWOTATI  Mmr   a  INDTIT0TISW  EWLUPNT                5,081.5  3390.9   ,272.3    326.3   M.4   515.1           37        3
Sub-ToW tAl UN                                                    57D,196.1 39Y241.0 76437.3  3,177.6 1.061.9 4,246.5        25      24
C. UNUl4L SUPE  LVI
1. LWam           -
1 - FnA 1ATIVE esHal                                          1.510.0   I197.B  2p777.8    B7.    66.5   154.3        43        1
APPREP*A TECNIIS 33311                                        1.0.0    245.0  1,925.0       93.3   13.6   106.9        13        1
St-Total AOMt TOL IEIEI T                                       3,260.0  1.442.e  4.702.8    111.1    0.2   261.3         31        1
2. IPLITANn  S911 AM  DSTITUTIWL KEWNT
P531JE CElMNI  SF111E                                        6,701.3  2466.1  9,.4    372.3  149.9   522.2            29        3
STUI0NIC OF MM                                                4.336.0  1,67.5  6.492.5    267.6   93.1   360.7         26        2
STR5EIIR      OF 10N                                           014.5    502.5  1,317.0      45.3   27.9    n.2         3a       0
1EIWbL  SISTEU  . OE31AS  Ti1  lU          STUDIB             4-440.0 27921A.0 32.360.0   246.7 1.551.1  1,797.8       86       10
S9-Tol ILWENAT*TI  6           aD I     nTIUT  DIl EWIPIENT     16.771.7 32m.1 49,58.9    931.0 I           22.7 2753.8   66       15
S*e-Ttal W0mT   S9P03  UlIT                                       20,031.9 34.23f.9 54,27.7  1,112.9 1,902.2 3.015.1         63      17
ToW  3SEU1E CUMS51                                                 25,433.4 II5v63.6 321,120.0 11,415.7 6,424.3 17,840.0       36     100
Phiad Coinaota s                                                  9.540.2  6*6UI.7  16.201.9   530.0  370.1   900.1         41       5
Price CsUaurlas                                                  53.297.3 327.0 06,75.3  2,961.0 1,26.6 47087.5             39      27
Tota 990.C1 COSTS                                                  2U.321.0 155,176.2 423,497.2 14,906.7 1t620.9 23,527.6      37     132
Srwtbur 23. 1M5 16:40



-69-                                                              ANNEX 3
Table 3
110100 -mistM 1m1mW mmWuiP  rncT - rn   11              ui nI
PVUoeKt CmtoRA ho Your
Toels Inlnudil Cutteauimn
(Uh 000)
I      2       3        4       5       6       7        U     I.6.
U*- ----              **C.afl.         ----- - ---- ----    ..
a. mUmO
1. A1ICaLTURIAL R E- TN
STREIINOTIINU [IEIIS IN SERVICES                               52.6  1,410.2 197M.4  23A2.3  2M3O3.  2131.9 2i406.0  2,334.2 Is5i34.5
tUilRIE                                                         5.3    62.9  142471 IP631.7  2132.? 2UM.0 2,42.0 2w313.e  13P26.8
IEISATIS                                                      924.1 5.411.6 3.00-s 12,010.5 lI0.1 119M.2 14,107.0 0.715.4  79.575.7
*AlLTDE Nip NU?IOTLTUE F5                                      44.5  1130.6  1,379.1  1,651.9  2463.0  1,460.4 1i325.2   811.9  Be216.7
LIVESTOC                                                       JD0310  30.0  1,064.2  1,279.4 1211.3 2,53.0  ,299.5 2,592.  1,20.1  10,757.5
*UIC3LTUL l:D11                                             I1.4   471.6   941.0  19556.1  3,175.1 2,41F.3 2,13.7  2,41.6  12,601.4
AIRIILT         DIMITS                                       1,655.7  2186.8 2,Z944.9 315P.6 4,09.5 4,431.6 4,397.1 4,.9 27,916.0
Sub-Toal AGRIhO.II.aL OE'JELOP3It                              2,95.5 12317.9 17,54.7 22,99.4 32,01.3 26,362.9 3,044.0 23P359. 16,4998.6
2. I3.L INFRASTRUCT I W 3119119t SifV , 1IRE f    IES, t0IBM     369.6  3,091.5  5.406.1 5,375.?  1,279.9 7,M.6  &665.U  4,671.6 39,5B0.4
3. F9tESTIY , SOIL CUIU TIU MD OTER lIWKIENT
RIE5T PLIThTIIN NOl [NNUNT F17EST EWlIET                      511.6  1,544.5 2,567.7  3.016.3  S,e10.4 53u3.5 4,9M.  2,75.7  26,915.4
SOIL CINCMTIO                                                  96.7   m.0   914.7 165.9  1,293.4 1409.6  3931.0 1,601.5  9,126.6
Sub,-Total FORESTY . SOIL CIONMTW   MI  TER IAWEJNT              606.2  2,313.2 3,482.4 4,942.2  6,303.1 7273.1  ,7e60.  4,353.2 36042.0
4. INWLeIIII _ S09931 MD INSTITnnTI3I. KWLE'1E3T
5T1 131ENI  OF PTO                                            107.2  1004.0    9.S  1s036.2  1,073.0 1,11.4  2,031.1 Ie105.4  8,5".0
STRIEMINOE OF LU                                               16.0 1222.6   600.1   459.0   524.2   90.5   00.0  1.556.   6.201.7
Sib-Toul I1W      TIT1  SWI0   MD INSflUTIN   KlJPDI             123.2 2306.1 1,597.  1575.2  1,597.2 21.70.0 2,137.1 2.642.3 14,79.7
6-lotal  _r63                                                     3,99.6 20O504.5  0,e029.7 3433n.5 46,M.1 44,031.4 46,307.0 35,026.1 7s50920.7
;. RAuaM
1. fmiaTW    KVEWUI'IEs
STOEIIEINI  EXIENSIE SUMICS                                     4.5  1,030.4   199.4  1.339.0  1,314.9 1.3.5  1,926.9  1,217.0  9,522.5
1I9Nl1B                                                           -   183.2   315.3   42..4   613.7   66.4   697.9   726.5  3,632.3
IlI1hAllE                                                    130.7 2.111.1  23113.3 1.&4C.  i 979.7   453.6   616.4  6u.0 10410.3
RICILaTU    S MD NORTIC3LTtIUE F4NS                           114.0   004.5   611.7   530 3   3B2.9   441.3   692.5   271.0  3456.3
LIVESTOCK  EUIIIT                                              37.3  9f3.5 106.0 1,069.6  1,151.4  1.168.0  1,405.0 1l074.5  7,99.0
AGRIDLtU.L RDIT                                                   -   100.0   364.1   617.6   653.0   876.1 1,005.0   220.2  4,058.6
aaSCtiCliEA  Ies                                               76.8   105.3   531.1   364.0   402.2   390.4   315.9   447.2  2,723.6
Svb-T1tal IRICULTUUL IEOJIR                                      341.4  5,410.0  e,681.6 6g062.1  6,560.6 542i.2  6,40.3  4621.4 42,10.7
2. 100*1L IDnmI       * TU RE UC t 3RIM1 01TER SUPPLY . RI   S  RMSs  369   ln10.3  2,169.4 2,650.4 31333.2 3,631.5 3,024.5 3I996.6 229396.5
3. na3E11  , SOIL CUEVTDIU     IBTER MRIBT
;utS7 PUATATIONI MS aUIIUITI MMST lVELOPNENT                  303.9  1.210.5 1,9.7  2,03.0  39193.3 2,68.7  2,405.9   942.3 25,602.0
SOIL CISISRSTIE                                                49.7   721.6   79.4   952.0  19115.2 11".90  1,502.6  1,119.5  7,459.7
St,6-Toal FWar . SOIL IC_1ION AN ElmER  TI*EIO                   353.5  2.002.1  29693.1  3840.0  4,313.5 3e0f0.6 3.901.5 2.061.8 23,061.7
4. DrU MffATION 1W3  AM INSTIDUIII. KVELOFiEll
STREUEI  OF BM                                                 05.3   970.0   724.9   734.2   681.2   662.1  1,562.6    96.1  6,323.5
SIREIlENINGS OF LBO                                               -   097.6   504.6   421.5   456.7   039.3   640.5  1064.   4,813.5
Sub-taol INUMfJTATION SIWR  AM6 INITITUTIIIL DEVELOPMNT           55.3 le57.6  ,229.5  IIS55.1 1,144.9 1.501.9 2h203.1  1,960.9  l11139.0
Sib-Total ROM                                                     1,149.9 11,026.0 13,473.5 13,709.O 15.360.2 14,651.1 169776.4 12640.7 9,136.9
C. CENTRAL S99l0T EIIT
1. MMIiLTEM  DEVELW1NE
M - FAIR AIMWTIE IE(AC                                            -   615.0   617.4   462.0   297.2   347.7   670.7   360.1  3,379.0
OWUPIMTE TEDOLOST IOIIT                                           -   309.4   330.5   355.1   302.1   401.0   429.3   440.6  2,662.1
Stb-Total *ACLT      IEK  MT                                        -   93.4   947.9   817.9   679.4   755.7  3,100.0   016.0  6,041.0
2. nET4Tn SUPPO1T AS  DISTlIIIIIL lElUEiENT
3T01  CIOlhlMT11   OFFIMCE                                    377.7 2,221.4 1441.3 1I210.5  19131.3  1,170.6 2,436.4  1,266.7 11,263.0
STENTNENING F OD1                                              69.3   914.3  19110.0  1,397.0  19515.5   181.1  1096.5   592.1  7,7Y94.
sIIIENI  OF 0a0                                                   -   31.4   141.1   145.6   150.5   155.2   471.3   162.6  1P507.6
TED1UL A4551TM4E , tffA TRAIN110 M  SThES                   12t07.5 10,32B.2 11357.7 12,220.3  2.312.1   623.9   184.3   109.2 39,103.2
Sub-Total IIT4AT10   SIRT  3 II6ITUHOI. EELOIENT               2,334.6 13,894.3 14,129.1 14,91.4 5177.4 2.030.0 49100.4 29210.5 59,740.6
s-Total CETl 99     MIT                                           2,334.6 141817.7 15,076.9 15,799.4 5,110.1 3PS6.5 5,2J.4  3,C27.3 65,7J9.6
TOtal Uci CTrs                                                      7,411.1 46,340.2 56,500.l 64,341.9 6,410.0 62,269.1 60,372.6 50,694.1 423,497.2
5Stder 23, 195 16140



70-
_-__ w _v*_~~~~~~~~~~                  ~      ~ rJ  1111I11 I  Y*W   *
m-     a    khdam I"                               e-
left  -11111ID
Mile.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .-f
r- muss si
_ _ - J .3- 3-                          -  -    -I.30.553 - - - -                 .
k-,111 MID                                                                  -   .se.; -;            -   -    a
a e*Ans.                            -       3                 a   s    -                 - -  -  -ma   -mIds
k-lid _s R.                                                               - I           ---a  -   -  - - -a  ---
Steen ..e                                                                   a -    -s  s         -s    -  -   ma
C. _dm
ist..l                               -    -,               -  UuS         -  U. -   -  -  - r.  - - -
M6.                                  - I-3- - I                     ma  - - --ma               -m         MA
t  if d I_                          l      - - -    - -        -        "-  .   3.          -  -   -  -  ma
3. FwSt..
Milan                              le-_    - - - - - - -                     m -a  m.s   - 3  .  .      -
kwlt NMI,                                                                 Maa ma - 11-s
33.    tm
4. It.? 13w1.s ad 413
CWPdM.Aff                         I 33313I          I   3.63-   NA  3.$  u20 Auau.   n.mualI. M
F.iI_. _                            -    31-3 1    -   -323   -i  1-  -1331.   3-11  r3.4   
2. FiMa 1a1.W      -- SWUl
D. -buSnm                             .    I33I3I II3    3   34.639554 .4  33.4  PA "At1lVA  "A.419.4 193
Eats               -    Il222221  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~32  U1.  33.2  U*3  Si  SisZIA  MA   ltJ lsi.I
2-J lI_en hiWs-  I-la- srI                                              I a       a           a n
bi.*asL                -    -2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 22222s4 3.   -3.1 U.S  242."a   U.62 41U31
4. tan OIS  am    h..
t1msm            - __                    I I I I I I3     I      M I. *9 .IJ AJIJ  INA 3 .4IIJ4 IU A 11 .4 1163
fts.  AM                              1" 'I 1' 21 1z '1 I' '1  |   .l. An           nA ua 1Z   .A 1.a 141
AIL                                     . I 3   2 a I   2 331     Ism     11.33  UJ  11.4 f. U a  2J 4 11.2J 153
ta-tat lng-s ad C.Wans- tes-.                                          34  aL9Si   i 33.2 3.2.   9.2a   aas31
_mite                              -   5L  I 1          1 :7J 134.3  N6   NJ1 3.2 3.3 na  NJ1I.2
mA.t.                              -    @3la31II3 1m 7.3   am s  6.4.  ns  uaizau.s  nzans ~s.s
53ft8d.                            -    L   2 2 2 3 2 2 1 3.9  11.  11   .1 2.  99 39 3.  S. 3J 234
13 I I I I I I333  5   1  11 1    .3O U.3  1131 3  3 3 3313 D   1i .
mm.l                               -     333 3113S 9.9.4  9.3  9.  919.19WA.V   9.19A  72.
545.1m316..w                           5131I137I   9.335 4.4  9.IJ11.9.3 194949.1  IIJ39. 16s4
Me    I-t *n-                      -     -lI            l D  7   11.9  -13 3      131.6235 3 3612A      . 3J 336.7
h_____ -.   3414                                        42         .5  i.   .    a  u.esaa  5.3-2a .4
k_- Id ss   Iras-w       .r                D t.                      15D.6 1 .  92n9  I.  9.m 1ma a.9 13.1"a
_     L                            *      : *a1 21 23 2   4 2II 271  UKR  7. IIL2  N.1 A3 [MI    r2 14U  IWl 3UJA IU.I
ens-a                              -    31313331   5 I1.53311  tI   -                          14 VA  VJ UJ11  39 3 1 t .4
1.__1"                             -     3131I13K  I                 IN 1  .     I  I r21J3 JJ 7 AJ 21 33    maJ
CIwStItd                                   1 31 1                9.3394   93  9.  W11.9.3949.3   94.3  Wm-
_L _ _ v5 1. 1 1 1 .1 .1  It r.   ":m Ja J5J  iJ. Ja  u1 Sj  aJa a.4
a                                 -                        I 3333131  3    I 2 I 3 I3 5        la 33.72-73    6rJ
"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1          1,   1.   1                         I     I7  S. 'I    rtusu JSi   S X.7 1 UJ2.7
Ur   43II     13 I I I   I  73    9.54    L.  9.1  9.1  j 9.1  9.1 .1  13
k-Mi" wan Lus-m 1B"iS                                                  OA.6 46.   4  64141 46.5 46 43 4L3 Wa
k-lid- IE IiS. a lIla.                       I1  4I9.9 1 7  -  IIJ U                             a IIJ.  "e1.97UI
5--_  b *. a   mas. s                              . . ..a a J.                                      31  MA
n o sw                                                                  - aa  ma as ma 51 .J23*J.8  13.11.5 7933.
ktat 555      5S        61111  SIn                                        -   ana  ma. mab mJa  mab maJ im-s
r. wi   eus       s
S-Td  _111I1111 ION  M MO   IIO  M 111111                                   MA  MA  MA MA5U    11 JIJU U"   UJ UJ1.m
mis-I-s- -l  ma  ma  maJ ma isa  m a ma us.5
n-M  ur _em  an                                                            -1 ma  m: ma-. ma me  ma7 ma am
C. mm fE    1__1
_i1_                               m-is -s -a ma ma ma m a m2  a n sa
k-Md    flU__ euK Wa  is_s ma ma m                                                              Da maJ mA   a ma  aNA
skilt_ -    wm                                                          asma        ma U,   ase ma -*a  sa
1 1111,ALW                                                                                      3 - - - - - - - -  -  NJMAM 9Mam A t    N
_   .   _ 4     1_ 1A A1 _  _  _  _  _  _



AN    3
-71-                                             Table 5
NEPAL
IWAS-UIOT RUR   DZYR.fh  PR,O3CT - PASEI-I (RAIUDYV UI)
PROFE3SIL TICUMCAL * KAWAGZL
Established     In Post          Proiect         Incrmetal
Pocu                             Requirement     Staff
A. Cametted Staff
mlorn Crnade                Job
Cil/T                Senior Agriculture.                      4                4               13               9
Engineezring nd Forestry
Staff at District Level.
G/hIIIT              SM, Forest Officer,                       27               15              47               32
Assistaut Agronomist,
Horticulturiet, Production
Officer, Assist. Engineers, etc.
c/thIT               Local Development Officer                 2                2               2
GIII/lT              Planning Officer                          2                2               11               9
Administrative Officers
TOTAL Gaetted Staff                                            35               23              73               50
3. Non-smaztted Staff
RNIlT                JTf, Overseers, Draftmen,                 98               69              140              70
Rsearch Assistants,
Forest Rangers, etc.
lC/i/IT              JTA, Assistant Ranger,                    95               47              150              103
Sub-Overseer, Field
Assistant, etc.
lCIfhIIT             Accountants                               8                8               20               12
NGiI/IT              Senior Clerks,                            15               10              30               20
A*. Officer
NG/It/NT             Typist, Clerks.                           39              29               117              88
Stoackn, etc.
TOTAL Not-Gazetted Staff                                       255              163             457              294
* Only district level offices and
excluding Project Coordinators Office.



-72-
ANNEX 3
Table 6
NEPAL
RASUWA-NUWAKOT RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
IDA Fiscal Year
by Semester             Semester          Cumulative            z
-US$ M
FY87
1st Semester                 .4                .4
2nd Semester                 .6               1.0                 5.0
FY88
1st Semester               0.8                1.8
2nd Semester               1.0                2.8                15.0
FY89
1st Semester               0.9                3.7
2nd Semester               1.1                4.8                25.0
FY9
lst Semester               1.2                6.0
2nd Semester               1.3                7.3                38.0
lst Semester               1.4                8.7
2nd Semester               1.6               10.3                54.0
FY92
1st Semester               1.6               11.9
2nd Semester               2.1               14.0                73.0
FY93
1st Semester               1.5               15.4
2nd Semester               2.0               17.4                91.0
FY94
lst Semester               1.7               19.1               100.0
2nd Semester



NEPAt 
RASUHA-NUHAKOT RURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECt
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS TOTAl. PROJECT ./ 
NRS 000
I       2        3        4        5         5  -   .7      .a         9        to      ii1     i2        13  -  -14        is       IS       1?        is       is
i. casts
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                     5515   22225   35914   38904   40747   35225   36929   26975                -        -        --                         -        -        ---
VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENr REPLACEMENT                                   -                               - -  -       -               e        221    2134   13367    4161         ST$      121    2134   13261    4167         Ill
POST PROJECT RECURRENT COSTS                                        -                 -            -    -                       5659    5559      5659    5659    5651    1619    5619    5519          51659    1619    5619
LABODU OII IKURE IRRIGATION SCHEME ON FARM COST                    as8    331       392      392      392      392      392      392      392      392      392      392      392      392      392      392      292      392
CROP INTENSIFICATION ON FARM COST                          2      190      695    2034    3122    4541    4110    5246    5246    5246    1246    5245    1246    1265 246    524                 5 24  5246    5246    5246
tOTAL PROJECT COST                                     1617   32103   35940   41420   44611   4015   44091   32513   1226   12024   13431   24154   16064   12268   12024   13431   "14566    16064    12268
II. BENEFITS
FORESTAY BENEFITS                                          -                923     110      125      175      240    9775    9621    9625    9625    9621    9821    9525    9625   14550   16125   34500   52875
LIVESTOCK BENEFIT                                          -       I       140      688     1455    3180    4933    5658    5488    5838    7042    9039    9645    841               6261    102    809 099             8099aos
LABDU DHIITURE IRRIGATION SCUHEM-                                 451     1129     119    1198      ls 1596     159      1596 1196    119          1596 11    98    1596     159     159 11      98    155 118    ISIS
CROP INTENSIFICATION                                     936      062    303    9293   17661   22359   23519   25839   25839   2183    25639   25639   25632   25839   25639   25639   25639   25839   21633
RASUHA MIDHILLS MAIZE BASED NET BENEFIT                   88      174      483      403      402      403      402      403      403      403      403      402      403      403      403      403      402      403      403
RASUWA MIDHIILS PADDY BASED NET BENEFIT                   85      379      556      823      823      823      823      623      823      523      823      823      823      523      823      623      623      323      823
NUNANOT MIDHILLS MAIZE BASED NET BENEFIT                  43      184      501      421      421      421      421      429      429      421      42!      421      421      421      421      421      421      421      421
NUHAKOT MIDHILLS PADDY BASED NET BENEFIT                  94      411      946      923      923      923      923      923      923      923      923      923      923      923      922      923      923      923      923
NET  BENEFIT VALLEY FLOOR                               -181    9302    2839       3299    3527    3627    352?        362?    352?    3627    3527    3527    3527    3527    3521    3622    3527    3527    3627
NET BENEFIT SINRA                                          -       05      104       13      14?      434      434      si    1142    2253    2212    2251    2211    2259    2251    2251    2259    2259    2259
NET BENEFII THANSINO                                              161      290      290      210      290      210    1023    1450    9806        1606    1812    1812    1612    1812    1612    1612    1612    1612
NET BENEFIT RATOMATO                                       -      311      463      592     1310    2191    2453    3453    3221    2954    2552    26559    2549    2649    2649    .2649    2549    2649    2541
NET BENEFIT GADHKAR SCHEME                                          -      224      472   42  472         472      472       472      472     472       412     472      4     12  472  42      472      412      412      412
NET BENEFIT BOKETAR CHOWKETAR SCHEME                       -                 -        -        -      355      71?      955    1064      1054     1664    1064      5084     1064     1054     1014     1064    1084    1184
HORTICULTURE BENEFIT                                     -37      -60    -l06    -945    -Ill        -185    -963    -tOG        -21       60      II,    252        314      356      39I      414      425      425      425
TOTAL PROJECT BENEFITS                                   229    442?   90994    18519   29000   35995   41510   55429   55289   57956   56941   61012   61686   60502   60262   64968   565511   64926  103301
INCREMENTAL NET BENEFITS
INCREMENTAL NET 5ENEFITS                              -5265  -26016  -26026  -22809  -15581   -3952   -2469   23806   44029   45932   45514   36348   45522   46234   48359   51532    4168?1  63862   39032
. II               *3.  *':*.*.  3  ftu **;;A1   fln!fit   :tt2a,:,tt.   I:.:  nt:   ::t:..:t  3itZ                                                                     a
a/ EXCLUDING 501 OF ACTRAINING. ADAPTIVE qESEARCH. SOL CONSERN.RRLIRS.1   N   /   RIIGAD90   FA
lbl



NEPAL
RASUIIA-NUHAKOT RURAL OEVELOPMENT 11 PROJECT
..........................................
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS TOtAL PROJECT of
..................................
NRS OOC
20      21       27       23       24       25       26       27      25       29       30
1. COSTS
1OTAL PROJECT COST
VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENI                       727    2134   13367    4767        971      727    2134   13357    4765        971      727
POST PROJECI RECURRENT COSTS                           5659    5559    5659    5659    5659    5659    5659    5659    5659            5659    5659
LABOU OHIKURE IRRIGATION SCHEME ON FARM COSI            292     392      392      392      392      392      392      392     392      392      392
CROP INTENSIFICATION ON FARM COSt                      5246    5246    5246    5246    5245    5246    5246    5246    5246    5745    5245
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                    12024   12431   24564    15064   12255   12024   13431  27464   15064   12265   12024
11  BENEFITS
............
FORESTRY BENEFITS                                    55125   47100   22425    6675    4050    4050    4050    4050    4050    4050    4050
LIVESIOCK BENEFIT                                     8009    S099    8099    8099    8099    8099    8099    8099    8099    6099    1099
LABOU ONIXURE JRRIOATION SCHEME                        1598    I598    1598    1598    1598    1598    1595    1598    1598    1595    1593
CROP. INIENSIFICATION                                25519   25189   252    2589   25839   25819   25839   258939   25982    25839   25839
RASUNA MIDHILLS MAIZE BASED NEI BENEFIT                 403      403     403      403      403      403      403      403     403      403      403
RASUNA MIHILtS PADOY BASED NET BENEFiT                  823     813      523      823      823      823      823      823     523      823      823
NU11AKOT MIDHILLS MAIZE BASED NET BENEFIT               421      421     421      421      421      421      421      421     421      421      421
NUNAXOT NMIHILS PADDY BASED NET BENEFIT                 923      023     923      923      973      923      923      923     923      9223     923
NET BENEFIT VALLEY FLOOR                               3627    3627    3627    3627    3627    3627    3627    3627    3627    3627    3627
NET BENEFIT SIMRA                                      2251    2251    2251    2251    2251    2251    2251    2251    2251    2251    2251 
NET BENEFIT THANSING                                   1812    1512    1812    1812    1812    1812    1512    1512    1812    1812    1812
NET BENEFIT RAI1ATO                                   2649    2649    2649    2649    2649    2649    2649    2549    2649    2649    2649                                                                           N7
NET BENEFIT GADbiAR SCHEME                              472      472     472      472      472      412      472      472     412      422      472
NET BENEFIT BOKE1AN CHONMETAR SCHEME                   1084    1084    1084    1084    1084    1084    1084    1084    1084    1084    1084
HORIICULTURE BENEFIT                                    425      425     425      425      475      425      425      425     425      425      425
.......    ......... ..........   .. .... .   .......    ......... . ..... .    . ....  ...    .... .... .. .. ...    .. .... .. . .. 
IOTAL PROJECI BENEFITS                              108551   97526   72851   57101   54476   54476            54416    54475    54415   64476   54475
.......    ........  .......    .........    ..   .. .... ..    .......    .......    ... ....    .... ....    . ... ...    .......
INCREMENTAL NEI BENEFIlS
........................
INCREMENIAL NEt BENEFITS                             95527   84095   48187   41037   42208   42452   41045   29512   38412   42208   42452
.s****-  -.:i:i:          Tetsts :2::::: :::::::   u:2::   2.::::: : :::::: -2      :          i
November IS. 1985 18:57
Internal Rates ot Return of Hel Streams
,---s- ....... -.--st .......-s .,:.t
N. 101A                    29. 451
SWITCHING VALUES Al 13.51
APPRAISAL    SWIICHING    PERCENIAGE
STREAM                   VALUE          VALUE         CHANGE
. 1011              214.093.70   131,080.48            38 772
C.OTA               131 080. 48   214.093.70          63.331                                                                                                                                                           1p
Net Present Value at OCC 13.5l     * 83,013.2
Internal Rate of Return * 29.41                                                                                                                                                                                             %  a
Coatxn Equivalenl Rate of Return 2 22.51
SENSIIIVIlT ANALISIS
..:. ...28..... .......



ANNEX 4
NEPAL
RASUWA-NUWAKOT RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II (RASNUDEV II)
Selected List of Documents in Prolect File
Al The Overlooked Link in Agricultural Planning - Mimeographed Report by
Mr. Bharat B. Pradhan; September 1981.
A2 Rural Development and Decentralization in Nepal - Paper presented to
Nepal Aid Group meeting by HMG/N; April 1985.
BI  Rasuwa-Nuwakot RuraL Development Project, Second Phase Project
Pr-paration Report, APROSC; July 1983 (in four volumes).
Cl  Project File - Detailed Project Costs.
C2  Project File - Working Papers on Organization.
Item 1  - Project Organization & Implementation
Item 2  - Technical Assistance & Overseas Training
Item 3  - Summary of Decentralization Act & Rules
Item 4  - Job Descriptions (LDO, Planning Officer & Village
Secretary)
C3  Project File - Working Papers on Agriculture, Irrigation & Rural
Infrastructure Development



NEPAL                          NEPAL
RASUWA-NUWAKOT RURAL DEV A-NUWAKOT RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PHASE It                       PHASE 11
mAll  HHAIit >Nuwakot Projel h                                                  Nuwokot Prlied Areo
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ fAI -L rVflES                                 D ~ FApps!,oe E  DrFACILItEs,   E 6G._T,,k Ro
5 014-ANu -I-.d1I ,,-
JRASUWA DISTRICT                     RASUWA OJSTRICT , X  
A                              A    _      s d . /                                 *        A       7
M.-M.ilEr  *-k
vArl    ANA                                                                        R 
DISTRIL0                                                                                                                                                                       S)SNDHU
oil~ ~ ~~~~S
> , ,tj; j, nej Xo Z X >x~~~~~~~~AL                                                                                                         L &tACHOKf
>  -   /  *   9,'.  olig,,i  li!;s:lr,:,ti > HAItRAtt "t,:. : 54. . _RI_ ....... \ DtSTRlCTDISTRIC
r                                          \  n   @                             n   *                      u  eA*.    U   SA
* *.;         ],  E           >KATHMANDu DiSTRICT
\,  |   F,Lff.100  - rIPIOOTE,ST_  . ,  .  . S            _ O            _



. . = =,__. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 1BB
/ _-                             t                                               __ ,.A                                                             GIINA
N -  4   x CHINA             /   N    \                                                                                           >    \ 
t                   V           - \~~~~~          ~~~.. -S  ,,:'''-                 /DIA\ ..
THYANOCHET               THUMAN HM
\TH YAN BOCHET                             - / ow   1 -  TIMURE                   -  TIMURE
DHADINGA\
>   t   ,//\    l  kSYAFRU                                                   U  A :RUtoo\ NErAL
<         /       ~~~~HAKIU   (     /fd\                          _ <)<                                S           RASUWA-NUWAKOT RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
} ADAGAON t~{
> A aDHUN                                                                                                       FACILITiE oi  S:goI o Soer-;
A- 9    1 A t                \                                                                                                               .. D n 1 Schemr
S-p-nion Bridge-
*A   A                                                                                                                                   T-kdnble Tro.k
HULOGA                               A        YARSA          SJ   qg                            e:S                                       R~~~ 2ehobi itotionlCoepleon oF
-.  A                 ~~~~~~YAFISA                                                                                   T-ukobln T-1,k
~\;< DHAIBUNG| S > t * Dninking WotIr Scheine
NUWAKOT                AL                                                                                                                      S ising New irove Top Rood
t   AB. -                                                                                                                Distridt Cor
IS    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~               -Panchiara Boundaries
us,,s , =District boundonri ;
betraoon                                                                                                                 -- Inrereotfiinol Boundory   SPEBR18



*1                  ~~~CHINA                                                                   NEPAL
RASUWA-NUWAKOT
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
H I G H  H I  A L A A                     f  -                            /PHASE     11
H I G H  Hs I LAYA                2                                                       TYPE OF CULTIVATED LANDS
Sloping Terraces
Valley Floors, Tars,
R    A'tS    U    W          A                                          Alluvial Fans and Footslog
Longtono                -                   Level Terraces
.1 I 4  ~~~~~~~~~-Rivers
PA_ 3:,a, bo                               g                               H I G H H i M A L A -Physiographic Boundaries
D  H  A  D   I  N  G                                                                                                 District Boundaries
International Boundaries
c~~~~~~~hunche                                   0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~District Headquarter
KILOMETERS 0    5 10
L~~~
-T                                                   A~~~~~~~~ I N D 
*Oe~Kho/ 
-C   ft  -   &W ft bw g  - f -
K2
MIDD~JE~W                          TAN1CHINA
NEPAL   ~Area of Map  et
3                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2BS 
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
K AT HMA ND U                                                        INDI
11-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  I                                  12



