Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13629
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
RASUWA-NUWAKOT RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
(THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT)
(CREDIT 1727-NEP)
OCTOBER 25, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Nepalese Rupees (NRs)
At Staff Appraisal Report Year (June 1986)      US$1 = NRs18.0
At Completion Year (November 1993)              US$1 = NRs5O.O
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
APROSC           Agricultural Projects Services Centre
DCA              Development Credit Agreement
HMGN             His Majesty' s Government of Nepal
IDA              International Development Association
IFAD             International Fund for Agricultural Development
IHDP             Integrated Hill Development Project
IRDPs            Integrated Rural Development Projects
M&E              Monitoring and evaluation
MLD              Ministry of Local Development
MPLD             Ministry of Panchayat and Local Development
OPS              Office of Project Services of the United Nations
Development Programme
PCO              Project Coordination Office
PCR              Project Completion Report
RASNUDEV I   Rasuwa-Nuwakot Rural Development Project - Phase I
RASNUDEV II   Rasuwa-Nuwakot Rural Development Project - Phase II
SAR              Staff Appraisal Report
SDR              Special Drawing Rights
SFDP             Small Farmers Development Program
TA               Technical assistance
T&V              Training and visit system of agricultural extension
UNVs             United Nations Volunteers



FX)R OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                                     October 25, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Nepal
Rasuwa-Nuwakot Rural Development Project - Phase II
(Third Rural Development Project) (Credit 1727-NEP)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Nepal - Rasuwa-Nuwakot Rural Develop-
ment Project - Phase II (Third Rural Development Project) (Credit 1727-NEP). Parts I and III were
prepared by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program and the South Asia Regional Office. Part II
was prepared by the Borrower.
The project, as initially designed was ambitious and complex. It was the second phase
of a development effort in Rasuwa and Nuwakot Districts in the Himalayas, on the China border. It
aimed to expand and improve the quality and coverage of the agricultural support services, and to
strengthen regional, district, panchayat and village level capabilities for preparation and implementa-
tion of rural development programs and the maintenance of rural infrastructure. Little was achieved.
Only 28 percent of the credit was utilized. The only elements that performed well were the livestock
extension program and the infrastructure component (which was largely completed although the
structures were not well maintained).
The project was hampered by slow filling of posts, late arrival of technical assistance,
and high turnover of staff. These shortcomings led to limited relationships between the project and
local communities and a tendency to repeat the unsatisfactory top-down approach of the first project.
After a change of government, local government structures were changed with the abolition of the
panchayat. This undercut the project further and it effectively stalled from that point. Institutional
impact was negligible, sustainability is unlikely and the project outcome has been rated as
unsatisfactory.
The Borrower, in Part II, notes that relationships between the project and other agencies
were weak and that the design of the project did not adequately reflect the priorities of the main line
agencies.
The completion report provides an adequate account of project implementation. No
audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
RASUWA- NUWAKOT RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
(THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT)
(Cr. 1727-NEP)
TABLE OF CONTNTS
Page No.
PREFACE            ...............................................   i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   .............                              .......................  ii
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA' S PERSPECTIVE .... ...... 1
Project Identity   .............................................   1
Background    ...............................................  1
Project Objectives and Description  ...............................  2
Project Design and Organization   ...............................    3
Project Implementation ........................................ 5
Project Results ..............................................  7
Project Sustainability .......................................... 8
Bank Performance  . ..........................................  8
Borrower Performance ........................................ 10
Project Relationship .......................................... 10
Consulting Services .......................................... '
Project Documentation and Data  ...............................  10
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER' S PERSPECTIVE . 12
Evaluation of the Performance  ..........                        .......................  12
Bank ' s Performance   .            .......................................  12
Borrower ' s Performance . ..................................... 12
Lessons Learnt .............................................    13
PART  III - STATISTICAL  INFORMATION  .......................  14
Related Credits  ............................................    14
Project Timetable . ..........................................  15
Credit Disbursements .              .......................................  15
Project Implementation   .              .....................................  15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Project Costs and Financing ................... 16
Project Costs ...................  16
Project Financing ................... 17
Project Results ...................  17
Direct Benefits ...................  17
Economic Impact ................... 17
Financial Impact ................... 17
Studies    ...................  17
Status of Covenants ................... 18
Use of Bank Resources ................... 19
Staff Inputs ...................  19
Missions  ................... 20
Costs    .............................................. 20



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
RASUWA-NUWAKOT RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE 11
(THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT)
(Credit No. 1727-NEP)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Rasuwa-Nuwakot Rural
Development Phase II Project (Third Rural Development Project) in Nepal for which Credit
1727-NEP in the amount of SDR16.6 million was approved on July 15, 1986. The total cost
of the project amounted to US$23.5 million for which the Bank was to provide US$19.1
million (converted at the SDR exchange rate of that time), UNDP US$1.1 million and the
Government of Nepal US$3.3 million in local currency including taxes and duties estimated
at approximately US$0.2 million. The Credit was signed on December 4, 1986, became
effective after two extensions of the effective date on November 30, 1987 and foreclosed
more than five months before the closing date, on July 15, 1993. A total of SDR4.0 million
was disbursed and the unutilized balance of SDR12.6 million cancelled; the final
disbursement was made on December 6, 1993.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared
by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program mission which visited Nepal in
October/November 1993, and revised by the Agriculture Operations Division of the Country
Department 1, South Asia Region. It is based inter alia on field findings (mainly interviews)
and on the Project Formulation Report prepared by the Agricultural Projects Services
Centre (APROSC), the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the Development Credit Agreement
(DCA), Supervision Reports, correspondence between IDA and the Borrower, internal IDA
memoranda and documentation prepared by UNDP. The Borrower submitted Part II in
May 1994.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
RASLTWA-NUWAKOT RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
(THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT)
(Credit No. 1727-NEP)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
(i)      The project was the second phase of the IDA-financed First Rural Development
Project (Cr. 617-NEP) covering the Rasuwa and Nuwakot districts in the Central
Development Region of Nepal with objectives to: (i) intensify agricultural and forestry
development and further the impetus of its predecessor, the Phase I project, in increasing
agricultural production, employment and rural incomes in the project area; (ii) ensure that
investments made during the earlier phase would continue to yield the expected benefits;
(iii) expand and improve the quality and coverage of support services and improve support
provided by institutions responsible for rural infrastructure; and (iv) strengthen regional,
district, panchayat and village level capabilities for preparation and implementation of rural
development programs and for maintenance of rural infrastructure (see Part III, Section 4).
Implementation Experience
(ii)      There have been significant shortfalls between planned and actual project
implementation; the only exception being the rural infrastructure component. The total
Credit disbursements amounted to US$5.4 million or 28.3% of the original Credit amount
of US$19.1 million.
(iii)    Project implementation was poor mainly due to design flaws, which resulted in
the continuation of the same top-down approach adopted under the Phase I project that was
to be avoided during Phase II. Other factors that contributed to the project's poor
performance were the high turnover of staff, high proportion of vacant posts for extensive
periods and inadequately qualified staff filling some key positions (para 5.7); and the
Bank' s agreement with the UNDP 's decision to entrust the responsibility for the key
element of the project, viz., the TA component, to UNDP/OPS which resulted in the
Bank' s inability to keep control over the progress of the project (paras 4.3 and 5.9).



- iii -
(iv)      There was a time lag of over 12 months between Credit signature and
effectiveness. The project start-up was delayed because UNDP and His Majesty 's
Government of Nepal (HMGN) could not agree on the TA component and due to
procrastination by UNDP/OPS in the recruitment of the TA consultants and by Government
in clearing them. The delays in the recruitment of the TA consultants persisted even after
the project became effective in late 1987. For instance the Development Management
Advisor arrived in the country one year after project effectiveness and three United Nations
Volunteers (UNVs) were still not on board by mid-1989. When in 1990 the Government
changed and the new Government decreed the abolition of the panchayat system, the project
lost its institutional foundation (paras 5.2, 5.9 and 5.10). Eventually, after the Bank had
repeatedly insisted on restructuring the project, and the Borrower had remained
unresponsive, thereby inducing UNDP/OPS to withdraw when their agreement expired, the
Bank and the Borrower agreed to close the project five months ahead of schedule
(para 5.12). In the meantime, project monitoring and evaluation had not been conducted
throughout, making supervision and assessment of the project ' s progress difficult
(para 5.13).
(v)       The agricultural development component, including irrigation, which accounted
for 50% of the total project base costs, had, apart from the top-down approach limitation,
several other shortcomings: ineffective extension support; the training and adaptive research
that were to be provided, were minimal; the agricultural input supply and the credit
components were never implemented because of a general surfeit of development funds for
the former and because of disagreements about the scope of on-lending activities for the
latter (para 5.3). The sole agricultural activity that more or less functioned properly was the
livestock immunization program (para 5.4). Also, the forestry development and soil
conservation activities financed by the project differed from the SAR concept and, although
one-third of the credit allocation earmarked for these activities was disbursed, no data are
available about what actually was achieved and what the accrued benefits were (para 5.5).
(vi)      Development of rural infrastructure was a relatively successful activity of the
project in terms of the high commitment of government and the physical targets achieved,
although the works constructed were in many cases incomplete and technically unsound.
They have also been poorly maintained (para 5.6).
Results
(vii)     The only relatively favorable results that have been brought about by the project
have been the rather effective functioning of the livestock extension services and the
curative veterinary services which were provided by the project with medicine and vaccine,
and the physically visible, but poorly built and not well maintained, rural infrastructure
which was set up mostly without beneficiary/user group participation. No financial or
economic impact of the project could be estimated due to the overall poor performance of
the project (only about 28.3% of the Credit was disbursed) and lack of data.



- iv -
Sustainability
(viii)    The sustainability of the presently well functioning curative veterinary services
depends mainly on the Borrower s continuous budget support and allocation of scarce
foreign exchange to these services. Provided the Borrower does so, the project would have
contributed to a sustainable element of development, but only partly since it merely
supported an already on-going and successful veterinary program - thus the project
facilitated rather than established this activity (para 7.2). The sustainability of the rural
infrastructure element is less likely, due to the way it was planned and constructed
(para 7.1).
Findings and Lessons Learned
(ix)      The project was designed and implemented during an extended period of
political uncertainty in Nepal, the consequences of which (policy changes and abolition of
certain political institutions) have clearly left their mark. Several shortcomings occurred
during both the design and the implementation stages. Not having had much experience,
at that time, with Nepal ' s socio-economical/political evolution, the Bank ' s project design
approach may be considered as naive or lacking sociological experience.  That this
deficiency adversely affected project performance is quite certain. In this light, the great
haste with which the project was formulated is surprising, except for the wish for continuity
with the first phase project.
(x)       During implementation a new phenomenon emerged, i.e. politically biased
support for particular components. After an initial period of dialogue, the Bank should have
suspended the project when it discerned the problem rather than attempt, in vain, to
persuade an unwilling Borrower to accept its recommendation of restructuring the project.
Other important lessons that can be learned from this exercise are:
(a)  When a project is being prepared in a country which has been dominated by a
system of controlled planning, the Bank should realize that local initiatives will
not be reinstituted immediately merely due to a change in government policy;
the subsequent readjustment comes only gradually and over time. If, under such
circumstances, the Bank insists on initiating such a project it should ensure that,
in addition to Government line agencies, a strong project execution unit be built
into the project (para 4.1).
(b)  One of the principal lessons of this project is that "Lessons learned" should be
learned. Before a new project is designed, lessons learned from previous
experiences in the country concerned should be reviewed and perhaps put on
a checklist which should be consulted to avoid lapses of memory during the
design of subsequent projects (para. 4.5). The same should be done with
lessons learned from similar projects in other countries, since some lessons
learned may be project rather than country specific. For this reason the Bank



- v -
may consider it useful to categorize its wealth of information on lessons learned
by type of project as well as by country or type of country'.
(c) When a project is predominantly designed as an agricultural development
project, its managerial responsibility should preferably be with the Ministry of
Agriculture. If the project also includes a component that cannot be executed
or coordinated by this Ministry, as may be the case here (rural infrastructure),
the execution of this component should be entrusted to another appropriate
agency (para 4.2).
(d) When the TA component is crucial for effective project implementation, the
Bank should insist on financing the component to ensure that it can supervise
the component directly (4.3).
(e) Finally, when a third party plays an important role under the project, the Bank
should include a cross conditionality clause in the DCA to apply when, for
whatever reason, the third party withdraws from the project, and a cancellation
clause to cover the event that alternative funding and executing arrangements
for the component funded by the third party have not been made within a
reasonable time (para 12.2).
(xi)       An important lesson for the Borrower is that a project should not be
handicapped by frequent changes of senior staff and positions left unfilled for long periods
of time.
1. The Bank already offers the "Evaluation Text Based (ETB) Data Base" available on line in All-in-1, the
'Precis' series for selected projects and the recently launched "Lessons & Practices".



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
RASUWA-NUWAKOT RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE 11
(THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT)
(Cr. 1727-NEP)
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA' S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name         Rasuwa-Nuwakot Rural Development Project - Phase II
(Third Rural Development Project)
Credit No.           Cr. 1727-NEP
RVP Unit             South Asia
Country              Nepal
Sector          :    Agriculture
Sub-sector           Rural Development
2. Background
2.1       In line with the Government ' s stated policy in the Fifth Five-Year Plan (1975-
80) to promote regional balance and improve the living standard of all rural people, the
First Rural Development Project (Cr. 617-NEP) or Phase I of the Rasuwa-Nuwakot Rural
Development Project (RASNUDEV I) was launched in 1976-77. This project was the first
of its kind in Nepal and was also among the early rural development projects financed by
the Bank under its new poverty orientation strategy defined in 1973. As such, RASNUDEV
I represented a pioneering concept for the Bank as well as for Nepal (Part III, Section 1).
2.2       During the Sixth and Seventh Five-Year Plan periods (1975-1985), Government
had been increasingly allocating resources to the agricultural sector with emphasis on rural
development through Integrated Rural Development Projects (IRDPs) and the Small
Farmer Development Program (SFDP). The objectives of SFDF were to cater to the needs,
including credit, of small and marginal farmers.
2.3       Meanwhile in 1980 a new Ministry of Panchayat and Local Development
(MPLD) was created with responsibility for inter-ministerial coordination of rural



- 2 -
development projects and local infrastructuie development as two of its primary objectives.
Finally in July 1985 the Decentralization Act and Rules came into effect giving District
Panchayats considerable administrative, supervisory and financial control over the various
line departments at the district level in matters of project formulation and implementation.
This Act, it was believed, demonstrated strong and sustained commitment from Government
to the development of the rural sector.
2.4       Within this overall scenario and to consolidate the gains made under
RASNUDEV I, His Majesty 's Government of Nepal (HMGN) in 1983 requested Bank
assistance for follow-up Rasuwa-Nuwakot Rural Development Project - Phase II
(RASNUDEV II). Thus, RASNUDEV IIV was conceived even before its predecessor
project was completed in 1983.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1       RASNUDEV II's objectives were to: (a) intensify agricultural and forestry
development and further the impetus (created by RASNUDEV I) in increasing agricultural
production, employment and rural incomes in the project area; the districts of Rasuwa and
Nuwakot; (b) ensure that investments made under RASNUDEV I continued to yield the
expected benefits; (c) expand and improve the quality and coverage of agricultural support
services and improve support provided by institutions responsible for rural infrastructure;
and (d) strengthen regional, district, panchayat and village level capabilities for preparation
and implementation of rural development programs and for the maintenance of rural
infrastructure.
3.2       These objectives were to be achieved through the following components:
(a) Agricultural Development: Strengthening of agricultural extension, research,
credit and other key support services; construction of new irrigation schemes
and rehabilitation/maintenance of existing ones; establishment of private fruit
orchards; improvement of preventative and curative animal health services and
the genetic potential of large and small ruminants;
(b) Forestry and Soil Conservation: Afforestation, protection, enrichment, and
management of existing forests through community participation; establishment
of preventative and curative measures for the protection of upper catchments,
minor watersheds, and agricultural lands, infrastructure and settlements on the
lower catchments;
(c) Rural Infrastructure Development:  Construction of new drinking water
schemes, suspension bridges and motorable tracks; rehabilitation and
maintenance of old and existing structures; strengthening of district level
capabilities for operation and maintenance of physical infrastructure;
1. RASNUDEV II was later referred to as Third Rural Development Project as a Second Rural Development
Project for Mahakali Hills (Cr. 939-NEP) was approved in 1979.



(d) Institutional Development and Implementation Assistance: Establishment and
maintenance of a Project Coordinator ' s Office; strengthening of the planning,
monitoring and implementation capabilities and accounting/financial support
services of the district offices; strengthening of the regional offices of the
Agriculture, Livestock and Irrigation Departments; and
(e) Technical Assistance and Overseas Training: Provision of eight man-years of
senior and 38 man-years of mid-level specialists/consultants, short term overseas
training of key management and technical staff and funds for project/sector
related studies.
3.3       Total project costs, phased over a period of eight years, were estimated at
US$23.5 million (NRs.423.5 million) and an IDA Credit of SDR16.6 million (US$19.1
million equivalent) was to fund 81% of costs while HMGN and UNDP were to contribute
14% and 5%, respectively. The agricultural development component, including irrigation,
was estimated to account for 50% of the total base costs and the forestry, soil conservation
and watershed management component and the rural infrastructure development component
14% each.
3.4       The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) specified that the project would pursue its
objectives through (i) concentrating on activities that were directly production oriented;
(ii) promoting changes in existing land use and farming systems; (iii) strengthening physical
infrastructure and institutions that would directly support investment in agriculture; and
(iv) concentrating on small farmers as primary beneficiaries of the project, through their
participation, individually and in groups, in the production and distribution of inputs (seeds,
planting materials, root stocks, etc.), and in the construction and maintenance of rural
infrastructure" (para 4.01, page 15 of SAR).
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1       Having specified the appropriate strategy (para 3.4), the SAR failed to establish
an appropriate design to carry it out. This was mainly due to the misconception that
HMGN ' s new policy following the Decentralization Act (passed in 1982 and made effective
in 1985) would be immediately followed through without problems. The Bank did not fully
realize the overwhelming implications of this change of policy and the difficulties of
translating it into action. It should have been foreseen that local initiatives which had been
largely stifled during the three decades of panchayat rule would not be immediately re-
instituted and that political interest at district and panchayat levels would continue to prevail
in spite of the new policies. To attempt therefore to follow the from-the-bottom-up strategy
that the Bank had in mind (through the panchayats formula) implies that there may have
been some naivete or perhaps inadequate understanding of the situation, but certainly the
main shortcoming was the haste with which the project was formulated. The reason for this
may have been the wish to ensure continuity with the previous project, though this was not
considered to have been a great success. RASNUDEV I was completed in 1983 when
RASNUDEV II was already prepared. However, pre-appraisal of the second phase project
was undertaken about one year later and the appraisal two years later (though barely any



- 4 -
changes in concept were made), while the Board approved it three years later. In
retrospect, the initial haste was therefore not justified.
4.2       Although the Bank ' s misconception of the Nepalese situation at that time had
an adverse effect on the implementation of nearly all the components of the project, the fact
that the Project Coordination Office (PCO) was placed under the Ministry of Panchayat and
Local Development (MPLD) weakened the Bank ' s intention of giving the project a strong
agricultural slant. As became increasingly evident, the focus of the Government was mainly
on rural social infrastructure rather than on agriculture or any of the other components.
Even after the change of Government and of the subsequent name change of the ministry
from MPLD to MLD (the word Panchayat was dropped), the Ministry 's interest in this
component prevailed. Although MPLD may have been the logical entity to coordinate
multi-sectoral projects such as RASNUDEV II, serious consideration should have been
given to other options in view of the importance of the agricultural development component.
Had the project been under the Ministry of Agriculture, more attention would indeed have
been given to agriculture development and, in that event, the implementation of a
component such as the rural infrastructure component, which could not be executed or
coordinated by the Ministry, could have been assigned to another agency such as MPLD.
4.3       The project also included an important technical assistance component (attached
to the PCO) around which the project was centered, that was managed by a third party,
UNDP/OPS. Originally, the technical assistance component was to be financed by the Bank
and would thus have been supervised directly by the Bank. However, at a late stage HMGN
insisted on using UNDP funds to finance this component. Although UNDP/OPS agreed
to the Bank being treated as an interested party in their separate technical assistance
agreement with HMGN, this arrangement made Bank supervision much more difficult. In
a situation under which the success of the TA component was crucial for pursuing effective
implementation of the overall project, the Bank should have insisted on financing the
component thus keeping it under its direct supervision.
4.4       Drawing on sufficient experience elsewhere in Nepal and particularly under
RASNUDEV I with the problem of ineffective Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E), the SAR
clearly spelled out that the Local Development Officer in each district, which were to be
provided with an enumerator team, would be responsible for project M&E. Subsequently,
however, it was decided for unclear reasons that the line agencies themselves would be
responsible for monitoring with the help of the UNVs under the TA. With hindsight it
might have been better to have followed the original plan, since the revised system was not
clearly defined and prescribed, and in the end obtained thoroughly inadequate data.
4.5       At the same time, although the SAR specifically stated that the lessons learned
from Phase I had been taken into account, in actual fact three of the main lessons of
experience were ignored. Firstly, RASNUDEV II continued to have too many components
making its implementation complex, and overloading the local institutional capacity. Two
components included in the previous project were omitted in Phase II, but several other sub-
components were added. Secondly, although it was recognised that the previous project was
too large an investment for the absorptive capacity of the project area, the total investment
under Phase II was more than twice as large as that under Phase I. Finally, RASNUDEV II
provided for continued financing of incremental operating costs despite experience from



Phase I that showed this should not be considered since it was likely to further dependence
on external financing (to ensure continuity of services) as well as requests for "second
phase" projects with still higher service and maintenance components - IDA financed some
350 incremental line agency staff under Phase II.
5. Project Implementation
5.1       There were significant shortfalls between planned and actual project
implementation; the only exception being physical achievements under the rural
infrastructure component. Consequently, total disbursements amounted to US$5.4 million
or just 28.3% of the original Credit amount. Mainly due to the design flaws, project
implementation was poor and characterized by the same top-down approach for delivery of
infrastructure and technical services that had been adopted under Phase I and which was
to have been avoided during Phase II implementation (para 4.1). Feelings of project
ownership by beneficiaries, that were to be created through the intended bottom-up
approach, were therefore far from  realized.  Local panchayat leaders "brought"
development to their constituents, to gain political favour, and to induce them to form user
groups. As a consequence, few beneficiary groups were formed and most of those that were,
were poorly organized and not operational. Their involvement in design, construction,
maintenance and repair of the project facilities (let alone their contribution to cost recovery-
- which was the original intention) was negligible.
5.2       The "coup de grace" for the project came with the abolition of the panchayat
system following the change of Government in 1990. As a result, the institutional
foundation of the project disappeared and the project came to a virtual standstill. Proposals
for project restructuring were immediately tabled by the Bank. Only after at least a year,
and after UNDP had withdrawn from the project--their agreement expired in September
1991, did HMGN agree to restructure the project. Nevertheless, HMGN still took no action
and the Bank finally, after having exhausted all its efforts to communicate, failed. In the
meantime HMGN continued building rural infrastructure, despite the Bank 's repeated
warnings that these expenditures may not be reimbursed.
5.3       The agricultural development, which was supposed to be the most important
aspect of the project, did not materialize. Extension was to introduce a T&V type system
but this apparently did not function well. Agricultural assistants barely received any training.
The training associated with mini-kit distribution, was also not effective. Research farms,
which were supposed to carry out necessary adaptive research and distribute seed, concerned
themselves mainly with the latter. The agricultural input supply and credit components were
never implemented because of a general surfeit of development finance for the former and
because of disagreements about the scope of on-lending activities for the latter: IFAD
apparently had initiated an agricultural credit project, similar to the one proposed under
RASNUDEV II, but on a national scale and covering the project area of RASNUDEV II.
5.4       The sole agricultural activity that can be considered as having had some success,
was livestock. Livestock extension efforts were more systematically organized, which
resulted in a positive relationship with user groups, which in turn resulted, among others,



- 6 -
in an effective livestock immunization program. However its coordination effort with the
agricultural crop extension group (to promote fodder crop cultivation) was unsuccessful.
5.5       The forestry and soil conservation components were never properly organized.
The former eventually followed the same philosophy as the one prescribed under the
Government ' s hill community forestry program, which was in principle accepted by the
Bank. Although some works were obviously carried out, since about one-third of the Credit
allocation for this purpose was disbursed, few actual figures as to what was actually achieved
could be found (Part III, Section 4). Reports offer only unqualified statements that works
had been carried out.
5.6       The rural infrastructure component, which inter sted HMGN most, fell behind
schedule from the start, although eventually more facilities (but of poor quality) were
established than was anticipated by the SAR. In the irrigation and drinking water sub-
components some beneficiary/user groups were formed, but most of them had not been
consulted from the beginning and therefore did not develop feelings of ownership, and did
not follow through with operation and maintenance in contrast to those user groups that had
been involved from the start. It is not clear whether user groups were formed and consulted
for the construction of the other rural infrastructural sub-components, such as trails, and
several roads and suspension bridges. However, the works established were in many cases
only partly completed and in some cases were technically unsound. They have also been
poorly maintained.
5.7       Other factors that contributed to poor performance were the high staff turnover,
high proportion of vacant posts for extensive periods and inadequately qualified staff filling
some key positions in the line agencies, the district technical offices and the PCO. Three
out of a total of five positions in the PCO, relating to planning, administration and training,
remained unfilled for almost one year. There were six coordinators assigned to the PCO
during the period of approximately five years after the Credit was declared effective (1988-
1993).
5.8       The project 's local funds release system was also an impediment to project
implementation throughout its life. It was not until 1993 that this problem was resolved -
too late to be of any help. The excessive control by the Financial Comptroller General 's
Office (in the Ministry of Finance) of the Special Account operations created extended
delays which hindered project implementation.
5.9       The Bank had little leverage with which to improve the project implementation
process as the responsibility for executing the key element of the project, viz., the TA
component, remained with UNDP/OPS. The latter was given this responsibility by UNDP
which financed the TA component. Had UNDP/OPS exerted more authority, things might
have turned out somewhat differently, giving an impetus to the project. There was a time
lag of over 12 months between Credit signature and effectiveness. The project start-up was
delayed because of the inability of UNDP and HMGN to come to terms over the TA
agreement, UNDP 's delay in appointing an executing agency for the TA component and
procrastination by UNDP/OPS in the recruitment of TA consultants and by HMGN in
clearing them. Another reason for the delay in Credit effectiveness was the Government 's
inertia in reorganizing the PCO.



5.10      The delays in the recruitment of TA consultants persisted even after the project
became effective in November 1987. The Development Management Advisor arrived in the
country one year after project effectiveness. Recruitment of the UNVs, required to backstop
the staff of the technical line agencies, was even more cumbersome. By mid-1989, three of
the five UNV positions were still not filled; the three yet to be recruited UNVs were to deal
with the key agricultural development component.
5.11      Finally, after the project had been at a standstill for some time when the
panchayats had been abolished in 1990 (para 5.2), in 1991 UNDP started to act less
passively. Due to a continued lack of Government ' s response to the Bank ' s proposals to
restructure the project and HMGN ' s general apathy towards the project, UNDP unilaterally
called a moratorium on training for district level planning, rural organization, user groups,
communications campaign planning, and extension methodology. Since the UNVs were still
under contract, the technical support for rural infrastructure continued. When the TA
agreement expired in September 1991, UNDP/OPS pulled out alltogether. The preparation
of the restructuring plan, which was to be funded with UNDP grant funds, now had to be
paid for out of the IDA Credit. Although UNDP had withdrawn against the wishes of the
Bank, with hindsight, UNDP took the right step.
5.12      Regardless, the Bank continued pressing HMGN to respond to the restructuring
proposal. While a response from Government was pending, project expenditures went on
and rural infrastructural facilities continued to be constructed against the Bank's advice.
T'he project was finally closed on July 15, 1993. In retrospect, the Bank should have
suspended the Credit when HMGN continued to delay its response to the restructuring
proposals.
5.13      Monitoring and evaluation (M&E), a paramount part of the project plan and
totally neglected in the previous phase, was again unsatisfactory (see para. 4.4). Bank
missions were repeatedly insistent about the need for M&E. A UNV developed a
monitoring system but this was reportedly so technical that it was not considered useful
under Nepal conditions. Due to the lack of effective M&E, Bank supervision missions,
throughout the project period, were unable to record key performance indicators.
6. Project Results
6.1       Overall, only a few of the objectives of the project have been achieved. No data
on production or yields or on any of the components, except for rural infrastructure, had
been collected by the project due to the lack of M&E. Although from the national statistics
it would seem that intensification of agriculture development may have increased (yield
increased for most of the crops grown in the project districts - as well as in the other
districts), it is unlikely that this was due to RASNUDEV II. The livestock sub-component
on the other hand has been the most successful project activity, particularly the support to
the curative veterinary services. It should be noted, however, that the project ' s support was
to strengthen an already on-going successful veterinary program.
6.2       The only physical evidence to show for the project are the rural infrastructural
facilities that have been constructed in the project area. Although some of these facilities



- 8 -
undoubtedly have had a positive impact on the communities in the area, the main concerns
remain: many of these are either of poor quality or/and on improper sites or/and in less
needy places and there is uncertainty about their operation and maintenance due to lack of
local interest (para 7.1).
6.3       Under the circumstances no economic nor financial rate of return could be
estimated.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1       As in Phase I the sustainability aspect mainly concerns the infrastructural
component since the other components were barely implemented. As in Phase I, repairs
and maintenance would be required soon, but most likely not provided, since, as explained
before, the facilities were not established through, but for the beneficiaries: the necessary
sense of beneficiary ' s ownership was therefore not established, making effective
maintenance difficult and thus their sustainability questionable.
7.2       On the other hand, the only other sub-component which was relatively well
implemented has been the livestock support services, particularly the preventive and curative
veterinary services. These are likely to continue to function with an acceptable level of
benefits, provided the regular flow of imported vaccines and medicines is ensured, which will
depend on HMGN ' s willingness to allocate adequate budget resources and foreign
exchange for this purpose.
8. Bank Performance
8.1       With some exceptions, the Bank performance has been generally commendable
throughout the project. The Bank' s conviction, that HMGN ' s unresponsiveness during
implementation was due to the political uncertainty at the time and would be only
temporary, which led it to continue to insist in vain with the Government to follow the
recommendation of restructuring the project, proved untenable. The Bank should have
suspended the Credit when the Borrower continued to procrastinate (Section 9 "Borrower
Performance").
8.2       Other shortcomings that could have been avoided by the Bank were:
(a) somewhat perfunctory consideration given at the design stage to take account of some
important lessons learned from the previous project (well spelled out in the PCR
concerned), although it was claimed in the SAR that full cognisance of all lessons of
previous experience had been taken (para 4.5); (b) the misconception that the policy and
institutional changes including reinstitution of local initiatives will in actual fact materialize
shortly following the passage of the then new Decentralization Act even though the
panchayat system had been ingrained in the Nepali culture for over 30 years (para 4.1); and
(c) allowing execution of the crucial TA component and in the process losing leverage to
improve the project implementation process even if managing the component by itself would
have meant a departure from the standard Bank policy (para 4.3).



- 9 -
8.3       In principle all other action taken by the Bank was sound although, not
necessarily effective, due to HMGN ' s persistent apathy. The supervision missions always
correctly pointed out the weaknesses in project implementation and advised insistently,
although in vain, that action be taken.
8.4        The principal lessons learned for the Bank are:
(a) When a project is being prepared in a country, which has been dominated by
a system that has been destroying local initiatives for decades, the Bank should
realize that these local initiatives will not be reinstituted immediately merely
due to a change in government policy; the subsequent readjustment comes only
gradually and over time. Under such circumstances, if the Bank insists on
initiating such a project it should ensure that, in addition to Government line
agencies, a strong project execution unit be built into the project (para 4.1).
(b) One of the principal lessons of this project is that "Lessons learned" should be
learned. Before any new project is designed, lessons learned from previous
experiences in the country concerned should be reviewed and perhaps put on
a checklist, which should then be consulted regularly to avoid lapses of memory
during the design of the next project. The same should be done with lessons
learned from similar projects in other countries, since some lessons learned may
be project rather than country specific. For this reason the Bank may consider
it useful to categorize its wealth of information on lessons learned by type of
project as well as by country or type of country'.
(c) When a project is predominantly designed as an agricultural development
project, its managerial responsibility should preferably be with the Ministry of
Agriculture. If the project also includes a component that cannot be executed
or coordinated by this Ministry, as may be the case here (rural infrastructure),
the execution of this component should be entrusted to another appropriate
agency.
(d) When the TA component is crucial for effective project implementation, the
Bank should insist on financing the component to ensure that it can supervise
the component directly.
(e) When a third party plays an important role under the project, the Bank should
include a suspension clause in the DCA to apply when, for whatever reason, the
third party withdraws from the project, and a cancellation clause to cover the
event that alternative funding and executing arrangements for the component
funded by the third party have not been made within a reasonable time
(para 12.2).
1. The Bank already offers the 'Evaluation Text Based (ETB) Data Base" available on line in All-in-1, the
"Precis' series for selected projects and the recently launched "Lessons & Practises".



- 10 -
9. Borrower Performance
9.1       The Borrower ' s performance right from the stage of the project ' s conception,
through the project closure, cannot be rated as satisfactory. The Borrower provided little
guidance to the Bank during the conception stage, while during implementation, for which
it was principally responsible, it confronted the Bank ' s recommendations, including that for
the project ' s restructuring, with apathy and focused mainly on the rural infrastructure
component, presumably because this part of the project was politically most appealing.
9.2       On the other hand, it should be realized what the overall environment in the
country at that time was and the Borrower had many other important concerns to attend to
rather than to ensure that this entire project was properly operating. Its principal concern
was to pacify the potential political unrest in the country and the rural infrastructure
component appeared to be one of the means to meet that objective. The fact that in 1991
the new Government appeared to be solely interested in this component is, therefore, not
surprising. Thus, the reasons for the Borrower ' s relatively poor performance are, albeit not
praiseworthy, fully understandable. In this context it is difficult to draw any lessons from
this particular experience for the Borrower, except that a project should not be handicapped
by frequent changes of senior staff and positions left unfilled for long periods of time
(para 5.7).
10. Project Relationship
10.1      The Bank-Borrower relationship in respect of the project was correct, but lacked
mutual understanding. Although the Bank had been clear on its ideas and intentions, the
Borrower did not share these views which resulted in the situation noted above (para 9.2).
10.2      The Bank-UNDP relationship regarding the project was not transparent,
although it appears that close informal contacts were maintained with the TA consultants
and during supervision missions with UNDP.
11. Consulting Services
11.1      The consultants were to be recruited under UNDP/OPS procedure and the
Bank had little control over their activities; UNDP was responsible for their performance
and delivery. Nevertheless most of the UNVs, once recruited and in post (para 5.10),
performed generally well under the circumstances, except that the UNV charged with
designing an M&E plan for the project prepared too sophisticated a system which was not
useful for the project.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1      As a consequence of the inability to introduce an effective M&E system, no data
were available to the Bank supervision missions and the PCR mission on physical indicators
or project results, other than general information through the UNVs reports, (Part III of this



- 11 -
report could therefore not be fully completed). Another weakness in the SAR was that the
project as spelled out did not emerge in a unified manner, but rather was a multitude of
unrelated components. All of these resulted in a confused situation, with perhaps, only a
few realizing what the project was supposed to do and few knew at what stage of
implementation it really was.
12.2      In retrospect a flaw in the project documentation was that it did not spell out
that failure of the Government to ensure adequate funding for the co-financed TA
component would be was a cause for suspension of disbursements. A lesson learned here
is that in future the DCA should include appropriate stipulations to cover such an
eventuality (para. 8.4 - (v)).



- 12 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
RASUWA-NUWAKOT RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
(THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT)
(CR. 1727-NEP)
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER I S PERSPECTIVE
13. Evaluation of the Performance
13.1      In the absence of base-line study as well as with weak database, particularly the
out-put oriented database system, the performance of agriculture, forestry and institutional
capability building remained obscure. The contributions of irrigation schemes undertaken
by the project remained at low key because of shortfalls in support services as against the
targets. Many drinking water schemes were constructed, but little had been done towards
the maintenance and repair aspects. Similarly many trail construction programs were
undertaken but they remained either incomplete or poorly maintained. Even where there
are signs of satisfactory level of performance, e.g., in curative veterinary and livestock
extension services, the overall level of credit disbursement of (28%) puts the project itself
below the satisfactory level of performance.
14. Bank' s Performance
14.1      Bank's concern to the project and its consistent follow up, indeed, was
commendable. However, disbursement process did not match the level of expectation. On
the other hand, the TA component, which was planned to support the Bank in planning,
monitoring and evaluation of project and also to co-ordinate and support the program
implementation remained as if separate from the Bank ' s control and supervision. As a
consequence it was found difficult to bring the programs in tune with decentralization
principles and in support of socio-economic development at the grass root level as well as
evolving a system of monitoring which is performance-oriented.
15. Borrower' s Performance
15.1      The project had many programs and these programs are not based on clear
priorities of the line agencies. Many of the project activities were ignored or were not taken
seriously. On the other hand, many of the rural infrastructure programs suffered from the
changed policy thrusts, restructuring of ministries and above all by the staff turn over and
prolonged vacancy in the sectoral key positions at the district level. Inadequate level of



- 13 -
communication, co-operation and co-ordination between and among the actors in the project
as well as lack of orientation of new staff have further exacerbated the project performance.
16. Lessons Learnt
16.1      The programs should be based on clear priorities of the people, e.g., trial,
irrigation, drinking water, micro hydro power to protect environment and self-reliant IG
programs.
16.2      The TA component is crucial for effective project implementation but under
the direct supervision of the Bank.
16.3      The project design should be based within the framework of out-put oriented
monitoring and environmental prescriptions.



- 14 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
RASUWA-NUWAKOT RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
(THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT)
(CR. 1727-NEP)
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Credits'
LIA/Credit Title   Purpose                            Year of    Status                       Com  ents
Approval
Rauwa-Nuwakot    Project designed to increase          1976       Project was completed with  Project was predecessor
Rural Develop-      agricultural production including            two-year delay in 1983 and   to Cr. 1727-NEP. Lessons
ment Project I      livestock, halt depletion of natural          the Credit was fully dis-   learned from this
(Cr. 617-NEP)       resources and improve physical                bursed. Implementation      experience were claimed
and social infrastructure in the              emphasis was on develop-   to have been taken into
districts of Rasuwa and Nuwakot.              ment of infrastructure      account in Cr.1727-NEP.
rather than human
resources.
Mahakali Hills      Project designed to increase       1979       USS11 million project       Project was predecessor
Second Rural Dev.  agricultural production and level              closed 6/15/1988; about     of Cr. 1727-NEP and
Project             of social welfare in one of the               60% of loan was disbursed.  lessons learned were
(Cr. 939-NEP)       most remote parts of Nepal                    Performance lcss than       claimed to have been
(Western Region).                             estimated at appraisal due   taken into account.
to administrative, financial
and managerial problems,
and the constraint of
access to remote locations.
Agricultural Man-   Project designed to assist HIMG    1984       Ihe project with loan of    Project started on
power Develop-      in: improving middle-level                    USS8.4 million has          6/5/85. It was expected
ment Project        agricultural pre-service training             progressed reasonably well  to have had some impact
(Cr. 1534-NEP)      and higher level animal science               after an initial 3-year     on Cr. 1727-NEP but did
pre-service training; upgrading               hiatus. Closing date has    not.
academic, research & extension               been postponed for second
programs & training facilities.               time to 6/30/94 (originally
Mid-1992, the project was to                 6/30/91).
emphasize more on institutional
development.
1. The proposal followed 'he rural development project undertaken in the same area
through Cr. 617-NEP which was completed in June 1983; the results of this project were
rather modest (Section 1 - Related Credits).



- 15 -
2. Project Timetable
Item                             Date Planned               Date Revised               Date Actual
Identification (Executive              -                                                4/5/19831
Project Summary)
Preparation                       7/15/1983                                             7/15/1983
Pre-appraisal                          -                                                6/13/1984
Appraisal                         11-12/1984                  1-2/1985                   1-2/1985
Credit Negotiations                3/3/1986                       -                    3/5-11/1986
Board Approval                         -                          -                     7/15/1986
Credit Signature                                                  -                     12/4/1986
Credit Effectiveness                   -                          -                    11/30/1987
Credit Closing                    12/31/1993                 7/15/1993                  7/15/1993
Project Completion                6/30/1993                  11/15/1993                11/15/1993
1. The proposal followed the rural development project undertaken in the same area
through Cr. 617-NEP which was completed in June 1983; the results of this project were rather
modest (Section 1 - Related Credits).
3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (US$ million)
Fiscal Year                  Appraisal Estimate                Actual            Actual as % of Estimate
1987                                  1.0                         -                          0
1988                                  2.8                        0.3                        11
1989                                  4.8                        1.6                        33
1990                                  7.3                        2.6                        36
1991                                 10.3                        3.5                        34
1992                                 14.0                        4.3                        31
1993                                 17.4                        4.5                        26
19941                                19.1                        5.4                        282
1. Date of final disbursement December 6, 1993.
2. On the basis of the DCA estimate in SDRs only 24% of the Credit was disbursed.
4. Project Implementation
Appraisal Estimate      Actual1
Agricultural Development 2
- Irrigatio:                       Rehabilitation and lmprovemcnt      18 schemes - 300 ha     (
Construction                       28 schemes - 900 ha     (
Construction Gravity Irrigation          700 ha             (1,132 ha 3
Rehabilitation and Upgrading:                               (
- Labdu - Dhikure                        100 ha             (
- Gadhkar                                40 ha              (
- Extension:                      Agricultural Service Centrcs                8                  NA
- Agricultural Training            Upgrading Regional Training Centrc   Trishuli Bazaar          NA
Upgrading Satellite Training Centres  Kakani & Dhunche      Completed



- 16 -
IAvtstoc & Animal licalth Services
Livestock Centres                             4                     2
Dipping Tanks                                 6                     3
Formt-y Dcvelopment
- Establishmcnt:                     Panchayat Forests                           3,000 ha              1,136 ha
Leasehold Forests                           250 ha                 NA.
Private Homestead Plantings                 500 ha                 NA
Public Plantings                           1,000 ha                40 ha
- Rehabilitation:                    Panchayat Protected Forcst                  3,000 ha                NA
- Enrichment Planting:               Public Forests                              1,200 ha                NA
- Dcmarcation                        Forest Area                                  375 km                234 ha
- Maintenance:                       Enrichment Plantings                         750 ha                 NA
Soil Conservation
- Protection:                        Catchment Area                               500 ha                150 ha
- Rehabilitation:                    Erosion Prone Areas                          500 ha                 NA.
RPial Infrastructure
- Drinking Water.                    Rehabilitation and Completion              56 schemes           ( 77 schemes
New Construction                          45 schemes            (
- Bridg                              New Construction                               18                   (132
Rehabilitation                                20                   (
- Motorized Tracks:                  Rehabilitation (Construction)             20 km (1 km)            (63 km
Tracks:                             Rehabilitation (Construction)            12 km (13 km)            (
Studies                                                                       Cost Recovery              NA
Monitoring & Eval.
1. Indicators were not monitored throughout the period of implementation and not shown in supervision reports either. The
indicators shown here were obtained from MLD, reports preparcd by the UN Volunteers who were part of the TA team in the
project and progress reports.
2. Items such as construction equipment, provision of staff, tools, vehicles, motorcycles etc., were also to be provided but the numbers were
not specified in the SAR
3. 900 ha in Rasuwa and 232 ha in Nuwakot.
5. Proiect Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs'
(in US$ million)
Component                                                           Appraisal Estimate  Actual Expenditure
1. Civil Works                                                               10.0                    1.7
2. Vehicles/Equipment/Furniture/Construction Materials                        1.7                    0.4
3. Salaries/Allowances/Project Operating Costs                                3.0                     1.4
4. Fertilizer/Agro-chemicals and Equipment/Breeding Stock                     1.9
5. ADBN Credit                                                                0.9
6. Studies/Technical Assistance                                               1.1                    0.1
7. Forestry Plantations/Soil Conservation/Store                               2.4                    0.6
8. Extension Activities/Training                                              1.4                    0.2
UNDP Technical Assistance                                                     1.1                    0.8
Government Contribution                                                        -                     1.22/
Total Project Costs                                                          23.5                    6.5
1.  Credit disbursements by cost category according to the DCA  were monitored by the Bank as well as
Government (both coincided). However, Government monitored its own contribution according to three
main categories: Civil Works, Vehicles and Equipment, and Operating Cost. The expenditures of
Government have therefore been separately shown as a cost component.
2.  Obtained from Project audited reports up to 15 July 1992. Government expenditures beyond that date were
not available and may only be obtained through the 1992/93 audit report; they are expected to be minimal.



- 17 -
B. Project Financing
(in US$ million)
Source                                                  DCA                                     Final
IDA1                                                     19.1 1                                  4.5
UNDP                                                      1.2 2                                  0.8
Government                                               3.3                                     1.2
Total                                                   23.6                                     6.5
1.  The IDA  Credit was actually committed in SDR  (SDR16.6 million);  only SDR4.0 million was actually
disbursed.
2. The appraisal estimated US$1.1 million, but UNDP's agreement with GON stipulated US$1,178,900.
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
(Not Available)
B. Economic Impact
(Not Available)
C. Financial Impact
(Not Available)
D. Studies
Studics                                Dcrmcd at Appraisal                                         Status 1
1.     Farmers' response to agricultural support services                                    Not carried out
2.     Changing cropping patterns, yields, farm income in irrigated and non-irrigated areas  Not carried out
3.     Field level implementation constraints                                                Not carried out
4.     Nature of employment generation by project works                                       Not carried out
5.     Constraints to addition of new technology                                              Not carried out
6.     Review of GOWAN 's cost recovery and input pricing and distribution policies           Not carried out
1.   Some other studies, which were not defined at appraisal, were carried out, i.e. on: (i) women's role in agriculture, and (ii) mid-term
evaluation. So far as the mission could find out, little or no impact was obtained from these.



- 18 -
7. Status of Covenants
DCA Section                 Covcnant                  Dcadlinc for Compliancc                Status
3.06         Borrower to cause ADBN to maintain                 -             No credit funds required by ADBN as
adequate availability of credit in project                       financing of its activities in the project
areas.                                                           area was covered under an IFAD project
and did not need additional funds.
ADBN committed to provide full service
to project farmers.
4.01(a)      Borrower, ADBN and AIC to maintain                               Neither AIC nor ADBN had drawn on
separate records & accounts for project.                         the Credit; AIC agreed to maintain
scparate records; since ADBN was not a
sub-borrower, it did not need to comply
with this covenant.
4.01(b)      Borrower to have project accounts (inc.            -             All audit reports due have been received.
Special Account) audited annually; and will
submit audit reports within 12 months of
end of FY.
4.01(c)     ADBN & AIC project accounts audited                 -             Since no expenditures were incurred by
annually, audit reports submitted within 12                      AIC, no audit certificates have been
months of FY end.                                                presented. ADBN audit not required as
it did not agree to use Credit proceeds.
4.01(d)      Borrower, ADBN & AIC to maintain                   -             See comment under 4.01(c) above.
separate records and accounts for SOEs;
these accounts to be audited annually,
separate auditor's opinion on SOEs in
annual audits.
4.02         Borrower to make adequate budgetary
provisions for project; release budget funds
no later than first fortnight of trimester.
Sched.4     Reorganize, empower staff and fund Project          -             PCO has been abolished and Project
i(a)        Coordinator's Office (PCO).                                       Coordinator's function is carried out by
Nuwakot Local Development Officer.
Sched.4     Ensure effective participation of PCO,              -             Local and district level planning and
1(b)        Project Area District Planning and                               inter-agency coordination mechanism
Supervision committees.                                          need to be reviewed in light of changed
political situation.
Sched.4     Furnish IDA with results of cost recovery        09/31/87         In view of various efforts to deal with
1(c)        and input pricing study.                                         these matters in the context of SAL I
and SAL 11, the carrying out of the
mentioned studies and the submission of
an action plan is deleted from this
covenant.
"1        Furnish action plan based on this study and      12/31/87
IDA's comments thereon.                                          Proposed for deletion
Sched.4     Establish User groups prior to undertaking          -             Only partly complied with.
1(d)        construction of irrigation schemes and
other public infrastructure works.
Sched.4     Establish and maintain within Agriculture  Original date: 12/31/87  This function was taken over by the
1(e)        Dept. adequately staffed Unit for farm    Revised date: 07/16/88   Dept. of Irrigation which was
irrigation and water management for                              represented in the project area through
project irrigation schemes.                                      both a project office and district offices.



- 19 -
DCA Section                 Covenant                   Deadlinc for Compliance                 Status
Sched.4      Prepare for IDA review: Draft Forcst             07/31/87         New Community Forestry Development
1(f)         Management Plans for District Panchayats                          Policy will apply to the project districts
in Project Area.                                                  thus overriding this covenant. Provisions
of Hill Community Forestry Project
(Cr.2028-NEP) are to apply to the
project area.
Sched.4      Make available annually to each district         12/31/86         Under new Community Forestry Dev.
1(g)         panchayat in the project area the required                        Policy, potential community forests have
unencumbered land for forestry plantation.                        been delineated and these would be
transferred to community management
as soon as user groups have been
established and management plans
drawn up.
Sched.4      Furnish to IDA a Watershed Management            09/30/87         In compliance
1(h)         Plan for the project area and thereafter
implement such plan.
Sched.4      Provide IDA with TOR for mid-term         Original date: 01/31/89   Mid-term review delayed because of slow
1(i)        review and carry out such review.            Revised: 09/30/89     project start. Restructuring exercise was
to be done instead.
Provide IDA with results of mid-term      Original datc: 12/31/89   Restructuring exercise never took place.
review.                                     Revised: 08/31/89
2(a)         Nominees for overseas training & training           -             Since termination of UNDP TA Project,
institutions to be acceptable to IDA: aftcr                       no more overseas training carried out.
training, trainees to serve at least 5 years in
rural development projects in Nepal.
2(b)         Civil works contractors under project must     Unspecified        Rcgistration of contractors by user
be registered by HMG Ministry of Works                            groups occurred only with irrigation
and Transport or by User Groups.                                  projects.
2(c)(i)      Project staff shall be appointed, deployed       07/15/90         Positions required for project
and maintained in accordance with project                        implementation were to be reviewed in
objectives; incremental project staff                             context of project restructuring. No
required for post-investment activities to be                     action taken.
made part of regular staff budget from
FY90/91; local government officcrs should
be qualified and experienced and at least of
Class 11 level (gazetted).
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                                            Planncd      Revised       Actual    Coments
Through Appraisal                                                  NA.           NA.           68.6
Appraisal through Board Approval                                   N.A.          N.A.          5.4
Board Approval through Effectiveness                               N.A.          NA.           0.7
Supervision Sub-Total                                              NA            NA            83g8
- Supervision FY87                                                                             4.7
- Supervision FY88                                                                             33.7
- Supervision FY89                                                                             10.7
- Supervision FY90                                                                             13.0
- Supervision FY91                                                                             12A
- Supervision FY92                                                                             45
- Supervision FY93                                                                             4.7
- Supervision FY94                                                                             0.1
Project Completion FY94                                                                        10.0 1
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                   1685
1. CP staff only.



- 20 -
B. Missions
Slap of Project  Month/Year   No. of    Days in   Spccialization Rcprcscnted 1    Pcrformance        Type of
Cycle                         Persons     Field                                  Rating Status 2    Prbl3
Ibrough            FY84          2         NA.               EC,FA -r
Appraisal          FY85          5         N.A.        EC, FA, AG, EN, SO
Appraisal          FY86          I         NA.                 EC
through Board
Approval
Board Approval     FY87          3        NA.                  EC                     N.A.            NA.
through            FY88          7         NA.            EC & others 4               NA.               M
Effectiveness
Supervision 1      05/88         5         N.A.           EC & others 4                2              M, F
Supervision 2      01/89         2          9                AG, EN                    2              M, F
Supervision 3      07/89         2         N.A.              AG, EN                    2                M
Supervision 4      10/89         4          3            AG, EN, EC, FA                3             M, F, LP
Supervision 5      07/90         4         NA.           AG, EC, EN, FA                3             P, M, F
Supervision 6      07/91         3        N.A.             AG, EC, rA                  4             P, M, F
Supervision 7      06/92         1          7                  EC                      4             P, M, F
Supervision 8      12/92         1          3              EC, EN, FA                  4             P, M, F
Supervision 9      06/93         1          3                  EC                      4             P, M, F
1. Specialization: AG = Agriculturist; EC = Economist; EN = Engineer; rA = Financial Analyst; SO = Sociologist.
2. Performance Rating Status: 1 = Problem-free or minor problems; 2 = Moderate problems; 3 = Major problems.
3. Type of Problems: F = Financial; M = Managerial; P = Political; LF = Lack of funds.
4. Not specified.
C. Costs
(Not Available)



