Dcuzmu of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CA .\4l&rP
Report No. P-4355-NEP
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 16.6 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR A
RASUWA-NUWAKOT RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT--PHASE II
June 26, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of tfieir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =    Nepalese Rupees (NRs)
US$1.00             =    NRs 20.5
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADBN    - Agricultural Development Bank, Nepal
AIC     - Agricultural Input Corporation
APROSC  - Agricultural Projects Services Center
CSI     -  Cottage and Small Industries
W A     -  Department of Agriculture
DP      - District Panchayat
DTO     -  District Technical Office
HMC/N   -  His Majesty's Government of Nepal
IDA     -  International Development Association
ICB     -  International Competitive Bidding
IRDB    -  Integrated Rural Development Board
LCB     -  Local Competitive Bidding
LDO     -  Local Development Officer
MPLD    - Ministry of Panchayat & Local Development
O&M     - Operation and Maintenance
PC      -  Project Coordinator
PCC     -  Project Coordination Committee
PCO     -  Project Coordinator's Office
RDI     -  Rural Development Project I
SFDP    -  Small Farmers Development Programme
SOE     -  Statement of Expenditure
TA      -  Technical Assistance
TOR     -  Terms of Reference
UG      -  Users Group
UNDP    -  United Nations Development Programme
VP      -  Village Panchayat



FOR OFFMCAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
RASUWA-NUWAKOT RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT-PHASE II
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           His Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMG/N)
Executing Agency:  Ministry of Panchayat and Local Development (MPLD)
Amount:             SDR 16.6 M (US$19.1 K Equivalent)
Terms:              Standard
Project             The proposed project is the second phase of the
Description:       IDA-financed Rural Development Project (Credit 617-NEP),
covering the Rasuwa and Nuwakot districts in the Central
Development Region of Nepal, which was completed in June
1984. The proposed project would aim: (a) to consolidate
the investments made during the earlier phase of develop-
ment by making all physical facilities fully operational,
and by improving the qualities and coverage of agricul-
tural support services and the services of the institu-
tions responsible for rural infrastructure development
and maintenance; (b) to further improve the agricultural
production base and the socio-economic infrastructure
(roads, bridges, drinking water); (c) to expand forestry
plantation and soil conservation programs; and (d) to
promote development of effective local level planning and
implementation of rural development projects.
The project would be implemented over an eight-year period
and at full development would benefit some 20,000 farm
families and generate incremental annual production of
22,000 Mt of foodgrains, 0.8 M litres of milk, 0.6 M3 of
fuelwood, and some 250 tons of tropical and sub-tropical
fruits, apart from additional sustained employment
equivalent to about 5000 manyears annually. Unquantified
benefits would also accrue from the development of rural
infrastructure, forestry and soil conservation works, and
human resource and institutional development.
The project does not face any unusual technical or
engineering risks. It would be implemented under a more
stable administrative environment as a result of EfMG/N's
coumitment to the implementation of new administrative
arrangements for decentralized rural development planning
and implementation. Nevertheless, organizational,
staffing and local funding problems could conceivably
affect timely implementation. These risks, however, would
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutiem Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



-ii-
be partly offset by the strong implementation support,
technical assistance, and staff development provided
under the project, and by the fact that the project is
focussed on selected activities for which experience was
gained under a first phase.
Estimated Cost: 1/
(USs Million)
Local    Foreign   Total
Extension, Training and
Research, Farms and ATU          2.1      0.6        2.7
Irrigation                         2.4       1.2       3.6
Agricultural Credit                0.6       0.0       0.6
Agricultural Inputs                0.2       1.0       1.2
Livestock Development              0.7       0.2       0.9
Rural Infrastructure               1.5       0.9       2.4
Forestry                           1.7      0.1        1.8
Soil Conservation                  0.5      0.2        0.7
Implementation Support &
Institutional Development        1.5      0.7        2.2
Technical Assistance, Overseas
training and studies             0.2      1.6        1.8
Total Base Costs                11.4      6.5       17.9
Physical Contingencies             0.5       0.4       0.9
Price Contingencies                2.9       1.8       4.7
Total Project Costs             14.8      8.7       23.5
Financing Plan:
US$ Million
IDA    UNDP   HMG/N       TOTAL
Local Costs                11.0    0.5      3.3       14.8
Foreign Costs               8.1    0.6       -         8.7
TOTAL                    19.1    1.1     3.3 1/    23.5
Z                      81.0    5.0    14.0       100.0
1/ Including taxes and duties of US$0.2 M (approximately).



-lll-
Estimated Dibursements: 1/
(USs Million)
FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93   FY94
Annual       1.0    1.8   2.0   2.5   3.0   3.7   3.5    1.7
Cumulative   1.0    2.8   4.8   7.3  10.3  14.0  17.4   19.1
Z            5.0   15.0  25.0  38.0  54.0  73.0  91.0  100.0
Economic Rate
of Return:         21Z (On 851 of investments for which benefits can be
quantified)
Appraisal Report:   Nepal-Rasuwa Nuwakot Rural Development Project Phase II,
Report No. 5834a-NEP, dated June 20, 1986
Map:                 IBRD 18881
1/ According to IDA Fiscal Year. Credit closing date is December 31, 1993.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR A RASUWA-NUWAKOT RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT--PHASE II
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
Development Credit to the Kingdom of Nepal for Special Drawing Rights (SDRs)
16.6 million (US$19.1 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help
finance a Rasuwa-Nuwakot Rural Development Project-Phase II in the Rasuwa
and Nuwakot districts. UNDP proposes to provide US$1.1 million equivalent to
assist with the financing of the technical assistance component.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The most recent economic report, Nepal:  Prospects for Economic
Adjustment and Growth (Report No. 5867-NEP), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on December 17, 1985. The principal features and recent
performance of the economy are described below. Country data are shown in
Annex I.
3.      Nepal is one of the least-developed countries in the world.  Per
capita income is estimated at US$170 (1983) and health and education
standards are well below the average for South Asia. Life expectancy at
birth is about 46 years, infant mortality is about 145 per 1,000 and adult
literacy is only 19 percent. The population, estimated to be 16.3 million
(mid-1984), grew at a rate of about 2.7 percent per year between 1971 and
1984. About 95 percent of the population lives in rural areas.
4.      Population density with respect to arable land (394 persons per
sq km) has reached very high levels, and cultivation has been extended to
marginal lands and forests. Forests have been denuded further to meet the
growing demand for fuelwood, on which Nepal depends for more than 90 percent
of its energy consumption, mostly for household cooking and heating. Because
of deforestation and excessive grazing on hills and mountains, when rainfall
is abundant, accelerated soil erosion occurs causing rivers to silt and flood
with consequent loss of agricultural productivity.
5.      Agriculture, largely rainfed, accounts for nearly 60 percent of
Nepal's GDP and merchandise exports and provides the main source of
livelihood to more than 90 percent of the population. Crop production
accounts for about 60 percent of agricultural output, livestock for 30
percent, and forestry for 10 percent. Apart from agricultural land, Nepal's
only other important exploitable resources are hydropower and tourism.
1/ Substantially unchanged from Narayani III Irrigation Project, Report
No. 4332-NEP, dated June 2, 1986.



-2-
Exploitation of its vast hydropower resources will depend upon the
Government's ability to enter into complex agreements with neighboring
countries regarding the use and development of water resources and the
exchange of water-related benefits. The tourism sector, based primarily on
Nepal's Himalayan environment provides about 20 percent of the country's
foreign exchange earnings, but accounts for only about 1 percent of GDP.
6.      Following centuries of self-imposed isolation, efforts to develop
the economy of Nepal began in the mid-1950s-a time when the country had
virtually no physical infrastructure, an ancient administrative system, and
very limited educational and health services. Between 1955 and 1975, the
country's primary development goal was to build basic infrastructure and
provide a basis for future economic growth. Reasonably good progress has
been made. A basic road network now exists. Schools accommodating almost
half of the children of primary school age have been built, as have a number
of secondary schools and a national university. A rudimentary hospital
system, including rural health posts, has also been established. Then, in
the Fifth Five-Year Plan the Government shifted its development objectives to
stress accelerating economic growth and creating employment, as well as
raising living standards. These objectives were reiterated in the Sixth Plan
(FY8B-FY85) and in the Seventh Plan (FY86-FY90), which also appropriately
assigned high priority to developing agriculture, small-scale industries and
Nepal's abundant water resources. Additionally, both Sixth and Seventh Plans
stressed the need to conserve soil, control population growth, make better
use of existing infrastructure, expand absorptive capacity and develop human
resources. But despite rapid expansion of development expenditures, sup-
ported by growing foreign assistance, from US$103 million (7 percent of GDP)
in FY75 to US$421 million (18 percent of GDP) in FY85, per capita real income
grew at only 0.5 percent arnually during this period.
7.      The country's difficult terrain, landlocked position, and poor
natural resource base have contributed to its disappointing economic
performance. Other important factors are the Government's severely limited
capacity to manage the economy and to administer rapidly expanding develop-
ment programs.
8.      Over the past ten years, public expenditures have continued to grow
faster than revenues, with increasing shares of the growing budget deficits
financed by aid flows. The situation deteriorated sharply, starting in FY83
when large unanticipated emergency expenditures due to a drought necessitated
recourse to significant domestic bank borrowings. The budget position has
remained unstable since then, and the continued reliance on domestic bank
financing has created inflationary pressures. Serious balance of payments
problems have also emerged in the past three years as the cumulative result
of a decade of poor economic management, as characterized by low real GDP
growth, and dwindling agricultural surpluses for export. The external
payments position remained precarious in FY84 and FY85, with the country
continuing to lose foreign exchange reserves. By June 1985, gross official
international reserves had declined to the equivalent of 1.6 months of
imports compared with the peak of 6.2 months at the end of FY82.
9.      To restore financial stability, the Government needs urgently to step
up domestic resource mobilization while stringently controlling the growth of
expenditures in order to reduce domestic bank borrowings. As a result of
efforts to improve income tax assessment and collection and to apply indirect



-3-
taxes, revenues have steadily increased, but the tax structure remains
inelastic and narrowly based. Immediate reform should be geared to
rationalizing the structure of taxation and widening the tax base, for
example, by reducing income tax exemptions and deductions and eliminating
sales tax rate differentials between imported and domestically-produced
goods.
10.    To control expenditure, the Government must contain the growth of
wages and salaries, now the largest component in the regular budget. A
freeze on further civil service hiring is required over the next few years.
Implicitly, selective redeployment of positions is also required in order to
achieve priority objectives in some sectors. Also, in the wake of a hefty
35 percent general salary increase introduced in FY85, no increases should be
allowed in the Seventh Plan period. Additionally, public enterprise reform
must be pursued in order to reduce subsidy and transfer payments to public
corporations, some of which are causing a serious drain on the budget.
Development expenditures should be directed toward activities that will
produce economic results efficiently and quickly. To this end, existing
productive capacity and infrastructure need to be strengthened to increase
their usage, for example, through measures to improve operations and maintain
roads and irrigation canals. Resources for new investments should be
directed to activities that will earn additional foreign exchange for the
economy within short gestation periods. To lessen the burden of counterpart
funding, the Government should take a critical look at the pipeline of ongo-
ing operations and re-evaluate the returns to the economy of completing each
project. Tough decisions will likely be required to postpone, re-design or
cancel any ongoing project that does not measure up to the criteria applied.
11.     Concurrently, additional foreign exchange needs to be generated
through export promotion and efficient import substitution in order to stabi-
lize the country's precarious external payments position and to accelerate
real GDP growth in the medium to longer term. To improve its agricultural
trade position, the Government's immediate priority should be to secure an
adequate supply of foodgrains (rice, maize, wheat) and principal food crops
(sugar, oil seeds) to eliminate the sporadic requirement for food imports in
years when the monsoon fails. An effort should also be made over the longer
term to promote the export of minor cash crops such as ginger and cardamom.
The key elements to improve agricultural production over the medium term
include: improvements in the supply and distribution of agricultural inputs;
increased access by farmers to credit; investments in transport, storage and
other basic infrastructure to facilitate marketing; and a more effective and
flexible agricultural pricing policy. The development of cottage and small
industries (CSI) should also receive high priority over the next few years
because of their potential for earning foreign exchange. Currently, the
output from CSI, such as carpets, ready-made garments, and handicrafts,
accounts for 30 percent of Nepal's total merchandise exports. In recent
years, the Government has legislated a wide range of fiscal and administra-
tive incentives to stimulate private investment in CSI as well as the export
of CSI products. Implementation of these measures, together with the
alleviation of severe transport and transit constraints, constitute essential
elements of an export trade promotion strategy for Nepal.
12.     In late 1985, the Government took major first steps toward
stabilizing, and stimulating growth of, the economy. Effective November 30,
1985, the Nepalese Rupee was devalued by about 14 percent. Subsequently, the



-4-
Government introduced a financial stabilization program as part of a 13-month
standby arrangement with the International Monetary Fund. Major features of
the program are: (a) maintenance of a flexible exchange rate policy;
(b) restraints on public regular and development expenditures;
(c) strengthened tax administration to help reduce the budget deficit;
(d) restraint on the creation of domestic credit, especially bank credit to
the public sector; (e) maintenance of key bank deposit rates at positive real
levels; (f) increases in the prices charged by public enterprises and a
reduction in the subsidies received by them; (g) restraint on external com-
mercial borrowing; (h) increased numbers of licenses for commercial imports;
(i) abolition of a 10 percent cash subsidy on exports; and (j) a number of
procedural and institutional reforms liberalizing and rationalizing the trade
and exchange regime.
13.     The tasks that Nepal must undertake to address its multiple long-term
development problems are challenging. While it attempts to mobilize domestic
resources to finance about 40-50 percent of development expenditures, exter-
nal assistance at concessional terms will continue to play an important role
in financing investment and achieving economic growth. In the last three
years, aid commitments to Nepal have averaged US$250 million per year, and
have almost entirely been in the form of grants or concessional credits with
grant elements exceeding 70 percent. Gross disbursements grew from about
US$130 million in FY81 to US$165 million in FY85. Nearly 70 percent of total
aid disbursements have come from members of the Nepal Aid Group, formed in
1976 and now comprising eight Developing Assistance Committee (DAC) countries
and four multilateral agencies.
14.     By December 1985, Nepal's official foreign debt outstanding and
disbursed amounted to about US$530 million. As virtually all loans have been
concessional, debt-service payments, including payments to the International
Monetary Fund (IMF), have remained small in relation to exports of goods and
services: in FY85, debt-service payments amounted to about US$17 million,
equivalent to 5 percent of experts of goods and services. These payments
over the medium term, are anticipated to remain ac about 7 percent of Nepal's
exports of goods and services.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
15.     Bank Group operations in Nepal began in 1969 with an IDA credit of
US$1.7 million equivalent for a telecommunications project. Since then, 42
additional credits have been approved, bringing total IDA assistance to Nepal
to US$622.6 million equivalent, net of cancellations. In view of Nepal's
many development needs, this assistance has been for projects in a wide
variety of sectors. Five of these sectors account for about 90% of IDA
credits by amount: irrigation/agriculture (US$192.0 million for 16
projects); water supply and sewerage (US$46.8 million for three projects);
power and energy (US$168.0 million for four projects); telecommunications
(US$41.7 million for four projects); and highways (US$67.0 million for three
projects). The proposed credit of US$19.1 million would be the second to be
approved in FY86. No Bank loans have been made to Nepal. IFC has made three
investments in Nepal, the first in FY75 (US$3.1 million) for the expansion of
the Soaltee Hotel project in Kathmandu, the second in FY82 (DM 14.5 million)
to Nepal Orind Magnesite Company for the mining and production of dead burnt



-5-
magnesite, and a third approved by FY84, but not yet signed to Nepal Metal
Company (DM 7.8 million), a zinc/lead mining and concentrates project.
Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and IFC operations as of
March 31, 1986.
16.     Bank Group lending to Nepal so far has been modest compared to the
country's need for external assistance. The international community has
shown considerable interest in Nepal's economic development and, to date, a
shortage of funds has not been a major bottleneck. The main constraint on
the utilization of increased aid has been Nepal's limited absorptive
capacity, affecting the pace of project preparation and implementation. The
Bank Group has provided assistance to the Government in project preparation
through two Technical Assistance Credits (Cr. 659-NEP and 1379-NEP) and by
acting as Executing Agency for a number of technical assistance projects
financed by UNDP. Project completion reports have been prepared for six
projects: First Telecommunications (Cr. 166-NEP), First Highways
(Cr. 223-NEP), Tourism (Cr. 291-NEP), Birganj Irrigation (Cr. 373-NEP) and
Settlement Project (Cr. 505-NEP) and Bhairawa-Lumbini Irrigation
(Cr. 654-NEP), and the First Rural Development Project (Cr. 617-NEP).
17.     In recent years the Bank introduced a greater focus to its lending,
attaching particular importance to agriculture, rural development, forestry,
and human resource development. Agriculture, a main source of livelihood tro
over 90% of the population, accounts for about 60% of GDP and 70% of exports.
The primary objective of our lending in this sector is to increase production
vith a view to maintaining self-sufficiency in foodgrains, particularly in
the hills, and achieving larger surpluses for exports. To that end, we will
be emphasizing actions and investment aimed at improving the supply of inputs
and strengthening support services to maximize benefits from existing
infrastructure and equipment. In forestry, our principal concern will be to
support reforestation efforts at the community level. These investments in
agriculture and forestry would need to be supplemented by effective programs
to control population growth particularly in the hill areas where a rapidly
growilag need for food, fuelwood and fodder is causing serious environmental
degradation. In education and training, our objectives will be to improve
the quality of primary education as well as increase the supply of trained
technical manpower for greater efficiency in public administration. Outside
these three areas of primary emphasis, our involvement will be more selective
and would concentrate in areas where our investments would complement growth
in production capacity. Accordingly, we envisage maintaining some support in
the power sector which previousLy absorbed a significant portion of our
lending, but we envisage our future role more as a provider of technical
assistance and a catalyst for mobilizing additional external resources. In
transport and communications, we plan to combine technical assistance througn
sector work with selected interventions designed to facilitate regional
integration and improved rural ._.cess to markets and input supplies.  We also
propose to continue our support to Cottage Industries where our previous
investment has made a notable contribution to export promotion, import
substitution and rural employment generation.
18.     In allocating our resources, our basic approach will be to attempt to
strike a proper balance between the necessary emphasis on quick-and high
yielding investments (such as in agriculture), which is dictated by Nepal's
precarious budgetary and balan'_ of payments position, and an equally
important commitment to those sectors where impact cannot be felt immediately



-6-
but which nevertheless are critical to the country's long-term development
(e.g., population and human resource development). We will also deliberately
target some of our operations to the poorest and least developed parts of the
country, for example, the hill areas.
19.     The proposed project is essentially consistent with an aspect of our
longer term strategy to address the problems of environmental decay and
institution building in the food deficit hill areas while further extending
greater regional balance in development activities. In part, however, the
focus on promoting agricultural production responds also to our concern to
enhance the productive capacity of all sectors in order to offset possible
negative consequences following the necessary demand management measures
which HMG needs to implement in light of the immediate economic problems.
20.     In terms of design and approach the proposed project would benefit
from our experience with two previous IDA-supported projects (Mahakali Hill
Cr. 939-NEP and Rasuwa Nuwakot I Cr. 617-NEP). The most important lesson
learnt from these two previous projects is the extent to which Nepal's
institutional and administrative system is constrained in terms of project
implementation capacity. Consequently, unlike the previous projects which
had components being implemented simultaneously in a number of sectors, the
scope of the proposed project would be scaled down to focus on those areas
which would enhance agricultural production. More importantly the project
would consolidate and extend initiatives which have shown promising results
but require further attention and persistence. The new project would also
provide a basis to broaden our dialogue with the Government on important
policy issues such as cost recovery and subsidy reduction which bear on the
effectiveness and efficiency of tural development efforts in Nepal overall.
PART III - SECTORAL BACKGROUND
General
21.     Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy.  However, decades of
exhaustive land use and over exploitation of natural resources have resulted
in increasing ecological imbalance, particularly in the Hills, leading to a
progressively deteriorating food, fodder and fuelwood balance. While HMG/N's
strategy and investment plans for agriculture and rural development generally
reflected a sense of priority appropriate to the importance of solving these
problems, achievements have fallen short of target. Production of basic
agricultural commodities is well below potential, correction of the agro-
ecological imbalances has not progressed adequately, and improvement of the
socio-economic conditions in rural areas, lags. Some of the investment
programs were not well designed and many were not effectively implemented due
to inadequate deployment of skilled manpower, shortages of local funds and
weaknesses in the relevant institutions, administrative structure and opera-
tional procedures. In many cases, there were too many poorly related
programs and projects creating conflicting demands on scarce public
resources.
22.     The resource base for agricultural production is restricted due to
the rugged terrain. Only about a sixth of the land area is suitable for
cultivation, of which some 15 percent is irrigated. The land/man ratio for



-7-
the whole country is estimated at about 5 persons per ha of arable land,
compared to 9 persons per ha for the Hills. Further, the distribution of
land ownership is skewed despite past efforts of HMC/N to promote land
reform. Traditional methods of farming in the Hills involve continuous and
ezhaustive cultivation of limited areas of terraced hillside. The topography
and sparse road network isolate many agricultural areas and restrict the
supply and use of chemical fertilizers; as a result, the availability of
livestock manure is often a key factor in determining whether productivity is
reasonably maintained.
23.     Agricultural production during the last decade increased only by
about 0.7 percent per annum, while population grew annuaLly by about 2.7
percent, thus leading to a progressively deteriorating food balance. It is
estimated that 39 out of the 75 districts are currently deficit in food
production, and unless production trends are improved, domestic production of
cereals would meet only about 65 percent of Nepal's consumption requirements
by year 2000. By that time, the Hills will be in deficit by 60 percent and
the Terai--which is now in surplus--by 10 percent.
24.     The present forest area in Nepal covers some 4.3M ha (3.9M ha in the
mountains and Hills and 0.4M ha in the Terai). These figures reflect a 33
percent reduction in forest areas between 1964 and 1980. Destruction is
accelerating because of tree felling for fuelwood and additional cultivable
lands, and through reduction of regeneration and seedling growth by uncon-
trolled grazing. As the forests are destroyed and fuelwood sources become
remote and relatively inaccessible, use of dried dung and crop residues for
fuel is increasing, thereby removing what are often the only sources of
replacement of soil nutrients. This in turn is accelerating the decline in
crop yields. Furthermore, the disappearance of forests is also resulting
in increased damage to agricultural lands in the lower catchments of the
watersheds, and in general degradation of the environment. If demand con-
tinues to increase at present rates and there are no major reinforcements of
reforestation efforts, accessible forests in the Hills face the grim prospect
of almost complete disappearance within the next 15 years, and those in the
Terai within 25 years.
Policies and Priorities for Agriculture/Rural Development
25.     Prior to the launching of the Fifth Five-Year Development Plan
(1975-1980), the development strategy of HMG/N was to promote regional
agricultural specialization (foodgrains in the Terai, and horticulture, tea,
spices, and livestock in the Hills) developed through implementation of
individual sub-sectoral promotion and support programs. The Fifth Plan,
however, marked the beginning of a shift in the above strategy whereby:
(a) increased resources were allocated to the developmpnt, exploitation and
conservation of the natural resources; (b) priority was given to self-
sufficiency in food production in the Hills and intensification of agricul-
tural production in the Terai for the purpose of generating an exportable
surplus; and (c) multisectoral projects became the primary vehicle for
supporting agricultural growth and rural development in the Hills.



-8-
IDA Assistance Strategy for Operations and Institution Building in the Sector
26.     In support of the overall priorities and objectives of the Fifth and
Sixth Five-Year Development Plans, past IDA lending strategy for agriculture/
rural development had the following underlying objectives: (a) to accelerate
the production of essential foodgrains, fuelwood, and fodder; (b) to help
prevent the deterioration of the agro-ecological conditions in the Hills;
(c) to improve the socio-economic conditions and physical infrastructure in
the rural areas; (d) to improve the technological base and institutional
framework for agricultural/rural development; (e) to promote development of
local and national level institutions foe planning, programming and
implementing development programs; and (f) to assist HMG/N in instituting
more effective national cost recovery mecharnis.ia and improving provisions for
operation and maintenance of assets.
27.     To date IDA assistance has been in:  implementing multisectoral area
development programs in the Hills; developing irrigation facilities both in
the Terai as well as in the Hills; improving agricultural extension; improv-
ing marketing infrastructure; providing agricultural credit; and promoting
extensive reforestation throughout the country. The proposed project would
continue support in several of these areas and would translate lessons
learned from previous operations into a more focussed and modest project
design for rural development in Nepal, and would assist HMG/N in developing
and implementing more effective cost recovery as well as operation and
maintenance arrangements.
28.     Rural Development Programme Design in Nepal.  Nepal has followed an
integraced multi-sector approach to rural development. This approach
combined all the aspects of agricultural development (irrigatior., extension,
credit, forestry, marketing, etc.) with efforts to address constraints in
other areas, including education, health, transport/communications and
cottage industry. The IDA-supported first Rural Development Project
(Cr. 617-NEP) was completed in December 1983. It was the first large-scale
development program to address the problems in the mid-Hills of Nepal. The
project was also among the early rural development (RD) projects to be
assisted by the Bank Group. Given the lack of development in the Hills and
the fact that rural development needs cut across sectoral lines, the project
turned out to be complex, encompassing a large number of components. The
project was to be implemented through a coordination mechanism, which was
novel to the existing institutions and operational procEdures. Nevertheless,
certain key activities, such as the appointment of the Project Coordinator
(PC), the establishment of the Project Coordination Committee (PCC) and the
basic project planning exercise were carried out prior to credit
effectiveness, allowing the project to commence on time. By and large, the
project made considerable progress in most of its components up to 1979. At
that time, 1MG/N introduced new edministrative arrangements for implementa-
tion of RD projects (most important of which was the creation of a new
Ministry of Panchayat and Local Development (MPLD) and a heirarchy of commit-
tees for project coordination). This, together with the then prevailing
political and administrative uncertainties and the problems of staff
shortages, frequent staff transfers and shortage of local funds, severely
a'fected project implementation. As a result, the project had to be extended
by two years. The revised project was completed in December 1983 and the
credit was fully disbursed by March 1984. A Project Completion Report has
been prepared and a Project Performance Audit is under preparation.



-9-
29.     Despite the implementation constraints, most of which were of an
organizational nature, the project achieved most of its broad objectives,
particularly with respect to expanding agricultural production and developing
rural infrastructure. The project also introduced an extension organization
in an area which hitherto had no such services. Through the project,
important technological changes affecting cropping patterns and husbandry
practices were introduced, along with increased use of improved seeds and
chemical fertilizers. Additionally, over 3,000 ha of afforestation was
carried out ard 105 drinking water schemes, 8 suspension and 39 wooden
bridges were constructed. An evaluation study done in 1982 estimated that,
compared to the base year of the project, paddy production in the area had
increased by 34 percent, wheat by 17 percent, maize by 15 percent, millet by
14 percent and potato by 66 percent. However, production improvements are
believed to have taken place mainly on the more accessible and irrigated
areas, with minor changes on the more remote and rainfed areas. The effects
of the infrastructure and social components have been mixed. Evidently, the
bridges constructed under the project have had a positive impact in the
project areas, enabling year round communication between villages. Benefits
have also been generated from the drinking water supply component and from
improved trails and tracks. However, the potential benefits from these are
not being fully realized because most of these schemes are facing repair and
maintenance problems. The impact of other components, such as cottage
industry, health, and education has been minimal, primarily because the
development of these sectors is faced with major sectoral (organizational,
managerial and some policy) constraints, the remedies for which proved to be
beyond the scope of a rural development project.
30.     The Second Rural Development Project (Mahakali Hills Cr. 939-NEP)
was prepared and appraised at a time (1978-79) when the implementation of
RD I wa3 proceeding satisfactorily. It was therefore designed and structured
along the same lines of RD I, and consequently, it too turned out tc be a
complex project with a large number of components involving some 18
implementing agencies. The project area included three very remote districts
with poor accessibility, particularly during the rainy season, and with
minimal physical facilities such as buildings for staff housing, project
offices, etc. Implementation during the initial years was negligible because
of (a) the problems created by a severe earthquake in the area in the first
year of the project; (b) delays in staffing of the Project Coordinator's
office (PCO); (c) lack of physical facilities at the project headquarters;
(d) shortage of contractors for civil work; (e) problems of transporting
construction materials to the remote sites; and (f) delays in the release of
local funds for project works. Consequently, during the first five years of
the project, only about 25 percent of the credit was disbursed, and the
credit closing date had to be extended by two years to February 28, 1987,
to enable completion of on-going civil works and other programs. However,
the past two years have witnessed considerable improvements in implementation
as a result of improvements in the staff situation, project management and
administration and partial relief of the funding problem. A recent review of
project implementation (March 1986) has shown that although achievements in
respect of all components are not upto SAR targets, the projc_t has
(a) established the physical and institutional arrangements required for
providing crop and livestock extension services in the three project
districts; (b) increased substantially the supply of agricultural credit and
farm inputs in the project area; and (c) initiated a program for improvement



-10-
in the rural infrastructure, i.e., drinking water supply, mule trails,
offices and housing for district and sub-district level staff, and for soil
conservation activities. However, as in the case of RD I, the developmental
impact of the social services components have generally not been encouraging
except for the health sector in which case nearly 70 percent of SAR targets
for delivery of services and development of physical facilities have been
achieved. By the end of current Government financial year, total project
expenditure will have reached about 65 percent of SAR estimates of project
costs and some 40 percent of the IDA credit will have been disbursed. 1/ The
present credit closing date a.li allow completion of the remaining civil
works program, consolidation of project activities already initiated,
institution of a program for systematic operation and maintenance of all
project buildings and other physical facilities, full operationalization of
the irrigation schemes, and improvement of the scope and quality of agricul-
tural support services instituted under the project.
31.     The two rural development projects were executed under difficult and
uncertain institutional and political circumstances, when HMG/N was
struggling to establish an institutional base for effective execution of such
projects. The organizational and institutional difficulties were further
aggravated by the large number of complex multisectoral projects that were
initiated during this period. The enactment of the Decentralization Act of
1982, and the Decentralization Rules and Regulations of 1984, which went into
effect in July 1985, are expected to help overcome many of the organizational
weaknesses impeding effective planning and implementation of RD projects.
The proposed project, therefore, would have the benefit of being implemented
under a more stable and predictable institutional framework.
32.    In general, implementation experience of the first two IDA-financed,
and other donor financed, RD projects in Nepal has contributed to the
following lessons: (a) in the Nepalese context RD projects need to be kept
simple and focussed on a few key sectors/subsectors, such as agriculture,
forestry, soil conservation, and rural infrastructure development; (b) com-
plex and centralized inter-ministerial coordination requirements should be
kept to the minimum; emphasis should instead be given to program coordination
at the district level with the help of effective central support; (c) proper
financial and personnel management, including timely flow of funds to
implementing agencies and timely posting and retention of qualified staff, is
crucial to proper implementation; (d) line ministries must view projects as
an integral part of their own work program and demonstrate full commitment to
implementation; (e) local level institutions, e.g., Users' Groups (UG), have
to be fostered for assisting in the planning and construction of physical
infrastructure and for taking over their operation and maintenance
responsibilities; (f) design of civil works should be kept simple and to
standards that can be easily built and maintained with available local skills
and materials; (g) recommended agricultural production technologies should be
consistent with the logistic situation of the respective areas and, more
importantly, such recommendations need to be based on technologies which are
already available and not dependent on the outcome of future applied research
activities; (h) considerable attention needs to be given to effective manage-
I/ Disbursements have lagged partly because of substantial depreciation of
the Nepalese currency since appraisal.



-11-
ment of the extension service effort to transmit these technologies; and
(i) more effective cost recovery mechanisms need to be put in place to ensure
that funds at the local level are available for at least operation and main-
tenance purposes.
33.     Cost Recovery.  Cost recovery measures to help ensure the effective
operation and maintenance of assets and services have been less than
satisfactory. Moreover, in view of serious budgetary problems which Nepal
faces, the Bank has been urging HMG/N to find ways of improving its domestic
resource mobilization efforts (see also IBRD Report No. 5867-NEP dated
December 12, 1985, "Nepal-Prospects for Economic Growth and Adjustment"). In
the context of the agricultural sector there are two areas of immediate
concern: pricing of irrigation services and of input supplies such as
fertilizer and chemicals. Inputs are currently provided through the
Agricultural Input Corporation (AIC) with large subsidies. Water charges are
inadequate and collections are poor as discussed below.
34.     In the case of irrigation, which is divided into large schemes (above
200 ha), medium (between 50-200 ha), and small (below 50 ha) there is no
countrywide and consistently applied cost-recovery mechanism. The Irrigation
Department is responsible for the large schemes which are generally located
in the Terai and administered by appointed Irrigation Boards. These Boards
levy 'scheme-specific' water charges. Experience has been poor, with collec-
tions amounting to only a fraction of the assessed charges which are about
NUs. 100 per ha, per crop. The Ministry of Panchayat and Local Development
(MPLD) and the Department of Agriculture (DOA) oversee the operation and
maintenance of small and medium irrigation schemes, which are largely located
in Hill areas. The District Panchayats (DP), which come under the jurisdic-
tion of MPLD, are empowered to collect irrigation charges. Notwithstanding,
cost recovery measures are not diligently enforced. Furthermore, the under-
lying principles and guidelines for the levy and collection of relevant
charges are ambiguous and often conflicting. More importantly, water
supplies are not always reliable. Consequently, there is often little
justification for authorities to collect water charges.
35.     Our strategy for assisting HMG/N in improving cost recovery has
several elements. First, for large-scale irrigation schemes, national cost
recovery policies and methods are being developed and will begin to be imple-
mented in the context of the Narayani III Irrigation Project, to be proposed
for Bank consideration shortly. Second, under the proposed project, steps
are being taken by the Government to review and agree with IDA on a set of
actions necessary (a) to formulate and implement policies and methods for
cost recovery in small and medium irrigation schemes in the project area and
more broadly on a national basis, and (b) to reduce input subsidies, and
revitalize the financial and operational capacity of AIC and begin to stimu-
late a broader development of input supply channels, including the private
sector.
Rationale for the Proposed Project
36.     Experience in Nepal and elsewhere has shown that the problems of
rural development are far too complex and deep rooted to expect isolated or
relatively short-term intervention to make a fully significant and
sustainable impact. This is even more applicable in respect of the Hills of
Nepal in which basic infrastructure is only poorly developed and decades of



-12-
land misuse and the resulting agro-ecological imbalances need correction.
Despite this impediment, it is important for the government to continue with
its program to augment food production, correct regional imbalances and
improve the economic and social conditions in rural areas. The first RD
project--though it suffered delays and administrative problems and was, in
retrospect, too ambitious and complex--did meet its broad objectives. More
importantly, it helped generate some fundamental institutional, technological
and attitudinal pre-conditions for accelerated gains in agricultural
production, forestry development, introduction of more rational land use, and
further institutional and infrastructure development in the two project
districts. Further investments are, however, needed to complete or
rehabilitate some of the physical infrastructure, and special attention is
needed to help achieve appropriate staffing, operation and maintenance, in
order to reinforce and consolidate first phase investments and thereby
optimize long run benefits from them. The proposed follow-up project is
developed from lessons learned from the first two rural development projects
and focuses primarily an directly productive activities.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.     The proposed project, prepared by a Nepalese consultancy group--the
Agriculture Projects Services Centre (APROSC)--was appraised in
January/February, 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C., from
March 5 - March 11, 1986, with the Nepalese delegation lead by the Additional
Secretary, Ministry of Panchayat and Local Development. The Staff Appraisal
Report (No. 5834a-NEP) dated June 20, 1986, is being circulated separately.
A supplementary data sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives and Strategy
38.     The proposed project would:  (a) intensify agricultural and forestry
development and further the impetus created by RD I in increasing production,
employment and rural incomes in the two project districts; (b) ensure that
investments made under RD I, as a first phase development, continue to yield
the expected benefits; (c) expand and improve the quality and coverage of
support services and improve the operations of institutions responsible for
rural infrastructure; and (d) strengthen regional, district, panchayat and
village level capabilities for preparation and implementation of development
programs and for the maintenance of rural infrastructure. The proposed
project would focus on activities that are directly production oriented and
would help promote changes in existing land use and farming systems. It
would strengthen physical infrastructure and institutions that would directly
support investments in agriculture. Special emphasis would be given to
small farmers as primary beneficiaries of the project. Finally, the project
would promote farmers' participation, individually or in groups, in the
production of inputs (seeds, planting materials, root stocks, etc.), dis-
tribution of other farm inputs and the construction and maintenance of rural
infrastructure.
39.     In designing the proposed project and determining its scope, full
cognizance has been taken of the lessons learned from the first two projects
(paras 29-33) and of key Government development priorities and constraints
(paras 10-12). More specifically, the proposed project would have fewer



-13-
components than the previous ones, and each of the four major components
would include activities successfully initiated during the first phase. This
sharper focus is also highly consistent with current efforts to rationalize
and consolidate Government initiatives, to ensure that highest priority
activities receive the needed attention when overall financial and human
resources are so severely constrained. The project has been processed after
detailed consultation with and agreement of the participating line ministries
and agencies, all of which have gained substantial experience through the
implementation of the first project. Following the Decentralization Act,
coordination of project activities would be at the district level with tech-
nical support and implementation assistance provided by a well staffed (local
and expatriate) Project Coordinator's Office (PCO), whose role and functions
have been clearly defined. Reflecting in part the current fiscal constraints
facing the country, the project would also support efforts to review and
improve cost recovery performance with a view to generating revenues for
local operation and maintenance purposes as well as for investment in other
complementary rural development services (paras 36, 58-59).
Project Description
40.     The proposed project, following the relevant implementation
experience and IDA disbursement profile, has been designed for implementation
over an eight-year period. 1/ It would cover the two hill districts of Rasuwa
and Nuwakot, located in the Bagmati zone of the Central Development Region of
Nepal. The project area has a total population of some 230,000 people
located in some 80 village panchayats.
41.     The project would consist of four major components:  2/  (a) agricul-
tural developmt (total outlay of US$9.0 M; 50 percent of base costs)whic
would focus on  i) strengthening extension, research, credit and other
support services; construction of new irrigation schemes and rehabilitation/
maintenance of existing ones; (ii) establishing private fruit orchards; and
(iii) improving preventive and curative animal health services and the
genetic potentials of large and small ruminants; (b) forestry and soil con-
servation (total outlay of US$2.5 M; 14 percent of ba costs  which would
include (i) afforestation, protection, enrichment, and management of existing
forests through community participation; and (ii) preventive and curative
measures for the protection of upper catchments, minor watersheds, and
agricultural lands, infrastructure and settlements on the lower catchments;
(c) rural infrastructure development (total outlay of US$2.4 M; 14 percent of
base costs), which would emphasize construction of new drinking water
schemes, suspension bridges and motorable tracks, as well as rehabilitation
and maintenance of old and existing ones and strengthening district level
capabilities for operation and maintenance of physical infrastructure; and
1/ The implementation period would be two years shorter than what is
indicated by the relevant disbursement profile because (i) it is a
repeater project; and (ii) no new implementing agency would need to be
established and implementation would be by existing line departments
which have gained considerable experience through implementing the
earlier project.
2/ All costs quoted in this section are base costs.



-14-
(d) institutional development and implementation assistance (total outlay of
US$2.2 M; 12 percent of base costs), which would include (i) maintenance
of a Project Coordinator's office; the strengthening of planning, monitoring
and implementation capabilities and accounting/financial support services of
the district offices; and (ii) strengthening of regional offices of the
Agriculture, Livestock and Irrigation Departments. In addition to these four
major components, the project would include a technical assistance, overseas
training and studies program (total outlay of US$1.8 M; 10 percent of base
costs), with provision of 8 man years of senior 1/ and 38 man-years of mid-
level professionals, 2/ including international volunteers, and short-term
overseas training of key management and technical staff. Funds would also be
provided for undertaking studies designed to identify key project/sector
related issues (socio-economic, organizational, technical, financial), as
well as to generate information on the impact of the various components.
This component would include, among other things, a review of HMG/N's cost
recovery policies and relevant experiences to-date. Findings of this study
would be used to formulate and implement more broadly appropriate national
policies and methods for cost recovery and reduction of subsidies (para 58).
Salient Features of the Irrigation Sub-Component
42.     Irrigation development would include Hill Terrace irrigation and
Medium Irrigation Schemes. In the case of Hill Terrace irrigation, the
proposed project would complete/rehabilitate 18 small schemes (net incremen-
tal command area of 300 ha) that were undertaken during the RD I project
period. The extent and nature of work required would vary from scheme to
scheme, generally including reconstruction of canaLs/headworks/crossings
damaged by land slides, improving/protecting canals/headworks and other
structures and, in some instances, extending/deepening the distribution
system. Under the proposed project 28 new hill terrace irrigation schemes
(total command area 900 ha) and four medium size irrigation schemes (net
incremental area of about 750 ha) would be constructed. The hill terrace
schemes would draw water from small perennial water sources. Most of these
schemes would be essentially development/expansion of existing rudimentary
systems and would not result in any significant withdrawal of additional
water.
43.     The four medium size schemes would be located on the small
tributaries (streams) of the Trishuli River - the Phalangukhola, Tadi Khola
and Likhu Khola. The Trishuli River originates in Tibet, joins the Gandaki
River below the project area which then flows into the Narayani River down
into the Indo-Cangetic Plain. The insignificant volume of water that would
be withdrawn by the proposed new schemes would not impact in any meaningful
way on the quality and quantity of the flows in the Trishuli, the Gandaki or
the Narayani Rivers. We are therefore satisfied that the proposed irrigation
component of the project will not have any adverse effects on the lower
riparian countries, India and Bangladesh.
1/ One Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Advisor and one Engineering
Services Advisor.
2/ Areas of specialization: adaptive research, water management, pasture
development, field engineering, vocational training.



-15-
Project Organization and Management
44.     The proposed project would be implemented by the relevant line
departments and agencies at the district and sub-district levels under the
overall guidance and supervision of the District Panchayats (DP) of the
Rasuwa and Nuwakot districts, as provided under the Decentralization Act of
1982 and the Decentralization Rules of 1984, which became effective as of
July 1985. The central and regional offices of the respective line minis-
tries would provide technical supervision (for programming, budgeting and
implementation) and exercise control on release of funds. Within the two
project districts, the Local Development Officer (LDO), as the secretary of
the DP, would have responsibility for coordinating planning and
implementation. The overall coordination, monitoring of project implementa-
tion and implementation support, as required, to the district level agencies
would be provided by a Project Coordinator's Office (PCO, para 45), acting as
the field arm of the Ministry of Panchayat and Local Development (MPLD) and
the Integrated Rural Development Board (IRDB).
45.     The Project Coordinator's Office (PCO).  The PCO would be headed by a
Project Coordinator (PC) who would be a confirmed class I gazetted officer
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA.  Although not a
member of the District Plan Formulation and the District Supervision
Committees (established under the Decentralization Act and Rules) of Rasuwa
and Nuwakot, the PC would attend and participate actively in the deliberation
of these committees. An assurance to this effect was obtained during
negotiations. The PCO would be reorganized into seven operational sections,
namely, Coordinator's Secretariat, Financial Management and Planning,
Monitoring and Evaluation, Training and Communication, Administration,
Engineering Services and Kathmandu Liaison Office. All except the latter two
would be headed by a gazetted class III Officer (non-technical), while the
Engineering Services Section would be headed by a Divisional Engineer
(gazetted class II/Technical), and the Liaison Office by a non-gazetted
class I/non-technical officer.
46.     The District Technical Offices (DTO).  The DTOs of Nuwakot and Rasuwa
districts would be reorganized into three functionally separate sections:
(a) civil works (bridges, tracks, buildings); (b) minor irrigation and
drinking water supply; and (c) operation and maintenance. These technical
sections would each be headed by an engineer and the Divisional Engineer of
the PCO would provide technical supervision and guidance to both the DTOs.
47.     Village Panchayats (VP) and User Groups (UG).  In line with the
provisions of the Decentralization Act and Rules, greater use of these
entities would be made for planning, supervision and implementation of
project activities at the local level, as well as for operation and main-
tenance of physical infrastructure. The VPs would be responsible for
identifying and prioritizing development schemes in their respective areas,
estimating total resource requirements and mobilizing local resources.
Wherever possible, UGs would be formed and would assist the VPs in the above
activities. An assurance to this effect was obtained during negotiations.
48.     Project Staffing.  HMG/N, prior to negotiations, filled key vacancies
in the relevant line departments at the district and sub-district levels.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that (a) project staff would be



-16-
appointed, deployed and maintained in a manner that would ensure timely
implementation of project and achievement of its objectives; (b) the LDOs in
the two project districts would be at least confirmed class II gazetted
officers with other qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA; and
(c) incremental posts created under the project and determined, during the
mid-term review (para 50), to be essential for continued development during
the post-project years, would be absorbed in the regular budget of ERG begin-
ning in its 1990-91 fiscal year.
49.     Agricultural Credit.  Under the proposed project, incremental
seasonal credit requirements for farm inputs would be provided by ADBN out
of its own resources. The IDA credit, however, would provide MRs 4.3 million
covering ADBN medium term credit needs for (i) orchard development;
(ii) establishment of fruit preservation units by producers; (iii) purchase
of milch animals, small ruminants and dairy equipment by farmers; and
(v) setting up operations of a cadre of Animal Health Workers. Additionally,
NRs 7.3 million would be provided to ADBN for establishing and operating ten
Small Farmers Development sub-projects under its ongoing Small Farmer
Development Program (SFDP), which is designed to channel credit to small
farmer/landless farmer groups for improving crop, livestock and horticultural
production and for supporting other income generating activities. Rates for
rural credit are fixed by the Nepal Rastra Bank which provides refinancing to
ADBN at rates ranging from 6-8 percent, depending on the purpose of the loan.
Interest rates charged by ADBN to individuals for short and medium term loans
range from 10 percent to 15 percent, depending on the purpose of the loan.
Longer term loans (tree crop development) normally carry interest rates of 10
percent, medium term loans (livestock and irrigation development) 12 percent
and short term loans 15 percent. Loans from ADBN to Sajha Cooperatives are 4
percent less than those made direct to individuals. Interest on loans from
cooperatives to individuals bear the same interest rates as those made direct
by ADBN to individuals. With the rate of inflation currently estimated at 7
percent, these interest rates are positive.
50.     Mid-term Review.  A mid-term review of the project would be completed
no later than December 31, 1989, to assess project progress in relation to
appraisal objectives and targets, and to identify major implementation
constraints, particularly those related to project staffing, organization and
flow of funds.  As necessary, the mid-term review would determine ways to
resolve key issues and recommend measures to facilitate timely and effective
project implementation. The terms of reference and scope of the review would
be agreed with IDA by January 31, 1989.
Project Costs and Financing
51.     Total project costs are estimated at US$23.5 M, including price and
physical contingencies (US$5.7 M) and a small amount of local taxes and
duties (US$0.2 H). The foreign expenditure component is estimated at
US$8.7 M equivalent, or about 37 percent of total cost. Price contingencies
(US$4.8 M) are about 25 percent of base costs plus physical contingencies



-17-
and were estimated according to current estimates of inflation rates. 1/
Physical contingencies (US$0.9 M) were estimated at 7 percent for civiL, works
and 5 percent for other expenditures.
52.     The proposed IDA credit of US$19.1 H would be to HMG/N on standard
terms and conditions and would cover 81 percent of total project costs (93
percent of foreign and 74 percent of local costs). UNDP is expected to
finance part of the technical assistance, overseas training and project
related studies component amounting to US$1.1 M, equivalent to about 5
percent of total project costs. The IDA credit and UNDP grant together would
finance about 86 percent of total project costs. The HMG/N contribution
would be US$3.3 M (NRs. 59 M), about 14 percent of total project costs.
Since most of the project beneficiaries would be small farmers producing for
subsistence, no cash contribution from them other than the amounts they would
borrow from ADBN for crop input, improved animals for milk, meat, wool and
draught power, and for agricultural tool/equipment purchase, would be
expected. However, they would make substantial contribution in kind (in the
form of family labor or local materials) for on-farm development works and
development and OEM of irrigation and physical infrastructure. IDA and UNDP
funds would be channelled through the Ministry of Finance to the participat-
ing line ministries. Funds to ADBN covering the agricultural credit provi-
sion would be onlent to ADBN by HMG/N under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the
terms and conditions of which would be satisfactory to IDA and which, among
other things, would provide for a repayment period not exceeding 7 years, and
an interest rate that would be equivalent to the prevailing discount rate
of the Nepal Rastra Bank. Funds to AIC would be provided by HMG under an
agreement between HMG and AIC, the terms and conditions of which would also
be satisfactory to IDA. Execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with ADBN
and the Financial Agreement with AIC would be conditions of disbursement of
IDA funds in respect of expenditures for the provision of credit to farmers
and funds to AIC for importation and distribution of farm inputs. Signing
of the UNDP TA agreement, appointment of an executing agency for the UNDP
TA project and satisfactory reorganization of the PCO would be conditions
of IDA credit effectiveness.
Procurement and Disbursement
53.     All civil works (US$10.0 M) would be simple structures of standard-
ized designs, widely dispersed geographically and over time, thus rendering
them unsuitable for International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Construction of
buildings, roads, bridges, drinking water supplies, soil conservation struc-
tures and irrigation works would therefore be awarded to local contractors
following Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures, which were found at
appraisa. to be satisfactory.  Vehicles, equipment and furniture (US$1.7 M)
would be grouped in appropriate bidding packages to facilitate competitive
bidding. Procurement would be by ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines,
except where individual items are valued at less than US$30,000 and the total
order does not exceed US$150,000, in which case procurement would be by LCB
procedures satisfactory to IDA. Fertilizers and agrochemicals (US$1.7) would
be procured by AIC through ICB. Nearly 50 percent of the total expenditures
1/ 1986/87, 7 percent; 1987/88, 7.3 percent; 1988/89-1989/90, 7.6 percent;
1990/91, 6.0 percent; 1991/92 and onwards, 4.5 percent.



-18-
for forestry and soil conservation (US$2.4 M) would be for hired labor, 35
percent for planting materials, and 15 percent would be transportation costs.
None of these would be suitable for competitive bidding, and hence these
would be performed through contract labor and/or under force account.
Breeding stock (US$0.15 M) would be purchased from local and Indian markets
at prevailing market rates and would not be suitable for usual bidding
procedures. The balance of project costs (US$7.6 M) would be for staff
salaries, vehicle operating and maintenance costs, miscellaneous adaptive
research costs, in-country training, agricultural credit, technical
assistance, and overseas training which would not be suitable for competitive
bidding.
34.     Disbursements.  Disbursements under the proposed IDA credit are
expected to be completed by December 31, 1993. Disbursements would be made
for civil works, equipment, vehicles, construction materials, agricultural
materials (partly through credit) and inputs, in-country training as well as
for incremental salaries and operating costs, on a declining basis.
55.     Accounts and Audit.  Under EKG/N rules, it is the responsibility of
the Ministry of Finance to maintain, through the offices of the Financial
Comptroller General, all government accounts while the Auditor General is
responsible for auditing of all such accounts. HMG/N seeks to ensure that
all accounts are maintained following sound accounting principles, and the
scope of the audit is sufficient to evaluate the regularity, propriety,
economy, efficiency and effectiveness of public expenditure. However,
performance of HMG/N to date in respect of the IDA audit and accounting
requirements has been unsatisfactory, and in most projects the audited
accounts have frequently been substantially in arrears. This is partly
because expenditures related to IDA-financed projects have been audited by
the Auditor General as part of the implementing government department's
overall financial records and the Auditor General does not release the full
audit report until it is cleared through several steps, including presenta-
tion of the main report to the National Panchayat. In order to ensure that
covenants related to audit in IDA assisted projects are complied with on
time, IDA has been assisting project accounting staff in preparing separate
project accounts in such detail as required for audit, soon after the end of
each fiscal year, and presenting these to the Auditor General. IDA has also
proposed the format and content of the auditors report on such accounts which
can be completed and forwarded to IDA without waiting for the full audit
report of the concerned department's overall annual financial accounts.
Similar procedures are being instituted for timely audit of all withdrawal
applications based on Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). The project would
also provide additional accounting staff and in-service training to existing
accounting staff in the two project districts to improve financial
management. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that EMC would
cause the participating line departments, the AIC and ADBN: (i) to maintain
separate records and accounts for all project expenditures in accordance with
sound accounting principles; (ii) to have such accounts audited by an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA, in accordance with sound auditing
principles; (iii) to forward to IDA, such accounts together with the
Auditor's reports and certification within nine months after the end of each
fiscal year; and (iv) to include in the annual audit reports submitted to
IDA, a separate opinion from the Auditor as to whether the disbursements made
on the basis of SOEs were in respect of goods and services received and
incurred for the purposes of the project. During negotiations it was also



-19-
agreed that, to facilitate disbursement flows, a Special Account in the Nepal
Rashtra Bank would be opened and maintained by the borrower on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, and with an authorized allocation
of an amount equivalent to US$350,000.
56.     Retroactive financing of up to US$300,000 would be provided to cover
the following project expenditures incurred after July 16, 1985;
(i) salaries, allowances and other operational costs of the PCO; (ii) pur-
chase of vehicles, equipment and furniture; (iii) feasibility studies and
detailed design of irrigation schemes and other civil works; and (iv) staff
training.
Fiscal Impact and Cost Recovery
57.     Fiscal Impact.  Since the beginning of the 80's, Nepal has been
experiencing an unfavorable budgetary situation with deficits running up to
12 percent of GDP. Consequently, Nepal is faced with the problem of main-
taining a reasonable level of development expenditure while reducing the
growth of regular expenditures and, at the same time, increasing the mobi-
lization of public resources. During project implementation, HHG/N would be
required to provide, on an average, about NRs. 8.0 (US$0.44 M) annually as
local funds, equivalent to less than one-tenth of one percent of current
levels of public expenditure and revenue, respectively. During the post-
project phase, after eight years of project implementation, the average
annual recurrent cost for maintaining project related services and O&M costs
for the physical infrastructure would amount to about N&s. 7 M (US$0.39 M).
This level of incremental public expenditure would be justified in view of
the project's expected contribution to improving agricultural productivity,
employment and rural incomes and in preventing further deterioration of the
environment in the project areas. However, it is expected that during
implementation, efforts would be made by the Government to keep overall
incremental salary and wage costs at a minimum by giving priority to
redeployment/reallocation of existing personnel in meeting the project's
incremental staff requirements. Secondly, steps for mobilization of
resources at the panchayat/village levels would be intensified in order to
reduce the O&M burden on the public sector, and a program by HMG/N for the
necessary studies and mechanisms to rationalize and reduce overall subsidies
and improve cost recovery would be initiated as discussed below.
58.     Cost Recovery.  A stated objective of HMG/N is to generate increased
amounts of resources at the local level with a view to ploughing these back
into the local economies, either for new investments or for operation and
maintenance of physical infrastructure. In keeping with this policy, provi-
sion exists for levying irrigation water charges (currently fixed at about
NRs. 62 per ha per crop for hill and small irrigation schemes, and NRs. 100
per ha per crop in larger command areas). The District Panchayats are also
empowered, under the Decentralization Act, to collect tolls on roads and
bridges. Notwithstanding the above, cost recovery measures are not
diligently enforced; the underlying principles, policies and guidelines for
the levy and collection of relevant charges are ambiguous and often
conflicting. The current levels of irrigation water charges were established
in 1975 and the published rates do not recover present operation and main-
tenance costs. Moreover, only small amounts are collected, and the system is
not flexible enough to take into account unforeseen circumstances such as
land slides, drought, power failure, etc.



-23-
.^L&.LLh                                       hZH  I
- SOULW     C^tJ    S I                      Page  I of 6
on  cn icnn ln m. U
AL                                140.5       140o.       140.6
MKICUILTUlL                        35.3        36.5       41.2
w   m :ia COOU)                                              tw * - 1o0        275.3                   1011.1
umm Ouuwm URn cAnfa
thILOUL    Of OIL iUVaLUIT)         3.0        10.0        10.0             235.7                    566.6
POsUATON.INg"       CT(foUh  )   90.0    11)50.0    1573*.0
mi Mor4n0U cz or ToTAL)             2.1         3.9        4.9               22.3                     35.9
P01FJITI0E WOICTII0N
P8UTUU I0     TIM 2000 (lULL)                            24.5
SIAf1MM P0PUaTT  Cm")                                    74.0
iOe"UMsu  msiNMs                                          1.6.
sxom"z Dsm
P11 me. M.                        A.5        50.6       111.5             173.5                    36.9
7U sq. IN. aGR.  ID             2".2        305.4       374.5             353.3                   1591.2
PWUTION AN STUCTU   (2)
0-14 US                          39.0       42.0        42.5              36.3                     3s.2
154    s                         57.4        55.0       54.2               "A                       57.7
63 muIDnn                          3.4        2.9         2.9               '.3                      3.5
POP1ULATU 3oWMW RMAS (2)
TOTAL                              1.4        1.9         2.5               2.u                      2.3
URA                               4.5         4.2         5.0               4.1                      4.1
CUD  S      KUllo SAT  (PE TN0S)   45.9        46.3        41.6              27.5          10.1
MM3 DUATR RATE (PER TWU0S)         25.6        23.0       16.1               10.2                      9.4
:OSS RWD1DUCTzIO  RATE              2.7         3.1        3.0                1.7                      1.W
A.MILY PLIIIC
ACETORS. ANNUAL (TO)              ..         29.7      223.2
UStS Of oIrWD Ktl)WC               ..         ..         7.0               49A                      56.5
FOOD MDf II TIISSS
iHUER or FOOD LOD. PER CAITTA
(1969-71-100)                     106.0       101.0       U5.0              116.b                    124.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY Or
CALORIES (a OF 1EIIUIINTS)       57.0        94.0        B9.0             1U6.3                    115.7
PROTEINS (GAUMS P1  DAY)         50.0        50.0       47.0               60.1                     60.3
0O 1AGCII ANDIAL AD PULSE       10.0         9.0        L.0 /c            14.4                     14.1
CiInD (ACES 1-4) DVETR RATE        32.5        27.5       21.0                7.3                      7.2
LIF  CEPECT. AT llirrH (C1A*S)     33.4        41.4       66.1               60.5                     b0.6
DIANT  IOCT. KM  (PU THOUS)       194.5       172.5      143.0              19.2                      b4.V
ACCZSS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOL                                ..         8.5        14.0 id          14.2                      *6.0
URBAN                            47.7        71.0       83.0 o7i           77.2                     N7.b
RUMRL                              ..         6.0        7.o 7;-           34.6                     37.1
ACCESS TO KICRITA DISPOSAL
Cs or POruuATION)
TOTAL                             ..          1.5         2.C t/            7.8                     501.1
URBAN                             ..         13.0       16.0o7             21.8                     52.9
RURAL                             ..          1.0        I.D7-i             S.5                     44.7
PO9UlATIO PER PRISICJa          73470.0    51360.0 Is  30060.0 I4          3315.0                  7751.7
POP. PcI NS1U PlESSOR               ..      7c00.0 1. 334z0.0 /d           4690.7                   Zb54.8
20P. PCIE OSPITAL ED
TOTAL                          U260.0      6930.0      5720.0 It         1039.2                   11lZ.2
URBAN                           290.0       330.0      450.0 77           299.1                    651.4
RURAL                             ..          ..          ..             6028.2                   259i0.9
ADUSSIONS PER HOSPlTAL SBE          ..          ..         ..                52.3                     41.1
AVERAGE SUZE OF SEHOLD
TOTAL                                         5.5
URA                               5           ......
RURAL                             ..          ..
AVERAGE NO. OP PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                             ;.          ..
URAN                              2.0         ..
IRIAL                             ..          ..
RCENTAGE O  Do U GLLICS 1r1T ELECT.
TOTAL                             ..          ..
URDO                             3n.2         ..
RURAL                             ..          ..



-24-                                     ANNEX I
T A I L   It                                  Page 2 of 6
NAL                        SOCIAL INOCATORS D  
NEPAL                                   aEEEC   VRUS (IdIGOTI AVIRAESJ /a
lOUT                      (clST RICIIIT  6TIMATO) lb
RCCIIT             LOW I cow               KIDDL  INCOM
;i,.L       1970L. KSTIATUL&            AStA & PACIcnC          ASIA & PACIIc
ADJUS D ENOLIIINT RATIOS
PrEDAus   TOTAL                      10.0        26.0         73.0               gp..                       100.7
mmIR                     19.0        43.0        102.0               105.5                      104.4
TtmuLS                    1.0         6.0         42.0                79.3                       97.2
SECoNDY: TOTAL                       -.0         10.0        21.0                 31.3                       47.8
UALZ                     11.0         14.0        32.0                40.5                       50.b
OtWS                      2.0         3.0          9.0                21.9                       ".8
TOCATIOWAl. (2 or SEWt1DA )             0.2         5.5          6.8  C              3.2                       113.4
PUPIL-uKAmKI RATIO
PRDLM                                33.0        22.0         46.0                35.0                       30.4
SUNOIIDU                            32.0          ..         22.0                 17.4                       22.2
PASSEGRI CAZSITIMID to                 0.1          0.4          ..                  0.9                       10.1
RAI  RICKIMIS/IOUSADUD MP               3.0         4.8         22.7               129.4                      172.9
TV RCIUR/TIUISJD PO                    ..          ..           ..                 19.5                       58.5
NISPAPRE ("ALTY GmIZL
INTEUSTR) CIRlUATION
PM TiIOUND POU TON                    0.7          2.4          7.1                25.7                       65.3
CUDV  ANNUAL ASTlNDlCiI TA              ..          ..           ..                  6.0                        3.4
LABORCI
TOTAL LABK VOIE (TROS)               4853.0      5534.0       7413.0
DLUZ (PZUNCT)                       40.5         39.2        39.0                 33.2                       33.6
AGCULTJLURE (PEET)                  V5.0         94.0         93.0 Id             69.6                       52.2
INDSSTRY  CPERCENT)                  2.0          2.0          2.0 71             15.6                       17.9
PARTICIPATION RAT (CPERCENT)
TOTAL                                51.6        4.68         47.1                41.9                       38.9
KALE                                41.5         58.8         56.9                53.6                       50.13
FEIALE                              41.8         38.6         36.9                29.1                       2b.8
ECONONIC DEPEDNCY RATIO.               0.6          0.9          1.0                 1.0                        1.1
INCON  DIS SZINTI
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED UT
MICHEST 520 orHUSEWLDS               ..          ..          35.3
NICHEST 202 OF SOUSEOLWS              ..          ..          59.2  _              ..                        48.U
LOWEST 202 OF hOUSEROLDS             ..           ..           4.6  c              ..                         o.4
LOWEST 402 OF HOUSEOLDS              ..           ..          12.64                ..                        15.5
PoPUCE SIE QAuPs
ESTMATED ABSOLUT  POVERTY INC0ME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UN                                    ..          ..          95.0               133.9
RMtAL                                ..           ..         45.0                111.6                      151.9
ESTmATEO RELATlVE POVERTY I!COHE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPrrk)
URAN                                  ..          ..           ..                  ..                       17 7.9
RURAL                                ..           ..         41.0 LL.            61.7                       164.7
ESTMEATED POP. BELCU ABSOLUTE
POVElRY INCOME LEVEL (2)
URIAN                                ..           ..         55.0 Ic             43.8                        23.5
PIIRAL                               ..           ..         61.0 Ic              51.7                       37.1
Nar AVAILALE
.NOT APPLICAN.E
N O T E S
/a   The group avrages for each Indicator cre population-ielghted artcletc _sana.  Coverage of countriem
among the indicators depends on avaloabilcty of data and a" not uniform.
/b   Unless otberwis* noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any year b.tveen 1959 and 19b1: "Data for 197U" between
1969 and 1971; nd data for '"ost Recent tscute" between 1981 aod 1983.
Ic   1977;  Id 1980;  /. Personnl Ln governmt wervices only;  If 1978;  .X 1979.
JUNE. 1945



ANNX I
-25-                                          lage 3 of 6
*DMMN1OY FSOCAL  DIATO
NaeuAtiinomte dMam e dMiaa riia%au mom  mrilIy Jfd hemeaauouihdlaheandrelkiabet sod  alebe mmd tha uy may natbe aurmatiamay
CMr    b1mm  d tlibik of Kadudimd ddlWor ad cmu  mid by dim  coanUl. in coa       bte date TMe da am nonet1ele1, miW to
TMe r      oma a () th s comfy pomp ddsu bju comnry and (2) aouo _au p withs m bat hlheramp incxmtha    corry
promp ofthe ubjm mmi a(ampiror 'Hblsm uau ONEspone  pmopwintr MiddslEIcomeNorth Afrim md Middloe lM' .cam  beamosofuraup
o4dtl alhe). th as I    p omp data tlb e ama.. popmlaon wI  uWark_hmeemu for ea  odicaor adsbowolywh0 mody
oftheom_nbuapompw   dator aldicator. Sba dh esmtp courtri    gtheindodon_I don te avalability odBdta anb is not uiom
cutio muM be ed b I  nein f eam nofam indctor tanodir. Tlae  . ae eamiy mimscopinhe whmBof nc iedictrt a imamong
the amunu ad  6mn  poUP.
ARE  (thousand sq.kn)                                         Cr   "  Rat (pm' ieaud)-Nunber ofive births in the year
Tau-Tol srfae nita ompriing lndW area and idnd wte;           per thousad of mid-yar population; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data.
1960.1970 and 1963 dataL                                      Chd Dath Roe (pw  eahend)-Number of deaths in the year
4gniinbwul-Estmate of agricultural area  ed temporarl or      per thousanod of mid-yer population 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permnentdy for crops, pasus market and lmichen grde  or to    GCe  Rep.h1iu  Ratr-Average number of daughtmer a woman
lie fallow, 1960,1970 and 1982 duat                           wil bear in her nornal reproductive peiod if sbe exp
prsnt a*-pecific fetiHity rat; ully fiveyer averages  ding
GNP PER CAPTA (USS)-GNP per caita estmat at current           in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices, calclted by s-me conveon method as World
Bo* Adw (198143 bsir); 1983 dai                               FA,O'ann  -cir    Aam  (thoni-Ann    num-
Sad. Ada, (193143 basis); 1933 data.   her ofacceptors of birhcontrol dvcs under auices of nautnal
ENIGY CONSUMTON PER CAPMA-Annual appanrt   family pl}ag program
consunmpton of comnercial pnrmary eaerg  (coal and liite,     F..dl PaniUsm (peret .f1  rkd _Tbcn)-The               n-
petoeum, natural gas and hydra-, nuclar and geothermal elec-    tw  or maned snen ofchild-bering ag who are prctcing or
tricity) in kilogms of oil equivaklt per capita; 1960, 1970, and  whose hubands ae practiig any form ofcontacepon. Women
1982 datL                                                     ofchild-bearing age are generly wmen aged 1549, although ror
sm  countrie contraceptive usage is measured for otber age
POPULATION AND VIAL SIrATISTICS                               groups.
Toa  Pap liad. Msd- Yew (thdmm. u--As of July 1: 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NULRMTMON
and 1963 date.
IUdrx qofF.dPr.dnw*uPerC p,e 196I9-71 100)-Index of pcr
proan lie  (pmet      r of tionlr-Rab oor uran    tO total    capita annual production of all food commodities Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  exl *e anma fee anedfrarclue Ood comoditie
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.   cxdudes animr fcod and seed f(or gsugarcuane instad of sugr)
popu--o  Prjecion                                             which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Popslatwn a year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.  excluded); they comprisc cereals, root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetabks, fruits, nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock, and
total population by age and sex. ferility rates. mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
intational migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights: 1961-65, 1970. and
were projected at rlve-year intervals On the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions unu. the population became stationary.            Per Capita Spply ofCalies (peart of reuarernntri-Comput-
Stationary populaionk-s one in wbich age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of nt rood supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate = I). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constanL and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated bv FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the yea' 20D0. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                    waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Popuuation .4omentwn-Is the tendency for population growth to  Per Cepita Supply of Prein (fgrans per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  percapita net suppli offood per dav. Net suppiv offood is defined
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  ais above. Requirements for all countries e%tablished by ULSDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowanmes of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimnate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year L. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those or
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                     75 grams of total protein and '3 grams of animal protein as an
Popua    D rjnjy                                              average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total arca: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.              Per Caita Prorein Supply From .4aimaa awd Pulse-Protein supply
Per sqAkm. agricultural land-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per dav: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                         1970 and 1977 data.
Populrion Age Srmutwe (peremrr)-Children (0-14 vears). work-  Child (ages 1-4) Dethk Rate (per thsad)-: N umber of deaths of
ingage(15-64years)andretired(65yearsandover)aspercentage      children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.            group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Population Growth Rate (percent)-tataL-Annual growth rates of  from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total ntid-year population for 1950-60. i960-70. and 1970-83.  HEALTH
Popatio Growh Rae (percetnrj-bau-Annual growth rates          Life Expectawy or Br  (years)-Number of years a newborn
of urban populatiou for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.   infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-26-                                      AMl I
Page 4 of 6
ath td me of of its birt weor to stay the same tbronghout its lir,  PhIpl-aer alto - primary and secwomkr-Total studen en-
1960,1970 und 1963 d.                                         roiled in primary and _scodary leveds divided by numbers or
4qf  M          te (P        dNumber of infants who die    teache  in the corponding Lvels.
berm reahn On yaw of ae per thousad lv biths in a I
year 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUIIJr, ON
AeeaN "wSi*  11Ww (FUm   of p.pmdsa)-EmF  esibe, Aid          PMUWw Cans (per rimased pual.-uegrcar corn-
ru -Number of people (totdL, urban.  ad  )  with reaso ble    prM motor car sean       than egt peana; eclude ambul-
aacces to sf water supply (ilud  trtod suface w         or    anus, bearses and military vehcle.
untratd but u     _con   matd waft such a di5t from p   ad    3g   .w& s (pm r         po          A   tpe ofr
lor',ailb , ri- n  and sntay wel) as perentw of theirs-       f   ido    u       to lpea  p    per thound arpopultion;
dve population. [n an urban are a public fountain or ndpost    xciudex    u-iensed neesvenr in countr  and in years when
locatd no momn dhm 200 umetr km a house my be comdm-
- being within reasonab        of that houss In ruora  -srgstion of radio ses wa in eIft data for recent yearn may
reaonble acceas would mpy that the bhoswife or members of the  not be cmpaable since most countrie abole licensing
houedbold do cot hve to sped a diproportonate par of the day  rVR#aum (pE t= FUFdNb )-.TVlUUims for broadclas
* etching tire fI    -wa   ..dL                               to geneal public per thousan populatou ecudes unliensd TV
Ace' to Ewra. Dhposa (peveeof *      'p  '.o    w ,           roava in countrie ad in yps whe registration of   sts ws
avd yarl-Number of peopk (totaL urban and rural) sered by    imeeu C        he
exa  dispoal a pee es of their respei  populationw.    93                         p      -S s   aer*
Excreta disposal may indude the colectio and disposl, with or  ae circulation of 'dafly  nal inter  newspapet, defined as a
without tatmen, of hmn   rea and wase-water by water-         peiodicad pubation devoted primarily to recrding geial news.
borne syem or the ue of pit privie and similar intallation.   It is conaidered to be 'daf if it appet lt four times a wL
PopoalWasIwr ?P oAx -opulation divided by number of pac       C _ Am_' Ad         mw per CdpR. pr Ye _Bsad on the
dsi  pbyscian quelifd frm a medical school at university levd.  number of ticket   d dunag the yer, iding admissionsl to
Popdno pwr Nurda Plsb-Population divided by number of         drive-in camas ad mobile units.
practicing  mae aid  tmle graduate nure, astUt nur,
prCticl nures and n      uxilitares.           L^11Ol  FOIE
fPiledIs Pr H_opi  AWd-9oed, r,  d   d            j_          Totali Labor fw  (aAsiandr)-lconomically active persons in-
'total. urbm and rural) divided by tb respve  number of       cludiwn armed forms n  unemployed but excluding housewives,
hospil beds availble in pubic and privat, geeral and  eialirad  studentri   etc, covesnar   pouolalon of a1  ag nd 1t dasta.
hositas and rehabiltati  cnter Hoitals are establisiments                                    b
pemanntly staffed by at lt one physic    Estbimnts provw       g        (prct)-Fem    labor force as pent    of total labor
ding principally custodial care a  not included. Rurl hospitals  foce
however, indude health and nedical cntes not permanently staffed  Aricbwe (percer)-Labor force in farning, forstry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical asistant, nurse. midwife. etc.)    and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
wbich offer in-patient accommodation and provide a lnimted ange  data.
of medical facilities                                        1nusr (percrj)-Labor fonre in mining, construction, manu-
Adatsoes pr Hoepisal Bed-Total number of admissions to or     fauring and elctrcity, water and gs as percentage of total labor
dischage from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force: 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
tP*adon Re (percir-t4, mk.d4, nf rpa pion
HOUSING                                                       or activity rtes are computed as totaL maLk and female lbor force
Avera3ge ze of 8eoudM (perms per    eUrn .,    as pemrtages of total, male and female population of all ages
and rual-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  espectily; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quaters and their main meak  A boarder or bdger may or  participation rates relecting age-sex structure of the population. and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources
Avegage Number of Pesms per Resam-towl, arb, and rura-       E&oauk Dependency Rado-Ratio of population under 15, and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural    65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exdude
non-pcnnanent structures and unoccupied parts                INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Perce e of Dwens with Elekciciry- raa, orm. ad nwr-           Percentage of Totad D;posab  income (boak - cah and Main)-
Conventional dwellings with eectricity in living quarters as pernen-  Accruing to percertile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of totaL urban. and rural dwellings respectively.        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4sred Efi_ment Rato                                          The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prhnarv school - toral, male and femak-Gross totaL, male and  levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the prinary lkvd as percentages of  Esr;nwed Absolte PRewry Irnew Level (USS per capiaw-rban
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and rral-Absolute poverty income level is that income klvel
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years, others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differnens in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are refected in ;he ratios given. For some countries with universa  Estrmated Reative Pbwerty Incoe Level (USS per capitaJ-whan
education. gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  and rul-ural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are bdow or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income or the countrv. Urban level is
age.                                                         derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary sdceol - toua, mle and femak-Computed as above.    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pnt-  Esiwed P.pdhian Below Absoeb e Porerty Incoie Le-el (per-
mary instructon: provides general. vocational. or teacher training  cerl-arban and rura- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are -absolute poor.
ence courses are geneally exduded.
Vocauonal Enro seni (percent of secondary)-Vocational institu-          Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions indude technical indusriaL or other programs which operate     Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independendy or as departments of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



ANNEX    I
-27-                           Page 5 of 6
ECONOMIC INDICAXOR8 - NEPAL
GRP PER CAPITA II 1983: USS170
GROSS DOMW STIC PRODUCT IN 1984185                                 AlUDASL RATE OF GROWTH. 1974/75-1984/85
(Z. constant prices)
US$ Min,      Z
GDP at Market Prices                2,344      100.0                              3.2
Gross Dmestic Investment             446        19.0
Gross Domestic Saving                247        10.5
Current Account Balance (exc.
official grants)                   -168       -7.2
Exports of Goods, NFS                288        12.3
Imports of Goods, NFS                487       20.8
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1982/83
Value Added
Value Added             Labor  orce Al          Per Worker
US$  My.                      n.     X
Agriculture                         1,286        56            6.3    91.0               204
Industry k/                          277        12             0.2     3.0             1,385
Services                              725       _2             0.4       6.0           1.813
Total/Average                 2,282       100             6.9    100                331
GOVERNMNT FINANCE                                         CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
NRs. Mln.
Z of GDP
1981/82      1982/83      1983/84      1984/85       1984/85
Current Receipts                      2,668         2,808        3,342        3,961          9.5
Regular Expenditures                   1,.627       1.           2.274        2.g84          2.1
Current Surplus                       1,041           814        1,068           977         2.3
Development Expenditure               3,727         4,982        5,164        5,528         13.2
Ekternal Assistance (Net)             1,688         2,028        2,861        2,663          6.4
]MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
198         Lai         l982        l93         190,4       198
(Million NRs, outstanding mid-July)
Money and Quasi Nmoey                     5,285        6,308       7,459       9,222       10,456     12,213
Bank Credit to Governaent                 1,258        1,263       2,062       4,090        5,029      6,433
Bank Credit to Public Enterprises            702         946         840       1,137          953      1,151
Bank Credit to Private Sector             2,346        2,952       3,142       3,264        3,842      4,689
Money and Quasi Money as Z of GDP           22.6        21.7        22.9        27.4         27.4       29.3
General Price Index (1974/75 - 100)        128.7       145.9       161.2       184.1        195.6      198.6
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                          9.8        13.4        10.4         14.2         6.2        1.5
Bank Credit to Gaverment                    15.8        -0.4        57.1         93.8        24.2       27.9
Bank Credit to Public Enterprises           14.9        33.3         1.0        44.0        -18.9       20.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector               28.9        26.9         2.4          3.7        16.9       22.1
Note: All conversions to US dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
Fiscal year data are for Nepalese fiscal year, July 16 - July 15.
LJ Total labor force; unmployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
Ji Includes uining, manufacturing, construction and utilities.



ANIU      I
-28-                                     Page 6 of 6
1981/82   1982J83   1983/84   1984/85          MRCHANDIS8 EXPORTS 1984/85
(USS Million)
USS lI1D.    Z
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Agricultural products             91.7      5Y
Exports                        277.6     250.4     303.5      306.0          Manufactures                       63.7      41
Merchandise t.o.b           115.6      82.3     123.9      155.4
Non-factor Services         162.0     168.1     179.5      150.6          Total                            155.4    100
Imports                        450.5     521.6     551.3      515.3
Merchendise c.i.f          382.5      459.0     473.6      445.7          EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMWR 31. 1985
Non-factor Services          68.0      62.6      71.7       69.6
U$ min.
Resource Gap                   172.8     271.2     247.8      209.3
PUblic Debt. inc. gucranteed            52/.3
Net factor Income               12.5      13.0       0.1        0            Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Net Current Transfers           40.6      41.7      50.2       41.7          Total Outstanding & Disbursed            5Z/.3
Current Account Deficit        119.8     216.5     197.5      167.7
Official Grant Aid              89.4      95.3     100.1       87.1          DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1984/85             S
Net MKLT Loans                  59.8      67.0      87.2       73.8          Public Debt. inc. guaranteed              5.0
Disbursements                62.3      69.9      92.4       78.7
Repayments                    2.5       2.9       5.1        4.9
Capital Floug N.E.I.             9.3       5.2       1.0    -40.0            IBRD/IDA LENDINC  April 30. 1986 (Millions US$)
Overall Balance                 35.8     -49.0      -9.1      -46.7                                                USS  fln.
Change in Net Reserves         -38.8      49.0       9.0       46.7                                              IRBD    IDA
(-increase)
Outstanding & Disbursed              -    251.7
Gro-s Official Reserves        322.6     163.1     123.1       93.6          Undisbursed                           -    354.7
(Mid July)
Outstanding. incl unaisnurged        -    6u0b.4
RATE OF EXCHANGE
From March 20. 19/8      From September 19. 1981    From December 1/. 1982
to September 18. 1981    to December 16. 1982        to Mar 31. 1983            June 30. 1984 a/          December 31. 1984
US$1.00  = NRs 12.00     US$1.00  = NRs 13.2         US$1.OU  = NM. 14.3        Us$1.0O   = Ns 1.4       US$1.0U  = NKS 18.0
NRs 1.00 = US$ 0.083     NRa 1.00 = US$ 0.076        NRs 1.00 = USS 0.070       NRs 1.00  = USS  0.061   NRs 1.00 = US$ 0.056
Marcb 31. 1985           June 30. 1985               September 30. 1985         December 31. 1985         June 15. 1986
US$1.00  = NRs 18.1      US$1.00  = 1Rs 18.1         US$1.00 = MRs 17.3         US$1.00 = NRs 20.9        US$1.00 = NRa 21.2
NRa 1.00 = USS 0.055     NRs 1.00 = US$ 0.055        NRs 1.00= USS0.058         NRs 1.00= US$ 0.048      Nla  1.OU = UbS 0.04.
a/  Since June 1. 1983. the Nepal Rastra Bank announces the erchange rate dally.
based on a trade-weighted basket. with the US doUlar as the intervention
currency. The rate shown here is the mid-rcte on the date indicated.
South. Asia Programs Department
June 16. 1986



Annex II
-29-                     Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1986) a/ & b/
US$ million
(net of cancellations)
NO.      Year      Borrower                   Purpose                IDA   Undisbursed
Fourteen credits fully disbursed                                    127.8
704     1977  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Water Supply & Sewerage    8.0         0.7
772     1978  Kingdom of Nepal  Technical Education                  5.7      1.2
812     1978  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Sunsari-Morang)         30.0      5.6
856     1979  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Narayani Zone)          14.0      2.8
939     1979  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Rural Development            11.0      6.8
1008     1980  Kingdom of Nepal  Community Forestry                  17.0      9.7
1055     1980  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Mahakali)               16.0     10.9
1059     1981  Kingdom of Nepal  Third Water Supply & Sewerage    27.0        10.5
1062c/   1981  Kingdom of Nepal  Grain Storage                        6.2      2.7
1093c/   1981  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Babai)                   3.5      0.1
i100     1981  Kingdom of Nepal  Agricultural Extension & Res.    17.5         7.1
h1O1lc   1981  Kingdom of Nepal  Hill Food Production                8.0       5.1
1191c/   1982  Kingdom of Nepal  Cottage & Small Industries          6.5       0.7
1198c/   1982  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Education                    14.3     11.9
1260c/   1982  Kingdom of Nepal  Petroleum Exploration Promotion   9.2         4.0
1316c/   1983  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation VI-Bhairawa-Lumbini   16.0        11.5
1339c/   1983  Kingdom of Nepal  Cash Crop Development                6.0      3.6
1379cl   1983  Kingdom of Nepal  Technical Assistance II              6.0      5.2
1400c/   1984  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Forestry                     16.0     16.8
1452c/   1984  Kingdom of Nepal  Karnali Preparation                 11.0     11.4
1463c/   1984  Kingdom of Nepal  Primary Education                   12.8     13.4
1478c|   1984  Kingdom of Nepal  Marsyangdi Hydroelectric Power  107.0    114.4
1515c/   1985  Kingdom of Nepal  Third Highways                     47.5      50.9
1534c/   1985  Kingdom of Nepal  Agric. Manpower Development          8.4      9.7
1535c/   1985  Kingdom of Nepal  Industrial Development               7.5      8.5
1570c/   1985  Kingdom of Nepal  Agricultural Extension II            7.2      8.4
1588c/d/ 1985  Kingdom of Nepal  Telecommunication IV               22.0      22.0
Total,                           589.1    355.6
of which has been repaid         1.0
Total now outstanding b/         588.1
Total now held by IDA            588.1
Total undisbursed                          355.6
a/  No Bank loans have been made to Nepal.
bi  Prior to exchange adjustments.
c/  IDA 6th and 7th Replenishments Credits, principal amounts shown in U.S. dollar
equivalent at date of negotiations, as shown in President Reports, and
undisbursed amounts shown U.S. dollar equivalent are valued at the exchange
rate applicable on the date of this statement.
d/  Not vet effective.



-30-
Annex II
Page 2 of 2
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of March 31, 1986)
Amount ($ million)
Year              Obliger              Type of Business      Loan   Equity   Total
1975    Soaltee Hotel (Pvt) Ltd.       Hotel                 2.7      0.4      3.1
1982    Nepal Orind Magnesite          Mine and process      4.8       -       4.8
(Private) Limited            magnesite ore
Total commitments now held by IFC                    7.5     0.4       7.9



-31-
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
NEPAL
Rasuwa Nuwakot Rural Development Project - Phase II
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I        Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare project.
one and a half years
(b) The Agency which has prepared the project.
APROSC Consultants (Nepal) under overall
guidance of Ministry of Panchayat and Local
Development
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank Group.
July 1983
[d) Date of Departure of appraisal mission.
February 1985
(e) Date of Completion of negotiations.
March 11, 1986
(f) Planned date of effectiveness.
September 30, 1986
Section II       Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III      Special Conditions
(a) The signing of the UNDP Technical Assistance Agreement,
appointment of an executing agency and reorganization of
the Project Coordinator's office would be a condition
of IDA credit effectiveness.



-32-                        Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(b) Execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with
ADBN and the Financial Agreement with AIC would
be conditions of disbursement of IDA funds in
respect of expenditures for the provision of
credit to farmers and funds to AIC for importation
and distribution of farm inputs.
(c) A Special Account in the Nepal Rastra Bank would
be opened and maintained by the Borrower on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, and
with an authorized allocation of an amount equivalent
to US$350,000.



IBRD 1868.
NEPAL                          NEPAL
RASUWA-NUWAKOT RURAL DE\ NUWAKOT RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PHASE 11                       PHASE  11
SAii.',    Tll II,C[                                 Nuwakot Project A               Nuwakot Project Area
PROPOSfD PAIcIrrES      B      PROPOSES FACILITIES. -          r                          / 7-1,\
I * Az11::.c.O.  5-         Bt    O ~.4 S......              C  bn i.  Sr O,A T.e V w  R. 11-d.
1                             ir      HllR RI.4goi..  H l  I\
\IMIANG , 0                                                                kURI  -   CM ROSR  ShR.   M.W-OlR Sd..m 4+P ,                  .-m
R~~~~pi                R~~~~~.hiiiiii   f4 w.1.,
B ARSLlUPK 11        ,  ,,,,         -i    _       f                 r M. Il  tek                   lo MO.8U rk                                                                t>z
*                           .4 E.OSI.,g  ~   ~ ~ ~ F          R.W
RASUWA DISTRICT                RASUWA DiSTRICT  ,                A                              A
* A~~~~~~~A
(/AKGL         5w IL ACttAy v CAGLSWORi  ,-. A   -  HES         -                   - E
D-IADINGA                                    -.,                         '               - < 
it.                                                           KAIIKAHI'A:Lf           A     A        Op,A
10 RL                         D E                                  --                                                         . A
VA~ ~ A 
0                          *                          ''_I!ANPt < > < * - (_) SINDHU
* *                               PA /     /    d  _LCHOK
-I ANTI P        U         6               '~~~~~~~~~~~~~44.    E.,l ~~~~~~DISTRICT
A,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RN
*   .    l  /        A   OK-t r , | li.A t /         KATHMANDU  DISTRICT,                                      t    lr
SimLRRei.SS                    nLOTdEDRS,t      .                      'S INDIA b;
L                                      |                               1 _                                                                    V SEF'rEITEEP lfLT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERESER40






