-OFFICIAL
CREDIT NUMBER 1727 NEP
Development Credit Agreement
(Rasuwa-Nuwakot Rural Development Phase II Project)
between
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1986


﻿CREDIT NU14BER 1727 NEP
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1986, between
the KINDGOM OF NEPAL (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the United
Nations Development Programme (hereinafter called UNDP) a grant
(the UNDP Grant) in an amount of 1i,100,000 to assist in
financing the technical assistance and overseas training under
Part E (2) and studies under Part F of the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the UNDP Grant Agree-
ment) to be entered into between the Borrower and UNDP; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the modification set forth below (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. The last
sentence of Section 3.02 of the General Conditions is hereby
deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Coordinator's Office" and the acronym "PCO"
mean the office established by the Borrower pursuant to the pro-
visions of Section 3.04 of the Prior Development Credit Agree-
ment;


﻿-2-
(b) "Prior Development Credit Agreement" means the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement dated April 30, 1976, between the Kingdom
of Nepal and the Association for purposes of Credit No. 617-NEP
(Rural Development Project);
(c) "Project Area" means the area included in the districts
of Rasuwa and Nuwakot in the Bagmati Zone of the Central Develop-
ment Region of Nepal, including about 80 Village Panchayats with
a total estimated population of about 230,000;
(d) "User Groups" means the groups of villagers/farmers
formed for purposes of planning, executing, operating and
maintaining the irrigation schemes and other rural infrastructure
under Parts A and D of the Project, respectively;
(e) "SFDP" means the on-going small farmers development
programme implemented by the ADBN;
(f) "ADBN" means the Agricultural Development Bank of
Nepal, established under the Borrower's Agricultural Development
Bank Act, 2024 (1967), as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(g) "AIC" means the Agricultural Inputs Corporation, estab-
lished under the Borrower's Corporation Act, 2021 (1964), as
amended to the date of this Agreement;
(h) "International Volunteers" means the professional and
para-professional staff employed by the Borrower from recognized
international voluntary agencies for assisting in the carrying
out of the Project;
(i) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement entered
into between the Borrower and ADBN pursuant to the provisions of
Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(j) "Financial Agreement" means the agreement entered into
between the Borrower and AIC pursuant to the provisions of Sec-
tion 3.03 (b) of this Agreement;
(k) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(1) "Nepal Rastra Bank" means the central bank of the
Borrower, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's
Nepal Rastra Bank, Act, 2012 (1955); and


﻿-3-
(m) "Tuki System" means the system for selecting and
training farmers in the Project Area to act as model farmers of
improved farming practices and agents of AIC for retailing farm
inputs on a commission basis.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to sixteen million six hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 16,600,000).
Section 2.62. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special account in the Nepal
Rastra Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.


﻿-4-
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing October 1, 1996, and ending April 1,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on April 1, 2006 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
ADBN, AIC and the Borrower's Ministries of Agriculture, Forest
and Soil Conservation, Water Resources, and Panchayat and Local
Development, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate technical, engineering, agricultural, forestry,
managerial, financial and public health practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.


﻿-5-
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3,03. The Borrower shall:
(a) relend to ADBN out of the proceeds of the Credit an
aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000 under an agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and ADBN under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including those set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Association;
(b) make available to AIC out of the proceeds of the Credit
an aggregate amount of $1,700,000 equivalent, under an agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and AIC under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause ADBN to relend to the
eligible borrowers referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement,
the proceeds of the Credit relent to ADBN pursuant to Section
3.03   (a)  of   this  Agreement   under  terms   and  conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including those set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause AIC to use the pro-
ceeds of the Credit made available to AIC pursuant to Section
3.03 (b) of this Agreement, exclusively for the purposes, inter
alia, of importation of fertilizer, pesticides, seeds, other
agro-chemicals and agricultural tools and machinery as well as
for constructing physical facilities related to the implementa-
tion of the Project, under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association.


﻿-6-
Sectioa 3.06. The Borrower shall cause ADBN to maintain, at
all times, the amount of credit available in the Project Area for
agriculture at such levels as shall be required to adequately
meet the credit demand.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Financial Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interest of the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive either the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or the Financial Agreement, or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, aDd cause
ADBN and AIC to maintain, separate records and accounts adequate
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices (i) the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project
of ADBN, AIC and the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and
(ii) ADBN's and AIC's operations and financial conditions with
respect to their activities under the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have its accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, including the Special Account, for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.,


﻿-7-
(c) The Borrower shall cause ADBN and AIC each to: (i) have
their accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, state-
ment of income and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon
as available, but In any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of ADBN and AIC and the audit thereof as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(d) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall, and shall cause ADBN and AIC to:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain,   until   at  least  one   year  after  the
completion of the audit for the fiscal year ii
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was   made   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures were used for the purposes for
which they were provided.
Section 4.02. Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, commencing on
its Fiscal Year 1986-87 and thereafter, make adequate budgetary
provisions for carrying out the Project and release the budgeted
funds required for each trimester by not later than the first
fortnight of each trimester.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) Either ADBN or AIC shall have failed to perform any of
their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
or the Financial Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
either ADBN or AIC will be able to perform their respective
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or Financial
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) that the UNDP Agreement shall have been duly signed by
the parties thereto;
(b) that an executing agency acceptable to the Borrower,
UNDP and the Association shall have been duly appointed as
executing agency for the Project components financed out of the
proceeds of the UNDP Grant; and
(c) that the PCO has been reorganized pursuant to the
provisions of Schedule 4 (a) to this Agreement.


﻿- 9 -
Section 6.02. The date 90 days after the date of this Agree-
ment is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
His Majesty's Government
Kathmandu
Nepal
Cable address:                       Telex:
ARTRA                              2249-NEP
Kathmandu, Nepal
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United State-- of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
By 5
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional VJt President
South Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 7,710,000       90%
(2) Vehicles, equip-            1,390,000       100% of foreign
ment, furniture                            expenditures,
and construction                           100% of local
materials                                  expenditures (ex-
factory cost),
and 70% of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured lically
(3) Salaries and                1,300,000       FY1986: 80%
allowances for                             FY1987: 80%
incremental staff,                         FY1988: 80%
and Project                                FY1989: 70%
operating and                              FY1990: 70%
maintenance costs                          FY1991: 50%
FY1992: 40%
FY1993: 20%
(4) Fertilizers, agro-          1,300,000       100% of foreign
chemicals, agri-                           expenditures,
cultural equipment,                        100% of local
and breeding stocks                        expenditures (ex-
factory cost
and local breed-
ing centers, as
the case may be)
and 70% of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(5) Credits under Part            870,000       90%
C of the Project
(6) Studies and tech-           1,090,000       100%
nical assistance
under Part A (6)
of the Project
(7) Forestry planta-            1,560,000       90%
tion and soil
conservation
activities, and
improved stove
programme
(8) Extension                   1,040,000       90%
activities,
adaptive research
and in-country
training
(9) Unallocated                   340,000
TOTAL               16,600,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
(c) the term "incremental staff" means the Borrower's
additional staff employed after July 16, 1985 for purposes of the
Project; and


﻿- 13 -
(d) the acronym "FY" means the Borrower's Fiscal Year.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, _no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 260,000, may be made in respect of vehicles, equipment and
furniture under Category (2), salaries and allowances of incre-
mental staff and operating and maintenance costs under Category
(3), technical assistance and studies under Category (6), and
training under Category (8) on account of payments made for ex-
penditures before that date but after July 16, 1985; and (b) in
respect of expenditures under Categories (4) and (5) of the table
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, until the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment and Financial Agreement have been signed by the Borrower and
ADBN and AIC, respectively, pursuant to the provisions of Section
3.03 (a) and (b), respectively, and the Borrower has furnished to
the Association an opinion by counsel acceptable to the Associa-
tion that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and Financial Agreement
have been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and ADBN
and AIC, respectively, and are legally binding upon the Borrower
and ADBN and AIC, respectively, in accordance with their terms.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to increase production,
employment and rural income in the Project Area.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Agricultural Development
(1) Irrigation
(a) Completion, rehabilitation and upgrading, as the case
may be, of about 18 existing irrigation schemes in the Project
Area to serve a cl-mmand area of about 300 ha net.
(b) Construction of about 28 irrigation schemes in the Pro-
ject Area (about 5 in Rasuwa and about 23 in Nuwakot districts)
to serve a command area of about 900 ha net.
(c) Construction of the Boketar-Chawkitar, Simra, Thansingh
and Ratomate gravity irrigation systems to serve a command area
of about 750 ha net.
(d) Rehabilitation and upgrading of the Labdu-Dhikure and
Gadhkar irrigation schemes to serve a command area of about
100 ha net and about 40 ha net, respectively.
(2) Agricultural Extension Services
(a) Strengthening and enhancement of the existing agricul-
tural extension services at the district and panchayat levels in
the Project Area through the: (i) construction and equipping of
office buildings and staff quarters for about 8 additional agri-
cultural service centers (about 3 in Rasuwa and about 5 in
Nuwakot districts); (ii) construction and equipping of the
required additional office buildings and staff quarters for the
District Agricultural Development Offices located at Trishuli and
Dhunche; (iii) provision of staff, agricultural tools, vehicles
and motorcycles therefor; (iv) provision of plant protection and
seed dressing equipment for each village Panchayat; (v) carrying
out of extension activities including farmers visits, demonstra-
tions and exhibitions; and (vi) introduction and promotion of the
Tuki System.


﻿- 15 -
(3) Agricultural Training and On-farm Adaptive Research
(a) Strengthening and upgrading of the Regional Training
Center Trisuli Bazaar and the satellite training centers at
Kakani and Dhunche through the: (i) construction and/or upgrad-
ing, as the case may be, of training facilities and staff quar-
ters; (ii) training of farmers and Project staff on agricultural
production; and (iii) provision of staff, training equipment and
materials, vehicles and furniture therefor.
(b) Establishment of an on-farm adaptive research unit in
the Agronomy Division of the Borrower's Department of Agriculture
at Kakani, including, provision of staff, construction and equip-
ping of the required office buildings and staff quarters,
vehicles and materials therefor.
(c) Improvement of the Kakani, Dhunche and Trishuli
agriculture/horticulture farms through the provision of: (i)
staff; (ii) physical facilities including land development,
protective fencing, irrigation systems and staff quarters; and
(iii) vehicles, equipment and furniture therefor.
(d) Implementation of a program to assess the technical and
economic viability of commercial production and marketing of
temperate and tropical fruits in the Project Area.
(4) Agricultural Inputs Supplies
(a) Importation and distribution through the Borrower's
Agricultural    Input   Corporation    of    fertilizer,   seeds,
agro-chemical, and agricultural tools and equipment required in
the Project Area.
(b) Construction of two additional godowns (one of about
500 MT at Bidur and one of about 100 MT at Dhunche) and expansion
and/or improvement, as the case may be, of the existing office
buildings in the district headquarters within the Project Area.
(c) Provision of staff, vehicles and equipment therefor.
(5) Livestock and Animal Health Services
(a) Strengthening of the existing district veterinary
hospitals and livestock sub-centers at Trishuli and Dhunche
through: (i) provision of staff, livestock, vehicles, surgical


﻿- 16 -
and other required equipment, medicines, drenches and vaccines;
(ii) expansion of the physical facilities of the above-mentioned
veterinary hospitals; and (iii) construction of about 4 addi-
tional livestock centers and about 6 dipping tanks.
(b) Strengthening of the Borrower's training program for
livestock owner/farmers in elementary health care, disease
identification, first aid and treatment for common and simple
ailments   through  adequate   training  courses   and  financial
assistance.
(c) Improvement of the pasture development farms at Rasuwa
and the Panchsayakhola sheep farm in Nuwakot district.
(6) Detailed design and feasibility studies for the irrigation
schemes and other civil works under the Project, including provi-
sion of technical assistance therefor.
Part B:   Forestry and Soil Conservation
(1) Establishment of about 3,000 ha of Panchayat Forests,
about 250 ha of Leasehold Forests, about 500 ha of .private/
homestead plantings and about 1,000 ha of public plantings.
Rehabilitation and protection of about 3,000 ha of degraded
Panchayat Protected Forests. Promotion of usage fuel savings
stoves. Carrying out enrichment planting on and protection of
1,200 ha of public forests. Demarcation of about 375 kms of
forest area. Maintenance of about 750 ha of existing plantings in
the Project Area.
(2) Establishment and implementation of a soil conservation
and watershed management program, including: (a) protection of
about 500 ha of upper catchments and minor watersheds of the
Tadi, Likhu and Samarikhola rivers through, inter alia, conserva-
tion of natural vegetation and construction of structures; (b)
intensive watershed conservation on about 470 ha of highway
degraded minor watershed, drinking water and irrigation sources;
(c) rehabilitation of about 500 ha of erosion prone areas; (d)
strengthehing of conservation education, extension and training;
and (e) provision of staff, seedlings, vehicles and equipment,
and construction of the required office buildings and staff
quarters.
Part C:   Agricultural Credit
Provision of credit by ADBN to farmers in the Project Area
directly and through cooperative societies and small farmer


﻿- 17 -
development groups for: (a) the establishment and operation of
orchard, fruit preservation units, and about ten new Small
Farmers Development Sub-projects under the SFDP program; (b) the
purchase and utilization of farm inputs, including fertilizers,
agricultural chemicals, seeds, agricultural/dairy equipment, and
livestock (primarily milch animals and small ruminants); and (c)
the support of the Animal Health Workers Development Programme
under Part A (5) (b) of the Project.
Part D:   Rural Infrastructure Development
(1) Rehabilitation and/or completion, as the case may be,
of bout 56 drinking water schemes in the Project Area (about 24
in Rasuwa, including one in Dhunche, and about 32 in Nuwakot
districts).
(2) Construction of about 45 village water supply systems
in the Project Area (about 15 in Rasuwa and about 30 in Nuwakot
districts).
(3) Rehabilitation of about 20 existing suspension bridges
in the Projezt Area and construction of about 18 additional
suspension brlJ;es (about 9 in Rasuwa and about 9 in Nuwakot dis-
tricts).
(4) Rehabilitation of the Sera-Chhahare (about 10 km),
Chaughada Apraha (about 6 km) and Trishuli-Samari (about 4 km)
motorized tracks, and completion/rehabilitation of the Betrawati-
Pairebesi and Labdhu-Kharenitar tracks (about 4 km and 8 km,
respectively).
(5) Construction of the Dhaibung-Jibjibe track in Rasuwa
(about 3 km); the Trishuli-Deorali track in Nuwakot (about 10
km); and the Dhunche Service road in Rasuwa (about 1 km).
Part E:   Institutional Development
(1) Strengthening of the Central Regional Offices of the
Borrower's Departments of Agriculture, Livestock Development and
Animal Health, and Irrigation through the provision of staff,
vehicles and equipment.
(2) Strengthening of the PCU, as well as the Local Develop-
ment Offices and District Technical Offices in the Project Area
througl- -he provision of staff, overseas training, equipment and
vehicles, construction and equipping of the required office
buildings and staff quarters, and technical assistance.


﻿- 18 -
Part F:   Studies
The carrying out of studies designed to identify key pro-
ject/sector related issues, including a review of the Borrower's
cost recovery policies relating to water charges in small and
medium irrigation schemes and input subsidies      as well as to
monitor and evaluate the implementation of the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Fertilizers, agrochemicals, vehicles, equipment and furni-
ture shall each be grouped in appropriate bidding packages to
facilitate competitive bidding.
Part B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Nepal
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the prov'sions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   All contracts for civil works shall be let on the basis of
competitive  bidding  advertised   locally, in   accordance  with
procedures satisfactory to the Association; provided, however,
that civil works contracts estimated to cost in the aggregate the
equivalent of $2,400,000 may be procured either through force
account or through User Groups.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of vehicles, equipment and furni-
ture estimated to cost each individual item the equivalent of
$30,000 or less and the total of each contract the equivalent of
$150,000 or less, may be procured on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally in accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Association.
3.   All breeding stock shall be procured directly from livestock
markets and breeding centers at the prevailing market prices.


﻿- 20 -
4.   All plantation works for forestry and soil conservation
shall be procured either through force account or piece work
contract, the latter in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Association.
Part D. Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more and with respect to
each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Associa-
tion pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants and International


﻿- 21 -
Volunteers whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Consultants to be employed for purposes of carrying out Part A
(6) of the Project, shall in addition to the foregoing be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.   The Borrower shall:
(a) take all such actions as shall be necessary to reorgan-
ize the Project Coordinator's Office in a manner satisfactory to
the Association, and, thereafter, maintain the Project Coordina-
tor's Office headed by a suitable and qualified officer, accept-
able to the Association, for purposes of assisting ADBN, AIC and
the departments and agencies of the Borrower responsible for the
carrying out of the Project or a Part thereof, in the planning,
monitoring, and evaluation of the various activities under the
Project and to act as a liasion among ADBN, AIC and such depart-
ments and agencies. The PCO shall, at all times, be assigned with
such powers, functions, responsibilities, funds and staffing as
shall be required for achieving its purposes;
(b) take all such action as shall be required to ensure an
active and effective participation by the PCO in the meetings and
deliberations of the District Plan Formulation and District
Supervision Committees of the District Panchayats in the Project
Area;
(c) by September 30, 1987, prepare and furnish to the Asso-
ciation, for its review and comments, the results and recommenda-
tions of the studies relating to cost recovery and input subsi-
dies under Part F of the Project carried out in accordance with
terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and by Decem-
ber 31, 1987, on the basis of the results and recommendations of
the above-mentioned studies and the Association's comments, if
any, thereto prepare and furnish to the Association an action
plan, including guidelines, principles, policies and implementa-
tion schedules, for:
(A) establishing and, thereafter collecting irrigation
water charges at such levels as shall be required
to cover full costs of operation and maintenance
and, taking into account farmers' payment capa-
city, a reasonable portion of the investment costs
of small and medium irrigation schemes in Nepal;
(B) establishing and, thereafter, collecting water
user charges and/or benefit taxes to cover full


﻿- 23 -
costs of operation and maintenance and, taking
into account beneficiaries'/users' payment capa-
city, a reasonable portion of tne investment costs
of rural infrastructure works under the Project;
and
(C) establishing and, thereafter, applying a phased
elimination of farm input subsidies, including
development of broader channels of input supplies
(including private sector) to beneficiaries; and,
thereafter, implement such action plan, as so
approved.
(d) prior to undertaking the construction of an irrigation
scheme under Part A (i) and other rural infrastructure works
under Part D of the Project, take all such action as shall be
necessary to adequately establish User Groups, including means
for ensuring beneficiaries active participation/contribution for
the construction, operation and maintenance of such works;
(e) by December 31, 1986, establish and, thereafter,
maintain within its Agriculture Department, - Unit dealing wi.th
irrigation, agronomy, and water management and utilization
aspects for purposes of advising farmers in maximizing benefits
from the irrigation schemes under the Project, such Unit to be
headed by a qualified and experienced officer and to be assigned,
at all times, with such powers, functions, responsibilities,
funds and staffing as shall be required to carry out its
purposes;
(f) by July 31, 1987, prepare and furnish to the Associa-
tion, for its approval, draft Forest Management Plans providing
guidelines to the District Panchayats in the Project Area for the
protection and maintenance of the forest plantations and distri-
butions of the produce;
(g) without limitation, to Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions, by December 31 of each year, commencing on Decem-
ber 31, 1986, make available to each District Panchayat in the
Project Area with the required unencumbered land for carrying out
the forestry plantation under Part B (1) of the Project;
(h) by September 30, 1987, prepare and furnish to the
Association for its approval a Watershed Management Plan for the
Project Area, and, thereafter, implement such Plan as so
approved; and


﻿- 24 -
(i) not later than January 31, 1989, prepare and furnish
to the Association, for its approval, terms of reference for
carrying out a mid-term review on the execution of the Project,
and, thereafter, carry out such mid-term review pursuant to the
terms of reference as so approved, furnishing to the Association
the results of the mid-term review by not later than Decerber 31,
1989.
2.   The Borrower undertakes to take all such actions as shall be
necessary to ensure that:
(a) trainees for overseas training programs shall: (i) be
individuals with qualifications and experience satisfactory to
the Association; (ii) be trained in institutions and programs
acceptable to the Association; and (iii) upon their return to
Nepal, be provided with adequate jobs to serve for at least five
years in rural development projects in Nepal;
(b) all civil works under the Project shall be undertaken
by qualified and experienced contractors registered by the
Borrower's Ministry of Works and Transport, or by properly
constituted User Groups; and
(c) (i) Projec-. staff shall be appointed, deployed and
maintained in a manner that shall contribute to achieve the
objectives of the Project; (ii) incremental Project staff which
is required for carrying out post-investment Project activities
shall, commencing on the Borrower's Fiscal Year 1990-91, be
included in the Borrower's regular staff budget; and (iii) the
Local Development Officers required for carrying out the Project
shall be qualified and experienced officers of at least confirMed
Class II Gazetted Officers.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 5
Lending Terms in respect of
Credits under Part C of the Project
1.   ADBN Subsidiary Loan Agreement
(a) Repayment period:      repayment period not to exceed
seven years; provided, however,
that the repayment period may be
extended by agreement between the
Borrower and ADBN with the prior
consent of the Association.
(b) Interest rate:         an interest rate equivalent to
the prevailing rediscount facil-
ity rate of the Nepal Rastra Bank
for   the  agriculture   priority
sector.
(c) Security:              ADBN's standard security policy
with respect to cooperatives or
individuals.
(d) Foreign exchange       to be borne by the Borrower.
risk:
2.   Eligible Borrowers for Credits under Part C of the Project
Cooperatives, Small Farmers Groups, individual farmers and
Animal Health Workers on an individual basis.
3.   ADBN's on-lending terms and conditions
(a) To Cooperatives and Small Farmers Group:
(i) Short-term credit: interest at the rate of 11% per
annum and a repayment period of up to 18 months,
without a grace period.
(ii) Medium-term credit: interest at the rate of 8% per
annum and a repayment period of up to 7 years,
including a grace period of up to 2 years.
(b) To Individual Farmers and Animal Health Workers:


﻿- 26 -
(i) Short-term credit: interest at the rate of 15% per
annum and a repayment period of up to 18 months,
without a grace period.
(ii) Medium-term credit: interest at the rate of 12%
per annum, av ' a repayment period of up to 7
years, including a grace period of up to 2 years.
4.   Cooperatives on-lending terms and conditions to individual
farmers.
(a) Short-term credit: interest at the rate of 15% per
annum and a repayment period of up to 18 months, without a grace
period.
(b) Medium-term credit: interest at the rate of 12% per
annum and a repayment period of up to 7 years, including a grace
period of up to 2 years.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7) and (8) set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $350,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the


﻿- 28 -
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit    allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,.
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Associa-
tion shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further with-
drawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2


﻿- 29 -
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligibl:e expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


