Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAt, USE ONLY
Report No. 11684-GUI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR PROJECT
DECEMBER 22, 1993
Population and Human Resources Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Guinean Franc (GF)
US$I = GF953
GFI = US$0.00l
GFIOOC = US$1.05
MEASURES
I m = 1.09 yd
I ml = 10.76 sq ft
I km1 = 0.38 sq mi
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB        African Development Bank
AGBEF       Guinean Association for Family Well-Being
AGETIP      Agency for the Execution of Works in the Public Interest
AIDS        Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
BEPR        Studies, Planning and Research Division (MSPAS)
BPFR        Training, Planning and Research Division (MSPAS)
CLSAG       African Institute for Management Training
CNSS        National Social Security Fund
CSP         l'roject Review Committee
C`'IC       Technical Coordinating Committee (MSPAS)
DAAF        Division for Administrative and Financial Management (MSPAS)
DIEM        Infrastructure, Equipment and Maintenance Division (MSPAS)
DH          Hospital Division (MSPAS)
DNES        National Directorate for Health Facilities
DNPL        National Directorate for Pharmacy and Laboratory
DP'F        Division for the Promotion of Women (MSPAS)
DPSAS       Prefectorat Directorate for Health and Social Affairs
EEC         European Economic Comniunity
EPI         Expanded Program of Immunization
l:P         Family Planning
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GF          Guinean Franc
GNP         Gross National Product
GTZ         German Technical Cooperation
IDA         International Development Association
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IEC         Information, E,ducation and Communications
IGS         General Hcalth Inspcctorate
IRSAS       Regional Inspectorate for Health and Social Affairs
ABBREVtATIONS AND ACRONYMS (Continued)
KAP         Knowledge, Attitude and Practice
KfW         Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau: German Development Bank
LCB         Local Conipetitive Bidding
MRAFPT    Ministry of Administrative Reform, Civil Service and Labor
MCH         Maternal and Child Health
MIS         Ministry of the Interior and Security
MPF         Ministry of Plan and 1-inance
MSPAS       Ministry of Public Hlealth and Social Affairs
MUV         Unit Value Index of Manufacturers Exports
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
I'CR        Project Completion Report
I'HC        Primary Health Care
PIUIUGP    Project Implementation Unit
PNDS        National Health Development Plan
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
SAL         Structural Adjustment Loan
SIAC        Community-Based Nutrition Information System
SNAPE       Rural Water Supply Service
STD         Sexually Transmitted Diseases
TA          Technical Assistance
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
UNFPA       United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF      United Nations Children's Fund
UNIPAC      UNICEF Procurement Agency
WHO         World Health Organization
FSCALYEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE   .                                   ........... i
CREDIT AND  PROJECT SUMMARY   ..........                         ..         .............. iii
I.  INTRODUCTION
A. Country Economic Framework.1
B.      Human Resources Development in the Broader Economic
Context .......................................... 2
II.  THE POPULATION. HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR
A. Sector Overview..                                                                            3
1. Introduction .3
2.  Population and Family Planning .3
3. Nutrition .4
4. Health.                                                                              4
B.  Past Performance and Key Issues                    ..                                       5
1.  Limited Access and Low Service Quality.                                             5
2.      Weak Sector Organization and Institutional
Capacity.                                                                       7
3.      Financial Constraints and Inefficient Use
of Resources ..............                                                     8
C.      Donor Support to the Sector .........................                                  10
This report is based on the findings of the Bank appraisal mission which visited Guinea in June, 1992. This mission
comprised Mrs. Ethna Johnson (Public Health Specialist and Mission Leader), and Messrs./Mmes. Alain Papineau
(Implementation Specialist), Carin Lenngren (Health Facilities Planner), Malonga Miatudila (Public Health
Specialist), Tonia Marek (Nutrition Specialist), Marc Reveillon (Health Economist) and Seydou Ly (Resident
Mission). The findings from the mission by Ms. Michele Lioy (Information Education and Communications
Specialist) to Guinea in January 1993 have also been incorporated. Ms. Ishrat Husain is Lead Adviser. Peer
reviewers include Dr. Robert Castadot (rechnical Components), and Messrs. Robert Crown and Johan De Leede
(Financial and Management Aspects). Ms. Marilou Bradley (Operations Assistant) prepared the COSTAB for the
proposed project. Mmes. Griest, Hamon and Vaselopulos provided support in the preparation of the report. This
report was reviewed by Mr. Ok Pannenborg, Division Chief, Population and Human Resources Division, and Mr.
Olivier Lafourcade, Director, Occidental and Central Africa Department.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
D.  Government's Sector Policy and Program                                                   ..                           10
1.    Sector Objectives and Policy ....................                                                        10
2.    Sector Strategy and Plan ....................                                                             11
E.        The Bank  Group's Role and  Assistance Strategy  for Health  .......                                    ...  14
1.    The First IDA-financed Health Project .................. 14
2.    Lessons Learned ............................... 15
3.    Proposed Modifications ........................... 15
4.    Assistance Strategy .............................. 17
III. THE PROJECT
A.    Project Objectives ................................... 17
B.        Summary  Description   ......                   .......         ....................  17
1.    Expansion of Service Coverage and
Improvement of Service Quality .................... .  18
2.        Strengthening of Sector Organization and Management ..... .                                          .  18
C. Detailed Features                                                        ..                                            19
1.    Expansion of Service Coverage and Improvement of Service
Quality .................................... 19
2.        Strengthening of Sector Organization and Management ..... .                                          .  23
D.        Project Cost and  Financing    ............................. 28
E.        Project Impact                 .................                        .................... 28
1.        Impact on  Women    ..............................  28
2.        Environmental Impact  ............................  29
F.        Project Implementation   ......                   ......        ....................  29
1         Preparation  Status ............................... 29
2.    Management .................................. 30
3.        Implementation  Schedule   ..........................  32
4.    Procurement .................................. 32
5.    Disbursement ................................. 38
6.    Accounting, Reporting and Auditing ................... 39
7.    Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation ................. 40
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.   Benefits ......................................... 41
B.    Risks ........................................... 42
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ..... ........ 42



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
VI. AN XES
Annex I     Basic Data and Demographic, Health and Nutrition
Indicators
Annex II    Ten Leading Causes of Child Morbidity and General
Morbidity
Annex III   Ministry of Public Health Budget (1980-1991)
Annex IV    Health Personnel by Region/Population Ratios
Annex V     Government's Statement of Health Sector Policy
Annex VI   Institutional Reforms, MSPAS Organization and
Improved Management of the Sector
Annex VII   Decentralization of Management Functions
Annex VIII  Community Participation in Health Development
Annex IX    Priority Programs
Annex X     Action Plan
Annex XI   Training Program and Calendar
Annex XII   Technical Assistance
Annex XIII  Studies and Research
Annex XIV  Implementation Schedule
Annex XV   Project Summary Costs and Financing (COSTAB)
Annex XVI  Disbursement Schedule
Annex XVII Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities
Annex XVIII Status of Bank Group Operations in Guinea
Annex XIX  Implementation Manual (Table of contents)
Map: IBRD 25378






i
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR PROJECT
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Ref. No.    Document Title
1.    MSPAS: Projet Sante et Nutrition: Requee de Financement
(Jan. 1993)
2.    Decret No. 92/121/PRG/SGG portant Attributions
et Organisation du Ministere de la Sante Publique
et des Affaires Sociales (26 Mai 1992)
3.    Projet d'Arrete MSPAS portant Attributions et
Organisation de la DNSP
4.    Projet d'Arrete MSPAS portant Attributions et
Organisation de la DNES
5.    Projet d'Arrete MSPAS portant Attributions et
Organisation de la DNPL
6.    Projet d'Arret6 MSPAS portant Attributions et
Organisation du BPFR
7.    Projet d'Arret6 MSPAS portant Attributions,
Organisation et Fonctionnement de l'IGS
8.    Cadre Organique de l'Inspection Regionale
de la Sante et des Affaires Sociales (IRSAS)
et Projet d'Arrete portant Attributions,
Organisation et Fonctionnement de 1'IRSAS
9.    Projet de D6cret portant Creation, Composition
et Attributions des Comites Regionaux de Sante
10.   Projet de D6cret portant Creation, Composition
et Attribution des Comit6s de Sante de Prefecture
11.   Cadre Organique Revise de la DPSAS et Projet
d'Arrete MSPAS portant Attributions, Organisation
et Fonctionnement de la DPSAS



Ref. No.    Document Title
12.   Projet d'Arr8te Conjoint MSPAS/MIS portant Attributions
et Fonctionnement des Comites de Gestion des Centres
de Sante
13.   Projet d'Arrete Conjoint MSPAS/MIS/MPF fixant les
Modalites d'Utilisation des Fonds de Reserve des Centres
de Sante
14.   Projet d'Arr&t6 Conjoint MPSAS/MIS/MPF fixant
les Modalites d'Assistance aux Centres de
Sante Deficitaires
15.   Projet de D6cret fixant Regime General des
H6pitaux en R6publique de Guin6e
16.   S6minaire-Atelier National sur l'Alimentation
et la Nutrition: Note de presentation sur les
conclusions du seminaire et la mise en oeuvre
de la politique nutritionnelle
17.   MSPAS: Renforcement des Activit6s de Nutrition
dans les Centres de Sante
18.   GTZ: Etude Socio-Economique et Budgetaire dans
le cadre du Projet Sante Rurale Kissidougou/Gueckedou
(Juin 1991)
19.   Republic of Guinea: Children at the Heart of
Development: National Plan of Action for a Decade
for Children (Dakar, November 1992)
20.   L'Initiative de Bamako en Guin6e (1991-1995),
UNICEF, Conakry



iii
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:   Government of Guinea
Amount:    SDR 17.4 million (US$24.6 million equivalent)
Term:       Standard IDA, with 40 years maturity
Project     The overall objective of the project is to expand coverage of low cost health
Objectives:  services in order to improve the health status of the communities reached and,
in particular, the most vulnerable groups of the population. The project would
support measures and activities to: (a) expand coverage and improve quality of
the health, nutrition and family planning delivery system; and (b) improve
sector organization, management and resource mobilization in order to build a
sustainable program consistent with the Government's letter of sector
development policy and strategy.
Project     As part of the Government's health program (1992-2000), the project would
Description: focus on:
(a)   improving service coverage and quality through:
(i)   a phased rehabilitation and maintenance program for health
facilities involving community participation, in three prefectures
in Middle Guinea and four prefectures in Lower Guinea,
directly benefiting over one million people or almost 20 percent
of the country's population;
(ii)  supply of essential drugs, vaccines and iodized capsules to
health facilities in these seven prefectures, and limited support
to the five prefectures covered under the first IDA project; and
(iii) strengthening key technical programs to improve diagnostic and
treatment capabilities, staff performance, and information and
education to communities. The key technical programs to be
supported are maternal and child health and family planning
(MCH/FP), nutrition, certain infectious and parasitic diseases
including malaria, tuberculosis, leprosy, respiratory, diarrheal
and sexually transmitted diseases (STD), including AIDS, and
health and nutrition education. These priority programs would
be supported by an integrated training program for staff and
would focus primarily on the needs of women and children.
(b)   strengthening sector organization and management through:
(i)   adoption of a revised MSPAS structure, light rehabilitation of
the central services building, phased rehabilitation, equipment,



iv
maintenance of facilities and operation of prefectoral and
regional administrative health facilities and teams in eighteen
prefectures in Middle Guinea and Lower Guinea, to allow
greater decentralization of the management system and sector
coordination;
(ii)  improved systems for financial, material and human resource
management; and
(iii)  generation of new resources through user fees and support for
adequate budgetary allocations.
Project
Benefits:    By the end of the project period, both the quality and coverage of health care
will have increased, thereby helping to improve the health status of the
population and particularly of the vulnerable groups in the project area. The
project will expand health care coverage to three additional prefectures of the
ten prefectures in Middle Guinea (of which five are already covered by the
ongoing project), and to four prefectures in Lower Guinea, directly benefiting
over one million people or almost 20 percent of the country's population. In
addition, the health care coverage for particular target groups will increase,
with 70 percent of children under one year of age fully immunized, ante-natal
care coverage for 60 percent of pregnant women (a minimum of three ante-
natal visits and full immunization with tetanus toxoid) and 50 percent coverage
by a trained birth attendant. By supporting the development of decentralized
management structures, sector financing and management and Government's
capacity to plan future investments and coordinate donor activities, the project
will help establish the basis for a sustainable program and build people's
confidence in the public health system.
Project
Risks:       The main risks are: (a) weak political will in following through on policy
measures already begun under the preceding project, such as decentralization
and personnel deployment; (b) financial constraints disrupting operational
performance; and (c) weak management skills affecting implementation of the
project. A weakening of political will would be minimized by: (i) including
up-front measures on key issues (e.g. decentralization) and by linking progress
on these measures to conditions of disbursement for specific project
components; (ii) regular monitoring of program implementation by authorities;
and (iii) an increased involvement of communities in local management and
decision-making. The risk of diminishing sector resources will be addressed
by expanding the cost recovery system, reducing inefficiencies in the sector
and including review of sector budgetary allocations in annual discussions of
project and sector performance. The MSPAS weak institutional capacity
would be addressed by strengthening strategic planning and management and
project management through training and short-term specialist services.



V
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HEALTH AND NUTRIlTION SECTOR PROJECT
Project Cost Summary, Financing Plan and Estimated IDA Disbursements
(net of taxes and duties, in US$ million)
PROJECT COST SUMMARY                                                             Local  Forelan   Total
A. IMPROVING SERVICE COVERAGE AND QUALITY
1. Health Facility Rehabliltation and Maintenance                                   1.2       8.1     9.3
2. Supply of Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines                                           0.1       2.8    2.7
3. Strengthening of Key Technical Programs                                          1.2       0.4     1.6
B. STRENGTHENING SECTOR ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT                                    2.7       5.0    7.7
C. PPF REFINANCING                                                                     0.0        0.7    0.7
Total Base Costs:                                                         5.2      16.8   22.0
Physical Contingencies                                                              0.5       2.2    2.7
Price Contingencies                                                                 1.6       1.0    2.6
Total Contingencies:                                                      2.1        3.2    5.3
TOTAL:             7.3      20.0   27.3
FINANCING PLAN                                                                   Local  Foreion   Total
IDA                                                                                 5.4      19.2   24.6
Govemment                                                                           1.9       0.0     1.9
Beneficiaries                                                                       0.0       0.8    0.8
TOTAL:             7.3      20.0   27.3
ESTIMATED IDA DISBURSEMENTS
IDA Fiscal Year
FY94   FY95       FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99   FY2000 FY2001
Annual                                   0.0     1.4        3.9     3.4     4.4     4.2       5.0    2.3
Cumulative                               0.0     1.4        5.3     8.7    13.1    17.3      22.3   24.6
Rate of Retunm: Not Applicable






Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR PROJECT
I. ITRODUCTION
1.1         The Government of Guinea has requested IDA assistance to finance a project
to support the execution of the Government's health development program and strategy
covering the period 1992-2000. The health policy framework and strategy adopted by
Government has evolved since 1986 and is designed to address issues of quality and coverage
as well as the sustainability of the health care system. This would be the second IDA-
financed investment project in Guinea, designed to expand coverage and improve the quality
and efficiency of the health system, including overall sector management, resource
availability and allocations in the sector. The project will finance health service activities
and rehabilitation in three prefectures in Middle Guinea and four prefectures in Lower
Guinea covering a population of over one million, or almost 20 percent of the country's
population. In addition, limited financial support for the five prefectures covered by the
ongoing project will be provided for technical programs such as training, vaccinations and
iodine capsule distribution. Furthermore, decentralization will be supported through the
rehabilitation of about 18 prefectoral health directorates (in the previously mentioned 12
prefectures and six others), as well as of Lower Guinea's regional health inspectorate;
modest rehabilitation of the central services building of the MSPAS is also included. The
project will strengthen sector organization and efficiency, and generate more resources.
Total project costs are estimated at US$27.3 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange
component of US$20.0 million. Project financing would include US$24.6 million from
IDA, a Govemment contribution of US$1.9 million and a beneficiary contribution of US$0.8
million through cost recovery.
1.2         Project preparation was undertaken in the framework of the Govemment's
technical and institutional programs and activities are fully consistent with sector strategies.
The investments and supporting measures to be financed through this project were developed
by a national preparation team including representatives from the Ministry of Plan and
Finance and the Ministry of Decentralization. In addition, there was regular donor
consultation and involvement in preparation work. Technical preparation work, including
studies and short-term consultancies, has been financed under two Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) advances.
A. Country Economic Framework
1.3         Since the beginning of 1986, the Government of Guinea has been
implementing an ambitious program of economic and financial reform. This was aimed at
improving the incentive framework for private sector development including in the health
sector, phasing out State involvement in commercial enterprises, better management of the
administration including a reduction in the size of the civil service and the development of a



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                             2
strong human resource base. These objectives and associated measures were supported by
the First Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL I), through the first phase of the reform program
from 1986-1988, followed by SAL II which was initiated in 1988. The reform program has
resulted in a full transition from a command to a market economy, increases in non-mining
revenues, the privatization or liquidation of a large number of public enterprises, and a
comprehensive reform of and reduction in the size of the public administration.
1.4         While progress in the first phase of the adjustment program was encouraging,
some of the more difficult institution building and politically sensitive reforms have not been
implemented at the rhythm anticipated. Consequently, this has slowed down the reform
process, with some key measures still to be taken. The SAL H second tranche was released
in November 1992 and a Country Assistance Strategy prepared in November 1993. After
doubling the basic wages in 1991, government finances were faced with a severe liquidity
crisis intensified by a sharp drop in revenues from mining and an unexpected shortfall in
non-mining revenues. This financial problem has exacerbated in 1991 and 1992 the
problems on availability of counterpart financing for foreign projects, which were also due to
tinwieldy payment procedures. In the last year, discussions with the Guinean authorities
pointed out the contradiction between their desire for increased funding on the part of IDA
and the poor performance of the existing portfolio. As a result, the Government has taken
actions in a number of areas to ensure sufficient and timely provision of counterpart funds to
IDA-financed projects and the performance of the overall portfolio improved in FY93. In
addition, in view of the projected fiscal tightness created by the drop in mining revenues, a
Country Portfolio Performance Review, scheduled for March 1994, will study ways to
restructure projects to ensure satisfactory performance towards development objectives.
B. Human Resources Development in the Broader Economic Context
1.5         One of the main constraints to economic growth in Guinea is the limited
human resource base, reflected in the low health status and the poor skill level of the
population. The health system under Guinea's First Republic can be characterized as
extremely inefficient with poor management, inadequate operating means and poor quality
and coverage, particularly in the rural areas. Guinea's Second Republic, declared in 1984,
inherited a health care system that had almost totally collapsed with health indicators among
the worst in Africa.
1.6         Recognizing the critical role that health plays in the economic and social
development objectives of the country, the Government declared its commitment to human
resource development in the context of a comprehensive socio-economic reform program
developed in 1986. A health policy was formulated which had, as its key objectives, to
improve the coverage and quality of primary care services particularly focused on women
and children. Since then, a number of policy measures have been taken to support the
strategy of primary health care, aimed at revitalizing the peripheral health network and
putting critical services such as a vaccination and a basic drug program in place. In addition,
the Government has tried to strengthen the management capacity of the system and to
liberalize and involve the private sector in order to reach health objectives.



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutnition Sector Project                            3
1.7         While recognizing that advancements have been made in the sector even in this
short period, and that the policy objectives remain valid, a number of systemic constraints
discussed later in the report continue to affect the coverage, quality and efficiency of the
system.
H. THE POPULATION, HEALTH AND NlTRITION SECTOR
A. Sector Overvewx
1. Introduction
2.1        In 1984, when the Second Republic was declared, the health care system had
almost totally collapsed, with a heavy dependence on traditional healers and birth attendants.
In 1987, the bed occupancy rate was only 13 percent, primary care consultations covered
only 7 percent of the population and immunization coverage was only 5 percent. In 1991,
service coverage had increased to 40 percent and complete vaccination protection for under-5
year old children reached 60 percent in some areas of the country. Overall, Guinea has
made considerable progress in a short time frame to develop a basic health care system.
However, many areas of the country do not have a fuUy functioning health network
(approximately 200 of the 346 health centers have regular drug supplies and operating
means) and, even in areas with upgraded centers, the quality of care is not uniform.
Although the problems are more acute in the more isolated rural areas, the urban centers and
particularly Conakry are also affected. Migration to the capital and population growth have
put increasing pressure on the already weak system.
2. Population and Famill Planning
2.2         Guinea's population of over 6 million (1991) has a life expectancy of 44 years,
a population growth rate of 2.8 percent per annum and 47 percent of the population below 15
years of age. With the current growth rate, Guinea's population is expected to exceed 8
million by the turn of the century. Crude birth rate is 49 per 1000 population and the total
fertility rate of 6.5 is similar to other low income countries in the region. Although the
population is mainly rural (74 percent), Conakry's population now exceeds 1 million and is
growing at an annual rate of 5 percent, putting increasing pressure on the system. In the
context of high infant and maternal mortality levels in Guinea, there is broad agreement on
the need for birth spacing. However, family planning services are limited to the capital and
to some regional sites and contraceptive prevalence rates remain low (1 percent). The
Government recently developed a Population Policy which supports the development of a
multi-sectoral approach to dealing with the issue of demographic growth. In order to reduce
fertility levels, the Govemment proposes to increase contraceptive use to 25 percent by the
year 2010, and the public health system is expected to play a central role in the promotion
and delivery of family planning services, along with the private sector, to reach this
objective. However, starting from such a low base, considerable effort will be required both
to create a demand for family planning services and at the same time to put the necessary



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                            4
services in place to effectively reach couples ready to adopt family planning. Annex I
contains basic demographic, health and nutrition data.
3. Nutrition
2.3         Although comprehensive national data on nutritional levels are not currently
available, regional studies show widespread serious malnutrition among children, especially
pre-schoolers and pregnant women and lactating mothers. A study conducted in Middle
Guinea in 1990, financed by the first IDA project, shows that 27 percent of pre-schoolers are
chronically malnourished. Another study done in Conakry in the same period shows levels
of 18 percent in this group, and among the poorest households two out of every three
households did not receive calorie requirements 1/. Iodine deficiency is another serious
nutritional problem in Guinea which leads to mentally retarded newborns and decreased labor
productivity; in Middle Guinea a study showed that 20 percent of the children already had
visible goiter. Levels of iron deficiency anemia, based on a 1980 study, show that 60
percent of pregnant women and lactating mothers are affected. Low birth weight is a proxy
for maternal malnutrition and it is estimated that 18 percent of newborns had a birth weight
below 2500 grams. This compares unfavorably with a level of 15 percent based on the
median for a large number of African countries. The determinants of malnutrition are
multiple and inter-related: inadequate breast-feeding practices (in Conakry 20 percent of
children received other food or drink than breastmilk before three months of age although
this is unnecessary and increases the risk of diarrhea) but another 30 percent of mothers gave
only breastmilk to their children until they were more than ten months old; socio-economic
status; seasonal food shortages; and finally morbidity. The correlation between diarrhea and
malnutrition among children in the study population seems well established. The
combination of illness and poor nutrition increases the seriousness of the condition and also
has negative implications for physical and mental growth, school performance and ultimately,
labor force productivity. Based on the preceding analysis work, the Government recently
conducted a Food and Agriculture Organization-sponsored workshop to develop a food and
nutrition strategy and has prepared a broad strategy to address malnutrition including: a
national information, education and communications program for food security and nutrition;
an evaluation mechanism for the follow-up of nutritional problems and their causes based on,
among others, a community-based nutrition information system (SIAC); the integration of
nutritional concerns into the agricultural development policy; improvements in the control
and quality of food; management of high risk groups; and, as a broader goal, an increase in
family incomes.
4. Health
2.4         Guinea's health profile is characterized by high rates of infant and under five
mortality, 136 and 237 per 1000 respectively, compared with an overall infant and under five
mortality rate of 109 and 160 for Sub-Saharan Africa. In other words, an estimated 25
1/   'Enquete de consommation aupres des menages a Conakry",
Ministry of Plan, 1990.



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                                 5
percent of children die before they reach five years. About 65 percent of illnesses among
this age group is caused by malaria, diarrheal disease and respiratory infections. Other
prevalent and easily-preventable diseases include measles, tuberculosis, whooping cough,
poliomyelitis and tetanus. Limited access to potable water and poor sanitation cause a high
prevalence of parasitic and infectious diseases, especially among children under the age of
five. In 1991, 42 percent and 1 percent of the rural population had access to potable water
and sanitation respectively. Annex II gives the leading causes of morbidity among children
of 0-5 years in Guinea in 1990 and the ten leading causes of general morbidity. The high
rate of maternal mortality (8 per 1000) is caused primarily by attempted illegal abortion,
hemorrhage and toxemia in pregnancy. For this reason, the Government is committed to
expanding family planning services through the public health system in order to provide birth
spacing services to couples, to address both high infant and child mortality and high fertility.
Since the first case of AIDS was diagnosed in Guinea in April 1986, a total of 455 cases
have been reported, with the majority of cases in men (69 percent). Although the HIV
prevalence rate is low compared to other countries, there is the potential for a serious health
problem since gynecological infections are among the ten leading causes of morbidity.
B. Past Performance and Key Issues
1. Limited Access and Low Service Ouality
2.5          Two of the most serious sector problems are limited service coverage and poor
quality of care particularly in rural areas. Existing health infrastructure follows the
administrative organization of the country, but is sometimes poorly located relative to
population density and has not met the targets of reasonable physical access. Some health
facilities are over-sized, under-utilized, dilapidated and understaffed but the development of
new infrastructure has not kept pace with population growth. In order to address this issue,
the Government is undertaking a systematic analysis of infrastructure needs through a
national inventory, with the objective of improving infrastructure planning and obtaining
donor support to follow the plan (para. 2.26). The country has 205 medical village posts,
370 sub-prefectoral health centers, 29 prefectoral hospitals, 4 regional hospitals located in
regional capitals and two referral/teaching hospitals in Conakry as well as a small network of
maternal and child health facilities in Conakry. Some of the major communicable disease
problems, for example, tuberculosis, are handled through vertical programs but their
integration into the delivery system at clinics and hospitals is already underway. In addition,
three hospitals are operating under the auspices of mining companies (Kamsar, Fria and
Ghenko) and about 200 private medical, dental and obstetrical clinics have opened, with 80
percent of these in Conakry. Traditional healers and traditional birth attendants practice in
most parts of the country. In addition, a number of local and international non-governmental
organizations are operating in the health sector (para. 2.21).
2.6          Apart from those hospitals and health centers supported by donors through the
national primary care program, most other hospitals and health centers lack drugs and
operating means, good management and trained staff, leaving patients with unacceptable or
no health care. Staff are often forced to refer patients to the private sector or write
prescriptions which have to be filled at the local expensive private pharmacy. When drugs



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                              6
are in short supply at the health center, hospitals are often used as the entry point for basic
health services. Although there is outreach into the communities with some essential
preventive programs, this is only in an embryonic stage. Maintenance programs are limited
in scope and the non-adherence in the past to realistic construction norms in some cases has
resulted in high recurrent cost needs that cannot be supported through the combined cost
recovery program and existing state support. Although health centers and hospitals have
health committees, some have been more successful than others in playing an active role in
management and decision-making and in correcting problems related to drug shortages and
staffing issues.
2.7         A number of factors influence utilization rates, many of which are related to
quality of care or misconceptions about the health services due to lack of information.
Current data from the MSPAS indicate that there is less than one contact per inhabitant per
year in the public health system. However, recent UNICEF evaluation results show that
utilization rates are low but rising and effective coverage with ante-natal services (3 visits)
has risen from 20 percent in 1986 to 50 percent in 1990. This figure has only been achieved
through considerable effort and mobilization of external resources. Patients' ability to pay is
not considered to be a widespread issue, although limited individual problems of affordability
have occurred. These were resolved by obtaining approval from health committees to treat
these cases at no cost or by obtaining support from the local mosque. However, over-
prescription and overcharging would appear to be more serious than the overall ability to
pay. The proposed project would develop a regular drug supply, better prescription practices
and improved monitoring, supervision and community management.
2.8          The public sector enterprise, Pharmaguinee, responsible for pharmaceutical
supply and distribution has had serious mismanagement problems and is almost completely
inoperable since 1987. In addition, Government's budgetary allocation for drugs has been
declining since 1988. The international donor and NGO community provides a
disproportionate share of drugs and medical supplies. In recent years the private sector has
expanded to approximately 130 pharmaceutical outlets and six wholesalers. However, at the
wholesale level, Laborex has a quasi-monopoly on drug supply (90 percent of the market).
Despite evidence of a flourishing informal drug market, neither the public nor private sector
has been able to respond to the need for a low cost and accessible drug supply. The profit
margin of Pharmaguinee was also considered to be relatively high when compared to other
recent experiences with drug procurement in the country. Currently undergoing restructuring
with African Development Bank financing, Pharmaguinee is expected to be fully functioning
by early 1994. Based on the new Public Enterprise law adopted in April 1992, and in the
context of the Public Enterprise Reform Program, financed by IDA, Pharmaguinee's legal
status has been changed to that of a commercial public enterprise with statutes made to
conform to the Public Enterprise Law. Further reforms of Pharmaguinee will be proposed
under that project. With respect to the proposed health project, IDA has obtained agreement
from Government, as contained in the Action Plan (attached), to allow facilities the choice in
selecting drug suppliers that offer the best price. This requirement is consistent with the
Bank's overall approach to public enterprise reform and efforts to eliminate public sector
monopolies.



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                                 7
2. Weak Sector Organization and Institutional Capacity
2.9          The centralization of management functions, weak capacity and poor definition
of roles and responsibilities is a major obstacle to health program development in Guinea and
will need to be tackled if the program is to expand. The MSPAS was partially restructured
in 1988 in the context of the civil service reform program. In the February 1992 Ministerial
reorganization, the Secretariat of State for Social Affairs was reintegrated into the Ministry.
Apart from the difficulties of defining the mechanisms for integration and cooperation
between health and social affairs, there are a number of weaknesses in MSPAS' organization.
The central MSPAS's strategic planning, resource management, and regulatory capacity is
still weak and functions are over-centralized. For example, a large part of technical program
field supervision and training is done by central-level staff. In addition, the Ministry has
limited or inadequately trained staff and operating means to function effectively. This is
particularly the case of the Studies, Planning and Research Division (BEPR), the Division for
Administrative and Financial Management (DAAF), and the Infrastructure, Equipment and
Maintenance Division (DIEM). The regulatory functions are weak and ineffective and there
is inadequate coordination of sector activities caused by the proliferation of project units to
manage individual donor-supported projects; poor definition of individual task responsibilities
leading to delays in decision-making; little or no accountability; and limited delegation of
responsibilities.
2.10         Overcentralization of decision-making has left the regional and prefectoral-
level authorities with little autonomy. Regional and prefectoral management is based on the
administrative structure, with a Regional Inspectorate responsible for 8-10 prefectures. The
prefecture is comprised of 6-12 sub-prefectures, varying in area and population density. The
region has a coordinating and audit function. Each prefecture is responsible for planning,
management and supervision of the health facilities in that area but this varies based on the
number and size of the zone. However, the prefectoral line managers are directly
responsible to central authorities, which undermines the position of the region vis-a-vis the
prefecture particularly when the region lacks adequate resources to coordinate and supervise
field activities.
2.11         Stemming in part from inadequacies in the organizational structure, but also
from the Ministry's limited human resource capacity and weak monitoring system, the
sector's management capacity in physical and financial planning and resource management
remains weak, particularly at the regional and local level. Audit reports show there is lack
of basic book-keeping skills, and systematic supervision of staff, both exacerbated by regular
staff turnover and poor staff motivation. To address these issues, the project will support the
decentralization process by reinforcing skills at the central and local level, by building
systems for financial and human resource management in the sector and by ensuring that
adequate resources are available and controlled by the decentralized units to supervise
effectively.



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                                  8
3. Financial Constraints and Inefficient Use of Resources
a) Sector Financing and Expenditure Patterns
2.12         Public financing for the health sector has steadily declined. Total public
recurrent spending for health fell from 5.2 percent in the late 1970's to 2 percent in 1991
(Annex III). This represents 0.4 percent of GDP. The sector non-salary budget also fell in
real terms since 1989 and is well below most countries in Africa. For example, the health
sector budget for 1993 shows a slight increase as a share of the total budget (up to 3 percent)
but a decline in real terms in the non-salary recurrent budget. The per capita expenditure of
US$3 is low by African standards and inadequate to allow the sector to provide even basic
minimum services for the population even if resources were rationally allocated and the
budget was fully executed. While private sector expenditures are not known with any great
accuracy, a 1988 WHO study on pharmaceuticals estimated that GF 5,500 million (US$12
million in 1988 prices) was spent on drugs.
2.13         Donor support to the sector investment and recurrent budget is substantial,
representing 90 percent of the investments and large recurrent cost requirements for drugs,
medical supplies, logistical support and staff salaries (para. 2. 21). National resources come
through the regular budget channel as well as through local municipalities although the latter
are usually limited to support of contractual staff.
2.14         Cost recovery based on a differential tariff structure for standard diagnoses has
been implemented in 200 health centers and in some prefectoral and regional hospitals. A
Government/UNICEF study and an IDA evaluation show that some urban health centers can
reach full cost recovery (excluding salaries) once provided with the initial stock of drugs,
materials, and other operating needs. When utilization rates are not adequate, in some cases
due to poor management, centers were not able to recover all non-salary operating costs.
However, most hospital expenditures beyond drugs and basic materials for clinical services
cannot be absorbed by the cost recovery system and will continue to depend on adequate
budgetary support from the public sector and donors. Although the initial experience is very
encouraging, several issues need to be resolved, including varying quality among centers, the
need to develop a solidarity fund for those centers not reaching required cost recovery levels
and assurances of a regular drug supply as well as rational prescription practices. The
project will support regular drug supply to health facilities and institute proper prescription
practices at both hospitals and health centers. In addition, the Government's proposed
prefectoral solidarity funds will be developed in the project areas based on experience from
the cost recovery system.
2.15         The pattern of investment and recurrent expenditures in Guinea is distorted
both in terms of type and by level of expenditure. This has had a direct negative impact on
the quality and efficiency of the system and the equitable distribution of services in the
sector. However, the share of the investment budget allocated to tertiary-level services in
Conakry is declining in line with the strategy of focusing support on the primary and
secondary levels, with donor support concentrated on the development of health centers and
provincial hospitals.



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                                9
2.16         Salaries accounted for 72 percent and 80 percent of the recurrent budget in
1990 and 1991 respectively, due to a doubling of Government staff salaries in 1991. In
sharp contrast, the allocations for drugs, already at a low level, declined from 9.6 percent in
1990 to 7.6 percent in 1991. As a result, Guiniea's capacity to finance the sector is gradually
being eroded at the same time that service coverage is inadequate, utilization levels are
extremely low, and the quality of care is poor. IDA has obtained Government agreement on
annual non-salary budgetary levels for the first three project-years (para. 5.1).
2.17        The National Social Security Fund (CNSS), autonomous since 1984 provides,
among other payments, health insurance to private sector employees and family members
totalling 130,000 insured. Reimbursement for medical care is based on contributions by the
employer and employee. Although contributions are large, the reimbursement for medical
care appears to be very small; as a result, membership has declined and private enterprises
are dissatisfied with the management of the system. The MSPAS would like to expand the
system of medical insurance, however, the current system will need to be reviewed to
determine the framework and capacity for broader coverage. The financing study to be
finalized as a condition of credit effectiveness is analyzing the current system and alternatives
to provide broader coverage.
(b) Human Resource Management and Productivity
2.18         Although automatic recruitment of qualified personnel into the civil service
was abolished in 1988, the Government recruited a large number of personnel in 1990 and
1991 for reasons of political expediency, at a time when the consolidation of personnel skills,
staff deployment and career development were critical. The overall ratio of health staff to
population is quite good, but large skill-mix and regional disparities exist, particularly in the
case of midwives and to a lesser extent for physicians (Annex IV). Currently, 34 percent of
sector personnel are based in Conakry, to cover 14 percent of the population; however, this
is not excessive if compared to other countries in the region. A Staffing and Redeployment
Plan, financed by the first IDA project, would, if fully implemented, redress the wide
disparities by region and level of services. The operational plan for this redeployment has
been prepared and some redeployment has already taken place. In Middle Guinea, for
example, the redeployment of staff out of the regional hospital in Labe has already taken
place and some prefectures have already initiated redeployment within the prefecture.
However, a comprehensive approach is needed to deal with skill-mix and staff shortages, and
continued implementation of staff redeployment, in accordance with the timetable of the
Plan, will be a condition of credit effectiveness (para. 3.23).
2.19         Low salary levels, no incentive structure and limited career development and
training opportunities as well as limited infrastructure, particularly in rural areas, have left
staff lacking motivation, productivity is low and transfer to more desirable areas is highly
politicized. In order to attract staff to rural areas, the project will provide some built-in
incentives, such as housing, and training will be a high priority. The proposed PAGEN
project, scheduled for Board presentation in FY94, will assist Government to improve
implementation of current regulations concerning personnel management in the Ministry of
Plan and Finance and to define priorities and policy options with a view to expansion to all
civil service personnel.



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                             10
2.20        Formal health education is the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, and
is provided through one medical school in Conakry and 4 paramedical schools, one school
that trains nurses, midwives and technicians in Kindia, and three schools which train health
assistants, one each in Labe, Kankan and N'z6rekor6. Serious inadequacies in the Guinean
basic health training programs are due to inadequate pedagogical materials, outdated
pedagogical skills and a concentration on hospital-based patient care instead of on public
health and primary care. Lack of a comprehensive in-service training plan also contributes
to the poor quality of patient care. Pre-service curriculum development is included for the
paramedical schools under this project along with supply of pedagogical materials and staff
training. In addition, the project will implement training programs consistent with the
National Health Training Plan, developed under the first IDA Project.
C. Donor Support to the Sector
2.21        As indicated earlier (para. 2.13) over three-quarters of the investment budget
is financed through donor support. Bi-lateral and multi-lateral support is focused on
improving the delivery system in defined geographic areas. Some donors, including IDA,
have also focused efforts on the development of population, health and nutrition policies and
strategic and management concerns in the sector. Apart from IDA, the most important
among these are the African Development Bank, the European Community, UNICEF, the
World Health Organization, UNFPA, UNDP, the French Ministry of Cooperation, KfW,
GTZ and the Saudi Fund. The non-governmental community is active in service delivery
and includes the French and Belgian "Medecins sans Fronti&res", the Guinean Association
for Family Well-being (AGBEF), Medicus Mundi and other NGOs.
2.22        Apart from investment support to renovate and equip facilities, donors are
financing essential drugs, operating needs and hospital, health center and district management
and training. Albeit starting from a very low base, service coverage and sector management
capacity have improved considerably, due to donors' involvement in the sector. It is
anticipated that donors will continue to play a major role in the health sector in Guinea for
some time to come in the face of severe overall resource constraints and the unmet demand
for services. In addition, with the development of a more comprehensive health policy and
program, there is an overall commitment by donors to lend support to Government initiatives
that try to address systemic issues in the sector. This is manifested by donor consultations in
the recently-prepared hospital policy, their involvement in defining mechanisms for
supporting health centers with limited cost recovery and interest expressed to follow a
standardized plan for health facility construction. Finally, in addition to donor commitment
to standardized approaches on facility construction, essential drugs policy and cost recovery
for example, good donor collaboration and coordination also exist at project implementation
levels.
D. Government's Sector Policy and Program
1. Sector Objectives and Policy
2.23        Government has declared its commitment to improve physical access, and
service quality, focusing in particular on women and children. Based on the principles of
primary health care agreed at international fora such as in Alma Ata in 1978 and based on



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                             1l
the Bamako Initiative of 1987, the MSPAS is implementing, with donor support, a primary
care system focusing on basic preventive and curative care and promotional efforts.
Government intends to strengthen the quality of care and double primary care coverage to 80
percent by the year 2000.
2.24        Recognizing that the institutional, structural and operational issues discussed
above have slowed progress in achieving operational targets and sector goals for mortality
and morbidity reduction, the Government has over the past two years examined the
constraints and bottlenecks to effective execution of the sector program. Through a series of
ongoing workshops and project analyses, policy measures have been defined and sector
operational targets have been set up to the end of the century. The policy framework set out
in a revised statement of Health Sector Policy states the Government's commitment to,
among others, increased decentralization, a new hospital policy, continued support for and
expansion of cost recovery and the role of the community in managing the health system.
The statement, included as Annex V, was prepared by an interministerial team (Health,
Finance, Plan and Decentralization) and submitted for review to other departments of the
Government. It states Government's position on the policy and program measures proposed
for the sector. It is complemented by timebound programs and plans and legislative
instruments.
2. Sector Strategy and Plan
2.25        The development of operational program targets up to the year 2000 for the
key sector programs constitutes an important milestone and is the first major attempt by
Government to set specific targets and an action program. The program builds on the
Government's three-year rolling investment plan, developed by the first IDA-financed project
(para 2.33) and includes operational targets and action plans combined with a number of
policy measures to address sector bottlenecks. The three-year investment program and
operational plan (1992-2000) have a number of priority clinical and institutional programs
which will be the basis for IDA support. In addition to the priority programs set by
Government (maternal and child health, malaria, acute respiratory infections, diarrheal
disease and parasitic diseases), the Ministry proposes to intensify efforts to fully integrate
other programs into the regular services offered at facilities, including family planning,
nutrition, tuberculosis, onchocerciasis, leprosy, sexually transmitted diseases/AIDS and water
supply and sanitation. Each of these programs has operational targets and an implementation
plan. Prefectoral, regional and national level consultations took place in the preparation of
the program and the budgetary needs are now being assessed for investment and recurrent
cost requirements.
2.26        Concerning physical coverage, MSPAS has undertaken a large program of
infrastructural improvement to which the first project contributed in Middle Guinea.
Government intends to continue requesting donor assistance in this area. The national health
inventory, financed through the PPFs, will provide the basis for infrastructural and coverage
norms for construction and rehabilitation planning (para 2.5). The siting of infrastructure
under the proposed project is being planned based on the national inventory (para. 3.5).



Guinca S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                            12
2.27        The MSPAS has set a number of medium-term operational targets shown in
Table 1 below which, given progress achieved since 1987, are ambitious but not
unmanageable. Targets set for the IDA-financed project are consistent with objectives set
under the national program.
Table 1
HEALTH INDICATORS - TABLE 1 I
STATUS   | TARGET 2000
______________________________________ 1990   f
Infant Mortality Rate Reduction                 145/1000      80/1000
Maternal Mortality Rate Reduction                8/1000        3/1000
Overall coverage (physical access)                 40%           80%
Program Coverage of women:                                         l
Pre-natal Care, urban                              30%          90%
Pre-natal Care, rural                              20%           80%
Assisted Births, urban                             25%          100%
Assisted Births, rural                             10%           70%
Contraceptive Prevalence                           1%           25%*
Program Coverage of Children:
Vaccination during first year                      25%          80%
Growth surveillance (0 - 3yrs)                     3%            60%
Antibiotics after 1 infectious episode             __            60%
_Curative Coverage                                 20%           60%
Soum:WHO1 Repn J8774GUI
- Target set for the year 2010
(a)   Ministry Reorganization
2.28        Recognizing that technical responses alone are not sufficient to address the
health needs of the population, the MSPAS has prepared a number of complementary
programs and measures to ensure smooth implementation and continuing support for its
primary health care strategy.
2.29        A program for the restructuring of the MSPAS has been approved covering the
functions of Ministry units along with legislative instruments for the proposed decentralized
management structures (Annex YI). An improved coordination mechanism has been adopted
in the form of an inter-ministerial committee ("Comite de Suivi des Projets"), which will
provide intersectoral and donor coordination and evaluate the MSPAS program and its
coherence with sector policy. This committee would also participate in the annual review of
the Action Plan and of the project's mid-term review (para.3.70). The existing Ministerial
technical committee ("Comit6 Technique de Coordination") would continue to meet on a
quarterly basis to review donor projects to ensure that norms and standards are respected and



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                                13
that action programs are executed as agreed. In the context of the proposed project, the
CTC would review the annual Action Plan and budget, review quarterly reports, audit and
evaluation studies and make recommendations to improve project management and
implementation (para. 3.39). The CTC meetings will include regional and local
representation as required, in particular when operational issues are reviewed and at the time
of phase and mid-term reviews.
(b)   Decentralization
2.30         The decentralization of management decisions and the strengthening of the
health management teams at regional and prefectoral level are described in Annexes VI and
VII. This will give greater local autonomy to the region and the prefecture on decisions
related to staffing of facilities, management of resources and budget preparation. The
prefectoral administrative team (Prefectoral Directorate for Health and Social Affairs) will be
strengthened in terms of staffing and resources to carry out more effectively their
management and supervision responsibilities within the prefecture. Similarly, at regional
level, the management team (Regional Inspectorate) will be strengthened to coordinate and
monitor program development in the entire region, including drug supply and training. In
addition, a regional and prefectoral technical committee is proposed to coordinate the
activities of the region and prefecture and the regular monitoring and supervision of
activities. Analysis of the hospital system in Guinea indicates that the hospital management
committee needs to be strengthened and better management controls introduced. The
recently approved hospital policy contains a number of measures to give hospital
management a stronger role in the decision-making process, to retain funds from cost
recovery, to define its own budget and resource use within a given framework and to give
the hospital committee, which includes community representation, fuller powers to manage
staffing and resource use. These measures will improve hospital efficiency as well as
promote stronger community participation in the decision-making process. At the health
center level, considerable progress has already been achieved, but the role and composition
of the health committees have been reviewed and will be reinforced through further training
of health committees and membership changes. As a condition for negotiations, the draft
legislative instruments, including proposed staffing levels, related to the role and functions of
the decentralized management structure and health committees were prepared. They have
been put in effect as a condition of Board presentation.
(c)    Community Participation
2.31         A serious attempt by the MSPAS since 1987 to put a primary health system in
place has resulted in the development of integrated services (Expanded program of
immunization, primary health care and essential drugs), linked to community management
and financing through user fees. With Government commitment to the Bamako Initiative
supported by UNICEF, the EEC, IDA and other donors, health committees comprise
representatives of the local community and health facility staff. Overall, health center
committees have been able to function more satisfactorily than hospital committees.
However, three weaknesses have been identified: the heavy emphasis on ensuring financial
independence; inadequate representation of the population; and the low representation of



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                             14
women on committees. These issues are expected to be corrected and health committees will
be strengthened based on the new guidelines set by Government, which include the
introduction of some incentives, such as travel costs, for committee members. In addition,
hospital committee management functions will be strengthened substantially following the
issuance of the new hospital policy (para. 2.30). Annex VIII summarizes the role and
responsibilities of the community in management, financing, renovation and sensitization as
well as the measures proposed to strengthen these committees.
(d)   Resource Mobilization and Management
2.32        Improved management of sector resources, specifically in the areas of
personnel, finance and budgeting, was an objective of the first project. Service norms have
been established and a plan for redeployment has been adopted by Government and the
timetable for its implementation agreed at negotiations. The preparation of a comprehensive
plan for retraining personnel was financed under the first project and will be implemented as
part of the second project. Limited progress has been made on accounting and budgeting
practices but MSPAS has initiated a series of studies and seminars (with WHO and IDA
assistance) to define budgetary requirements at the hospital and health center level and a
sector financing strategy based on cost sharing by Government, beneficiaries, and donors.
The cost recovery program will be strengthened since health committees will participate more
fully in the management of funds and the new tariff structure for hospitals has been
approved. Strong Government commitment will be needed particularly for the more
politically and institutionally difficult measures, such as redeployment of personnel and
allocation of adequate budgetary resources to priority programs. IDA will address the
financing of the health sector in the next two years in three different ways. First, as part of
our macroeconomic dialogue, we expect that a Public Expenditure Review would lead to
agreements to raise the share of the national budget for health. Second, to justify this
increase in priority, Government is completing an analysis of budgetary needs derived from
its policy, using technically acceptable norms for investment, personnel and non-personnel
inputs and other operating costs (para. 3.26). Finally, over the life of the proposed project,
Government and IDA will monitor the conformity of the proposed annual budgets and their
execution with the policy and budget framework (para. 5. 1).
E. The Bank Group's Role and Assistance Strategy for Health
1. The First IDA-Financed Health Project
2.33        IDA's involvement in the health sector began in 1987, with the approval of a
specific investment loan (the Health Services Development Project - Credit 1837-GUI), with
IDA financing of US$19.7 million and a Government and beneficiary contribution of US$2.0
million and US$0.8 million respectively. It supports policy and program development efforts
to improve the quality, coverage and efficiency of basic health care services. This objective
is addressed through (a) strengthening the MSPAS strategic management and planning
capacity, and (b) improving basic health services in Middle Guinea. This regional support
covers five of the ten prefectures in Middle Guinea (19 percent of the population), and
finances infrastructure development, drug supply and cost recovery, staff training and simple
management systems. Project closing date is being postponed by 18 months to June 30,
1995.



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                              15
2.34        Operationally, the project has been successful in testing out approaches to
service delivery, community involvement and cost recovery and has raised utilization rates in
the project zone. For example, in some facilities, health care coverage has reached 50
percent, pre-natal and vaccination coverage have increased from less than 10 percent in 1987
to over 60 percent more recently and, at some of the hospitals, bed occupancy rates have
reached 50 percent. Renovation of facilities has mostly been completed and a further
increase in utilization rates is expected, particularly at the hospital level. At the institutional
level, the project has built up the MSPAS technical, planning and management capacity, it
developed a computerized personnel file system, prepared a staffing and redeployment plan,
strengthened investment programming capacity and is preparing a national health training
plan.
2. Lessons Learned
2.35        A number of factors have slowed down implementation and effective execution
of the project. First, the management arrangements for the project resulted in poor
coordination between the Project Implementation Unit (which was weak managerially, housed
separately from the Ministry and was comparatively privileged in terms of resources), and
the technical departments of the Ministry, resulting in poor internalization of project
responsibilities, delays on procurement and slippage on field activities. Secondly, the severe
shortage of counterpart funds in the third and fourth year of the project due to liquidity
problems has slowed down implementation considerably, resulting in delays in local training
and weak local project management and supervision. For example, local training is about
one year behind schedule in part due to lack of funds to finance travel and per diems of
participants. Third, at the decentralized level, supervision has been weak, in some cases due
to resource constraints (counterpart budget), lack of adequate and properly trained staff at the
prefectoral level to supervise an expanding primary care system, and lack of clear
responsibilities and decentralization of authority and, in some cases, lack of staff motivation.
For example, budgeting and financial and stock management remain weak (para. 2. 11).
Fourth, while community participation in the management of services and resource use has
been relatively successful at the health center level, it remains weak at the hospital level due
to limited autonomy of the hospital, lack of a clear mandate of the hospital committee and
the overriding problem of limited controls and transparent management procedures. Success
in efforts to involve communities in some simpler rehabilitation work has varied from
community to community and can be linked to the absence of clear up-front arrangements in
contract documents and unwillingness of contractors to involve the communities. Fifth,
beneficiaries have not been consulted on a regular basis on how responsive the system is in
addressing their needs, resulting in a top-down approach to project planning and
management. Finally, quality of care has been inadequate at some facilities due in some
cases to lack of adequate training and motivation, to poor supervision, delays in resupply of
drugs or drug requests and poor prescription practices.
3. Proposed Modifications
2.36        Although the project disbursement lag is less than 10 percent, implementation
was slower than anticipated and a number of new approaches (drawn also from the



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                                   16
implementation experience from other projects) will be incorporated into the proposed
operation:
(a)   the project management structure will be refined to ensure direct responsibility
by technical units for the management and implementation of project
components, with support provided through a Project Coordinator based in the
General Secretariat of the MSPAS (para. 3.39). This new structure will
replace the current project implementation unit;
(b)   counterpart financing will include beneficiary and Govemment contributions
phased in over the course of the project (para. 3.30). In addition, the
Govemment will be expected to finance the incremental recurrent costs
associated with service delivery in the five prefectures financed under the first
project, through adequate budgetary resource allocations, as agreed with
Government (para. 3.26);
(c)   the Ministry's key strategic planning and technical units will be strengthened,
roles more clearly defined and legislative instruments issued defining the roles
and responsibilities of the decentralized management teams (Regional
Inspectorates and Prefectoral Directorates). In addition, financial and resource
management procedures will be strengthened at all levels (paras. 3.22
and 3.62);
(d)   health committees will receive further training. Health center committees will
be expanded and must include a female representative; management
responsibilities of hospital committees will be strengthened through the new
hospital policy (para. 2.30);
(e)    community participation in the rehabilitation of health centers will be required
based on the criteria set out in Annex VIII;
(f)    beneficiary assessments, to be conducted before effectiveness and the project's
third phase, will determine if project inputs and services are addressing
community needs (para. 3.15);
(g)   IDA will support new management procedures at hospital level, and strengthen
supervision, prescription practices and mechanisms for referral of high-risk
maternity and other cases through better diagnostic methods and inter-facility
communication.
(h)    drugs will be financed by IDA for the first two years of the project and
individual accounts will be maintained for each health facility. Thereafter
facilities will purchase drug requirements from cost recovery proceeds and,
based on agreements to be reached prior to disbursement for second phase,
will have full autonomy to purchase drugs from sources that provide the best
available price (para. 3.8); and



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                             17
(i)   new infrastructure will be based on population and access criteria instead of on
purely administrative criteria, and on agreed construction norms and the
"Carte Sanitaire" (para. 2.26).
4. Assistance Strategy
2.37        Guinea's socioeconomic indicators place it as the lowest-ranking country in the
world based on the United Nations assessment of standards of living. This is clear
justification for giving high priority to human resources development. Moreover,
recognizing the central role that human resources play in the economic development of the
country, both the Country Economic Memorandum of 1990 and the Country Assistance
Strategy of November 1993 emphasize the need for a strong commitment to human resource
development and, in particular, support to the education and health sectors. Therefore, the
main focus of IDA's assistance strategy for health will be to consolidate achievements in the
sector, build on the operational experience gained and help Government to implement certain
institutional measures and management practices that address sector organization,
management and financing issues and program sustainability. At the management level, the
project will ensure strong project leadership and greater involvement by technical divisions,
give particular attention to field supervision especially in the areas of quality control, cost
recovery, renovation and community involvement and, more broadly, make necessary
revisions based on a formal annual and phase review, and link execution to implementation
progress.
HII. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.1    The overall objective of the project is to expand coverage of low cost health services
in order to improve the health status of the communities reached and, in particular, the most
vulnerable groups of the population. This is fully consistent with the Government's policy
framework and sector strategy. It is aimed at (a) expanding coverage and improving quality
of health, nutrition and family planning services with specific coverage indicators for each
program (Annex IX); and (b) improving sector organization, management and resource
mobilization.
B. Summary Description
3.2   The project will finance health service activities and rehabilitation in three prefectures
in Middle Guinea (Mali, Koubia and Mamou) and four prefectures in Lower Guinea
(Telimele, Dubreka, Coyah and Kindia) covering a population of over one million, or almost
20 percent of the country's population. In addition, limited financial support for the five
prefectures covered by the ongoing project will be provided for technical programs such as
training, vaccinations and iodine capsule distribution. Furthermore, decentralization will be
supported through the rehabilitation of about 18 prefectoral health directorates (in the
previously mentioned 12 prefectures and six others: Koundara, Gaoual, Boke, Boffa, Fria
and Forecariah), as well as of Lower Guinea's regional health inspectorate (in Kindia);



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                                18
modest rehabilitation of the central services building of the MSPAS is also included. The
project will help strengthen sector organization and efficiency, and generate new resources.
The attached map shows the prefectures covered by the ongoing project and the geographic
coverage under the proposed project. Together the two projects will cover more than 40
percent of Guinea's population. The project will finance infrastructure development, hospital
and health center management, cost recovery, essential drugs, training and the integration of
health, family planning and nutrition services at clinical facilities, as well as develop better
supervision and resource management systems at the central and decentralized levels. The
project will also finance community participation in project management by supporting the
organization and training of community health committees. The project will be executed in
three two-year phases (para. 3.46) and will include two major components consisting of six
sub-components, drawn from the six programs presented in the Government's request:
1. Expansion of Service Coverage and Improvement of Service Oualitv:
(a)   rehabilitation, construction, and maintenance of health centers and
prefectoral hospitals;
(b)   supply of essential drugs, vaccines and iodized capsules; and
(c)   strengthening of key technical programs through the provision of
goods, training, services and operating costs to improve diagnostic,
treatment and management capabilities and outreach into the
communities. The programs to be supported include maternal and child
health and family planning, nutrition interventions, infections and
parasitic disease control programs against diarrheal and respiratory
diseases, malaria, tuberculosis, leprosy and sexually transmitted
diseases (STD) including AIDS, and health information, education and
communications.
2. Strengthening of Sector Organization and Management:
(a)   rehabilitation works and provision of goods, training, services and
operating costs for strengthening and further decentralization of the
management system and sector coordination, following the adoption of
the revised MSPAS structure;
(b)   training, goods and services to improve current systems for financial,
material and human resource management; and
(c)   provision of goods and services for the generation of new resources
through user fees and support for adequate budgetary allocations.



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                             19
C. Detailed Features
1. Expansion of Service Coverage and Inmrovement of Service Qualitv
3.3         To overcome problems of access to health care and improve the quality of
services (para 2.5), this component will support the following:
(a)   Health Facility Rehabilitation and Maintenance (US$11.5m)
(Part of Government's Program 5)2/
3.4         The project will finance rehabilitation, construction and maintenance (works,
equipment, furniture and spare parts) of twenty health centers, two improved health centers
and four prefectoral hospitals in the prefectures of Mali, Koubia and Mamou in Middle
Guinea, and the prefectures of Telimele, Dubreka, Coyah and Kindia in Lower Guinea.
3.5         Rehabilitation will be undertaken in three phases (paras 3.46/3.47). Site
selection will be based on the results of the national health inventory and will include criteria
of population density, the most neglected facilities and agreement reached with the
community to participate in the work. Communities will participate in health center
rehabilitation as agreed with Government by completing site cleaning and preparation, site
enclosure, latrines and shelters. The architectural, technical and control consultants for the
first phase were short-listed before negotiations. The rehabilitation program for the first
phase has been finalized before Board presentation. Signature of the corresponding contracts
will be a condition of effectiveness. The first phase will be implemented at credit
effectiveness, contingent upon a number of other measures to be taken by Government (para.
5.3). Disbursement of funds for the implementation of the second and third phases of
rehabilitation of facilities will be contingent upon satisfactory completion of the previous
phase, and completion of necessary measures on staffing, financing and management
arrangements (Para. 5.4).
3.6         In addition to guiding Government on the selection and phasing of
rehabilitation work, the national health inventory (para. 2.26) will provide the basis for
setting norms based on population density and improve programming of infrastructure and
equipment, which will also be supported through 28 person-months of specialist services and
staff training (para. 3.25).
2/    Refers to Government's overall health program of which IDA is financing
certain activities and as expressed in the Government's project request
document.



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                                20
(b)   Drug Supplv for Basic Health Services (US$3.3m)
(Part of Program 5)
3.7          The project will finance the basic package of essential drugs, vaccines and
iodized capsules for goiter problems, training in drug management and improved prescription
practices, vehicles for drug distribution and necessary facilities, furniture and equipment for
storage of drugs in the newly rehabilitated facilities. An initial two-year stock of essential
drugs (1 drug kit for a population of 1250) will be financed and procured by the project, to
allow new facilities time to establish cost recovery mechanisms and generate receipts for
replenishment of drugs and materials. Facilities will receive an initial six-month drug supply
based on population size, with replenishment based on consumption levels and projected
needs for the next six months. Restocking of facilities will be coordinated through the
regional administrative units (para. 2.30). Iodized capsules for the nutrition component of
the project and vaccines for the maternal and child health component discussed below, will
be financed, for the first two years in the case of iodized capsules and throughout the project
in the case of vaccines, to cover needs in Middle Guinea and in the prefectures financed in
Lower Guinea.
3.8          A number of drug management procedures will be strengthened, including
stock control and replenishment procedures, as well as training of staff in improved hospital
prescription practices (para 2.7). Signature of the contracts for supply of drugs adequate to
meet the requirements of the project for the first year of its implementation will be a
condition of credit effectiveness (para 5.3). In line with the agreed Action Plan (Annex X),
Government will submit proposals acceptable to IDA, before the project's second phase,
allowing health facilities in the project zone to purchase drugs and vaccines from sources
offering the best prices (para. 5.4).
(c)    Strengthening of Key Technical Programs (US$2.2m)
(Programs 1-4)
3.9          The project will finance goods (including vehicles), 64 person-months of
specialist services, training and operating costs to strengthen services at the health center and
hospital level and integrate some vertical programs into the normal delivery system. In
particular, it will improve staff diagnostic and treatment capabilities, adequate follow-up of
patients through the outreach program and rapid referral of high risk cases. This will be
complemented by a comprehensive information and education component for preventive and
promotional work and data collection and analysis. An in-service training program for
clinical staff will also be supported through the project. Annex XI lists training (locally and
abroad). In-service training will be conducted at the regional and prefectoral level primarily,
using existing training facilities. It will focus in the first phase on the development of a team
of trainers and priority training to execute the primary care program, as well as on
pedagogical methods, curriculum development or adaptation and development of appropriate
educational materials. As training is among the highest of Government priorities, training
will be provided directly to a large number of clinical staff in the health facilities to be
financed, and second generation training by those trained will be completed within individual
health facilities. In addition, management training will be conducted for management teams



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                                21
in all 12 prefectures as well as for community health committees in the facilities to be
financed. The training activities are described in the individual sections of the report and are
designed to develop and reinforce standards of care and norms for delivery of the technical
programs described below. Disbursement of funds for training in phase 2 and 3 will be
conditional upon satisfactory completion of local training in the preceding phase.
(i)    Maternal and Child Health and Family Planning (MCH/FP)
(Program 1)
3.10         Project financing for the maternal and child health and family planning
(MCH/FP) program, the sector's highest priority, will include basic health and family
planning (FP) equipment, vaccines, contraceptive supplies, staff training and operating costs
for pre and post-natal care, deliveries, referral of high risk pregnancies, family planning,
child nutrition and communicable disease control. Nurses and midwives will be trained in
essential obstetrical care and management and referral of obstetrical complications requiring
medical support. Since a large number of women still deliver in their home, the project will
support outreach to communities (providing traditional birth attendants -TBAs- with training
and necessary materials for safe deliveries and health education) and determine with
communities the best method for organizing referral of high risk pregnancies in order to
create a strong link and referral system between the TBA and medical staff. Health facilities
will be equipped with radio communication for the management and referral of high risk
cases. In addition, health centers and prefectoral hospitals will be equipped to provide basic
curative services for the catchment population. A national strategy and service delivery
norms have been adopted by Government for integrating family planning education and
contraceptive services into public health facilities through a phased program. Contraceptives
are also part of the essential drugs list. The project will finance the delivery of these
services as well as two knowledge, attitude and practice studies (KAP) in the area of family
planning practice. In addition to support for these services in the public system, and based
on the fully adequate experience in the first project with the International Planned Parenthood
Federation affiliate, the Guinean Association for Family Well-being (AGBEF), the project
will support this non-governmental organization to work on the expansion of family planning
education and service delivery, based on agreed annual work plans through a sub-contract
with the MSPAS. By addressing the demand for family planning, as evidenced by recourse
to abortion, the Government may be able to reduce the lead time between mortality and
fertility decline.
(ii)   Nutrition (Program 2)
3.11         Based on recent nutrition studies conducted in Conakry and Middle Guinea,
the Government has developed a nutrition strategy to deal with specific nutrition problems
(para. 2.3). Following this, the project will contribute to Government's policy to provide
micronutrient supplementation to high risk groups, monitor nutritional problems through the
clinical services and through the SIAC system and educate communities. The project will
finance micronutrient distribution, specialist services, training, growth monitoring equipment,
educational materials and nutrition and KAP studies to reduce iodine deficiency and improve
breastfeeding and weaning practices. Short-term specialist services and training will be



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                             22
financed for MSPAS' Nutrition Division to enhance nutrition planning, management and
evaluation.
3.12        The project will integrate nutrition monitoring and management of nutritional
problems into the health center activities. Currently nutrition monitoring is done for 0-11
month-old infants but the MSPAS proposes to extent this system up to 36 month-old
children. The project will provide iron, iodine and vitamin A supplementation through the
clinical sites of the project area. All ante-natal patients will be monitored and receive
micronutrient supplementation with the objective of reducing anemia by one-third and
eliminating iodine deficiency in pregnant women. The serious goiter problem will be
addressed through a systematic capsule distribution program for all women in the
reproductive age group (15-45 years) and all children up to 15 years of age in Middle Guinea
and in selected areas of Lower Guinea. The MSPAS is already testing the distribution
system in two prefectures with assistance from UNICEF, with the objective of expanding
distribution to all affected areas. The long-term operational strategy to deal with iodine
deficiency is being analyzed based on the consultants' study on the feasibility of iodizing salt
financed under the first PPF (para. 3.33). Growth monitoring will be strengthened to
identify children at risk and as an educational tool for mothers. In collaboration with the
Education Division, nutrition education will be reinforced, focusing on promotion of
breastfeeding and proper weaning practices since a large number of problems stem from
inadequate knowledge about the most appropriate types of infant foods and timing for
weaning. A group of villages has been chosen to test out the community-based nutrition
information system, with children weighed regularly and communities sensitized about
nutritional problems. Based on results, this system will be expanded under the project.
(iii) Communicable Disease Control (Program 3)
3.13        To fully integrate and expand services to control communicable diseases
(para.2.25), the project will finance local training and short-term specialist services,
equipment, drugs, materials, and operating means to control malaria, STD/AIDS,
tuberculosis, leprosy, diarrheal (including parasites) and respiratory diseases. Initial
diagnostic work for malaria and tuberculosis will be done at the health center and more
complicated tests or confirmatory tests done at the hospital level. In addition, the project
will finance the testing of impregnated mosquito nets in communities to control malaria.
Based on the established norms for health facilities, the project will equip and provide
necessary laboratory materials for diagnostic work, as well as train staff in patient
management.
3.14        The disease profile for Guinea shows that about 40 percent of health conditions
are water-related or due to poor environmental hygiene and sanitation. IDA initiated
discussions with MSPAS, KfW and GTZ during project preparation to agree on the
expansion of their water-supply program in four prefectures (Mali, Koubia, Telim&e and
Dubreka) covered by this project. Government and KfW have reached a preliminary
agreement to proceed and KfW and IDA will work closely together to support educational
efforts and promote demand among communities for better water supply.



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                             23
(iv)   Health and Community Education ( Program 4)
3.15        The project will finance production of education materials, specialist services,
workshops, training and knowledge, attitude and practice (KAP) studies to determine family
planning, breast feeding and other health behavior (paras. 3.10 and 3. 11), and operating
means to implement the health and nutrition information, education and communications
(IEC) component. The basis for an educational program is already in place, but needs to be
strengthened and new health messages need to be developed and disseminated into the
proposed project zone. Therefore, the project will finance two KAP studies and beneficiary
assessments, the development and dissemination of key messages to communities focusing on
nutrition, family planning, maternal and child health problems, sexually transmitted diseases
and AIDS prevention, and other communicable disease messages. It will also finance the
in-service training of technical staff in interpersonal skills and community representatives in
social mobilization; and the dissemination of mass-media messages through 'Radio Rurale',
a regional radio network of the Ministry of Communications which was supported through
the first project. In addition, specialized programs, discussed above, will include IEC
components in their specialized training. The beneficiary assessment already conducted and
one to be conducted during the project, and again at project completion, will assess the
communities' perception about the health delivery system and modifications needed. A first
beneficiary assessment in the project area has been completed as a condition of Board
presentation, and completion of a second one, with the adoption of necessary corrective
measures, will be a condition for launching the project's third phase (paras. 5.2, 5.4).
3.16        The educational program will finance training of health committees and
sensitize communities on their role and management responsibilities (paras. 2.6 and 2.31).
This will include their involvement in the financing and management of health services, their
interest and expected participation in health facility rehabilitation and, finally, sensitization
about community-based projects to support water and sanitation efforts in the community,
linked to the KfW-financed operation.
2. Strengthening of Sector Organization and Management (US$9.7m)
(Program 6)
3.17        The project will strengthen the organization of the MSPAS (para. 2.9),
systems development and management and the generation of new resources through cost
recovery and support for adequate and rational budget allocations (para. 2.32). Financing will
be provided for the rehabilitation of the decentralized administrative units of the MSPAS, 28
person-months of specialist services, in-service and training abroad, vehicles, furniture,
equipment and operating costs.



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                                24
(a)   MSPAS Organization and Sector Coordination
(i)    Central Organization and Coordination
3.18         The MSPAS, with specialist support, has already prepared a program to
restructure the Ministry (para.2.29), and divisional mandates, the description of individual
posts and assignment of staff to key positions have been undertaken; the specialist's contract
was drafted as a condition of negotiations. This will be followed by job descriptions for all
staff in the MSPAS. This exercise will also permit the Ministry to review training needs and
career development streams. In the second project year, financing will cover the preparation
of a procedural manual and the new structures will be evaluated. In addition, departmental
managers will be trained in management, selected staff will receive overseas training and the
project will finance equipment, furniture, vehicles, materials and operating costs to allow the
MSPAS to operate more efficiently and institute improved management systems. The new
structures will also be strengthened through other project activities described later,
particularly those involving the consolidation or development of better financial and
personnel management systems, the national training plan, and regular supervision. Modest
rehabilitation of the central services building of MSPAS will also be financed. Before Board
presentation, the legal texts on MSPAS' organizational structure had been in effect, and
division head positions filled on the basis of job descriptions satisfactory to IDA (para.5.2).
Satisfactory functioning of the new administrative structures will be a condition of
disbursement for the subsequent phases, as outlined in the Essential Actions of the Action
Plan (Annex X) agreed during negotiations.
3.19         To strengthen sector coordination, the project will cofinance (with
Government, WHO, and UNICEF) a workshop for top policy-makers and donors in the first
year of the project to present the health sector program and the objectives set for the sector
as well as the key issues still to be addressed. The draft legal texts were prepared prior to
negotiations and, before Board presentation, the legal texts have been in effect, on the
composition, mandate and functions of the sectoral and inter-sectoral committees (para. 5.2).
(ii)   Decentralization
3.20         To strengthen management structures at the regional and prefectoral level, the
project will finance the rehabilitation of eighteen prefectoral health offices (Labe, Tougue,
[elouma, Pita, Dalaba, Koubia, Mali, Telimele, Dubr6ka, Kindia, Koundara, Gaoual, Boke,
Boffa, Coyah, Fria, Forecariah and Mamou), and one regional inspectorate (Kindia);
vehicles, office equipment including radio communication, materials, training and operating
costs. In addition, short-term specialist services will be required for the development of the
prefectoral teams to ensure that the new management system becomes fully operational and
to anticipate bottlenecks in the system. The training of staff in management, budgeting,
accounting and supervision will be financed under the project (para. 3.22). Evaluation of the
new organizational structures will be completed in the third project year.
3.21         Finally, the project will finance the training of the health committee of each
hospital and health center to fulfill their functions concerning facility management and



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                             25
budgeting procedures, community participation in infrastructure development and the
sensitization of communities about health issues and new policies introduced in the system.
As the hospital policy (para. 2.30) is implemented, this will require selection and more
intensive training of committee members. Before negotiations, the Government prepared the
legal texts related to the role and mandate of the regional inspectorate and prefectoral
directorates, including staffing levels and hospital and health center committees, and these
legal texts have been in effect before Board presentation (paras. 5.1, 5.2). Satisfactory
functioning of decentralized entities will be a condition of disbursement for the subsequent
phase, as outlined in the Essential Actions of the Action Plan (Annex X) agreed during
negotiations.
(b)   Inprovement of Financial, Material and Human Resources Management
Systems
(i)    Accounting, Financial and Stock Management
3.22        Based on the analyses conducted in the context of the annual audit and of
previous technical assistance provided under the first project, financial management,
accounting and stock control measures will need to be intensified (para. 2.11). At the health
facilities, the project will support the development of administrative and operational
instruments and standardized procedures for the management of resources. This will also
include management of cost recovery proceeds, consistent with criteria set by Government
for the management of funds. At the regional inspectorate and prefectoral directorate levels,
administrative procedures will also be developed and the new administrative structure
proposed will include a financial and administrative unit at both levels. This is expected to
strengthen considerably the management of budgetary resources, stock management such as
drugs and spare parts but also the supervision of staff at health facilities. Finally, the project
will also support better accounting and financial management procedures at the central level
by providing support to the DAAF unit in the MSPAS to monitor and supervise the
implementation of the new system in health facilities. The project will finance short-term
specialist services, overseas and local training, equipment and materials, and operating costs
to set up and monitor the system in the prefectures covered. An annual review and
programming workshop will be financed as well as quarterly and semi-annual monitoring of
the new hospital management system and health centers respectively at which time the system
will be evaluated. A plan for financial and stock management at health facilities financed by
the project and at the regional and prefectoral levels, and for the establishment of cost
recovery at the health facilities has been prepared before Board presentation (para.5.2).
Satisfactory implementation of the plan and cost recovery in the project area will be a
condition for launching the second phase of the project, as outlined in the Essential Actions
of the Action Plan (Annex ) agreed during negotiations. Finally, a mid-term review of the
project will, among others, examine how this system is functioning and make
recommendations for changes as required (para. 3.70).



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                               26
(ii)   Human Resource Development and Deployment
3.23         Under the first project, staffing norms were established, a redeployment plan
was prepared and a National Health Training Plan is under preparation (paras. 2.18, 2.34).
The proposed project will finance short-term services of a training specialist, local and
overseas training for regional training teams, pedagogical materials and equipment and
operational support to institute the in-service training plan. In addition, curriculum
development, pedagogical materials and improved teaching methods will be financed at the
two paramedical schools at Labe and Kindia. Training will combine clinic-based and
classroom courses and will focus on refresher training to improve patient management,
including capacity in patient assessment, health and nutrition education, and management of
services. Since maternal and child health are Government priorities, the training of staff,
particularly nurses and midwives, in obstetrical care and child health will be emphasized.
During negotiations, Government presented to IDA a work program and timetable for
implementation of the staffing and redeployment plan (para. 5.1). Continued implementation
of the plan based on the agreed timetable and redeployment of a minimum of 150 staff to the
health centers in the prefectures as well as submission to IDA of the updated staff
redeployment numbers will be a condition of credit effectiveness. Continued implementation
of the staffing and redeployment plan will be a condition for launching the subsequent phases
of the project (paras 5.3, 5.4) as outlined in the Action Plan (Annex X) agreed during
negotiations.
3.24         A computerized personnel management system was installed in the MSPAS
through technical assistance financed by the first project (para. 2.34). The proposed project
will expand the information base of this system and update annually the information in the
redeployment plan, coordinating closely at all times, as was the case in the first project, with
the Ministry of Administrative Reform, Civil Service and Labor (MRAFPT). The project
will finance short-term specialist services, further training of the staff member responsible
for up-date of the system, regional workshops and a new computer, materials and operating
costs.
3.25        In addition to the capacity building efforts in financial and human resource
management already discussed (paras. 3.22-3.24), the project will finance overseas and local
training of staff and some short-term specialist services to review the management
information system. Annex XII contains the complete program and timetable for all
specialist services in the project. This will focus on support to key units of the MSPAS,
including the Planning Division (BEPR), the Infrastructure, Equipment and Maintenance
Division (DIEM), the Division for Administrative and Financial Management (DAAF) the
Division for the Promotion of Women (DPF) as well as technical assistance to the
decentralized management units of the MSPAS. This will be complemented by training of
staff in central and decentralized units in procurement, project planning and management and
clinical management. Where appropriate, the National Management Training Center in
Conakry will be used as a training site or consultant resources from the Center will be used
for regional and prefectoral staff training. Finally, the DIEM will be supported through
specialist services to develop norms based on the national health inventory results and to
improve design and programming of infrastructure (para 3.6).



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutition Sector Project                                 27
(c)   Mobilization of Additional Financial Resources
3.26         The establishment of a budget framework for the sector will provide a strong
basis for the efficient allocation of resources and justification for an increase in budgetary
support to the sector, both of which are objectives of the proposed project. This budget
framework, prepared under PPF financing, is based on norms for the delivery of a minimum
package of services in different health facilities and is linked to resource availability,
including cost recovery proceeds, donor and Government financing. It is expected that the
non-salary share of the recurrent budget will progressively increase relative to salaries.
Consultant contracts for the financing study were signed before negotiations (para. 5.1).
Study completion and adoption of the financing plan and agreement on budgetary allocations
for fiscal year 1994 will be a condition of credit effectiveness. The budgetary allocation for
fiscal year 1994 for non-salary health expenditures should be no less than GF 2.3 billion
(para. 5.3). Responsibilities for the preparation of annual budgets will be clearly defined and
local and regional teams will undertake this exercise annually in collaboration with the
DAAF as well as the monitoring of expenditures to ensure that allocation criteria are
respected and that financial management systems are fully operational to ensure transparency
in the management of resources. The DAAF will monitor and coordinate this effort, prepare
a consolidated budget and expenditures for the sector and make corrections as required. The
project will finance local and overseas training in budgeting and program resource
management, specialist services, materials and operating costs to prepare the annual budgets
for the sector and review and evaluate financing needs and cost recovery levels. As a
follow-up to the financing study, an internalization workshop will be conducted, aided by a
consultant. The project will finance preparation of the three-year investment plan for the
sector including an analysis of the recurrent cost requirements for these investments. The
plan will include, in addition to bi-lateral and multi-lateral support, non-governmental
investments since these constitute large investments in the sector. During negotiations, IDA
obtained assurances from Government for a joint annual review no later than September 30
each year, of the previous year's expenditures and agreement on the recurrent budget for the
following fiscal year, which will not be less than GF 3.4 billion in fiscal year 1995 and
GF4.5 billion in fiscal year 1996 for non-salary recurrent health expenditures.
Disbursement for the second and third phases of rehabilitation work will be conditional upon
satisfactory conclusion of the previously mentioned review and agreement. In addition, the
Government will review with IDA no later than September 30 each year, its 3-year rolling
investment plan in the framework of overall resource availability for the sector, and agree on
the investment program for health including its coherence with the health budget. Any
additional annual investments that exceed a cumulative amount equivalent to US$1 million
will be subject to IDA's prior approval.
3.27         As with the first project, the cost recovery system will be introduced into the
new IDA-supported hospitals and health centers (para. 2.34). The project will finance two
year's of drug requirements in each facility, training, equipment and materials and operating
costs to establish and monitor cost recovery and service utilization. The recently revised fee
structure for health centers and the new hospital fee structure will be applied in the project
zone. Based on the experience of cost recovery efforts in health facilities to-date, it is
expected that overall the cost recovery system could finance 50 percent of operating costs in



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                             28
health centers when fully operational. In the case of hospital facilities with a bed occupancy
rate of 40 percent, it is expected that 30 percent of operating costs will be financed by cost
recovery. A plan for establishing cost recovery in health facilities has been prepared before
Board presentation. A study of the cost recovery system will be conducted by MSPAS and
corrective measures implemented prior to the second phase, and the mid-term review will
include an in-depth analysis of the system; this analysis and full implementation of cost
recovery in the project area will be a condition for launching the third phase, as outlined in
the Essential Actions of the Action Plan (Arneg.X) agreed during negotiations.
3.28        A study of the social security system is also part of the financing study,
including the regulatory framework and the functioning and coverage of the existing system.
IDA will review with Government specific actions to be taken in the context of the project or
otherwise to refine or expand the system.
D. Project Cost and Financing
3.29        The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is estimated at US$27.3
million, net of taxes and duties, with a foreign exchange component of US$20 million or
73.6 percent of total project costs. Project cost estimates are summarized in Annex XV.
3.30        IDA's credit will be US$24.6 million equivalent, representing 90 percent of
total project costs. Government counterpart financing will be US$1.9 and the balance of
project costs, US$0.8 million, will be financed by beneficiaries. Combined Government and
beneficiary contributions represent 10 percent of overall project costs. The project will
finance 60 person-months of internationally and 60 person-months of locally-recruited
consultants to assist the Government to implement particular aspects of the work. The IDA
credit will finance incremental recurrent costs. Base costs are in average 1992 values.
Physical contingencies of 15 percent have been included for rehabilitation works and 10% for
goods. Price contingencies for foreign exchange costs have been calculated at 1.3%, 1.2%,
2.4%, 3.2%, 3.4% and 3.2% annually from 1993 onwards. Price contingencies for local
currency are estimated at 12% and 8% for 1993 and 1994, respectively, and 6% thereafter.
Cost estimates for rehabilitation works (estimated at US$300/m2) are based on actual costs
from the first IDA health project, after international competitive bidding. Cost estimates for
other expenditures are based on recent experience from the first project and other projects, as
well as on quotations from suppliers.
E. Project hnpa
1. Impact on Women
3.31        Improved quality and coverage of health services will benefit women in a
number of ways. The package of integrated health and nutrition services financed by the
project will focus in particular on the needs of pregnant women and lactating mothers
including a program of family planning which will protect the mother and the young children
of the family (paras. 3.10 and 3.11). In addition, the local health referral system will be
improved by upgrading facilities, and providing equipment and materials designed to manage



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                          29
high risk pregnancies and complications of pregnancy, the major cause of maternal mortality
in Guinea. Communicable disease control and health education will directly address the needs
of women who are also responsible for family welfare. The nutrition component wiU focus
on the nutritional problems of Guinean women and especially those of pregnant women.
Finally, in order to develop a better understanding of women's issues in the Guinea context
and promote women's concerns and their integration into development activities, the project
will provide institutional support to the Division for the Promotion of Women to develop the
capacity in program planning and management.
2. Environmental Impact
3.32        The project will have a positive environmental impact through its information,
education and communications component. It will be linked to the water supply and
sanitation component to be financed by KfW through community mobilization and education
on the value of safe water and sanitation. In addition, general community hygiene will be
promoted. At the clinical level procedures for the safe handling of waste and hazardous
materials (needles, blood products) will be instituted at all health facilities and staff trained in
the disposal of these products.
F. Project Implementation
1. Preparation Status
3.33        Under a first PPF advance of US$450,000 (approved on December 18, 1991),
and a second of US$250,000 (approved on July 20, 1993), the following studies have been
undertaken:
(a)   a study on sector budgeting and financing;
(b)   a national health inventory of infrastructure and equipment, and a plan for
developing norms, facilities and equipment;
(c)   the design of a new hospital management system;
(d)   a feasibility study against iodine deficiency;
(e)   a beneficiary assessment in the project zones;
(f)   the preparation of the job descriptions for key MSPAS posts;
(g)   the preparation of a project Implementation Manual; and
(h)   preliminary architectural studies for the first year of project implementation.
3.34        The Implementing Organization described hereafter in section 2 and agreed
upon with the Government, is being put in place and staffed. Texts for the decentralized
management structures were prepared before negotiations; they have been in effect, along
with the MSPAS organization and key staffing, before Board presentation.



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                                30
3.35         Project Design and Cost Estimates prepared during Appraisal have been
revised first at the Government's request during a Pre-Negotiations Technical Mission of
Guinean officials from the Ministry of Public Health and Social Affairs and the Ministry of
Plan and Finance to Washington (November 4-13, 1992); then after a newly revised Request
was received from the Government on January 29, 1993; then, finally, during negotiations
(May 1993). Cost estimates are based on average 1992 values, and contingencies relate to
the annexed Implementation Schedule. Architectural and technical design work for the first
phase should be completed at the latest six months after effectiveness.
3.36         Specialist and Training Services have been identified (Annexes XI-XIII), and
terms of reference for assignments needed in the first phase have been finalized before Board
presentation. The architectural, technical and control consultants for the first phase were
short-listed before negotiations, and signature of corresponding contracts is a condition of
effectiveness.
3.37         Procurement planning and methods have been agreed with the Government as
shown in the procurement table below (Table 2) and in the annexed Implementation
Schedule. Advertising will begin in early 1994. Bidding documents will be adjusted from
the ones approved by IDA under the first project, including for local procurement. No land
acquisition problem is expected in this mostly rehabilitation operation.
3.38         Negotiations took place in May 1993, and Board presentation has been delayed
pending satisfaction of conditionalities (para. 5.2), as well as preparation of a Country
Assistance Strategy. Project start-up is scheduled in July 1994, the first year being
anticipated to be an adjustment period owing to the reorganization of the sectoral
management system (paras. 2.28-2.31 and section 2 below).
2. Management
3.39         The Ministry of Public Health and Social Affairs (MSPAS) is responsible for
overall project management. The Ministry units in charge of the programs included in the
project, as well as the sectoral decentralized entities (regional, prefectoral and sub-
prefectoral), will be responsible for implementing these programs, as summarized below.
Drawing from the first project's experience (paras. 2.35 and 2.36), and as detailed in Annex
VI, decentralized entities will be strengthened, procedures will be improved, and project
management will be fully integrated within MSPAS; the coordination and administrative
functions and personnel of the Project Management Unit (UGP) established under the first
project are being redistributed within the Ministry, as reflected in the reorganization
underway:
(a)   a Project Coordinator will be located within the General Secretariat (the GS
being responsible for overall project coordination, intersectoral dialogue, and
liaison with IDA);
(b)   two Accountants previously responsible for the first project's accounts will
report to the DAAF; and



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                                31
(c)   the procurement function has already been transferred to the DIEM, where
three competent staff are in place, with experience from IDA's first and other
donors' projects.
3.40         To further draw from the first project's lessons and improve central
management, complementary measures have been agreed upon, including mainly:
(a)   MSPAS's technical units are being more fully involved in project management;
(b)   the accounting, auditing and financial management system has been brought up
to standard, with assistance from a financial management consultant;
(c)   the accounts will be checked quarterly by a private accounting firm,
notwithstanding the usual annual independent audits and future half-yearly
controls by the internal audit service that MSPAS is establishing within its
General Inspectorate;
(d)   DIEM's procurement capability is being strengthened through training, locally
and abroad;
(e)   DIEM's procurement capacity will be increased through complete
subcontracting of bidding document preparation and site supervision to private
firms, in packages proportionate to their ability (this has been preferred to an
"AGETIP" scheme since: (i) DIEM already has competent staff involved in the
first project and IDA-approved bidding documents from the first project,
(ii) the size and remote location of most procurement will not be within
AGETIP's range of comparative advantage --later on, however, another
sector's eventual "AGETIP" might handle some of it--, and (iii) six local and
six foreign, locally present firms have been evaluated and short-listed by
DIEM);
(f)   the Ministry of Works will be more involved in architectural design and
construction supervision than in the first project (where full support from its
decentralized units was not secured); and
(g)   quality control of works and goods will be contracted to experienced "Bureaux
de contr6le", as a technical and legal back-up to DIEM and the Ministry of
Works.
3.41         Responsibilities, liaisons and procedures at the regional, prefectoral and sub-
prefectoral levels have also been reviewed in light of the first project's experience (paras.
2.35 and 2.36), and are detailed in Annex VI. The strengthening of decentralized entities, as
summarized below, is planned within the sectoral reorganization underway and will begin by
project effectiveness with staff redeployment:
(a)   "Cellule r6gionale de coordination": the existing Regional Inspector will be
assisted by three services (Regional Program Coordination; Planning, Training
and Research; and Administration and Finance), the Regional Hospital



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                               32
Director, the Regional Maintenance Director, and the future Regional Director
of "Pharmacie Centrale de Guin6e;
(b)   "Cellule pr6fectorale de gestion du projet": the existing Prefectoral Director
for Health and Social Affairs will be assisted by five services (Primary Health;
Planning, Training and Research; Pharmacy and Laboratory; Social Affairs;
and Administration and Finance), the Prefectoral Hospital Director, and the
Prefectoral Director of Works; and
(c)   At the sub-prefectoral level, responsibility for project implementation will be
shared, as in the first project, between the Health Center Chief and the elected
"Comite de gestion", but more attention will be paid to staff qualification and
training, as well as to supervision and organizational guidance.
3.42         Implementation of such reorganization will be progressive, as reflected in the
annexed Action Plan and Implementation Schedule. Prior to negotiations (para. 5.1),
essential legal texts were drafted by the Government and the timetable for implementation of
the staff redeployment plan was presented to IDA. Before Board presentation, essential legal
texts have been issued; key job descriptions have been finalized; staff redeployment is
satisfactorily underway and key positions have been filled; and an Implementation Manual
detailing project procedures has been prepared (Table of contents in Annex XIX!.
3. Implementation Schedule
3.43         Given the lessons learned from the first project (paras. 2.35 and 2.36) as well
as the expected delays stemming from the sectoral reorganization underway, the
implementation period has been planned in three phases of two years each. With a likely
completion lag of twelve months, plus six months for the closing of the accounts, the
expected seven-and-a-half-year period conforms to the disbursement profile for all sectors in
Guinea (para. 3.58 and Annex XVI).
3.44         Project activities and execution of project components will be phased as
detailed in the Action Plan and Implementation Schedule (Annexes X and XIV). The Action
Plan was agreed upon during negotiations and emphasizes certain actions (underlined in
Annex X) as "Essential Actions". Satisfactory implementation of these Essential Actions will
be a condition for disbursement of funds for all works and health facility equipment for the
second and third phases. In addition, training in subsequent phases will be conditional on
satisfactory completion of local training in the previous phase (para. 5.4).
4. Procurement
3.45        Table 2 below summarizes the project elements and their estimated costs and
proposed methods of procurement. Procurement phasing and procedures are explained in
paras. 3.46-3.51; procurement management arrangements (including past performance and
proposed improvement) in paras. 3.52 and 3.53; and IDA review procedures in para. 3.56.
All procurement within the project for works, goods, pharmaceuticals and vaccines, and
services will adopt the Bank's Sample/Standard Bidding Documents.



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sedor Projec                                     33
Table 2: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements (US$m. net of taxes & duties)
Procurement Method                     Total
Project Element                ICB        LCB       Other      N.I.F.    Cost
1. Works
20  Health Centers (HCs)                  2.9                             2.9
(2.9)                          (2.9)
2  Improved Health Centers   0.8                                         0.8
(0.8)                                     (0.8)
4  Hospitals                  3.5                                        3.5
(3.5)                                     (3.5)
18  Prefectoral Directorates              1.3                             1.3
(1.3)                          (1.3)
1  Regional Inspectorate                 0.1                             0.1
(0.1)                          (0.1)
Health Ministry Rehab.    1.1                                         1.1
(1.1)                                     (1.1)
2. Goods
Vehicles                   2.4                                        2.4
(2.4)                                     (2.4)
Medical & Other Im-        1.4                                        1.4
-ported Equipment       (1.4)                                      (1.4)
Materials & Supplies                  0.6                             0.6
(0.6)                          (0.6)
Furniture                             0.5                            0.5
(0.5)                          (0.5)
3. Pharmac. & Vaccines
Drugs & Vaccines for HCs                        2.Oa                  2.0
(1.8)                (1.8)
Drugs for Hospitals        0.8                                       0.8
(0.3)                                     (0.3)
Iodized Capsules           0.4                                       0.4
(0.4)                                     (0.4)
4. Services (T.A.)
Policy Support                                  0.1 b                0.1
(0.1)                (0.1)
Proj. Prep. & Impl. Sup.                        1.6 b                 1.6
(1.6)                (1.6)
Institutional Dev.                              1.2 b                1.2
(1.2)                (1.2)
5. Miscellaneous
Local Training/Seminars                         1.4 c                 1.4
(1.4)                (1.4)
Operation/Maintenance                           4.5 c                4.5
(2.5)                (2.5)
PPF Refinancing                                 0.7                  0.7
(0.7)                (0.7)
10.4       5.4       11.5                 27.3
Total                  (9.9)      (5.4)     (9.3)               (24.6)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
N.I.F.: Not IDA-Financed.
a. UNIPAC (UNICEF Procurement Agency)
b. In accordance with World Bank Guidelinest Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Zxecuting Agency (August 1981).
c. In accordance with Government procedures (Implem. Manual, Annex XIX).



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                             34
Procurement Phasing
3.46        As shown in the Implementation Schedule (Annex XIY), this program will be
implemented in 3 phases of 2 years each, with distribution aimed at overcoming the first
project's delays and flaws (paras. 2.35 and 3.52). Satisfactory completion of all activities in
the previous phase (para. 3.5), and completion of all necessary new procurement preparation
(TORs, draft bidding documents and timetable) for the subsequent phase (para. 3.55) will be
a condition of disbursement for the subsequent phase (para. 5.4), as per the Action Plan
(Annex X) agreed during negotiations.
Project Procedures
3.47        Works: The US$9.7 million equivalent civil works program includes the
rehabilitation and extension or construction of 20 health centers, 2 improved health centers, 4
hospitals, 18 prefectoral directorates, one regional inspectorate and MSPAS' rehabilitation,
phased as follows, for more progressive start-up, more even distribution of activities over
time, and more opportunities for involving local architectural, technical and construction
resources, while covering simultaneously and progressively the new prefectures not touched
in the first project (of which some are remote and of more difficult access):
PHASE 1                       PHASE 2                    PHASE 3
10 Health Centers, CS         10 CS                      2 improved CS, CSA
(LCB, US$1.4m)              (LCB, USS1.5m)             (ICB, US$O.8m)
2 Hospitals               2 Hospitals
(ICB, US$1.7m)            (ICB, US$1.8m)
10 Pref. Direct., DPSAS       8 DPSAS
(LCB, USSO.7m)              (LCB, US$0.6m)
1 Regional Inap., IRS
(LCB, US$O.lm)
Health Ministry, MSPAS
(ICB, US$1.lm)
IC: Contracts for the 2 Improved Health Centers (US$0.8 m), 4 Hospitals (US$3.5 m) and
MSPAS (US$1.1 m), split in about ten packages to allow medium size contractors'
participation, will be awarded according to Section II of the IDA Procurement Guidelines
(Fourth Edition, Revised and Expanded, 1992). Domestic contractors will receive a 7.5
percent preference in bid evaluation. It is expected that these contracts will be equivalent to
US$200,000 or more each.
LEa: Works for the 20 Health Centers (US$2.9 m), 18 Prefectoral Directorates (US$1.3m),
and the Regional Inspectorate (US$0.1 m), split by the unit to allow small size contractors'
participation, and too small and dispersed to attract bidders from abroad, will be bid by LCB
procedures acceptable to IDA, which will at the minimum include local advertising, public
bid opening, clarity in evaluation criteria, award to the lowest bidder, non-exclusion of
foreign bidders, and no preference in bid evaluation for domestic contractors. It is expected
that these contracts will be less than the equivalent of US$200,000 each.



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                            35
Local communities will initially provide preliminary/complementary works like site
preparation and planting, fencing, latrines, shelters for visiting families, etc.. Expressed
interest in, mobilization for, and significant progress of such participation will be major
criteria for the selection of the health centers to be rehabilitated and extended.
3.48        Goods:
ICB: Vehicles, medical, office and other imported equipment (US$3.8 m) will be procured
through ICB procedures according to Section II of the IDA Procurement Guidelines, with
about 20 contracts exceeding US$50,000 equivalent each; eligible domestic manufacturers
will receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent (or the amount of customs duties
and other import taxes if lower). Goods procured through ICB shall be exempted from price
preshipment inspection by a third party inspection firm.
LCB: Locally procured furniture, materials and supplies (US$1.1 m) will be procured
through about 30 smaller contracts in which foreign firms will not be interested. Such
contracts, not exceeding US$50,000 equivalent each, will be bid by LCB procedures
acceptable to IDA as for works above.
3.49        Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines:
ICB: Drugs for Hospitals (US$0.8 m), and Iodized Capsules (US$0.4m) will be procured
through ICB procedures as above, since UNIPAC, the Procurement Agency of UNICEF, has
so far been interested in supplying to Health Centers only. The specific procedure will be
agreed upon prior to second phase; its application will be a condition of disbursement for the
second and third phase (para. 3.8).
Other procedures: Pharmaceuticals and vaccines for Health Centers (US$2.0 m) will continue
to be procured through UNIPAC.
3.50        Services: Management, architectural, procurement, auditing and various
sectoral (including training) services, totalling US$2.9 million equivalent will be procured in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to IDA on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. Technical Assistance and Training Programs
and Calendars are in Annexes XI and XII. Terms of reference for specialist and training
services for the first phase have been prepared before Board presentation.
3.51        Miscellaneous: Consumables, incremental staff, indemnities, mission and local
training allowances, etc. will be acquired and paid for following regular Government
procedures which have been found acceptable to IDA and which are detailed in the
Implementation Manual prepared before Board presentation.



Guines S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                            36
Procurement Management
3.52        Past Performance: Preparation of bidding documents has improved during the
first project owing to the building of experience and to the progressive and now systematic
use of the Bank's sample bidding documents, but local expertise is insufficient in such
specialized areas as drugs and medical equipment procurement. Evaluation of bids has also
improved, but remains too long and sometimes includes criteria which are valid but not
displayed in bidding documents (a continuation of local practice), as well as unclear or
incomplete reporting (stemming mainly from insufficient expertise). Finalization of contracts
has often been long, owing to the need for frequent revisions of erroneous or incomplete
information on key dates, price/payment data, price revision procedures when applicable, and
clear distinction between revised versions. Supervision of execution has been inadequate,
owing to the numerical and technical weakness of both local and foreign specialists, and the
inability and/or unwillingness of MSPAS to reinforce or replace them.
3.53        Proposed Improvement: Measures agreed upon to strengthen MSPAS'
procurement management capacity are detailed in para. 3.40, some of which have already
started:
(a)   procurement responsibility has been transferred to DIEM, and three DIEM
Procurement Specialists (including DIEM's Chief) have been upgraded in
procurement management through Bank-endorsed training at CESAG, Dakar;
(b)   to complement MSPAS' insufficient staffing, local private specialists services
have been evaluated to prepare architectural designs, equipment specifications
and other bidding documents, as well as to supervise the execution of works
and the supply of goods; and
(c)   the quality of the private specialists' performance will be controlled by locally
established 'Bureaux de controle' (such as "SOCOTEC" or 'VERITAS"),
from which MSPAS has begun receiving assistance to improve the first
project's completion, as per IDA's advice.
Local Procedures
3.54        A Country Procurement Assessment Report has not yet been completed.
However, the Borrower's procurement regulations and procedures have been reviewed
throughout the preparation of the new Procurement Code (cf. Mr. Westring's Memo of April
28, 1989, L), and more recently during the preparation of a road sector project (cf. Mr.
Raoul's Note of December 9, 1992, transmitted to the Government by Mr. Lafourcade on the
same date, recommending some amendments to the Procurement Code). Pending further
discussions with the Government concerning these amendments, IDA Sample Bidding
Documents will continue to be systematically used (as is now satisfactorily the case under the
first project); necessary adjustments to local procedures will be agreed upon during the
above-mentioned discussions. Should these discussions not conclude soon enough,
procedural adjustments specific to the project will be agreed upon separately.



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                                37
Procurement Schedule
3.55         The scheduling of major procurement activities is indicated in the annexed
Implementation Schedule and reflected in the annexed Disbursement Schedule. The
following preliminary steps are implied:
(a)   the architectural, technical and control consultants were short-listed prior to
negotiations;
(b)   the signing of architectural, technical and control services contracts for the
first phase will be a condition of effectiveness; and
(c)   satisfactory completion of a phase, including all necessary new procurement
preparation (TORs, draft bidding documents and timetable), will be a condition
for launching the subsequent phase.
Review
3.56         During project execution, IDA-financed works and goods contracts above a
threshold of US$150,000 will be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. The review
process will cover about 80 percent of the total contract value procured by ICB and LCB
(100 percent, ICB; about 50 percent, LCB). Selective post review of awarded contracts
below the threshold levels will be carried out on about 1 in 5 works contracts and in 1 in 7
goods contracts. All consultant contracts will be subject to IDA's prior review procedures.
However, prior review or approval of budgets, short-lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts will not be required for each contract
below a threshold of US$50,000 equivalent for which post-review procedures will apply.
Nevertheless, prior review would continue to be required for all terms of reference, the
employment of individuals, single source selection of firms or assignments determined by
IDA to be of a critical nature or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
US$100,000 equivalent or above.
3.57         Procurement Information
During negotiations, agreement was reached on:
(a)   prompt reporting of contract award information by the Borrower;
(b)   comprehensive semi-annual reports to IDA by the Borrower, indicating:
(i)  revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising,
bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual contracts;
(ii)  revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project,
including best estimates of allowances for physical and price
contingency; and



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector PojoJt                             38
(iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
(c)   a completion report by the Borrower within three months of the credit's
closing date (para. 3.71).
5. Disbursement
3.58        Under the first project, disbursement has lagged owing mainly to procurement
and counterpart funding delays. Despite the safeguards introduced in the implementation
schedule and arrangements for the present project (including the phasing and a new
management structure), and despite improvements expected from the experience gained
during the first project, the counterpart funding problem may continue. To address this
issue, the Credit will finance 100 percent of all project costs the first year, and the agreed
Action Plan (Annex X) requires that the Government's first annual share of financing (for the
second year of the first phase) be deposited in the Project Account at the latest 12 months
after Effectiveness, and at the beginning of each subsequent project year. The disbursement
schedule proposed in Annex XVI reflects the seven-and-a-half year disbursement profile for
all sectors in Guinea. The Credit will be disbursed as follows (conditions of disbursement
for each phase are specified in paras. 5.3 and 5.4).
Tab_le 3: Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the IDA Credit
Amount of the Credit Allocated           % of Expenditures
Cateaory           (Expressed in USS million Eauivalentl      to be Financed
(1) Works                          8.5                        100%  (net of taxes & duties)
(2) Equipment & furniture
for health facilities         1.5                        100
(3) Other equipment & furniture,
materials and vehicles        3.0                        100%
(4) Drugs, iodized capsules
and vaccines                  2.0                        100%
(5) Specialist services            3.0                        100%
(6) Training                       1.5                        100%
(7) Operating costs*               2.0                        100%    " for the 12 months
following the
Effective Date;
50% thereafter
(8) Refunding of PPF               0.7                        100%
(9) Unallocated                    2.4
TOTAL                         24.6
* Operating Costs: incremental project-related expenditures incurred by MSPAS and Health
Facilities for supplies, operation and maintenance of equipment and vehicles, maintenance
of buildings, per diem for mission and local training, and domestic travel of staff of
MSPAS and Health Facilities.



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                             39
Disbursement Documentation
3.59        Disbursements from the IDA Credit will be fully documented, except for
payments under contracts of less than US$20,000 equivalent, training, and operating costs,
which will be reimbursed against certified statements of expenditures, for which
documentation will be retained by MSPAS' DAAF for review by IDA supervision missions
and project auditors.
Project Accounts
3.60        Given the first project's satisfactory experience with this financing facility, the
Government will establish, maintain and operate, in a commercial Bank, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA, a Special Account to which IDA will make an initial deposit
of about US$500,000 (estimate for about three months of expenditures). This Special
Account will be replenished by IDA monthly according to disbursement regulations and will
include a certification by the bank holding the account showing (i) account activity since the
last replenishment application, (ii) the account balance, and (iii) a reconciliation statement.
Should any disbursement made be disallowed by IDA, the Government will redeposit the
corresponding amount into the Special Account. Given the availability of the Special
Account, applications for direct payment will normally be for US$ 50,000 (or 10% of the
initial deposit) equivalent minimum. The Government will, prior to the second year of the
first phase, establish a separate Project Account in local currency and will deposit an initial
amount in Guinean Francs equivalent to US$258,000, representing the Government's
counterpart financing contribution for the second year of the project. At the beginning of
each subsequent project year, the Government will deposit funds to cover Government
counterpart financing requirements for that year, as per the Action Plan (Annex ) agreed
during negotiations. The Project Account may be replenished through the Special Account for
incurred expenditures for eligible operating costs.
6. Accounting. Reporting and Auditing
3.61        Past Performance: The first project's computerized accounting and financial
management system has been set up and improved with the assistance of a financial
consultant and of the external auditors. The two accountants have been trained in its
utilization. Owing to a first unsuccessful computerization attempt by another consulting firm
and the lengthy development of the new system, audit reporting has sometimes been late.
Furthermore, insufficient counterpart financing has delayed the training of regional entities in
improving their accounting procedures. However, conditions for satisfactory financial
management are now in place.
3.62        For the proposed project, and on the basis of the now improved system,
experience gained, and planned procedures (Annexes VI and XIX), MSPAS will
progressively establish and maintain separate project-related accounts at the central and
decentralized offices responsible for project execution. Such accounts shall be maintained in
accordance with sound and internationally recognized accounting principles and practices
satisfactory to IDA. MSPAS will provide interim and annual financial statements to reflect



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                                40
the financial performance and position of the project. An auditor's opinion and reports
satisfactory to IDA on such statements, including for the Special Account, the Project
Account and the Statement of Expenditures, will be provided within six months of the close
of the fiscal year. The auditor's report will include a statement on the adequacy or otherwise
of the accounting system and internal controls, as well as on the compliance with financial
covenants, and a separate opinion on the reliability of statement of expenditures as a basis for
credit disbursements.
3.63         The foregoing project accounting, financial reporting, and auditing
arrangements should provide adequate and timely information to IDA for supervision. As a
condition of effectiveness, the first project's computerized accounting and financial system,
including all improvement measures recommended by the auditor, will be transferred to
MSPAS' DAAF from PIU, and the system will be fully operational and adequate staff
assigned and trained; and (ii) the above-mentioned financial statements will be included in the
semi-annual progress reports to be transmitted to IDA by the Project Coordinator at the latest
three months after the end of each semester.
7. Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
3.64         IDA's Supervision Plan (Annex XVII) and MSPAS' Monitoring System (paras.
3.65-3.67) will be closely coordinated to ensure the most efficient use of scarce resources in
a context of remote and dispersed project activities. Implementation problems experienced
during the first project, which covers five more accessible prefectures in the same region,
have led to Government increasing and diversifying supervision resources (Annex Vl).
Government's Monitoring System
3.65         As detailed in Annex VI, Project monitoring will be the responsibility of the
Project Coordinator in MSPAS' General Secretariat. Review meetings with the participation
of the various project entities (including local representatives of all involved development
agencies, NGOs, and private consultants) and chaired by MSPAS' Secretary General will be
held at the end of each quarter.
3.66         Progress reports will be prepared at the end of each semester by MSPAS'
General Secretariat, with inputs from the various project entities and under the Project
Coordinator's responsibility. To make this procedure as light and effective as possible,
MSPAS and IDA will, during the project launch workshop, agree on a format and coverage
limited to the essential indicators.
3.67         MSPAS' General Secretariat will be responsible for coordinating arrangements
for IDA supervision missions, and for providing all required information. Missions will
normally be accompanied by the Project Coordinator, and, as necessary, by specialist staff
from the project entities and other Ministries. Mission briefings, on arrival, and wrap-up
meetings will normally be chaired by MSPAS' Secretary General, with the participation of
the various project entities.



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                          41
Joint Evaluation
3.68        IDA and the Government will conduct three types of periodic joint assessment
of the relevance, performance, efficiency, and impact (both expected and unexpected) of the
project in relation to stated objectives: at the end of each phase, at mid-term, and at the end
of the project.
Phase Review
3.69        During negotiations, the Government and IDA agreed on the annexed Action
Plan, which will be examined jointly at agreed intervals to assess progress in the
implementation of the policy measures and activities. Conditions of disbursement for each
phase are specified in the annexed Action Plan (Annex X).
Mid-term Review
3.70        The Government and IDA will, at the beginning of the fourth project year (i.e.
the middle of the second phase), conduct a mid-term project implementation review to
evaluate progress in carrying out the project and meeting its objectives. Without limitation
upon the generality of the foregoing, such review will include an evaluation of: (i) MSPAS'
functioning; (ii) progress of cost recovery measures and their impact on health services'
quality and utilization; (iii) progress of training activities and the performance of trained
staff; (iv) progress of the priority programs; and (v) project management.
Project Completion Report
3.71        Sufficiently ahead of the scheduled final supervision/completion mission, the
Government will prepare an independent evaluation of project implementation and outcome,
to be submitted no later than three months after the completion mission. During the
completion mission, IDA will ensure that IDA/Government views are well understood by
both parties, before being recorded in an agreed aide-memoire. Within six months after the
Credit Closing Date, a Project Completion Report will be finalized by IDA, in which
differences of views will be identified.
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.1         By the end of the project period, both the quality and coverage of health care
will have increased, thereby helping to improve the health status of the population and
particularly of the vulnerable groups in the project area. The project will expand health care
coverage to three additional prefectures of the ten prefectures in Middle Guinea (of which
five are already covered by the ongoing project), and to four prefectures in Lower Guinea,
directly benefiting over one million people or almost 20 percent of the country's population.
In addition, the health care coverage for particular target groups will increase, with 70



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                            42
percent of children under one year of age fully immunized, ante-natal care coverage for 60
percent of pregnant women (a minimum of three ante-natal visits and full immunization with
tetanus toxoid) and 50 percent coverage by a trained birth attendant. By supporting the
development of decentralized management structures, sector financing and management and
Government's capacity to plan future investments and coordinate donor activities, the project
will help establish the basis for a sustainable program and build people's confidence in the
public health system.
B.   RiMsk
4.2         The main risks are: (a) weak political will in following through on policy
measures already begun under the preceding project, such as decentralization and personnel
deployment; (b) financial constraints disrupting operational performance; and (c) weak
management skills affecting implementation of the project. A weakening of political will
would be minimized by: (i) including up-front measures on key issues (e.g. decentralization)
and by linking progress on these measures to conditions of disbursement for specific project
components; (ii) regular monitoring of program implementation by authorities; and (iii) an
increased involvement of communities in local management and decision-making. The risk
of diminishing sector resources will be addressed by expanding the cost recovery system,
reducing inefficiencies in the sector and including review of sector budgetary allocations in
annual discussions of project and sector performance. The MSPAS weak institutional
capacity would be addressed by strengthening strategic planning and management and project
management through training and short-term specialist services.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.1   Prior to negotiations, the following documents were submitted by the Guinean
Government to IDA:
(a)   short-listing of architectural, technical and control consultants
(para. 3.5);
(b)   draft consultant's contract for preparing job descriptions (para. 3.18);
(c)   draft legal texts, related to the role and mandate of the regional
inspectorate, prefectoral directorates, and hospital and health center
committees and giving autonomy to peripheral and intermediate health
facilities (para.3.21);
(d)   work program and timetable for implementation of the staffing and
redeployment plan (para. 3.23); and
(e)   signed consultant contracts for the financing study (para. 3.26);



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                             43
In addition, during negotiations, Government and IDA reached agreement on:
(f)   the letter of sector development policy prepared by Government
(Annex V) and the Action Plan to be reviewed annually (Annex X);
(g)   a joint annual review no later than September 30 each year, of the previous
year's expenditures and agreement on the recurrent budget for the following
fiscal year which for non-salary recurrent expenditures will be no less than GF
2.3 billion in FY94, GF 3.4 billion in FY95, and GF 4.5 billion in FY96
(para. 3.26);
(h)   a joint-annual review and agreement no later than September 30 each year on
the Government's three-year rolling investment plan for the health sector in the
context of overall resources available for the sector, as well as approval by
IDA of any additional annual investments that exceed a cumulative amount
equivalent to US$1 million (para. 3.26);
(i)   project management and implementation arrangements (para. 3.39); and
(j)   the establishment by Government of a Project Account and deposit of Guinean
Francs equivalent to US$258,000 prior to commencement of year 2 of
Phase 1. Thereafter, an annual deposit of the Government's counterpart
contribution for the next 12 months will be deposited in the Project Account
(para. 3.60).
5.2   As Conditions of Board Presentation, the Government has:
(a)   prepared the rehabilitation program for the first phase of rehabilitation
(para. 3.5);
(b)   carried out the first beneficiary assessment in project areas
(para. 3.15);
(c)   put in effect the legal texts on MSPAS' organizational structure and
filled division head positions on the basis of job descriptions
satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.18);
(d)   put in effect the legal texts on composition, mandate and functions of
the sectoral and intersectoral committees (para. 3.19);
(e)   put in effect the legal texts on the role of the regional inspectorate,
prefectoral directorates and hospital and health center committees
(para. 3.21);
(f)   prepared and submitted to IDA for review a plan for financial and stock
management at health facilities financed by project and at the regional



Guinea S.A.R. - Healh and Nutition Secor Poject                                    44
and prefectoral levels, and for establishing cost recovery in financed
health facilities (paras. 3.22, 3.27);
(g)   submitted to IDA terms of reference for specialist and training
services for the project's first phase (para. 3.36);
(h)   undertaken all PPF-financed studies (paras. 3.33, 3.38); and
(i)   prepared an Implementation Manual satisfactory to IDA, detailing
project procedures (para. 3.42 and Annex XIX).
5.3   Conditions of Credit Effectiveness:
(a)   selection of about 20 health centers, two improved health centers and four
prefectoral hospitals for rehabilitation, construction and maintenance in the
prefectures of Mali, Koubia and Mamou in Middle Guinea, and T&im&e,
Dubreka, Coyah and Kindia in Lower Guinea, to IDA's satisfaction; and
determination of which of those facilities to be supplied with essential drugs
(paras. 3.5 and 3.7);
(b)   signature of contracts for architectural, technical and control services
for the first phase (paras. 3.5, 3.36, 3.55);
(c)   signature of contract for first year's drug supply financed by IDA
(para. 3.8);
(d)   continued implementation of the staffing and redeployment plan in
accordance with timetable agreed between IDA and Government at
negotiations, redeployment of a minimum of 150 staff to the health
centers in the prefectures and submission to IDA of the updated staff
redeployment numbers (para. 3.23);
(e)   completion of the financing study for the health sector; and adoption of
the Financing Plan, and Government budgetary allocations, acceptable
to IDA, for FY94, which for non-salary health expenditures will be no
less than GF 2.3 billion (para. 3.26); and
(f)   installation of project computerized accounting and financial
management system at MSPAS' DAAF unit; full operation of system;
and assignment and training of adequate staff (para. 3.63).
5.4   Conditions of Disbursement Against the 2nd and 3rd Phases:
Disbursement of funds for all works, and health facility equipment, for
the second and third phases will be conditional on satisfactory
implementation of Essential Actions in the previous phase as underlined



Guinea S.A.R. - Health and Nutrition Sector Project                              45
in the Action Plan (Annex X) agreed upon during negotiations. In
addition, training in subsequent phases will be conditional on
satisfactory completion of local training in the previous phase as
detailed in the calendar of training (Annex XI).
5.5   Event of Suspension:
Any substantial changes in (i) legislation on the central or decentralized
organization and the staffing and redeployment plan that adversely
affects implementation of the Project; (ii) proposals as outlined in the
Letter of Sector Development Policy; and (iii) execution of the
Government's recurrent budget for health during project
implementation, as agreed between the Government and IDA, would
constitute an event of suspension.
Reconunendation
5.6          Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 17.4 million (US$24.6 million equivalent) to the Republic
of Guinea on standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.






ANNEX I
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA                            Page l of 1
BASIC DATA AND DEMOGRAPHIC, HEALTH AND NUTRITION INDICATORS
D '7       ', ;':,,ATA " '' " Y SOURCE'
A.        GENERAL COUNTRY DATA
1. Total Population (Million)(Estimated):                 6.0      1991      WDR
2. Population Projection (Million)                        8.0      2000      WDR
3. Urban PopulaUon as % of Total:                       26.0      1991       WDR
4. Area (1,000 Km2):                                    246.0      1991      WDR
5. GNP Per Capita (USS):                               460.0      1991       WOR
B.        POPULATION DATA:
1. Crude Birth Rate (Per 1,000 Population):             49.0      1991       WDR
2. Crude Death Rate (Per 1,000 Populaton):               21.0     1991       WDR
3. Avg. Annual Growth of Population (%):                  2.8     1991      WDR
4. Total Fertilty Rate:                                   6.5      1991      WDR
5. Population Age Structure (% of Total):
0-14 Years                                          46.7      1991      WDR
15-64 Years                                         50.7      1991      WDR
C.        HEALTH DATA:
1. Population Per Physician:                           6,570      1990        SID
2. Population Per Nurse:                                5,164      1989       SID
3. Infant Mortality Rate (Per 1,000 Live Births):        136       1991      WDR
4 Under 5 Mortality Rate (Per 1,000 Live Births):        237       1991     NPAG
5. Matemal Mortality (Per 100,000 Live Births)           880       1990    MSPAS
6. Life Expectancy at Birth (Years)                       44       1991      WDR
7. Access to Safe Water (% of Population)
Urban                                           72       1990     NPAG
Rural                                           42       1990     NPAG
D.        NUTRITIONAL DATA:
1. Daily Calorie Supply (Per Person):                  2,042       1989       SID
2. Daily Protein Supply (Grams Per Person):               45       1989       SID
E.        EDUCATIONAL DATA:
1. Gross Enrollment Rates (% of School-Age Group):
Primary: Total                                    37       1990      WDR
Female:                                   24      1990      WDR
Secondary: Total                                  10       1990      WDR
Female:                                  5      1990      WDR
2. Pupil-Teacher Ratio:
Primary:                                          40       1990      WDR
Secondary:                                        21       1989       SID
3. Adult Illiteracy (%):
Total                                         76       1991      WDR
Female:                                      87       1991      WDR
Health Budget as % of Total Gov't. Budget                  2       1992      MFP
SOURCES WoddD.Dvlopmeat Repon (WDR). 1993; Social lIdimlotn ot Development (SM), 1990; Nadonl Plao d Acdoo fore aDeccde for Chfldres (NPAG).
Rep of Guoea.M192; AnOmI Statsto. IM,O MSPAS;Lade Finance, Minityofe sPdl bad e P P)u 199.
L



ANNEX U
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA                        Page 1 of 1
HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR PROJECT
CAUSES OF MORBIDITY (1989 AND 1990)
LIST OF FIRST TEN CAUSES OF MORBIDITY AMONG CHILDREN
Causes                           1989                       1990
Malaria                         26.1%                       23.3%
Respiratory Diseases            24.0%                       21.4%
Diarrheal Diseases              14.2%                       11.5%
Helminthiases                    8.5%                       10.4%
Skin Diseases                    9.4%                        7.0%
Measles                          2.0%                        1.8%
Anemias                          1.6%                        1.6%
Eye Diseases                     2.1%                        1.4%
Malnutrition                     1.2%                        1.1%
Wounds and Burns                 0.5%
Abdominal Pains                     -                        0.7%
SOURCE: Guinea, Anouairc Statistique, 1990.
LIST OF FIRST TEN CAUSES OF MORBIDITY
-       1989----           ------1990----
Causes                          Case             %            Case           %
Malaria                         183,009         21.0        234,379           27.3
Respiratory Diseases            133,901         15.9        148,350            17.3
Diarrheal Diseases               61,596          7.3         72,429            8.4
Helminthiases                    88,961         10.6        132,928           15.5
Skin Diseases                    55,189          6.6         56,550            6.6
Gynecological Infections         39,813         4.7          32,129            3.7
Anemias                           16,968         2.0         20,888            2.4
Eye Diseases                     26,324          3,1             -               -
Diseases of Mouth and Teeth      33,104         3.9
Wounds and Burns                 20,051          2.4         14,554             1.7
SOURCE: Guinea, AUnuaire Statistiquc, 1990



ANNEX: 
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA                     Page 1 of 1
HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR PROJECT
EVOLUTION OF THE RECURRENT HEALTH BUDGET: 1980-91
(in Million Sylis: 1980-85)
(In Million GNF: 1986-91)
HEALTH BUDGET
YEAR   HEALTH   NATIONAL              AS A %
BUDGET       BUDGET  NATIONAL BUDGET
1980      496.6        13,068         3.8%
1981      572.6        17,725         3.2%
1982      529.3        12,564         4.2%
1983      573.2        16,722         3.4%
1984      518.7        15,354         3.4%
1985      957.5        17,975         5.3%
1986     2,151.0      75,231          2.9%
1987     3,193.7      147,090         2.2%
1988     4,872.1     187,734          2.6%
1989     4,752.8     136,217          3.5%
1990    4,677.5      163,256          2.9%
1991     8,980.0     410,340          2.2%
SOURCE: Oct-Nov., 1991 Mission Report, Marc Reveillon
WHO Report: Ministry of Public Health National Health
Development Plan (Proposals for Financing), September, 1991
Government Request for Period 1993-1997, May 1992



REPUBUC OF GUINEA                         ANNEX I
HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR PROJECT                  Page 1 of 1
HEALTH PERSONNEL BY CATEGORY AND MISSION
AND PERSONNEL/POPULATION RATIOS (1990)
HEALTH PERSONNEL BY REGION
GUINEE MOYENNE    HAUTE              GUINEE
CATEGORY             CONAKRY  MARITIME    GUINEE    GUINEE FORESTIERE                TOTAL
Medecins, Dentstes         449         157         122         96            97          921
Biologistes                 15           5          5           1             2          28
Pharmaciens                114          28         22          12            21          197
TSP                         62          47          20         24            57          210
Infirmiers                 569         177         152        136           271         1305
Sages-Femmes               229          48          26         25            43          371
Technicien Labo.            96          20          20         12            22          170
Preparateurs Pharm.         38           8          8           4             5           63
Techn. Dentaires            33           0           0          0             0           33
ATS                        377         375        504         607           534         2397
Autres                     619          95         158        120           158         1150
SOURCE: Giaesa. Ministere de la Sante PubLique of des Affaires 3ociales, 1990.
]POPULATION RATIOS BY ,CATEGORY OFPESN L
GUINEE MOYENNE         HAUTE         GUINEE
CATEGORY             CONAKRY  MARITIME    GUINEE    GUINEE FORESTIERE   NATIONAL
1 Medecin pour            2,895      4,118      10,666     11,024        10,979        6,570
1 Sage-Femme pour         5,677      8,104      47,404     37,798        24,766       15,024
1 Paramedical pour         997       1,073       1,675      1,338         1,143        1,233
SOURCE: Guiaes. Ansnaire Statistiqae, 1990



ANNEX V
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA                       Page I of 7
HIEALTH AND NUJTRMNON SE3CT'OR PROJXECT
STATEMENT OF HEALTH SECTOR POLICY
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
(November 1991)
1.   The Republic of Guinea proclaims her allegiance to the ideals and principles, rights and
duties as stated in the United Nations Chart, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,
the Chart of the Organization of African Unity regarding the individual and population
rights, the Chart concerning health development in Africa (Lusaka, 1985) and the
Bamako Initiative (1987).
Article 15 of the Fundamental Law states that each individual is entitled to health and
physical well-being and that it is the State's duty to promote it and to fight against
epidemics and social plagues.
2.    Within the framework of the program of socio-economic restructuring and the stimulation
of development started since 1984, the Govemment has taken measures aimed at
promoting the country's human resources.
3.   In order to improve the health and well-being of the population, a policy has been
developed in order to improve the availability, the quality and the efficacy of the health
services.
The broad objective of the health policy of the Republic of Guinea is to improve the
health of the whole population by reducing morbidity and mortality, especially those of
the most vulnerable groups, and by controlling population growth in line with available
resources.
This policy is based on the primary health care strategy adopted in 1978 (after the Alma-
Ata conference), and confirmed by the Second Republic during the National Health
Conference in July 1984. This strategy consists of making health services accessible to
the largest number of people, at a reasonable and affordable cost to the country. It
focuses on:
The harmonious integration of curative, preventive and promotional health care;
The promotion of individual, family and community health;
The participation of beneficiaries in the design, execution and evaluation of health
activities.



ANNEX V
Page 2 of 7
4.    The development of the health policy resulted in several concrete measures
being taken, namely:
Implementation of a program of primary health care, particularly through the
expanded program of immunization integrated with primary care and essential
drugs (PEV/SSP/ME) which has contributed to the improvement of health
coverage in the urban and rural peripheral areas:
Rehabilitation of infrastructure and equipment of many prefectoral,
regional and national hospitals which will be soon complemented by a
hospital policy;
Liberalization of the medical and pharmaceutical sub-sectors which has brought
about the increased participation of the private sector in health development;
Improvement of the management capacity of the sector through the
implementation of a national health information system (SNIS),
introduction of a three-year rolling plan and annual budgeting, a policy to
improve deployment of human resources and several areas of staff
training.
5.    However, both internal and extemal constraints to health sector development
prevent the country from reaching quickly the established goals. In order to
eliminate these constraints, intensive consultations have taken place within
Government as well as with its external partners and Government is planning,
over the next ten years, to implement a number of strategies and structural,
institutional and operational measures.
The strategies for the sector are as follows:
5.1   Structure and organization of the national health system will include:
-     Revision of the MSPAS organizational structure in line with health
policy and a greater decentralization of management
responsibilities. The Government supports health development in
three phases as proposed by WHO for the Africa Region, and
national standards on the role, organization and responsibilities of
the various levels of the health system, taking into account the
availability of human and financial resources;
Creation  and  reinforcement of structures for intersectoral
coordination (health committees, National Health Council, National
Drug Commission, Technical Coordinating Committee (CTC);



ANNEX-V
Development of the statutes regarding the public health services in    g  3 of 7
order to ensure effective management autonomy and improve
service delivery:
Development of a specific statute for health personnel within the
framework of a general statute of the Civil Service (professional
categories, hiring policy, career streams, disciplinary rules) in
order to increase their productivity;
Promotion of the private and para-public sectors in order to
strengthen their role in the implementation of health policy:
Elaboration of ethical codes for the different work categories and
of a national code related to public health;
Continued promotion of traditional medicine.
5.2. At the institutional level, it will be necessary to take measure dealing with
institutional reforms to increase management capacity at the central as well as at
the intermediate and peripheral levels.  To this end, the following specific
measures are proposed:
5.2.1. At the center:
-     Continued efforts in capacity building of the Ministry of Public Health
and Social Affairs (MSPAS) and, in particular, the design of
policies, planning/programming, implementation and evaluation of
health programs;
-     Establishment of norms and standards (human, material and
infrastructural resources) based on the mandate and on activities of
each level of the system as well as on financial constraints;
-     Preparation of a national health inventory, including a mapping
exercise, and its implementation;
-     Development of a health research policy and its implementation;
-     Improvement of the MSPAS capacity to regulate the medical and
pharmaceutical sectors (public as well as private);
-     Development of a policy and plan related to human resources;



ANNEX V
Page 4 of 7
5.2.2. At the intermediate level:
-     Improvement in the capacity of the Regional Health Inspectorate
(IRS) regarding supervision, control and evaluation;
-     Decentralization of the maintenance system and the supply of
medicine;
Reinforcement of the management and supervision capabilities of
the Prefectoral Directorate of Health and Social Affairs (DPSAS)
through:
. Creation of a prefectoral health team;
. Management training of the prefectoral team;
Provision of adequate logistical support;
Capacity building for data collection, processing and analysis;
Development of training and operational research teams at the
prefectoral level;
Improvement in diagnostis and treatment at regional and
prefectoral hospitals;
5.2.3. At the peripheral level:
-     Further development of the technical capacity of the sub-
prefectoral health team;
-     Improvement of the management capacity of the health team and
of the management committees of the health centers.
5.3   At the operational level:
It will be necessary to take measures aimed at increasing the
efficiency and effectiveness of the health system. To this end, the
following actions are proposed:
5.3.1. Optimization of Resources through:
-     Implementation of a personnel redeployment plan according  to
established standards, job descriptions and activities;
-     Implementation of a national training plan;



ANNEX-V
Page 5 of 7
Implementation of a policy regarding recruitment into the health
sector;
Establishment of a career structure;
5.3.2. Improvement in the availability and the use of infrastructure and
equipment by:
-     Using the results of the national health inventory;
-     Further increasing the participation of communities and local
groups;
-     Improving the quality of the services;
-     Reinforcing the maintenance system;
5.3.3. Improvement in the availability of and accessibility to essental
drugs by:
-     Promoting the concept of essential drugs;
-     Rational use of medicines (flow charts, therapeutic protocols and
formulary);
-     Improved management of essential drugs (selection, purchase,
stocking, distribution and provision based on appropriate
management tools;
-     Increasing the currency available for the import of medicines;
-     Implementing measures aimed at limiting price increases of
medicine (revision of the price structure, corrective measures to
maintain the value of the currency, grouping of drug purchases,
incentives to import generic medicines, etc);
5.3.4. Development  of  appropriate  facilities,  material.  logistic  and
communications means for delivery of health services
5.3.5. Integration of vertical programs into the normal clinical services and other
public health programs into the normal clinical services and improvement
of the reference as well as counter-reference system



ANNEX V
Page 6 of 7
5.3.6. Efficient utilization of financial resources by:
The establishment of an improved and integrated financial
management system and the rational use of resources at each level
of the system.
6.    Since the Republic of Guinea does not have sufficient resources to reach all the
goals established within a reasonable timeframe, the basic approach of this policy
is to favor certain priority programs, namely those areas which will produce the
greatest results. Thus, the efforts will be aimed primarily at the following
programs:
-     Maternal and child health, including family planning;
-     Communicable disease control;
-     Water and sanitation;
-     Nutrition;
-     Health education.
Particular attention will be given to the vulnerable groups (mothers and children)
as well as to those affected by structural adjustment.
In order to implement these priority programs, the Government will, among other
things, promote community participation through appropriate health education to
the different socio-cultural groups of the populations. It will also reinforce the
long-term collaboration with its external partners.
7.    The Government is aware that the implementation of its health policy will require
additional financial resources. In order to make them available, the following
measures are being proposed:
Increase financial resources to the sector through the national
budget, primarily to support the peripheral level;
Expand the cost sharing system between users, local groups and
the other parties involved, including external donors;
Set-up financing systems to further solidarity at the community
level.



ANNEX-V
Page 7 of 7
8.    The results achieved thus far through national and international solidarity efforts
allow Government to be reasonably optimistic as far as the implementation of
these strategies are concerned. These strategies are part of a broader human
resource development policy which is needed to deal efficiently with the
difficulties caused by the economic crisis and by structural adjustment; their
consequences have dealt a heavy blow to the health sector even though it is
considered a priority.
The implementation of the health policy, outlined above, is the most appropriate
means to meeting the health needs of the Guinean population and to achieve the
objective of health for all by the year 2000.
The Government wishes to obtain as quickly as possible financial support from
IDA and from the other donors in order to undertake and intensify the efforts
which have already been started.



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA                      ANNEX VI
HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR PRO.JECT Page 1 of 39
INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS. MSPAS ORGANIZATION.
STRENGTHENING OF HEALTH SECTOR MANAGEMENT
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE - PROJET DE SANTE ET NUTRITION
REFORMES INSTITUTIONNELLES. ORGANISATION DU MSPAS
RENFORCEMENT DE LA GESTION DU SECTEUR SANTE
CONTEXTE
Le MSPAS est charge d'elaborer, d'executer, de coordonner, de contr6ler et
d'evaluer la politique socio-sanitaire de l'Etat.
Depuis la Conf6rence Nationale de la Sante de 1984, le secteur sanitaire
connait une rapide expansion marquee par I'augmentation du nombre et I'am6lioration
des infrastructures et de l'equipement sanitaires des centres de sante, des h6pitaux
pr6fectoraux, r6gionaux, et nationaux ainsi que de la qualit6 des soins qui y sont
donnes.
Parallelement, l'offre de soins au niveau du secteur public a et6 etendue et
renforcee par un developpement relatif du secteur priv6.
La participation communautaire, bien que limit6e, est devenue significative.
Une politique de recouvrement des couts fondee sur l'Initiative de Bamako a
permis d'ameliorer la disponibilit6 des ressources financieres pour couvrir les couts
recurrents (medicaments en particulier) dans les centres de sante. Le systeme de
recouvrement des coOts est en cours de gen6ralisation dans les h6pitaux. II doit venir
appuyer une s6rie d'autres reformes en cours, constituant la r6forme hospitaliere qui
va permettre aux h6pitaux d'etre fonctionnels et d'assurer effectivement le r6le qui
leur incombe.
Un grand nombre d'intervenants agissent dans le secteur sante: ONG,
organismes de cooperation bilat6rale et multilat6rale, autres D6partements minist6riels
tels ceux de l'Int6rieur et de l'Agriculture.
La rapide croissance du secteur justifi6e par les immenses besoins de sante non
satisfaits a contraint le Gouvernement a revoir la structure et l'organisation du
MSPAS en 1988, puis en 1992, pour les adapter a la politique de sante basee sur les
soins de sante primaires et a la politique generale de l'Etat en matiere d'organisation
administrative fondee sur la decentralisation.
Cependant, malgre des changements positifs incontestables, le Ministere de
la Sante Publique et des Affaires Sociales eprouve encore de grandes difficult6s a
amnliorer ses performances gestionnaires et a s'adapter au developpement des
activites operationnelles sur le terrain.



ANNEXE VlI
Page 2 de 39
REsumE des RWalisations
En 1992, dans le cadre de la restructuration du Gouvernement, le Ministere de
la Sante Publique et des Affaires Sociales s'est substitue a I'ancien Ministere de la
Sante Publique et de la Population.
Le Decret 92/121 CRG SGG du 26 mai 1992 a defini les attributions et
l'organisation du MSPAS. Selon ce Decret, le MSPAS a pour mission l'elaboration,
la mise en oeuvre et l'evaluation de la politique du Gouvernement en matiere de Santd
Publique et d'Action Sociale. A cet effet, il est charge entre autres:
-     de concevoir et d'elaborer la politique et les strategies d'intervention nationale
en matiere de sante, d'action sociale, de promotion de la femme et de
l'enfance;
-     de concevoir et d'elaborer la reglementation en matiere medico-sanitaire et
sociale;
-     d'assurer la coordination et le contr6le technique des soins de sante primaires,
de medecine traditionnelle et hospitaliere, des laboratoires, des pharmacies, de
nutrition;
-     de proceder a la planification et a la programmation des projets et programmes
I court, moyen et long termes pour assurer les services socio-sanitaires a la
population;
-     de gerer les ressources humaines, materielles et financieres;
-     d'assurer I'approvisionnement en medicaments et en materiels necessaires pour
foumir les services requis;
-     d'identifier les besoins et de participer a la formation des personnels de sante,
des assistants et educateurs sociaux;
-     d'apporter aux collectivites territoriales l'assistance necessaire a la mise en
place et k I'equipement des structures socio-sanitaires.
Le Ministere de la Sante Publique et des Affaires Sociales a, sous sa tutelle, le
SecrEtariat d'Etat ChargE des Affaires Sociales, de la Promotion Feminine et de
I'Enfance. n1 comprend au plan organisationnel:
. Un Secretariat GEneral;
. Un Cabinet;



ANNEXE VI
Page 3 de 39
Des services d'appui, a savoir:
. L'Inspection Generale de la Sante, chargee du contr6le de l'execution
des activites;
. La Division des Affaires Administratives et financieres, chargee de la
gestion des ressources financieres, humaines et materielles;
. Le Bureau de Planification-Formation-Recherche, charge de
l'Information sanitaire, de la planification-programmation, de
l'diaboration et du suivi de l'ex&cution de la politique de formation
des personnels et de recherche.
Trois Directions Techniques (au lieu d'une dans l'organigramme pr6cedent)
chargees de l'e1aboration de la politique, de la formulation des projets et programmes
de leur domaine d'intervention. Ce sont:
- La Direction Nationale de la Sante Publique;
- La Direction Nationale des Etablissements de Sante;
- La Direction Nationale de la Pharmacie et des Laboratoires.
Des organismes personnalises, a savoir: Phannaguinee, l'Institut National de
Sante Publique, le Centre National de Transfusion Sanguine, l'Institut de Nutrition et
de Sante pour Enfant.
D 3es Services Rattaches: le Service National de Maintenance Hospitalibre, le
Centre de Formation en Sante Rurale de Maferinya;
. Des projets dont les deux principaux sont le PEV/SSP/ME et le PDSS;
. Des Organes Consultatifs: Le Conseil National de la Sante et de l'Action
Sociale et des Commissions Nationales Consultatives qui vont permettre de
renforcer la participation communautaire et le dialogue avec les autres
secteurs.
Le Socrtariat d'Etat charge des Affaires Sociales, de la Promotion Feminine
et de l'Enfance comporte un cabinet des services d'appui et trois directions techniques
chargees respecdvement des Affaires Sociales, de la Promotion de la Femme et de
1'Enfance.
Suite A ces d6crets, une intense activite de reflexions est engagee en vue de
definir des mandats precis, d'elaborer les organigrammes detailles et de ddfinir les
effectifs des nouvelles structures.



ANNXE VI
Page 4 de 39
Depuis 1986, la collecte des informations (SNIS), base de la planification, a
et amelioree de faqon notable. En 1988, un bulletin semestriel a ete elabore et
depuis, un annuaire de statistiques est produit chaque annee. Le SNIS a fait l'objet de
4 evaluations depuis lors. L'elaboration d'un document de politique sectorielle de la
sante est achevee et un cadre de presentation des programmes pour la mise en oeuvre
de cette politique a ete finalise. Un plan de developpement sanitaire a long terme a
ete prepare. Le plan triennal a l'horizon glissant est produit chaque annee. Les
descriptifs des programmes contenus dans ce plan ont ete nettement ameliores. La
participation des intervenants a tous les niveaux est initiee.
. Avec l'appui du PDSS, d'importantes activites en matiere de rationalisation
du personnel se deroulent depuis 1989. Le Service Central du Personnel a
ete rehabilite et equipe. Un mini-fichier informatise de gestion du personnel
a ete installe. Les operations de redeploiement du personnel sont en cours.
. Quelques responsables du niveau central ont beneficie de formation en
management et de formations spdcifiques dans leurs domaines de
responsabilites. La formation des inspecteurs en pharmacie est en cours.
Le Service National de Maintenance Hospitali&re cred en 1988 a beneficie
d'appui de la part du FED sous forme d'assistance technique, de formation et
d'equipement. Ce service est egalement soutenu par le PDSS.
Durant les annees passees a la suite du diagnostic sectoriel effectue par la
BAD, de l'evaluation du PEV, des actions de renforcement institutionnel ont etd
men6es en collaboration avec divers partenaires: Banque mondiale, BAD, OMS,
UNICEF, USAID. Elles ont concerne les domaines de la gestion: systeme national
d'information sanitaire, de la planification, des finances, des ressources humaines
(d6ploiement, formation) et certains programmes sanitaires: SMI/PF, EPS, nutrition...
Mais les resultats sont encore insuffisants.
Une methodologie d'analyse des coCts des services de soins est en train d'etre
ddvelopp6e en collaboration avec l'OMS. Elle s'integre dans l'etude de financement
de la sante qui sera realisee dans le cadre du PPF. Toutes ces etudes visent a
connaitre les besoins financiers du secteur et les modalites de la couverture dans le
passe et I l'avenir.
Aux niveaux r*lonal et prEfectoral
Le MSPAS est represente dans la region par l'Inspection Regionale de la Santd
(IRSAS) chargee d'assurer le contr6le et l'evaluation des programmes de sante
developpes au niveau regional. L'inspecteur Regional supervise tous les services de
sante regionaux et preside les sessions semestrielles de monitorage des activites. I1
est le conseiller du Gouvemement de Region en matiere de sante.



ANNEXEYI
Page 5 de 39
Dans la prefecture, le MSPAS est represente par la Direction Prefectorale de
la sante et des affaires sociales (DPSAS).
La structure organique de la DPSAS definie en 1990 a &t6 revisee depuis lors.
La DPSAS assure I'appui operationnel aux structures sanitaires peripheriques et aux
communautes. Son mandat couvre les domaines de la planification, de l'analyse
epidemiologique, du SNIS, de la gestion des ressources financieres, humaines et
materielles, de la formation, de la supervision, de la recherche operationnelle et du
monitoring.
Au niveau sous-prefectoral, il existe une equipe de sante dirigee par le chef du
Centre de Sante. Le Comite de Gestion permet de faire participer la population a la
gestion du Centre de Sant.
Tous les chefs de centres de sante fonctionnels, tous les directeurs
prefectoraux, directeurs d'h6pitaux et agents charges des statistiques dans les h6pitaux
ont ete formes au systeme de collecte des donn6es du SNIS.
En 1990 et 1991, des seminaires de management ont ete organises a l'intention
des IRS/DPS et DH respectivement. Les memes cadres ont beneficie en 1992 de
formation en budgetisation.
Le processus de decentralisation de la planification est amorce par la
formation en 1991 des 6quipes prefectorales lesquelles preparent desormais leurs plans
d'actions annuels.
Dans chaque region a ete creee en 1991 une antenne regionale du Service
National de Maintenance Hospitaliere. Celle de Pharmaguinee est en construction tres
avancee.
Depuis 1988, un systeme de recouvrement des coOts est mis en place au niveau
des centres de sante et dans certains h6pitaux prefectoraux et regionaux. Les recettes
percues par ces formations sont gerees en leur sein pour couvrir en partie les cofts
operationnels. Un arr6te ministeriel donne la responsabilit6 de cette gestion aux
communaut6s pour les CS. Le programme de recouvrement des coCts s'est etendu
progressivement. Une premiere analyse de la viabilite financiere des CS et leur
capacite de recouvrement effectuee en avril 1989 font apparaXtre une dualite entre les
CS urbains qui arrivent presque tous a autofinancer leurs coOts recurrents (hors coats
de la logistique et l'amortissement) et les CS ruraux dont pres de 25% a 50% sont
structurellement deficitaires.
La gestion des CS est assuree par un Comite de Gestion, organe de
participation communautaire. Les evaluations du PEV/SSP/ME et 1'enquete recente
aupres des beneficiaires faite dans le cadre du PDSS (1992) ont toutes montre que la
strategie de participation communautaire est un acquis au niveau des structures du
SSP. Les Comitds de Gestion ont une idWe claire de leur role dans la sensibilisation



ANNEXE VI
Page 6 de 39
des populations, dans le recouvrement des couts, dans l'assistance du personnel de
sante, dans l'organisation des strategies avancees, dans la realisation des travaux de
rehabilitation des CS. Dans les h6pitaux appuyes par le PDSS existent des Conseils
d'Administration mais leurs performances sont encore faibles comparativement a
celles des Comites de Gestion. Des actions de formation ont et organisees pour
renforcer les competences en gestion financiere et en micro-planification des
representants communautaires.
Principaux Intervenants:
- Interminist6riels: Ministere de la Reforme Administrative, des Finances, de
l'Interieur, de l'Agriculture;
- Partenaires Etrangers: OMS, UNICEF, PNUD, FAO, BAD, IDA, USAID,
FSD, BID, FNUAP, CEE, Cooperation Francaise, GTZ, Canada, Japon,
ONG.
Principaux documents:
- Recueil des textes organiques;
- Evaluations du PEV/SSP/ME;
- Evaluations du PDSS;
- Commentaires de ;'IDA sur l'organigramme du MSPP en 1989;
- Evaluation CCCD;
- Annuaire des statistiques, 1990;
- Plan triennal glissant 1991-1993.
Diagnostic/Contraintes:
Les contraintes principales auxquelles se heurte actuellement le MSPAS pour
executer son mandat sont liees principalement a toute u ne sdrie de facteurs:
1.    Developpement rapide des activites et apparition de nouveaux problemes de
sante: SIDA, sante mentale, croissance demographique rapide, aux c6tes d'anciens
problemes qui persistent etlou s'aggravent: paludisme, tuberculose, MST,
trypanosomiase, onchocercose, etc.
2.    Les diff6rentes divisions de I'administration centrale sont eparpillees dans la
ville de Conakry et les locaux existants ne suffisent pas a loger tous les agents prevus
par le cadre organique. Dans les directions prefectorales et inspections rdgionales de
la sante, les locaux existants sont insuffisants. A tous les niveaux, 1'equipement des
bureaux est vetuste et inadapte.
3.    Les capacites logistiques sont insuffisantes a tous les niveaux, ce qui gene la
supervision et le contr6le des activites.



ANNE2i VI
Page 7 de 39
4.    Les effectifs des agents charges de l'administration et de la gestion des
services de sante sont insuffisants. Par exemple, les DPSAS et les IRS se resument
en fait a la personne du Directeur ou de l'Inspecteur. Celui-ci n'a plus la capacite de
superviser, de contr6ler toutes les activites des services relevant de leur autorite.
5.    Quant bien meme ces effectifs existeraient, l'insuffisance de d6centralisation ne
permet pas aux niveaux inferieurs du systeme de sante de jouer pleinement leur r6le.
6.    Les capacites de formulation des projets et programmes sont limitees par les
faibles competences des sections et divisions.
7.    Les activites relatives au SNIS et a la planification s'executent difficilement en
raison de l'insuffisance numerique et qualificative du personnel et des moyens au
niveau central et peripherique. Elles ne sont pas encore percues comme un outil
d'amelioration de la gestion. Les capacites d'analyse statistique et de la situation sont
insuffisantes a cause des faibles formations, en statistique, en epidemiologie et
economie de la sante.
8.    La gestion du personnel au niveau deconcentre chappe aux responsables du
secteur. Pour tous les niveaux, la gestion des ressources humaines est limitee par les
pesanteurs li6es a l'environnement social (forte f6minisation, affectations
intempestives). Les agents de sante sont peu motives du fait de l'absence d'un
systeme d'evaluation et de cheminement des carrieres, de l'absence d'une politique de
main d'oeuvre pour le secteur.
9.     La formation des agents souffre de la faible collaboration intersectorielle, entre
les Departements ministeriels charges de la formation initiale et le Ministere de la
Sante, I'absence de politique et de plan directeur de formations initiale et continue,
des faibles capacites de formation locale (formateurs, materiels pedagogiques), des
difficultes de placement des boursiers a l'exterieur et de leur integration dans le
systeme apres leur retour de formation.
10.   La disponibilite des ressources financieres est faible et ne permet pas de
couvrir les coGts de fonctionnement ni des structures administratives ni des formations
sanitaires. Les ressources financieres de l'Etat sont difficiles a mobiliser et aleatoires
et les priorites de l'Etat ont ete jusqu'ici orientees vers d'autres secteurs. Le
financement par les menages est limite par le niveau des revenus. Le financement
exterieur est difficile A connaitre et sa gestion echappe aux autorites nationales.
L'utilisation des ressources financieres disponibles n'est pas efficiente du fait des
faibles capacit6s de budgetisation (a la base des mauvaises allocations) et de
comptabilite (entrainant une faible mautrise des cofts). II n'existe pas de politique de
financement du secteur.
11.   Le niveau d'entretien insuffisant des infrastructures et des equipements
accelere leur degradation et reduit le rendement de leur utilisation.



Page 8 de 39
12.   La participation communautaire et la collaboration intersectorielle sont encore
limitees par l'insuffisance du cadre institutionnel et legislatif, la motivation des elus
communautaires et des agents des autres secteurs, la faible representation des femmes
au sein des organes communautaires.
13.   Les capacitds de coordination sont limit6es au niveau central par la multiplicite
des organes de coordination. Dans les niveaux inferieurs, c'est l'absence d'organes
de coordination qui prevaut.
14.   A tous les niveaux de la pyramide sanitaire, la mauvaise definition des r6les et
I'absence de circuits d'information approprids limitent les capacites de suivi de
l'execution et de contr6le et meme de coordination.
15.   L'absence de structures institutionnelles d'orientation, d'impulsion et de
coordination des interventions des organisations feminines, l'insuffisance de donnees
fiables genent les actions d'appui destinees a promouvoir l'integration des femmes au
processus de developpement socio-economique. Le contexte socio-conomique (taux
dleve d'analphabetisme et faible scolarisation, faible statut matrimonial, social et
6conomique, mariages precoces et grossesses nombreuses et rapprochees) contribue a
aggraver la situation de la femme.
Objectlfs et strategies:
L'objectif general du programme de reformes institutionnelles, de
r6organisation et du renforcement de la gestion vise a permettre au MSPAS d'assumer
mieux que par le passe son r6le de direction et de coordination du systime de sante.
11 vise aussi a ameliorer l'efficacite et l'efficience des faibles ressources humaines,
materielles et financieres disponibles.
Les strategies adoptees sont:
- Reorganiser les services centraux du MSPAS et renforcer leurs capacites de
formulation des projets et programme;
- Reorganiser et renforcer les DPSAS et les IRS en vue de decentraliser la
prise de d6cision et d'accroitre leurs capacites d'execution et de suivi;
- Cr6a et rendre fonctionnels les organes de coordination a tous les echelons;
- Renforcer la participation communautaire et la collaboration intersectorielle
en revisant la composition et le r6le des comites existants en mettant en place
les Comites de Sante et en les faisant fonctionner et en s'assurant que la
politique sanitaire mise en place rdpond aux besoins des bdneficiaires;



Pate 9 de 39
- Mobiliser l'opinion en faveur de la sante en vue d'accroitre la paricipation
de tous (populations, facteurs communautaires, dirigeants locaux et
nationaux, partenaires exterieurs...) au developpement sanitaire et d'obtenir
les ressources supplementaires necessaires.
La mise en oeuvre de ces strategies constitue la trame et le contenu de la
reorganisation et des reformes institutionnelles a entreprendre.
Organisation et Programmation des Activit6s
. Niveau Central:
Une serie d'ateliers, avec la participation de tous les cadres au niveau central,
a ete organisee et se poursuit actuellement, destinee a proposer des mesures
d'amelioration de l'efficacite du Departement. Au cours de ces ateliers, les
principales difficultes et contraintes sont relevees et des propositions de solutions
faites. Une serie de textes legislatifs a ete deja elaboree definissant le contenu de la
r6organisation et des reformes institutionnelles. Des leur adoption, il est prevu de
mettre en place progressivement les nouvelles structures en tenant compte de la
disponibilite des ressources humaines, des locaux et des equipements de bureau. Des
actions de formation seront organisees sur le tas localement et completees par des
voyages d'etudes au benefice des agents places dans le cadre organique.
Apres la mise en place des principales directions, le nouveau comite technique
de coordination (CTC) devra entrer en activite. Ses reunions sont mensuelles.
D'autres reunions seront organisees sur un rythme hebdomadaire: reunions de cabinet,
reunions techniques. Toutes ces rencontres doivent permettre d'assurer la
planification, I'harmonisation, la coordination et le bon deroulement des activites.
Des directives ecrites seront elaborees, definissant les modalites des processus
de planification, de budgetisation, de comptabilite, de notation et de gestion du
personnel. D'autres directives seront elaborees relatives aux flux d'informations.
Les dispositifs sur la gestion du personnel seront complet6s par l'elaboration
d'un statut particulier du personnel de sante definissant les modalites de recrutement,
d'avancement, la structure des carrieres, etc.
La mise en oeuvre du plan directeur de la formation en cours d'elaboration
completera le dispositif de motivation des agents et permettra de renforcer les
competences. Ce plan de formation definira les modalites de gestion des bourses
d'etudes.
Un plan quinquennal de developpement sanitaire et des plans d'actions annuels
seront elabor6s. A la fin de chaque ann6e, chaque secteur, Division ou Direction
presentera au cours de la revue le bilan annuel de ses activites et son plan d'action
pour l'ann6e suivante. Les plans d'action centralises par le BEPR seront examin6s
par le CTC avant leur soumission pour approbation au Ministre. La budgetisation
suivra le meme cheminement que la planification. La DAAF est responsable de la



ANNEXE VLI
Page 10 de 39
centralisation des budgets, de la pr6paration du budget du Departement selon le meme
processus d6crit ci-haut.
Pour permettre a tous les responsables du niveau central d'utiliser les
informations statistiques dans l'elaboration de leur plan, ces informations seront mises
trimestriellement a leur disposition par le BEPR qui n'assurera plus qu'un r6le de
banque de donnees, I'analyse s'effectuant au niveau des sections et divisions
interessees.
Renover et etendre les locaux et 1'equipement des IRSAS et des DPSAS:
- Renforcer la collecte et la diffusion des informations statistiques,
d6centraliser et accroitre les capacites d'analyse statistique,
epidemiologique et economique;
- Renforcer le processus de planification et d'evaluation par l'dlaboration d'un
plan directeur quinquennal du secteur et de plans d'actions annuels, la
formation et l'organisation de sessions regulieres de monitorage;
- Renforcer la supervision en ameliorant le niveau des ressources logistiques,
en mettant en place des procedures et des canevas de supervision etendus a
tous les types de formations sanitaires;
- Renforcer le contr6le de l'utilisation des ressources par la reorganisation et
i'appui materiel et logistique aux services charges de cette activit6 et la
formation de leurs agents;
- Accroitre les capacites techniques des agents en ameliorant et adaptant le
contenu de la formation initiale a la politique sanitaire, en renforcant la
collaboration intersectorielle, en organisant la formation continue et le
recyclage en d6centralisant la formation continue par la mise en place des
equipes r6gionales et pr6fectorales de formation;
- Adapter les effectifs du personnel aux besoins des formations sanitaires en
mettant en place une politique de recrutement et d'utilisation;
- Renforcer la motivation des agents en assurant 1'6valuation p6riodique de
leurs performances, et en definissant une politique de carrieres;
- Decentraliser et renforcer la logistique et la gestion des m6dicaments, des
vaccins vers les niveaux intermediaire et priph6rique;
- Accroitre la duree de vie et l'efficience des infrastructures et des
equipements par des entretiens riguliers preventifs et curatifs;



ANNEXEYV
Page 11 de 39
- Ameliorer le statut economique et social de la femme en vue d'un
developpement equilibre de la Societd.
Chaque agent du niveau central sera evalue chaque annee et une note attribute
a ses activites. Le responsable de la notation est le chef hierarchique direct de
l'agent. Les regles edictees par le Ministere charge de la Fonction Publique en
matiere de notation du personnel seront appliquees.
Le Conseil National et les differentes commissions nationales consultatives se
reuniront selon une periodicite definie dans leurs textes de creation. L'ordre du jour
est, selon le cas, propose ou arrete par le Ministre de la Sante.
Les Chefs de programmes seront responsables de l'eIaboration des modules de
formation, dans leurs domaines de competence, du suivi de 1'execution des activites
de terrain. La supervision et l'evaluation de ces activites assurees au moyen de
missions pdriodiques de courte duree et au cours des monitorages donneront
l'occasion d'echanges d'informations entre le niveau central et les niveaux
decentralises. Le r6le de supervision des chefs de programmes sera renforce par les
tournees regulieres des superviseurs nationaux.
Une conference nationale de la sante sera organisde en 1993 et en 1997 pour
faire le bilan des actions du secteur, y compris la privatisadon, tracer les nouvelles
orientations, arreter ou evaluer le systeme de partage des coats.
Les structures et les procedures mises en place seront evaluees et revisees
chaque fois que de besoin et au plus tard d'ici a cinq ans.
, Niveau interm6diaire et peripherique: IRS - DPSAS:
Au cours d'ateliers regionaux, les IRS et DPSAS ont ete consultes sur leurs
nouveaux cadres organiques qui seront promulgues tres bient6t. Suivra le processus
de nomination des differents responsables en tenant compte des disponibilites des
ressources humaines, de celle des locaux et des equipements materiels et logistiques.
Un plan de formation sera elabore i l'intention de chaque responsable et sa
mise en oeuvre suivie par ses superieurs hierarchiques.
Les rmunions des membres de l'IRS ou de la DPSAS, ceux du Comite
Technique REgional ou Prefectoral de Sante selon une periodicite hebdomadaire ou
mensuelle permettront d'assurer I'harmonisation, la coordination et le suivi de
l'execution des activites.
Les IRS et DPSAS seront encourages pour l'elaboration de plans et
programmes d'activites annuels et pluriannuels. Leur formation sera compldtee I cet
effet.



ANNXE Vl
Page 12 de 39
Les IRS et DPSAS seront appuyes par des Chefs des Services Administratifs et
Financiers pour l'elaboration des budgets annuels, la tenue de la comptabilite et la
gestion du personnel.
Un plan de deploiement annuel sera elabore qui servira de base pour les
mutations du personnel. Le r6le des IRSAS et DPSAS sera accru dans le processus
d'affectation des agents en tenant compte des besoins reels des services et des
disponibilites budgetaires.
Dans chaque region ou prefecture, sera mise en place une equipe de
formateurs chargee d'identifier les besoins de formation, de planifier et assurer les
activites de formation continue et le recyclage des autres agents de sante. Le plan
directeur de formation definira aussi la periodicite du recyclage rendu obligatoire.
Les DPSAS assureront une supervision mensuelle de l'h6pital prefectoral et des
Centres de Sante, orientee vers l'identification des problemes et la formation. La
supervision de l'IRS est semestrielle. Un canevas de supervision est elabore. Le
rapport de supervision sera rempli, discute et signe par l'agent supervise. Le
monitorage semestriel des activites sera decentralise au niveau prefectoral. Toutefois,
une synthese regionale sera maintenue. Aux sessions de monitorage participent l'IRS,
les DPS, les DH et les Chefs des Centres de Sante ainsi que les representants des
communautes. Elles servent de cadre a l'evaluation, a la micro-planification et a la
budgetisation des activites.
Les monitorages prefectoraux et regionaux seront suivis des sessions
respectivement des Comites Prefectoraux de Sant6, des Comites Regionaux de Sante
et des Comites Techniques Regionaux de Sante.
Les IRS et DPSAS sont destinataires des textes legislatifs et reglementaires,
des circulaires et directives ministerielles, des proces-verbaux des revues et des
reunions du CTC. En retour, ils adresseront des rapports periodiques d'activite au
Ministre de la Sante avec copie aux responsables des directions, divisions et sections
centrales concern6es.
Niveau des Formations Sanitaires:
Le statut des h6pitaux sera bient6t promulgue. Suivra le processus de mise en
place des organes de direction et des organes consultatifs. L'arrete portant attribution
et composition des Conseils d'Administration des H6pitaux est en cours de
finalisation. Ces organes seront mis en place avant la fin du premier semestre 1993.
Des gestionnaires comptables seront nommes aupres des Directeurs des
h6pitaux qu'ils assisteront pour tous les travaux de gestion humaine, materielle et
financiere.
Une circulaire definira les modalites de la participation des personnels
hospitaliers a la supervision des Centres de Sante.



ANNEXE VI
Page 13 de 39
D'autres instructions preciseront les modalites de la r6ference et de la contre-
r6f6rence entre CS et h6pitaux.
Dans le courant de 1993, les tarifs hospitaliers d6finitifs seront arretes en
remplacement des tarifs provisoires en cours d'application constituant I'aboutissement
du processus d'harmonisation des outils et de la gestion hospitaliere dans le pays.
Des sessions de formation en technique de soins et en gestion seront organisees
conformement au plan directeur de formation et aux plans annuels de formation de
I'hopital. Pour suivre la gestion, dans les h6pitaux, des reunions annuelles de
budg6tisation et trimestrielles d'analyse de gestion seront organisees. La supervision
sera aussi renforcee. Dans toutes ces activit6s de supervision et de contr6le de la
gestion qui auront lieu aux niveaux pr6fectoral et r6gional, participeront le DPS,
I'IRS, le DH et le gestionnaire comptable, un ou des repr6sentants du niveau central
et, de facon occasionnelle, les chefs des services medico-techniques de l'h6pital.
La composition et les attributions des Comites de Gestion des Centres de Sante
seront Elargies et precisees. Les nouveaux Comit6s de Gestion seront elus ou leurs
effectifs compl6t6s dans le courant du premier trimestre de 1993. Tant pour ce qui
concerne les membres des Comit6s de Gestion que ceux des Conseils
d'Administration, des rEunions de formation seront organisees pour renforcer leurs
capacit6s de mobilisation, d'identification, de rdsolution des problmes de sant6 et de
gestion.
Le probleme de la motivation des agents des Centres de Sante et des 6lus
communautaires sera examine et des dispositions arretees au plus t6t a cet effet.
Les modalites de cr6ation, de fonctionnement des postes de santE seront aussi
d6finies apres l'adoption de la carte sanitaire et au vu des conclusions de I'etude
experimentale en cours.
PROPOSMONS DU PROJET:
A. MIWSTERE DE LA SANTE PUBLIQUE ET DES AFFAIRES SOCIALES:
Le MSPAS a la double responsabilite de rendre crEdible ses programmes sur le
terrain et de promouvoir sa politique de d6veloppement sanitaire en vue d'assurer leur
pdrennite. De toute evidence, les faiblesses d'execution se repercutent sur l'autre.
Le projet se propose, d'ici a 1997, de rendre operationnelles et fonctionnelles
les unites administratives du MSPAS.
A cet effet, le projet va rdhabiliter les infrastructures des directions r6gionales
et prefectorales, financer les activites de soutien (formation, supervision, Evaluation,
contr6le, Etudes et recherche operationnelle, assistance technique).
_- - - - - - - - - -



ANNEXE VI
Page 14 de 39
1. MinistOre de la SantE Publigue et des Affaires Sociales:
1. Reorganisation du MSPAS:
Activites progosees: La reorganisation du cadre organique du MSPAS sortira
incessamment, mais elle devrait etre accompagnee d'autres mesures permettant son
fonctionnement efficace, notamment: la description des taches de chaque poste, du
sommet au poste Sante, l'adoption des procedures administratives et la definition des
modalites de circulation des informations.
En premiere annee, le projet appuiera la reorganisation en financant une
assistance technique locale ou regionale pendant 60 jours pour la description des
postes et un atelier pour l'adoption des resultats de la consultation regroupant 50
personnes pendant 3 jours a Conakry. En fin de projet il est prevu l'evaluation et
l'eventuelle revision de ces descriptions de postes.
En deuxieme annee, le projet financera les moyens technique et materiel de
production des manuels de procedures administratives et de circulation des
informations et sera suivi d'un seminaire atelier de diffusion qui regroupera 50
personnes pendant 5 jours a Conakry.
Des seminaires locaux a la carte de 2 semaines pour 10 personnes en
techniques de management sont reserves pour les directeurs du departement.
Des voyages d'etudes pour quelques cadres du niveau central sont aussi prevus
dans les pays africains ou en Europe (10 jours par personne pour 10 personnes
environ).
DEtails particuliers: Le travail de description des postes contribuera a au moins trois
fins: l'adoption du statut du personnel, l'identification des besoins en formation et la
definition de l'evolution possible de la carriere.
2. Renforcement Materiel du MSPAS:
Activites proposees: Quant I la supervision, son intensite est limitee par
l'insuffisance de moyens logistiques.
Le projet se propose:
2. 1. d'appuyer le Secretariat General, la Direction Nationale de la Sante Publique, la
Direction Nationale des Etablissements de Soins, la Coordination du Projet, la DAAF,
le BEPR. SNIS, l'Inspection Generale de la SantE, les responsables des programmes
SMI/PF, Nutrition, Eau, Assainissement, Paludisme, LMF, Tuberculose, Formation
pour la foumiture de 15 vehicules Tr en phases 1 et 2 en vue de leur permettre de
superviser et de soutenir les activites de terrain.



ANNEXE VI
Page 15 de 39
2.2 d'equiper en phase 3 les bureaux existants du MSPAS.
3. Am6lioration de la Gestion au Niveau Central:
Le projet apportera des appuis specifiques a certains services tels aux charges
du SNIS, de la Planification, de la Formation, de la Gestion du Personnel, de la
Gestion des Ressources Financieres, de la Gestion des Infrastructures et des
Equipements, de la Maintenance ainsi qu'aux activites de supervision de la gestion des
niveaux intermediaire et pdriph6rique par le niveau central.
3. 1. Appui au Service Central Charge du SNIS: I1 consistera en formation pendant 4
mois en Europe (Bruxelles) de deux agents du service (en phase I et 2) et en une
assistance technique internationale (en phase 2) pendant 15 jours pour l'adaptation des
logiciels existants aux besoins du Service. Les modules de formation seront
reproduits en 500 exemplaires. Une evaluation du SNIS est prevue en phase 2 du
projet. Les couts de fonctionnement du service seront aussi pris en charge.
iEtails particuliers: pour les outils de gestion, 1'equipement et les moyens de
transport, voir programme 7.2
3.2. Renforcement des Capacites de Planification au Niveau Central:
Le Projet appuiera:
- 1'elaboration du plan quinquennal du Departement par le financement d'une
assistance technique internationale pendant 2 mois en phase 2 et la
multiplication en 200 exemplaires du document et sa diffusion;
- 1'elaboration du plan triennal glissant par le financement du cout de la
logistique pour la collecte des donnees, la multiplication et la diffusion du
document;
- la formation d'un agent en planification et en economie de la Sante au
Canada ou aux Etats-Unis pendant 24 mois chacun.
3.3. Appui au Service Central de Gestion du Personnel:
Le micro-ordinateur pour la gestion informatisee du personnel sera remplace
en phase 1 et ses coOts de fonctionnement pris en charge. Une assistance technique
locale de 2 mois sera requise pour l'extension des informations contenues dans le mini
fichier informatise. Le projet appuiera le processus d'actualisation annuelle du plan
de deploiement des ressources humaines en financant l'organisation des ateliers
regionaux (voir sessions de monitorage). Le responsable du service sera forme en
phase 2 au CESAG pour renforcer ses competences.



ANNEXE NJ
3.4. Appui a la Division Charg6e de la Formatio:                   Pag  16 de 39
Cette division recevra un appui sur le suivi du plan directeur de formation.
Par ailleurs, deux types d'activit6s de cette division seront appuyes par le Projet:
- Le suivi des actions de formation continue envisagee dans les programmes
SMI/PF, Nutrition, Lutte contre la Maladie, Eau, Assainissement, EPS et les
programmes de gestion (voir la liste en annexe: Programmation de la
formation);
- La d6centralisation et le renforcement des capacites de formation continue et
de recyclage par la mise en place des equipes prefectorales et regionales de
formation ainsi que l'amelioration des structures de formation et de stage.
Pour cette dernire action, le projet se propose de soutenir le recyclage
technique et pedagogique du personnel d'encadrement des 6coles de la Sante de
Kindia et Labe charge de l'enseignement des sages-femmes, des techniciens de
laboratoire, des techniciens de sante publique, des soins infirmiers, soit 8
personnes pendant 2 mois chacune dans une ecole de la sous-region (Dakar,
Lome, Yaounde....). II apportera egalement un equipement complementaire
en materiel de reproduction et en matdriel pedagogique de stage (y compris des
livres).
Le support du projet a ces deux 6coles, outre qu'il donnera une base pour
l'ex6cution des activites de formation continue aura comme autre avantage
d'ameliorer la qualite de la formation initiale du personnel forme et de rdduire
les coCts li6s a la formation continue.
3.5. Appui au Renforcement de la Gestion Financiere:
11 consistera en:
- Formation d'un agent de la DAAF en economie de la santd pendant 24 mois
au Canada et de trois autres de la DAAF et trois de la DIEM en passation de
marches (fournitures, service et travaux) au CESAG pendant 4 semaines, de
deux agents de l'Inspection Generale de la SantW/Inspection des Affaires
Administratives et Financieres en audit et contr6le de gestion pendant 3 mois
chacun en Afrique.
- AssLtance Technique Internatlonale pour l'introduction de la comptabilitd
analytique pour 3 hommes-mois en phase 2 du projet. Elle sera aussi
chargee de la formation des utilisateurs, tant au niveau central qu'au niveau
ddcentralisd, et dans les h6pitaux.
3.6. Renforcement des Services d'Entretien et de Maintenance:
Il est prevu de faire une evaluation du service national de maintenance
hospitaliere. Du fait de l'arret prochain du financement du Fonds Europeen de



Page 17 de 39
Developpement, le projet ex6cutera un paquet minimal d'actions resultant des
recommandations de I'evaluation, sous forme de prise en charge des coOts de
supervision et de fonctionnement.
3.7. Integration de la Femme au Processus de DdveIoppement:
La Direction charg6e de la Promotion Feminine du Secretariat d'Etat aux
Affaires Sociales, a la Promotion Feminine et a I'Enfance recevra du projet un appui
sous forme:
- d'octroi de 2 bourses de formation de courte duree (3 mois) dans la sous-
region (Afrique) pour am6liorer les competences de ses agents en elaboration
et gestion des projets, en phase 1;
- de dotation en mobiliers et equipements de bureau.
Details particuliers: ces mobiliers et equipements ne sont pas prevus dans une autre
rubrique.
3.8. Suxervision par le niveau central des autres niveaux:
L'appui du projet a la supervision que doit effectuer le niveau central au profit
des autres niveaux comprend deux aspects:
- Supervision par les chefs des programmes prioritaires de 1'ex6cution sur le
terrain des activites de leurs programmes (voir programmes correspondants);
- Supervision de la gestion regionale et prefectorale: I'apport du projet
consiste en appui aux missions de supervision du Secretariat General, des
Directions Nationales, des Services de Soutien: BEPR (SNIS, Planification,
Formation), DAAF, IGS, Division des H6pitaux Prefectoraux et Regionaux.
La part des coOts de supervision du niveau central sera pris en charge par le
projet a 100%.
4. Mobilisation de l'Opinion Publique en Faveur de la Sante:
Le projet soutiendra 1'extension du debat sur la politique socio-sanitaire en
participant I l'organisation d'une conference nationale de la sante dont le financement
serait partag6 entre d'autres bailleurs de fonds a la fin du projet.
DPtail particulier: Une conference nationale de la santd est prdvue en 1993. Elle sera
cofinancee par le Gouvernement, l'OMS, l'UNICEF et la Banque mondiale.



Page 18 de 39
B. INSPECTIONS REGIONALES ET DIRECTIONS PREFECTORALES
DE LA SANTE ET DES AFFAIRES SOCIALES
1. Rihabilitation/Construction des Infrastructures et EquiDement de 10 DPSAS et
de I IRS:
Ni les directions prefectorales de la sante de la zone d'intervention du projet,
ni celles de la zone couverte par le PDSS, ni l'inspection regionale de Kindia ne
disposent d'infrastructures et d'equipements adequats. Certaines sont logees dans des
locaux qui, meme renoves, seront insuffisants pour abriter les effectifs prevus par les
nouveaux organigrammes.
Le projet se propose:
- de renover/construire les infrastructures suivantes et au besoin de les etendre:
15 centres de sante (y compris les logements correspondants), 2 centres de
sante ameliores ou h6pitaux communaux, l'Inspection regionale de la sant6
de Kindia, les directions prefectorales de la Sante de Dubreka, Telimele,
Mali, Koubia, Labe, Tougue, Dalaba, Pita, Lelouma et Kindia;
- de les doter en outils de gestion, en &quipement de bureaux et mobilier;
- de pourvoir l'IRS de Kindia, les DSPAS de Kindia, Dubreka, Telimel6,
Mali, Koubia en materiels de radiocommunication;
- de foumir un vehicule Tr aux IRSAS de Kindia, Labe, aux DPSAS de
Dubreka, Kindia, Labe, Mali, Koubia, Telimel6, Dalaba, Pita, Lelouma,
Tougue.
D2tails particuliers: Les etudes architecturales et l'ex6cution des travaux de genie civil
suivront le schema d'ensemble du projet.
Chaque IRS et DPSAS dispose actuellement d'un vehicule TT foumi par
l'UNICEF ou le PDSS. Ce seul vehicule ne suffira pas pour faire toutes les
supervisions du fait de I'augmentation des effectifs et du nombre des centres de sante.
La liste des equipements par DPSAS et IRSAS est fournie en annexe.
2. DEcentralisation et Renforcement de la Gestion au Niveau Opfrationnel:
Les activites suivantes sont prevues d'etre decentralisdes et renforcees:
planification, SNIS, gestion du personnel, formation, gestion financiere, entretien et
maintenance, monitorages et evaluation.



ANNEXEVI
Page 19 de 39
2.1. Mise en Place des Equipes R6gionales et Prefectorales:
Les nouveaux organigrammes de l'IRSAS et de la DPSAS sortiront tres
bient6t. Comme prevu au niveau central, une assistance technique locale ou regionale
de 2 mois fera les descriptions de postes et identifiera les besoins individuels et
globaux de formation en annee I (voir programme 7.1. 1.).
Les membres des equipes des DPSAS et IRSAS seront formes:
- chacun dans son domaine de competence selon les programmes et le
calendrier arretes par chaque chef de programme;
- tous ensemble en management, a 1'exception des DPS et IRS deja formes,
pendant 3 semaines au niveau regional, solt 70 personnes et en connaissance
du manuel des procedures administratives pendant 5 jours, toujours au niveau
regional (cf. programme 7. A. 1. 1).
Les responsables des services administratifs et financiers (SAF) recevront en
phase 1 une formation a Conakry pendant deux semaines au cours d'un seminaire
atelier en gestion financiere, gestion des ressources humaines et materielles destine a
faire connaitre les objectifs sectoriels et nationaux en matiere de gestion, outils et
procedures existants (1 par DPSAS et HP/HR et par IRSAS, soit 26 personnes).
En fin de phase 1, un seminaire atelier de formation en collecte des donnees
pour les agents des statistiques des DPS, IRS et h6pitaux pendant 21 jours au niveau
rdgional pour 26 personnes et de recyclage en collecte des donnees du SNIS et
planification sera organise pendant 21 jours a l'intention des IRS, DPSAS,
responsables des sections Planification, Formation, Recherche et agents des
statistiques a Labe et Kindia en phase 2 (26 personnes).
Les responsables de la section Affaires Sociales, charges de la promotion
feminine dans les DPSAS, les coordinatrices regionales des interventions des
organisations feminines seront formrs en identification et gestion de projets et en
mobilisation sociale au cours d'un atelier a Kindia anime par des formateurs locaux
(CNPG, Centre National de Perfectionnement en Gestion, en outre) appuyes par une
assistance technique internationale. Dure;: 15 jours; nombre de participants: 13.
Les IRS, DPS, DH et les responsables des SAF recevront periodiquement par
notes circulaires ou au cours des sessions de monitorage les informations
complementaires sur la gestion des ressources.



ANNEXE VlI
Page 20 de 39
2.2. Am&lioration des CompXtences en Gestion et en Mobilisation Sociale des
Membres des Comites de Gestion et des Conseils d'Administration:
Le PPF ou le PDSS soutiendra le processus de mise en place des comites de
gestion des centres de sante et des conseils d'administration des h6pitaux de la zone
d'intervention du projet en financant les reunions destinees a l'election de ces
membres.
Cette mise en place devra etre terminde a la fin du ler trimestre 1993. Dans
le courant du 2eme trimestre 93, le projet financera la tenue d'ateliers de formation
des membres des Comites de Gestion au niveau prefectoral (duree: 7 jours et nombre
de personnes: 138) etant entendu que les membres des CA des hopitaux auront recu
au niveau regional leur formation prevue sur le PPF. Des sessions courtes de
recyclage sont prevues en phase 2 et en phase 3: duree: 3 jours; nombre de
participants: 204 au niveau des prefectures et regions.
2.3. Supervision:
Les couts et la supervision des DPSAS et des IRSAS seront pris en charge par
le projet a 100%.
2.4. Les frais de tenue des sessions des comitds prefectoraux et regionaux (comites
de sante. comites techniques de sante) seront support6s par le projet sur la meme base
que precedemment. Ces reunions en principe seront organisees a la suite des
monitorages durant I jour pour 225 participants du niveau prefectoral et 120 du
niveau regional.
2.5. Des sessions de monitorage et d'evaluation seront organisees:
2.5. 1) trimestriellement en phases 1 et 2 et semestriellement en phase 3 au niveau
regional pour faire le bilan de la gestion hospitalitre. Y seront presents les
IRS, DPS, les DH, les chefs des SAF de l'inspection et des DPS, les
gestionnaires comptables des h6pitaux et 3 representants du niveau central
(venant de l'inspection nationale des Affaires administratives et financieres,
de la DAAF et de la Direction Nationale des Etablissements de Soins), soit
60 personnes.
2.5. 2) Semestriellement en phases I a 3 sera organisd le monitorage des CS d'abord
au niveau prefectoral: duree 5 jours, nombre de participants 530 suivi d'une
synthese regionale qui coincidera avec le monitorage de la gestion hospitaliere
(duree: 7 jours, nombre de participants: 380).
Les sessions de monitorage sont mises a profit pour examiner en janvier de
chaque ann&e le bilan des activites, la situation epidemiologique et en juillet les
budgets des h6pitaux et centres de sante, leurs plans d'action et de deploiement des



ANNEXE Vl
Page 21 de 39
personnels pour l'annee suivante. Les frais des sessions de monitorage seront
supportes par le projet a 100%.
Details particuliers: La formation des equipes hospitalieres en gestion est prevue sur
le PPF mais le nombre des participants doit etre revu a la hausse. Les IRS et DPS
DH actuels ont suivi des cours de management de planification, de gestion financiere
et de collecte des donnees. Les agents charges des statistiques des DPSAS ont ete
formes en 1992 en collecte des donnees. Pour les outils de gestion et les equipements
pour le SNIS, la gestion des ressources humaines et financieres (voir programme
B.1).
2.6. Appui au Service Regional de Maintenance de Labe et de Kindia
En phase 1, l'antenne regionale de la maintenance de Kindia sera appuy6e par
le projet par la mise en place d'un fonds d'achat de pieces de rechanges pour
supporter le systeme de recouvrement des coCts (voir programme 6).
Les activites des antennes regionales de maintenance seront evaluees a la fin
des phases 1 et 2 pour adapter le systeme de recouvrement mis en place ainsi que leur
fonctionnement en gen6ral.
C. POUR TOUS LES NIVEAUX
1. Audit Annuel du Projet:
1. 1. Audit externe: Ce projet sera audite tous les ans par un cabinet externe
d'auditeurs independants choisi par selection restreinte. L'audit exteme commencera
le ler mars de chaque ann&e a la cl6ture des comptes. Le rapport d'audit devra remis
au plus tard le 30 juin de chaque annee.
1.2. Comme indique prec6demment, le Departement souhaite se doter de capacites en
audit de ses performances et projets. Une structure d'audit inteme sera cre6e au
niveau de l'inspection gendrale. Les auditeurs externes seront accompagnes au cours
de leur mission au niveau central par le responsable de la cellule d'audit interne et en
region par celui-ci et les SAF des IRS (a budgetiser dans l'audit).
1.3. Le rapport d'audit sera examine, analyse par le Comite Technique de
Coordination.
2. Revue Annuelle du Prolet:
Une fois par an se tiendra la revue annuelle du projet au chef-lieu d'une region
ou dans une prefecture de la zone du projet. Y participeront les representants de tous
les ben6ficiaires du projet: l'ensemble des cadres du niveau central concernes par sa



ANNEXE VI
Page 22 de 39
mise en oeuvre, 3 membres par equipe regionale ou prefectorale (dont obligatoirement
les IRS, les DPS et les DH), un membre de CA par h6pital, un membre de chaque
Comite de Gestion de Centre de Sante, soit 110 personnes pour les deux regions.
La duree de la revue ne devra pas exceder 5 jours. Elle est destinee a
analyser le fonctionnement du projet, faire le bilan de l'atteinte de ces objectifs,
identifier les goulots d'etranglement et adopter le plan d'action.
3. Evaluation a Ni-Parcours:
Le projet sera dvalu6 a la fin de chaque phase par le Gouvemement et l'IDA
mais, au milieu de la phase 2 se fera une evaluation approfondie par des consultants
intemationaux et locaux recrutes a cet effet. Le rapport d'evaluation a mi-parcours
sera examine par les instances competentes du MSPAS et par la revue qui suivra
immediatement sa production.
INDICATEURS DE SUIVI:
Les indicateurs retenus pour le suivi du programme des reformes
institutionnelles, reorganisation du MSPAS et renforcement de la gestion du secteur
sont les suivants:
- Le plan quinquennal de developpement sanitaire est elabore;
- les plans d'action annuel du ministeres, des IRSAS, des DPSAS sont
dlabores;
- les sessions de monitorage sont r6guIierement tenues selon la periodicite
fix&e;
- le MSPAS, les IRSAS, les DPSAS, les hopitaux et les CS elaborent
r6guRierement, correctement et i temps leur budget;
- Les differents organes de coordination tiennent regulierement leur reunion;
- les organes de participation communautaires sont mis en place et sont
opdrationnels;
- les missions de supervision des niveaux central, regional et prefectoral sont
regulierement effectuees;
- les cadres organiques du MSPAS, des IRSAS et des DPSAS sont adoptes et
meubles;
- les conditions de travail du MSPAS, des IRSAS et des DPSAS sont
ameliorees;



ANNEXE VI
Page 23 de 39
- les moyens logistiques du MSPAS, des IRSAS, des DPSAS sont disponibles
et operationnels;
- le systame de maintenance est mis en place et operationnel.
IV. EXECUTION DU PROJET
L'execution du projet s'appuiera sur les diff6rents echelons du systeme de
sante en integration complete aux activites du Ministere de la Sante Publique et des
Affaires Sociales sous l'entiere responsabilite des entites organiques respectives,
centrales, regionales, pr6fectorales et locales. Elle respectera egalement le cycle du
processus gestionnaire: planification, budgetisation, execution, evaluation, contr6le,
replanification.
4. Administration - Gestion du Programme
4. 1. Planification - Execution
4. 1. 1. Coordination Nationale
Le projet sera place sous la responsabilite d'un Directeur charge de coordonner
les affaires courantes du projet et de suivre la preparation des plans de travail et Ic
budget, de stimuler les services charges de leur execution, de superviser la passation
des marches de fournitures et de services de consultants, de proceder A des demandes
de retraits de credits et de suivre les decaissements, de gerer les ressources
materielles et financieres mises A sa disposition ainsi que le personnel dependant
directement de lui.
Le personnel sera reduit en nombre pour eviter qu'il se substitue A celui
travaillant dans les structures organiques du Ministere de la Sante Publique et des
Affaires Sociales. 11 sera compose d'agents contractuels, deux (2) Comptables, deux
(2) Secretaires et d'agents auxiliaires (chauffeurs, planton, gardiens et agents
d'entretien).
Le Directeur du projet aura le rang et les prerogatives equivalents A ceux d'un
Directeur de I'administration centrale.
Dans l'execution de sa fonction, le Directeur du projet sera appuye par
differents responsables de I'administration centrale du departement, a savoir: les chefs
des divisions affaires administratives et financi&es (DAAF), infrastructure,
&quipement et maintenance (DIEM), planification, formation et recherche, sante
familiale, nutrition-alimentation, lutte contre la maladie, promotion de la santd,
etablissements prefectoraux et regionaux, etablissements pharmaceutiques et
laboratoire.



ANNEXE VI
Page 24 de 39
Le chef de la DAAF sera charge de suivre la comptabilite du Projet ainsi que
les operations de decaissement, de veiller au respect des procedures financieres de
passation des marches, de viser les mandats de paiement des foumisseurs et
prestataires de services.
Du chef de la DAAF releveront fonctionnellement les comptables contractuels
du projet.
Le chef de la Division "Infrastructure, Equipement et Maintenance" sera
charge de veiller au respect des procedures de passation des contrats d'etudes et
surveillance, des marches des travaux d'infrastructure et d'equipement, d'organiser les
prdqualifications des entreprises, de participer aux sessions des commissions
d'adjudication correspondantes, de superviser et coordonner au plan technique
l'execution des travaux d'Infrastructure, d'Equipements et de Maintenance. II sera
l'interlocuteur technique aupres du Ministere de l'Amenagement du Territoire et
aupres des bureaux d'etudes, des bureaux de contr6le et des entreprises de
construction et Foumisseurs d'equipements.
Le chef de la Division "Planification" apportera son appui pour l'elaboration
des plans d'action annuels du Projet, la compilation et I'analyse des donn&s
statistiques de fonctionnement des formations sanitaires emanant des Inspections
Regionales, les evaluations internes et extemes du Projet.
Le chef de la Division "Formation et Recherche" sera charge de l'dlaboration
des termes de rdference des Consultants pour les activites de Formation et de
Recherche operationnelle prevus dans le Projet, du suivi de l'execution du plan de
formation.
Les chefs des Divisions "Luite contre la maladie', "nutrition-alimentation",
"promotion de la sante, 'sante familiale" seront charg6s, chacun en ce qui le
conceme, de l'elaboration des politiques et programmes nationaux correspondants, de
la preparation des programmes et modules de formation, de la supervision et de
l'dlaboration des activites des programmes de sante prioritaires sur le terrain. Outre
ces fonctions, le chef de la Division de la 'Lutte contre la maladie" assurera l'analyse
epidemiologique et suivra les tendances evolutives des principales maladies endemo-
epidemiques.
Le chef de la Division 'Etablissements de soins prefectoraux et rtgionaux"
sera charge de suivre la gestion et le fonctionnement des formations sanitaires
(Centres de Sante, Centres de Sante ameliores, h6pitaux Prefectoraux et Regionaux),
de mobiliser a leur profit les ressources humaines, mat6rielles et financieres qui leur
sont necessaires, de suivre l'evolution du systime de recouvrement des cofts et les
tarifs pratiques dans les formations sanitaires. IL veillera sur la qualite des soins et
s'assurera que les organes de gestion des formations sanitaires executent leur mission
dans les delais et les conditions prescrits et atteignent les objectifs qui leur sont fixes.



ANNEXE
Page 25 de 39
Le chef de la Division "Etablissements Publics pharmaceutiques et
Laboratoires" sera charge de suivre les conditions d'approvisionnement en
medicaments, produits consommables, materiels medico-chirurgicaux ainsi que
l'utilisation des credits alloues a cet effet aux Formations Sanitaires. II participera
aux travaux des Commissions d'adjudication portant sur les medicaments, les reactifs
et produits de Laboratoire et les autres consommables hospitaliers.
Les differents agents enum6res ci-dessus constitueront la Coordination
Nationale du Projet. Ils travailleront sous l'autorite des Directeurs Nationaux charges
de la Sante Publique, des Etablissements de Soins, de Pharmacies et Laboratoires, et
du Directeur du Bureau de Planification-Formation-Recherche.
La Coordination Nationale du Projet tiendra des reunions ordinaires,
hebdomadaires, sous la presidence du Directeur National du Projet.
Des reunions extraordinaires pourront etre organisees sur la demande de celui-
ci, du Secretaire General ou du Ministre de la Sante.
Au cours de ses reunions, la Coordination Nationale examinera toutes
questions relatives au fonctionnement du Projet, a l'execution des activites en veillant
au respect scrupuleux du calendrier, a la consommation des credits. Elle approuvera
les rapports trimestriels d'activite du projet avant leur soumission au chef de
Departement, a l'IDA, au CTC et au Comite de Suivi.
La Coordination Nationale elaborera le projet de plan d'action a soumettre a la
revue annuelle du Projet.
4.1.1.2. La Cellule Regionale de Coordination:
Elle est dirigee par le medecin inspecteur regional de la sante qui a la
responsabilite aupres des autorit6s regionales et locales de la realisation des activitds
ainsi que de la coordination inter-sectorielle. 11 sera assiste par les chefs des services
ci-apres designes constituant avec lui la cellule regionale de coordination. Ce sont:
4.1.1.2. 1. Les chefs des services de l'Inspection Regionale. a savoir:
- Le Coordinateur des Programmes Regionaux de Sante, charge de suivre
l'ex6cution des activites des programmes prioritaires, notamment ceux de
Lutte contre la maladie, de Sante Familiale, de Nutrition, d'Education
pour la sante, d'approvisionnement en eau et Assainissement.
- Le Chef de la section planification, formation et recherche charge de
l'analyse des donnees statistiques regionales a partir des releves fournis
par les Directions prdfectorales de la sante, de l'elaboraion des plans
rdgionaux annuels d'activites, du suivi du plan de la formation et des
programmes de recherche.



ANNEXIE VI
Page 26 de 39
- Le Chef des Services Administratifs et Financiers (SAF) aura comme
principale responsabilite le suivi et la justification des depenses effectuees
par le projet. II sera charge de suivre l'execution de la politique de
financement des services. I1 veillera aux conditions d'utilisation des
ressources financieres mobilis6es par les formations sanitaires et participera a
cet effet aux missions d'audit et de contr6le budg6taire des h6pitaux et aux
sessions de monitorages.
Le chef des SAF aura egalement la responsabilite de la planification des
Ressources Humaines et du suivi de l'application des textes reglementaires en matibre
d'utilisation des personnels de sante (Statut, Deploiement, etc).
II assurera la tenue de la comptabilite, I'etablissement d'un rapport semestriel
sur le systeme de recouvrement des coQts et les depenses effectuees au niveau de la
region dans le cadre du Projet.
Du chef des SAF dependra le Secretariat qui sera assur6 par des Secretaires
Contractuelles et les agents auxiliaires: Chauffeurs, gardiens, agents de nettoyage.
- Le Chef de la Section "Affaires Sociales' sera responsable du suivi de la
politique en matiere d'indigence.
- La Coordinatrice R6gionale des Organisations Feminines impulsera
l'elaboration de petits projets de developpement a l'intention des femmes.
Elle veillera a I'ad6quation entre les activites sanitaires et les besoins des
femmes.
4.1.1.2.2. Le Directeur de P'H6pital Rdgional collaborera avec l'Inspecteur Rdgional
dans l'execution et le suivi des activit6s du Projet. Bien que celui-ci ne comprend pas
de volet d'appui a un h6pital regional, les Directeurs de ces etablissements de Labe et
Kindia veilleront au bon fonctionnement du syst*me de r6f6rence/recours et a
l'execution des soins sp6cialis6s.
L'h6pital apportera son appui aux centres de sant6 de la pr6fectures, chef lieu
de region et servira de lieu d'application pour les 6lves et 6tudiants en formation
initiale et de recyclage et perfectionnement des agents de fonction. Les personnels de
I'h6pital rEgional feront partie int6grante de 1'6quipe regionale de supervision et de
formation.
4.1.1.2.3. Ie Directeur du Service REgional de Maintenance Hospitaliere: celui-ci
sera charg6 de la gestion des pieces de rechange des 6quipements et des v6hicules.
Ces pieces seront cedees aux services utilisateurs contre paiement.
Le service rEgional de maintenance hospitaliere disposera d'un lot de
d6marrage de pieces d6tachees en quantit6 raisonnable et d'un fonds de roulement en
devises pour l'achat a 1'6tranger de pieces en fonction des besoins.



ANNEXE VI
Page 27 de 39
Contrairement aux pieces de rechange, le carburant pour les vehicules, groupes
electrogtnes, refrigerateurs, sera achete directement par les utilisateurs aupres des
succursales des societes petrolieres sur la base de bons d'achat delivres par le SAF.
4.1.1.2.4. Le Directeur de I'antenne r6gionale de la Pharmacie Centrale de
Guinee (PCG): cet etablissement public a caractere industriel et commercial assurera
I'approvisionnement des formations sanitaires en medicaments, vaccins, petits
materiels consommables sans pour autant en avoir le monopole, les formations
sanitaires pouvant s'approvisionner a d'autres sources offrant un meilleur rapport
qualit6/prix.
I1 sera cree aupres de l'antenne regionale de la PCG de Labe un Comite
consultatif des usagers dont le r6le consiste a veiller sur le niveau des prix des
m6dicaments livres et sur la qualite des prestations fournies. Le Comite consultatif
des usagers sera represent6 au Comite Consultatif National par deux de ses membres
charges d'informer cet organisme du fonctionnement de l'antenne regionale et des
problemes lies a I'approvisionnement correct des etablissements de sante en
medicaments et foumitures medico-chirurgicales.
S'agissant des outils de gestions, ceux-ci pourront etre egalement fournis par
l'intermediaire de l'antenne regionale de la PCG.
En attendant que ces antennes regionales de la maintenance et de la pharmacie
Centrale de Guinee soient operationnelles, le Projet s'appuiera sur la logistique mise
en place par le programme PEV/SSP/ME a Labe et a la Coordination Nationale de ce
programme i Conakry pour l'approvisionnement des centres de sante en mEdicaments,
pieces de rechange pour les motos, pour les refrigerateurs selon les modalites utilisees
pour les Centres de Sante soutenus par ce programme.
Quant aux h6pitaux, leur approvisionnement en medicaments sera fait par
appels d'offres durant les deux annees d'assistance par le Projet. La PCG participera
i ces appels d'offres.
Eu egard aux fonctions devolues I ses membres, la cellule regionale de
coordination assurera en consequence la planification et le suivi de l'execution, la
gestion des ressources financieres, materielles et humaines devolues au Projet au
niveau regional. Elle organisera et suivra les actions de formation continue se
deroulant au niveau rigional ainsi que les liaisons avec les institutions de formation
initiale des agents pararnedicaux.
La Cellule Regionale de Coordination tiendra des reunions hebdomadaires de
coordination sous la presidence de l'Inspecteur Regional de la Sante et des Affaires
Sociales.
La Cellule Regional de Coordination elaborera un plan d'action annuel qui
servira de reference pour les evaluations et rendra compte trimestriellement de ses



ANNEXE VlI
Page 28 de 39
activites au Directeur National du Projet, aux Directeurs des chefs des services
centraux concernms, au Secretaire General et au Ministre de la Sante, ainsi qu'au
Gouvemeur de Region et aux organes de suivi et de coordination du niveau regional.
4.1.1.3. Cellule Prefectorale de Gestion du ProIet:
II sera cr6e une cellule pr6fectorale de gestion du projet dirigee par le
Directeur Prefectoral de la Sante et des Affaires Sociales. Celui-ci sera responsable
de la programmation et de la realisation des activites dans la prefecture en etroite
collaboration avec les autorit6s prefectorales et locales. Le Directeur Prefectoral de la
sante sera charge d'apporter l'appui aux communautes dans l'identification et la mise
en oeuvre de petits projets de developpement sanitaire et dans la mise en place du
systeme d'information a assise communautaire.
Dans sa fonction, le Directeur Prefectoral de la Sante et des Affaires Sociales
sera assiste par:
4.1.1.3. 1. Les autres membres du bureau de la DPSAS, a savoir:
- Le chef de la section soins de sante primnaires qui assurera la supervision
des formations sanitaires et veillera a l'ex6cution correcte des activites
de soins de sante primaires en general sur le terrain, plus particulierement
de celles de SMI/PF, de Nutrition-Alimentation, d'Education pour la sant6, de
lutte contre la Maladie, d'approvisionnement en eau et Assainissement.
- Le chef de la Section Planification, Formation, Recherche responsable de
la collecte et de l'analyse des donnees statistiques fournies par les centres de
sant6 et l'hopital prefectoral, de l'elaboration et de 1'evaluation des projets de
plans et programmes d'activites, du suivi des programmes de formation au
niveau prefectoral et de la promotion de la recherche operationnelle.
- Le chef de la Section Pharnacie et Laboratoire qui sera charg6 de veiller
sur l'approvisionnement des formations sanitaires en medicaments essentiels,
vaccins et produits consommables, sur l'application des reglements en matiere
de stockage, de conversation, d'utilisation des medicaments; de g6rer les
stocks tampons de vaccins et de m6dicaments cres au niveau prefectoral.
- Le chef de la Section Affaires Sociales veillera sur la prise en charge et la
protection sociale des indigents, des handicapes et des couches vuln6rables
(femmes, enfants, personnes agees).
- Le chef des Services Administratifs et Financiers de la DPSAS sera charg6
de la gestion financiere du projet au niveau prefectoral, du suivi de la gestion
des formations sanitaires, de la gestion des ressources humaines et mat6rielles,
du Secretariat, de l'entretien et de la Maintenance des infrastructures et des
6quipements de la DPSAS et des moyens logistiques.



ANNEXE VI
Page 29 de 39
Le chef des SAF elaborera des rapports periodiques sur la mixe en oeuvre de
la politique de recouvrement des coQts et/ou les depenses effectuees par le projet. Il
participera a l'analyse de la situation financiere des formations sanitaires, en
particulier des centres de santd et proposera toutes mesures tendant a equilibrer leur
gestion financiere ainsi que celles d'assistance aux centres de sante deficitaires.
II elaborera le budget de la DPSAS et conseillera la DPSAS sur les modalites
d'utilisation des credits alloues aux services publics de sante de la prefecture.
Dans le domaine de la gestion des ressources humaines, le chef des SAF
assurera le suivi de la regularisation de la situation administrative des agents, de leurs
plans de carriere et l'execution du plan de deploiement.
Par ses activites, le chef des SAF doit permettre au DPSAS de se concentrer
sur les aspects de gestion technique du projet.
Le personnel de l'h6pital prefectoral participera aux activites de supervision-
formation des agents des centres de sante auxquels il apportera un appui gestionnaire
et technique.
4.1.1.3.2. Le Directeur de I'h6pital prefectoral organisera et assurera les soins
spdcifiques pour les malades recus dans cet etablissement.
4.1.1.3.3. Le Directeur PrEfectoral de l'Urbanisme et de l'Habitat participera a la
supervision des chantiers de construction/renovation des formations sanitaires, ainsi
qu'aux commissions de reception des infrastructures. II signalera a la DIEM et au
Ministere de l'Amenagement du Territoire toutes anomalies constatees dans
l'execution desdits travaux, qu'il n'est pas autorise cependant I interrompre sans
l'avis explicite conjoint de la Coordination Nationale et de la DIEM.
La Cellule Prefectorale de gestion du projet se reunira une fois par semaine
pour evaluer l'etat d'avancement du projet. Elle eIaborera les plans d'action annuels
et les rapports periodiques qui seront soumis aux organes de suivi et de coordination
du niveau prefectoral, a l'inspecteur regional de la sante, aux Directeurs et chefs des
Services Centraux concernes, a la Coordination Nationale, au Secretaire General et au
Ministere de la SantE.
4.1.1.4. Gestion du Projet au Niveau Local (Sous-Prefectoral):
La gestion du projet au niveau local sera assurEe d'une part par le comit6 de
gestion, d'autre part par le chef du centre de sante.
4.1.1.4.1. Le Comitd de Gestion du Centre de Sante est charge de faire participer la
population a la conception, a l'execution et a l'evaluation des programmes de sante.
II a un r6le de sensibilisation des communautds sur les probl&mes de sante, un r6le de
mobilisation sociale et des ressources. II assure la planification des activites,
I'elaboration et l'execution du budget du centre de sante, l'evaluation des activites



ANNIlEX
Page 30 de 39
sanitaires. Le Comite de gestion arr8te le tarif, delibere sur les primes des agents et
sur les modalites de prise en charge des indigents.
Le Comite de Gestion se compose de 6 membres dont 5 elus: le vice-
president, le tresorier, le charg6 de l'hygiene et de l'assainissement, le charge du
bien-etre familial (qui est obligatoirement une femme) et le chef de centre.
Le Comite de Gestion se rdunit en session ordinaire une fois par mois. Le
compte-rendu de ses reunions et son rapport d'activites sont envoyes au maire de la
commune urbaine ou au president de la communaute rurale de developpement, au
Sous-Prefet, au DPSAS, au Prefet.
4.1.1.4.2. Le chef du centre de sante sera responsable de 1'execution des
programmes de sante et de la gestion du personnel technique, de l'approvisionnement
en medicaments essentiels, de la collecte et de la transmission des donn6es statistiques
d'activites.
Le chef de centre dirigera I'equipe de santd composee de differentes categories
d'agents dont le nombre variera en fonction des activites a mener. II assurera la
supervision des agents et des activites des postes de sante. Son responsable
hierarchique direct est le Directeur Prefectoral de la Sante et des Affaires Sociales.
C'est au niveau des centres de sante que se fera l'integration harmonieuse des
activites des differents programmes concernant les soins curatifs, preventifs et
promotionnels, y compris celles relatives aux affaires sociales et I l'integration de la
femme dans le processus du developpement. L'6quipe de sant6 du centre donnera a la
population les soins de sante essentiels couverts par le programme national des soins
de sante primaires.
Pour ce faire, une attention particuliere sem portee k la qualification des
agents, a leur supervision pour leur permettre d'executer efficacement les activites
sanitaires qui leur incombent.
4,1.2. SUIVI ET COORDINATION
4.1.2. 1. Niveau National:
A. LI Secretaire Gen6ral du MSPAS sera responsable de la coordination
d'ensemble des activitds du Projet et de celles des autres projets et programmes du
Departement, du dialogue inter-sectoriel et des liaisons avec l'IDA. Il visera les
demandes de decaissement, les mandats de paiement des foumisseurs, et tous les
rapports -t compte-rendus emanant de la coordination nadionale avant leur soumission
au Ministre et au bailleur de fonds.
Le Directeur National du Projet relevera de son autorit6. Le r6le du
Secretaire General consistera a l'aider a executer correctement sa mission, a s'assurer



ANEi Vli
Page 31 de 39
que les activites devolues aux differentes eniites s'ex6cutent conformrment aux plans
arretes.
B.    Le Comite Technique de Coordination: il s'agit d'un organe mis en
place au sein du Departement de la Sante et des Affaires Sociales pour suivre au plan
technique l'ex6cution de tous les projets et programmes sectoriels de developpement,
coordonner les activites des services centraux, harmoniser les interventions des
differents bailleurs de fonds, plus generalement suivre l'evolution de la politique
sectorielle et reposer son adaptation au contexte epidemiologique, 6conomique et
social.
Le Comite Technique de Coordination est preside par le Secretaire General du
MSPAS et comprend: les Directeurs Nationaux, le Directeur du BEPR, le Directeur
de l'Institut National de Sante Publique, l'Inspecteur General de la Sante, le chef de la
DAAF, le Coordinateur du programme PE/SSP/ME, le Directeur du projet IDA, le
Directeur du projet SMT/SIDA, les Directeurs des Services rattaches et personnalises,
des representants des Ministeres de l'Interieur, du Plan et des Finances, de la
Cooperation Internationale, les representants de l'OMS et de l'UNICEF.
Les representants des bailleurs de fonds du secteur sante: CEE, IDA, BAD,
GTZ, Cooperation Franqaise, des ONGs pourront etre invites, en fonction des sujets a
l'ordre du jour, a participer aux frais du CTC.
L'invitation es faite au nom du Ministre de la Santc par lc Secretaire G6neral.
Les reunions du CTC sont trimestrielles. Des reunions extraordinaires peuvent
etre organisees sur la demande de la moitie des membres du CTC, du Secretaire
G6n6ral cu du Ministre de la Sante.
Le CTC est particulierement charge dans le cadre de ce projet d'adopter le
plan d'ac. in annuel et le budget, d'examiner les rapports trimestriels d'activites de la
direction du projet, d 'examiner les rapports d'audits et d'evaluation et de formuler
toutes recommandations au Ministre de la Sante et au Comite de suivi de nature a
ameliorer la gestion et le fonctionnement du projet ou de nature a favoriser I'atteinte
de ses objectifs.
C. LE COMITE DE SUIVI:
II sera cr6d, en plus du CTC, un comite de suivi preside par le Ministre de la
Sante Publiques et des Affaires Sociales, comprenant:
-a) Du c6te du Gouvermement: les Ministres du Plan et des Finances, de la
Cooperation, de I'Amenagement du Territoire, de l'Intdrieur, de la
Reforme Administrative de la Fonction Publique et du Travail, de
l'Enseignement Pre-Universitaire et Formation Professionnelle, du



ANNEXEVl1
Page 32 de 39
Secretaire d'Etat aux Affaires Sociales, a la promotion feminine et S
1'enfance ou leur representant;
b) Du c6te des partenaires exterieurs: les representants de l'IDA et des autres
bailleurs de fonds impliques dans l'execution des programmes de sante. Ce
comite de suivi qui se reunit tous les 6 mois est charge de s'assurer que le
secteur dispose des ressources humaines, materielles et financieres corres-
pondant aux strategies sectorielles et aux objectifs operationnels,
d'examiner tous les aspects de l'execution du projet dans son ensemble et
des plans d'action annuels, d'eliminer toutes difficultes pouvant se presenter
lors de cette execution.
Tant le CTC que le comite de suivi apparaissent ainsi comme des organes de
dialogue et de concertation entre le Gouvernement et les bailleurs de fonds. Ils
doivent permettre de renforcer la confiance mutuelle dans la mise en oeuvre de la
politique sanitaire, de mobiliser les ressources et d'assurer leur meilleur utilisation.
L'6quipe de gestion du projet et les missions de supervision de 1'IDA
collaboreront ensemble pour assurer une certaine souplesse dans 1'execution du projet
afin que les recommandations issues des reunions de ces organismes et des revues
annuelles puissent etre prise en compte dans les activites futures.
4.1.2.2. Niveau Regignal:
A.      Le Comite Technique Rdgional de Sant6 qui comprendra:
tous les chefs de services de l'Inspection Regionale de la sante, tous les Directeurs
Pr6fectoraux de la Sante, les Directeurs des hopitaux (Regional et Prefectoraux), les
chefs des services de l'h6pital regional. II sera charge d'assurer au niveau regional la
coordination et l'harmonisation des interventions techniques des services de sante. II
sera charge aussi d'analyser la situation epidemiologique, d'etudier l'etat d'execution
des programmes de sante au niveau regional, et d'en 6valuer les resultats. Le
Secretariat du comite technique regional de sante est tenu par le charge de la
planification, de la formation et de la recherche de l'inspection regionale de la sante.
Les rapports du comite technique regional de sante sont soumis I 1'examen du comit6
r6gional de sant6, des autorit6s du MSPAS.
B.    L'Equipe Mgionale de Formation: sera charg6e de l'flaboration du
plan r6gional de formation et du suivi de sa mise en oeuvre, de la coordination des
activites de formation, de la collaboration avec l'inspection regionale de 1'6ducation et
l'6cole de la sante.
Le comit6 r6gional de formation sera presid6 par l'Inspecteur R6gional de la Sant6. n
comprendra tous ces chefs de services de l'IRSAS, les DPSAS, Directeurs d'h6pitaux,
chef de Services et praticiens choisis en fonction de leurs competences.
C.    Le Comit6 Rcgional de Sante sera charge du suivi et de la coordination
de toutes les activites sanitaires regionales. Au cours de ses sessions semestrielles il
cvaluera les activites sanitaires ainsi que la mise en oeuvre du projet, formulera des



ANNEXE VI
Page 33 de 39
orientations quant a l'adequation des programmes sanitaires avec les besoins des
populations et sur le niveau des ressources requises pour leur execution.
Le Comite regional de sante sera preside par le Gouverneur de region. II
comprendra: Les presidents des Conseils d'Administration des h6pitaux, un President
de Comite de Gestion de centre de sante par prefecture, les chefs des services
regionaux charges des finances, de l'Education, de I'Agriculture de l'Amenagement
du Territoire.
C'est donc un organe destine a renforcer au niveau regional la participation
communautaire et la collaboration intersectorielle. Le secretariat du Comite Regional
de Sante est tenu par l'Inspecteur Regional de la sant6. Les recommandations du
Comite Regional de Sante sont transmises au Ministre de la Sante par le Gouvemeur
de Region.
4.1.2.3.     Niveau Prefectoral:
A.    L'Eauipe Prefectoral de Formation: assurera l'organisation, le suivi et
la Coordination des activites de formation prevues par le projet au niveau prefectoral.
De composition multidisciplinaire, elle est presidee par le DPSAS et comprend outre
les membres de l'equipe de la DPSAS, le Directeur, les chefs de services, le
surveillant general et la Maitresse sage-femme de l'h6pital prefectoral, ainsi que tout
praticien (y compris du secteur prive) reconnu pour ses aptitudes en matiere de
formation. L'equipe prefectorale participera a la selection des boursiers (sur la base
des criteres et des normes 6tablis prealablement par le niveau central) et au suivi des
formations se deroulant hors de la prefecture.
L'equipe prefectorale de formation se rdunit chaque fois que de besoin sur
convocation du Directeur Prefectoral de la Sant6.
B.    Le Comite Technique Prefectoral: assurera la coordination, l'integration
et l'harmonisation des interventions techniques des diff6rents services de sant6,
publics et prives, de la prefecture ainsi que le suivi de 1'execution du Projet. Au
cours de ses reunions semestrielles, il analysera la situation epiddmiologique, le bilan
de fonctionnement des services de sante et formulera des recommandations quant a
l'orientation des activites sanitaires, l'utilisation des ressources, l'organisation des
services, le plan d'action sanitaire...
Le Comite Technique Pr6fectoral de Sante est presid6 par le Directeur
Prefectoral de la Sante et des Affaires Sociales. II se compose, outre du DPSAS, des
chefs de Section de la DPSAS, du Directeur des chefs de services, du surveillant
general, du gestionnaire comptable, de la maitresse sage-femme de l'h6pital
prefectoral, des chefs des centres de sante.
Le Secretariat du comite technique prefectoral de sante est assure par le chef
de la section "planification formation et recherche' de la DPSAS.



ANNEXE VI
Page 34 de 39
C. Le Comitd de Sante de Prefecture: preside par le prefet, il comprendra
des representants sur Conseil d'Administration de l'h6pital Prefectoral, des Comites
de Gestion des Centres de Sante, des representants des secteurs apparentes a la sante
(Education, Amenagement du Territoire, Finances, Agriculture, Jeunesse, Promotion
feminine), des representants des ONG, des organisations de masses (femmes, jeunes,
Syndicat, Chambre de commerce et d'Agriculture), des organismes de cultes. Les
representants des bailleurs de fonds peuvent participer aux sessions du comit6 de
Sante de Prefecture sur l'invitation de son president.
Ce comite aura pour r6le de renforcer la participation communautaire et la
collaboration intersectorielle dans le suivi et 1'execution du projet, d'evaluer le
fonctionnement des services de sante, d'orienter leurs activites en tenant compte des
besoins sanitaires locaux et de la politique nationale de sante, d'adopter les plans et
programme d'action sanitaire, de mobiliser et d'allouer les ressources n6cessaires k
leur mise en oeuvre correcte.
Le plan d'action annuel et le rapport de la cellule prefectorale de gestion du
projet serviront de base a l'evaluation que feront le comite Technique et le Comite de
sante de prefecture.
Les recommandations formulees pour les organismes seront transmis aux
autorites superieures.
En vue du faciliter la programmation, le suivi et la coordination des activites,
le projet allouera des ressources financieres et logistiques pour l'organisation des
reunions de concertation sectorielles et intersectorielles.
4.1.2.4.     SUPERVISIQN
A.    La supervision du deroulement du projet sera assuree par les
responsables des entites organiques du MSPAS et de ses services deconcentres
(IRSAS, DPSAS). Ainsi:
La supervision des postes de sante de district sera assuree par le chef du centre
de santc, celle des centres de sante et de l'h6pital prefectoral par le DPSAS et ses
collaborateurs. Quant a l'Inspecteur Regional et aux membres de l'IRSAS, ils
assureront la supervision de toutes les structures sanitaires implantees dans la region.
Des supervisions sporadiques du niveau central seront aussi organisees par les soins
des chefs des programmes prioritaires de sante, la section supervision nationale de la
Direction Nationale des Etablissements de Soins, les Directeurs Centraux, le
Secretaire General et le Ministre.
La supervision s'adressera a toutes les activites, tant celles devolues aux
equipes techniques que celles relevant des organes de participation communautaire et
de collaboration intersectorielle (Comites de Gestion, Comites de Sante).



ANNEXe VI
Page 35 de 39
Un canevas de supervision existe pour les centres de santd. Celui des h6pitaux
est en preparation. La fiche de supervision doit servir de reference pour le
superviseur et le supervise.
Un calendrier de tournmes de supervision sera elabore et les responsables
seront tenus de la respecter. II sera partie integrante des plans d'action des differents
niveaux.
B.    La supervision des travaux de construction des infrastructures sanitaires
sera assuree par les services prefectoraux de l'urbanisme et de l'habitat.
Contrairement a ce qui s'est passe durant le PDSS, ces services seront impliques des
la phase preparatoire dans l'etablissement des plans architecturaux, dans la delivrance
des permis de construire. Ils interviendront plus tard dans la supervision et le suivi
des chantiers, participeront aux commissions de reception dans le respect des clauses
juridiques regissant l'ex6cution des marches de construction. Ils redigeront des
rapports periodiques sur l'evolution des chantiers a l'intention de la Direction du
projet, du Directeur Prefectoral et de l'Inspecteur Regional d'une part, du Ministere
de l'Amenagement du Territoire du Prefet d'autre part.
Pendant la dur6e du projet des architectes independants seront recrutes, basds a
Kindia et a Labe au sein des cellules regionales de coordination; ils auront la qualite
de correspondants de la DIEM charg6s de ce fait de la supervision, du suivi des
chantiers de construction en etroite collaboration avec les autorites regionales et
prdfectorales.
Le comite de Gestion des Centres de Sante et les Conseils d'Administration
des h6pitaux seront egalement associes etroitement a la supervision des travaux
d'infrastructure et d'equipement. Ils seront representes lors des supervisions
effectuees par la DIEM, les services prefectoraux de l'urbanisme, lors des contr6les
effectues par les bureaux de contr6le et dans les commissions de reception provisoire
et definitive des chantiers de construction et des equipements. Dans leurs rapports
periodiques destines aux autorites superieures ils devront signaler toutes anomalies
constatees dans 1'execution des travaux d'infrastructure et d'&quipement.
Afin de faciliter la supervision, le projet fournira les moyens de deplacement,
le carburant et les per diems des superviseurs.
C.    L'IDA elaborera son propre plan de supervision.
4.1.3 MONITORING-EVALUATION CONTROLE
4.1.3.1. Des sessions semestrielles d'evaluation et de monitoring des activites des
centres de sante seront organisees aux niveaux prEfectoral et regional en vue de
s'assurer des couvertures obtenues des interventions de SSP et de la bonne gestion des
ressources. Au cours de ces sessions auxquelles participeront des representants du
niveau central, les equipes des IRSAS, de la DPSAS, le Directeur de l'h6pital, les



ANNENE 
Page 36 de 39
chefs des centres de sante et les representants des comites de gestion, la gestion
financiere des centres de sante sera examinee et la microplanification des activites
faite et budgitis6e.
S'agissant des hopitaux prefectoraux un contr6le budgetaire sera fait au niveau
prefectoral tous les 3 mois et un monitorage au niveau regional tous les six mois en
meme temps que celui des centres de sante. Au cours des sessions de monitorage de
juillet de chaque annee seront presentes le budget pour I'annee suivante, ainsi que le
plan d'action qui auront ete pr6alablement discutes et adoptes par le Conseil
d'Administration.
Au cours de cette session sera aussi fait le contr6le de 1'execution du budget
au premier semestre de l'ann6e en cours. Lors de la session de janvier de chaque
annee, sera fait le bilan d'ex6cution des activites planifiees durant l'ann&e ecoulee.
Les autorites superieures de tutelle (IRSAS, MSPAS) recevront du CA et du
Directeur de I'h6pital, outre les propositions budgetaires pour approbation
accompagnees des documents annexes prevus par la reglementation en vigueur, des
rapports periodiques d'activites retraqant entre autres les activites techniques,
I'utilisation des ressources.
4.1.3.2.     CONTROLE DES TRAVAUX D'INFRASTRUCTURE
Dans le but de renforcer la DIEM et eviter les defaillances eventuelles des
bureaux d'etudes, des bureaux de contr6le seront recrutes par selection restreinte. Ils
seront charges de contr6ler les prestations fournies par les bureaux d'etudes et par les
entreprises de construction et les foumisseurs d'equipements. Ces bureaux de
contr6le agiront en qualite de conseillers des commissions de reception et devront
garantir la bonne qualite d'execution des travaux et leur conformite avec les dossiers
techniques de base et avec les regles de I'art.
4.1.3.3.     PARTICIPATION DES BENEFICTAIRES A L'EXECUTION. AU
SUIVI ET A L'EVALUATION DU PROJET
Lors de la preparation des dispositions ont ete prises pour permettre aux
beneficiaires de participer effectivement a son execution, au suivi et I l'evaluation.
En particulier une enquete sera realisee sur financement du PPF aupres d'eux pour
connaitre leurs besoins et leurs attentes. Cette enquete sera repetde I mi parcours et a
la fin du Projet pour 6valuer dans quelle mesure le projet a permis de repondre
favorablement I ces besoins et attentes ainsi que les comportements, les attitudes et
les perceptions des services de sante.
Avant le demarrage du projet et pendant la phase d'exdcution, les comitEs de
Gestion, les Conseils d'Administration et les Comites de sante seront formEs et
recycles pour les preparer a participer efficacement a 1'execution, au suivi et i
l'evaluation du projet. Ces Comites rappelons-le auront pour r6les:



ANNEXE VI
Page 37 de 39
- d'examiner periodiquement le niveau des tarifs appliques dans les centres de
sante et les h6pitaux;
- d'assurer la sensibilisation de la population quant aux problemes de sante;
- d'evaluer si les ressources de fonctionnement sont suffisantes pour assurer les
prestations correctes de soins;
- d'evaluer le niveau d'utilisation des services et des ressources;
- d'approuver les previsions budgetaires;
- d'organiser la protection et l'entretien des installations;
- de fournir des renseignements sur les manieres dont les beneficiaires evaluent
les progres realises.
4.1.3.4.     REVUE ANNUELLE
Une fois par an sera organisee a Conakry, a Kindia ou a Labe, la revue
generale du projet au cours de laquelle:
- seront examines le niveau d'execution des activites programmees durant
l'annee ecoulee, les difficultes rencontrees et les solutions mises en oeuvre
pour les surmonter;
- sera evalue le niveau de la participation communautaire
- sera adopte le plan d'action pour l'exercice suivant ainsi que le budget
correspondant.
La revue annuelle sera l'occasion de s'assurer encore que le fonctionnement
des formations sanitaires et les activitds menees par le projet repondent bien aux
besoins et attentes de la population et sont conformes aux objectifs predefinis.
Participent a la revue: le Secrdtaire General, les Directeurs Nationaux, le
Directeur du BEPR, l'Inspecteur General de la Sante, les 4quipes centrales, regionales
et prefectorales de gestion conformdment a leur composition indiquee plus haut, les
presidents des C.A. des h6pitaux et des comites de gestions des centres de sante, les
representants de I'AGBEF, les Directrices Regionales et Prefectorales de la Promotion
Feminine, les representants de l'IDA.
Les plans d'action et les recommandations de la revue sont soumises pour
approbation au CTC plus I l'IDA et au comitd de suivi.



4.1.3.5      EVALUATION A MI-PARCOURS                               A        EXLYI
Page 38 de 39
Avant la fin de la phase II sera organisee l'evaluation a mi parcours du projet.
Cette 6valuation sera realisee par une equipe de consultants internationaux compos6e
d'un medecin de sante publique, d'un 6conomiste de la sante et d'un architecte
appuyee par une equipe nationale composee du Directeur du projet, d'un representant
du bureau de Planification et Recherche, d'un representant de la DIEM, d'un
representant de l'Inspection Regionale de la Sante (Inspecteur charge des Affaires
Administratives et Financieres).
L'evaluation a mi-parcours portera sur:
- la gestion du projet;
- I'etat d'execution des differentes composantes;
- le fonctionnement des formations sanitaires et leur niveau d'utilisation par la
population ainsi que les couvertures des differentes interventions techniques;
- la participation des beneficiaires;
- la collaboration intersectorielle;
- le financement du secteur et l'evaluation du systeme de recouvrement des
coats;
- !'evolution de la politique sectorielle.
La dur&e de cette evaluation sera d'environ 30 jours. Le rapport d'evaluation
sera soumis pour examen au CTC, a l'IDA et au Comite de Suivi.
4.1.3.6.     EVALUATION FINALE:
Elle sera faite dans les memes conditions que l'evaluation a mi-parcours.
4.1.4. LA COMMUNICATION:
Un systbme de communication par dmetteur-r6cepteur sera installe dans la zone
du projet reliant la coordination avec les IRSAS, les DPSAS, les h6pitaux et les CS.
Ce systeme doit permettre une rationalisation des approvisionnements, une
augmentation des echanges d'informations, une rdduction des deplacements et un
meilleur suivi des malades. 23 emetteurs-recepteurs seront installds et leurs coOts de
fonctionnement couverts par le programme (soit les 15 CS, les 2 CS ameliores, les 5
DPSAS de Dubreka, Kindia, Telimele, Mali, Koubia et l'IRSAS de Kindia, les sites
ant6rieurement couverts par le PDSS et la Coordination Nationale deja pourvus).
La fourniture de rapports statistiques poriodiques par les formations sanitaires
doit permettre de suivre leur fonctionnement, la gestion et la couverture des



ANNEXE Y
Page 39 de 39
interventions des programmes prioritaires de sant6. La collecte des donndes
statistiques sera faite par 1'equipe du Centre de Sante et de I'hopital avant leur
transmission I la DPSAS chargee de compiler les informations provenant de toutes les
formations sanitaires de la prefecture.
Les donnees provenant des DPSAS sont agregees au niveau de l'IRSAS, de
sorte que ne parviennent au niveau central que les donnees provenant des IRSAS.
A chaque etape les donnees disponibles sont analysees et la retroinformation
faite aux niveaux inferieurs.
Le systeme de rapports statistiques devra s'ameliorer grace a la creation de
cellules de statistiques sanitaires dans les IRSAS et les DPSAS, la formation des
agents charges de statistiques, et la dotation en supports de donnees.
La circulation de l'information relative au Projet sera int6gr6e au MSPAS.
Des rapports periodiques relatant l'etat d'avancement du projet et les difficultes
rencontrees, les mesures prises ou preconisees pour les surmonter seront adressees par
les IRSAS, les DPSAS et les DH, au Directeur du projet avec ampliation au Ministre
de la Sante, au Secretaire General et aux Directeurs Centraux concern6s. Le canevas
des rapports periodiques d'activites propres a ameliorer la solution des problemes sera
dlabord par la Coordination du Projet, approuve par l'IDA.
Toutes les correspondances emanant des differentes entites participant a la
gestion seront envoyees dans le respect de la ligne hierarchique.
Les compte-rendus et rapports des prestataires de services des consultants
seront adresses au Directeur du projet avec ampliation au Secretaire General et, au
besoin, au Chef de la DAAF et au chef de la DIEM.



ANNEiXY
Page 1 of 2
REUBLIC OF GUINEAPaeIo2
HEALTH AND NUTRMON SECTOR PROJECT
Management Decentralization
REPUBLIOUE DE GUINEE
PROJET DE SANTE ET NUTRITION
Deentralisation de la Gestion
La decentralisation figure sans conteste parmi les grandes reformes qui ont
marqu6 la vie nationale depuis l'avenement de la Deuxieme Republique. Elle a
d6clenche un processus de profondes mutations dans les structures et la gestion du
systame sanitaire national. Les signes de ce developpement comprennent la creation
des prefectures et des regions sanitaires et la pr6paration d'un document accordant
l'autonomie de gestion aux h6pitaux publics et d'un autre qui permettra de rationaliser
la gestion du personnel de sante.
Quant aux pr6fectures, elles sont appelees maintenant a jouer un r6le central
de district sanitaire. Diverses experiences sont menees, notamment avec l'aide des
donateurs pour permettre a la prefecture d'assurer une integration harmonieuse des
soins curatifs, la promotion de la sant6 individuelle et communautaire, ainsi que la
participation des beneficiaires. Le MSPAS veut voir les prefectures jouer un r6le de
premier plan dans la r6duction de la morbidite et de la mortalite. Toutefois, le
d6veloppement des pr6fectures est freine par le niveau encore bas de la
decentralisation et de l'integration. Les sous-programmes comme la lutte contre la
lepre et l'approvisionnement en medicaments essentiels sont toujours concus et
executes a partir des directions centrales du MSPAS, comme des programmes
verticaux. Le progres des prefectures sanitaires exige, entre autres, le renforcement
de la d6centralisation du MSPAS, I'horizontalisation des sous-programmes de soins de
sante primaires, l'integration de tous les medecins des h6pitaux prefectoraux dans les
equipes chargees de l'encadrement et de la supervision des activites de soins de sante
primaires (SSP) et l'utilisation de la participation communautaire comme un
instrument de la promotion de l'auto-prise en charge des collectivit6s.
Les discussions en cours au MSPAS visent a conferer aux IRSAS un r6le
accru dans la gestion et la coordination des activites au niveau regional. Le MSPAS
espere ainsi transformer le niveau regional en une structure operationnelle
intermediaire a laquelle reviendrait la charge de coordonner les activites de SSP et
aussi et surtout de planifier, rationaliser, ex6cuter et evaluer les activites des soins de
sante secondaires.
Pour donner au processus de decentralisation des chances de reussite, il devra
s'accompagner d'un transfert effectif de l'autorit6 de decision et des ressources
necessaires pour faire fonctionner les structures decentralisees. L'elaboration des
textes l6gislatifs et r6glementaires indiquant clairement le contenu des missions et
attributions des niveaux prefectoral et r6gional, I'accroissement des effectifs et de la
qualification des personnels travaillant a ces deux niveaux, la dotation r6guli6re en



ANNEX.l
Page 2 of 2
fonds de fonctionnement et la construction des infrastructures devant abriter ces
structures sont dans ce cadre des prealables indispensables.
Les DPSAS assureront une supervision mensuelle de l'h6pital prefectoral et
des Centre de Sante orientee vers l'identification des problemes et la formation. La
supervision de 1'IRS est semestrielle. Un canevas de supervision est e1abore. Le
rapport de supervision sera rempli, discute et signe par I'agent supervise. Le
monitorage semestriel des activit6s sera decentralise au niveau prefectoral. Toutefois,
une synthese regionale reste maintenue. Aux sessions de monitorage participent
1'IRS, les DPS, les DH et les Chefs des Centres de Sante ainsi que les representants
des communautes. Elles servent de cadre a 1'evaluation, a la micro-planification et a
la budgetisation des activites.
Les monitorages prefectoraux et r6gionaux seront suivis des sessions
respectivement des Comit6s Prefectoraux de Sante, des Comites Regionaux de Sante
et des Comit6s Techniques RWgionaux de Sante.
Les IRS et DPSAS sont destinataires des textes l6gislatifs et reglementaires,
des circulaires et directives ministerielles, des proces-verbaux des revues et des
r6unions du CTC. En retour, ils adresseront des rapports periodiques d'activite au
Ministre de la Sante avec copie aux responsables des directions, divisions et sections
centrales concern6es.



ANNEX Ym
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
- HEALTH AND NUTRMON SECTOR PROJECT
COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION IN HEALTH DEVELOPMENT
1.           The evaluations of the Expanded Program of Immunization/
Primary Health Care/Essential Drugs (PEV-SSP-ME), and the mid-term evaluation of the
Health Services Development Project (PDSS), emphasized the progress accomplished by
community participation in the implementation of health programs in health facilities. They
have also revealed the weak points. Beneficiary participation is used more as a means of
assuring the financial survival of health facilities than as an opportunity to get integral social
development underway. Management committees do not represent adequately the populations
to whom they are accountable for their activities. The low representation of women in the
management committees limits the active participation of this important group in health
activities.
2.           In hospitals, community participation is inadequate. Hospital committees only
exist in hospitals supported by the PDSS. Low representation of the population and the
absence of legal and administrative texts on hospital policy has kept these Committee from
reaching the performance of Management Committees. The efforts started since the review in
December 1991 of the primary health care program in Kindia aim to encourage a more active
participation of the communities served by the health facilities in the setting up, supervision
and financing of activities at the local level. To strengthen community participation, the
following actions are planned:
(a)    broaden the composition of the Management Committees and redefine their
responsibilities. Management Committees would comprise six members
instead of four (including the Chief of the Health Facility), one of whom
would have to be a woman and one a member less than 30 years old. Two
new positions have been identified within the Management Committee: (i) one
responsible for family well-being, and (ii) the other responsible for water and
sanitation. The responsibilities of the Management Committee would include
taking decisions on management of those unable to pay for services and
solving social problems in the community;
(b)    condtue to experiment with and improve the new community-bawd
information system concerning nutrition (SIAC). The system must enable the
Management Committee and the communities to monitor the evolution of the
nutritional problems and to take appropriate corrective measures as necary.
The SIAC will also be applied to other activities so that, eventually it will
become the foundation of a reliable health information system for the
community in view of the communities' increased participation in the
identification and resolution of health problems;



ANN1EX vmI
Page 2 of 4
(c)    establish Hospital Committea for all hospitals. The Committee, comprised of
the elected representatives of the population and key hospital staff, will
constitute the central management unit of the hospital. It will be responsible
far the allocation and management of resources, and the care of patients; and
(d)    set up prefectoral and regional health committees responsible for the
orientation, supervision and evaluation of health activities in their respective
geographical regions where committees would be involved in decisions related
to the extension of health infrastructure and equipment, health financing, and
in general, the allocation and control of resource utilization.
Cost Recover, and HosRital Management
3.            Budget exercises and training sessions in financial resources management are
held on a regular basis and are attended by members of the management committees.
Encouraged by the successful implementation of the cost recovery system in the health
centers, the Ministry of Public Health and Social Affairs proposes to broaden the systems at
the hospital levei. At this level, studies have been carried out to examine the cost structure
before expanding the cost sharing system which will be put in place. A decree has been
passed on the temporary pricing of hospital costs. During 1993, standardized service costs
wIll be finalized based on the results of the costing studies. In order to sustain the
implementation of the cost recovery system at the hospital level, other measures are also
proposed. They are an integral part of the hospital reform and include:
(a)   the improvement of the management structure and management skills at the
hospital;
(b)   the development of administrative councils;
(c)   the development and use of new management tools.
4.           It is evident that cost recovery methods applied at the level of the health
centers cannot be used at the hospital level. The financial study of the sector, therefore, is
expected to define, in particular, hospital financing mechanisms and cost sharing with
communities.
S.           The MSPAS has just finalized the preparation of a decree which defines the
overall mangagme  system at the hospitals. Issue of this decree will make it possible to
implement the now managemeat of hospital facilities. Based on this decree, the hospitals wUIl
become more independent and bave greater financial and budgetary self-sufficiency. It will
provide them with legal and other essential management tools to fulfill their mission.
Healith Cente  iacn
6.            The participation of the populadon in the financing of drup is important at
the health center level, where a tariff structure is used. Health center services are paid by the
population on the basis of a fee for services. The generated receipts are used to cover the



ANNEX v
Page 3 of 4
replenishment of drugs and the non-salary operating costs of the health center according to the
principles of the Bamako Initiative. The prices paid by the patients are reasonable and do not
limit affordability for most of the population. The funds generated by this cost recovery
system are managed by elected officials of the community who constitute the Management
Conmnittee of the-Center.
7.           In addition to the health care expenses paid by the population at the level of
the public health centers, other private health expenses are incurred with traditional healers
and also in private offices, clinics and pharmacies.
Renovation of Infrastructures and Equipments
8.           In order to facilitate the renovation and construction of rural and urban health
centers, the participation of beneficiary communities will be necessary. They will be
consulted about their needs before starting work and will share the responsibility of
completing the project. The scope of community participation will depend on community
resources; works to be carried out by the community and by a private contractor would be
separated in location and time to avoid any conflict of responsibility. The scope and nature of
the community contribution must be agreed upon and secured before the stwt of construction
financed by MSPAS.
9.           Community participation is initiated by the Prefectoral Director for Health
(DPS) with local authorities by making the community aware of the project and by motivating
the community to participate. Modalities for participation are described in the contract
between the community, represented by the Management Committee, and the DPS. The
Management Committee oversees the completion of the community contributions and
maintenance. Thus, the Management Committee will continue to support the functioning of
the facility after the completion of works.
10.          At the level of the health centers, the community contribution can include:
(a)    Participation in kind: For projects contracted to a private company,
communities would participate in the cleaning and preparation of the site;
setting-up of the fence and of the courtyard with greenery; supplying the
construction site with needed materials and supplies (sand, gravel, etc.);
building of latrines and preparation of the garbage collection site. For
projects diracty built by the communities, beneficiaries would be responsible
for all the work. In all situations, the community will supply small equipment
(tables, benches, shelves, etc...);
(b)    Financial participation may include cash donations from the community.
11.          If the community can afford it, it will supply locally-produced furniture and
housing for staff. The community can also decide to use special community funds to
implement projects activities. The management of community funds for the project, if
available, will be the mutual responsibility of the Management Committee and the DPSAS.



ANNEX vm
Page 4 of 4
Informstion, Education and Communication (IEC)
12.          A threepronged approach wIll be retained for health education/
communication in order to reach the decision makers and the population at different levels:
development of an educational approach adapted to local customs; experimentation with
different education modules; and the integration of health education messages into the
different sectors.
13.          The village birth attendants will be responsible for the dissemination of
educational messages at the community level. They wIll regularly contact women and
children for vaccinations, prenatal visits, nutrition and family planning activities. Their
permanent and ongoing contact with communities allow them to become key players in
transmitting [EC messages.
14.          The members of the Management Committees of the Health Centers are also
involved in message transmittal. They contact women and children and contribute largely to
building greater community awareness on the importance of participating in catch-up
programs of vaccinations and prenatal visits. Next to the village birth attendants, they play a
critical role in [EC.



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA                            ANNEX
HEALTH AND NUTRTON SECTOR PROJECT                          Page 1 of 2
PRIORrrY PROGRAMS
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROET DE SANTE ET NUTRMON
EROGRAMMES PRJQRITAIRRS
1. SANTE MATERNELLE-INFANTELE ET PLANNING FAMEJAL
Propositions du Projet: Le projet se propose d'ici a 1999 dans la zone d'intervention
d'atteindre les objectifs suivants:
a) une couverture prenatale de 60%;
b) une couverture obstetricale de 50%;
c) une couverture vaccinale de 70%;
d) un suivi regulier de 60% des enfants de 0 a 36 mois;
e) une prevalence contraceptive de 5%.
Activit6s Proposees: Les activites prevues dans le projet sont les suivants:
a) renforcer le systeme de reference des grossesses a risque;
b) assurer trois visites de femme grossesse avant l'accouchement;
c) traitement des affections courantes liees a la grossesse; la vaccination
antit6tanique; et les preventifs contre l'anemie et la paludisme;
d) les enfants de 0 a 11 nmois seront suivis a raison de 5 visites, correspondant au
nombre prevu de contacts pour la vaccination infantile;
e) les enfants de 12 a 36 mois seront suivis dans les communautes et lors de contacts
curatifs. Les visites au sein des communautes seront mensuelles.
f) promotion de l'allaitement et des methodes de sevrage aupres des mbres.
g) distribution des contraceptifs au niveau des formations sanitaires et k base
communautaire.
2. LUITE CONTRE LES CARENCES NUTRMONNELLES ET ALIMTAIRES
Propositions du Proiet: Le projet se propose comme objectifs les suivants:
a) reduire de moitie la prevalence de la malnutrition moderee et s6vere chez les
enfants de 0 a 5 ans en ameliorant les connaissances de la situation alimentaire, en
renforcant les capacites de diagnostic et d'intervention en cas de crise et en
assurant la promotion de I'allaitement maternel et des methodes correctes de
sevrage.;
b) ameliorer 1'6tat nutritionnel de la femme en grossesse en r6duisant la prevalence
de l'anemie d'un tiers et en eliminant les manifestations des carences en iode.
Activites Proposees: Les activites pr6vues dans le projet sont les suivants:
a) augmenter l'allaitement maternel exclusif dans les 4 premiers mois de vie, et
l'introduction d'aliments de sevrage appropries a partir de cet age;
b) assurer la distribution effective des capsules d'iode aux femmes en age de
procreer et des enfants de 0 a 5 ans, selon le schema therapeutique national
c) elaborer des messages qui seront diffuses dans les formations sanitaires et au
moyen d'une compagne nationale d'IEC;



ANNEXJX
Page 2 of 2
d) former les agents de Sante qui receveront des directives I travers des fiches
techniques sur l'alimentation du nourrisson;
e) developper d'une systeme d'information a assise communautaire base sur la
nutrition (SIAC);
f) assurer que tous les enfants de 0 a 3 ans seront recenses et peses regulierement.
3.   LUTTE CONTRE LA MALADIE
Propositions du Projet: Dans sa zone d'intervention, les objectifs du projet visent:
a) assurer a 60% des femmes enceintes un couverture effective I la
chimioprophylaxie paludeenne;
b) reduire le taux d'incidence du paludisme pernicieux;
c) reduire le taux d'accroissement de la prevalence de seropositivitd au VIH;
d) reduire le taux d'incidence de la tuberculose;
e) reduire la taux d'incidence de la dehydratation par l'utilisation systematique des
sachets de SRO.
Activites du Drojet: Les activites prevues dans le projet sont les suivants:
a) ameliorer les connaissance epidemiologiques et therapeutique sur le paludisme
par le mise sur pied d'un systeme de surveillance et l'actualisation des schemas
techniques de traitement et de prophylaxie (surtout pour les femmes enceintes);
b) la surveillance, supervision et mise en place d'un systeme d'alerte et de controle
des epidemies de cholera;
c) approvisionnement et promotion des sachets de SRO;
d) former des equipes prefectorales et regionales en lutte contre les maladies
diarrheiques (LMD);
e) developper des capacites de diagnostic, de prise en charge des malades, de
surveillance serologique, d'IEC portant sur le SIDA, la securite du sang
transfusionnel;
f) renforcer les capacites regionales et prefectorales et d'integrer les activites de
lutte contre la maladie tuberculose dans les prestations de service des formations
sanitaire.
4.     MOBILISATION SOCIALE
Proposition du Proiet: Appuyer la Section EPS dans les domaines recherche,
planification, suivi et evaluation et renforcer les capacites de production au niveau central et
surtout de diffusion au niveau op6ratioanel de messages dans les domaines de la promotion de
l'allaitement maternel, de la promotion de la planification familiale, de la lutte contre la
maladie, de I'approvisionnement en eau et de l'assainissement.
Activites du Proiet: Les activites prevues dans le projet sont les suivants:
a) maltriser les informations a la base de tout programme d'EPS;
b) elaborer et diffusion des messages educatifs relatifs aux programmes prioritaires;
c) lancer deux enquetes aupres des beneficiaires et deux enquestes KAP.



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR PROJECT
ACTION PLAN*
OBJECTIVES/                      ACTIONS TO BE                          ACTIONS TO BE                        ACTIONS TO BE                        REYARKS
STRATEGIES                          TAKEN IN                              TAKEN IN                            TAKEN IN                                               i
PHASE I                               PHASE 2                              PHASE 3               j
A. IMPROVE THE QUALITY AND COVERAGE OF THE HEALTH SERVICES (PART A OF THE PROJECT)
1. Improve the physical      (a) 1st phase's rehabititation          (a) 2nd Phase's rehabilitation    (a) 3rd Phase's rehabilitation           SAR Procurement Section;
conditions of the Health    works and eouioment satisfactorilY   works and equinment                      works and equiPment                   and equipment List agreed
Facilities.                  completed (10 health centers);          satisfactorily comupleted (10        satisfactorily comnleted (2           at appraisal (Project
health centers);                    expanded health ceters and 2          Request Document);
hospitals):
(b) Vorks contracts for the Ist         (b) Works contracts for the 3rd
vear of the second phase signed:        phase signed-
(c) Pidding documents for               (c) lidding documents for                                                 SAR Procurement Section
equloment (1st vear of the 2nd          rehabilitation equicpent of the                                           wnd equipment list
chase) finatized. and preearatlon    3rd phase finalized                                                          (Project Request
of works (2nd Year of the 2nd                                                                                     Document)
_hase).
2. incorporate the needs    (a) Effective Participation of the   (a) Effectlve particifption of    (a) Effective particioation of               Criteria defined by
of the beneficiaries         beneficiary communities in the          the beneficiary communities in    the beneficiary communities in           Goverraent and outlined
into the design  nd          rehabilitation and maintenarce          the rehabilltation and               the rehabilitation and                in SAR AM   Vill.
lplementation of the        activities based on acreed              maintenance activities;              maintenance activities;
health activities.           criterfa
(b) Beneficiary assessment
comeleted in groiect areas.
3. Ensure the                 (a) Goverrvent to submit orooosals   (a) ovifcation of aoreemant            (a) Awlication of agreement           Based on Goverr_ent
availability and the use    acceptable to IDA allowing Health    allowing Health Facilities in            allowing Health Facilities in         approved Essential Drugs
of essential drugs and        Facilities In wrolect area to           proiect area to purchase drugs,   proiect areas to ourchase               list and subiftted to
vaccines and of other        Purchase drugs, vaccines and            vaccines and sutolies from           drugs. vaccines and surolies          IDA.
ssential sipptiles at        suolties from sources offering           sources offering the best           from sources offerinf  the best
the best price.              best price;                             Dri;                                 ncick;
(b) Application of case menagement   (b) Application of case                (b) Application of case
protocols;                                ng nt protocols.                  management procotols.
(c) Contracts sicned for 2nd wear    (c) Contract sfiwed for siMply    (c) Contracts sicned for simplv
suiwlv of esential drugs and            of essential vaccines for the       of essential vaccines for the
SD tlos. and for the sioMlv of           th and 5th year.                   6th Year,
v ine or the 2nd an 3rd years.



OBJECTIVES/:                      ACTIONS TO BE                          ACTIONS TO BE.                       ACTIONSTO BE                          REMARKS
STRATEG~IES                         TAKEN IN                               TAKEIW MN.                           TAKEN IM
PHASE I                                PHASE 2                              PHASE 3
4. Ensure management          Satisfactorily fuwctioning of            Satisfactority functioninq of        Satisfactory functioning of
autonomy of HeaLth            health center and hospital health    health centers and hospital              health center and hospital
Facilities.                   committees based on legal texts on   health committees based on              health committees based on
decentralization                        legal texts on decentralization   legal texts on decentralization
5.   eet the qualitative    (a) Health Facilities fully                (a) Health Facilities fully          (a) Health Facilities fully           Based on Staffing and
nd quLntitative               staffed based on the established         staffed based on staffina            staffed based on staffing             Redeployment Plan;
standards of the health       staffina norms;                          norms;                               norms:
facilities regarding
personnel and services.
(b) Satisfactory conoletfon of all   (b) Satisfactory convietion of    (b) All third Phase trainino                Ref. timetable In SAR
first ohase training;                   all second phase training:           cownvIted;                            Annex XI
(c) Satisfactory use of correct         (c) Contimied satisfactory use    (c) Continued satisfactory use
case maagement procedures by            of correct case managenent           of correct case management
personnel;                              procedures by personrel;             procedures by personrnl;
(d) Integration of vertical             (d) Review and adjustent of          (d) Review and adjustment of          Ref. SU Amex IX wid
progr   s wnd other infectious          program. as required;                progra_  as required;                 Govern ent's Project
disease control meaures Into                                                                                        Request Document;
regular delivery system;
(e) Start pre- and post-natal.          (e) Expansion of pre- and post-   (e) Expansion of pre- and post-    Ret. SM  Amex IX and
nutrition and under-5 care              natal, and nutrition mnd uider-   natal, nutrition and under-5             Project Request Document;
program  in accordance with             5 care program  in accordance        care program  in accordance
defined programs  nd annual             with defined progrm  a nd            with defined programs and
targets;                                annual targets;                      nnual targets;
(f) F_mily planning sensitization    (f) Continued expansion of              (f) Continued expwnsion of            Ret. SM  Annex IX  nd
nd activities introduced in all         family ptanning progr_;              family planning program;              Project Request Document;
health centers and adequate family
ptanning suppties available;
(g) Health Facility supervision         (g) Evaluation and, If               (g) Evaluation and, if                Ref. Project Request
nd monitoring system  in                necessary, adjustments of            necessary, adjutments of              Document.
operation.                              supervision and monitoring           supervision  nd monitoring
I systems.                            systm. 
I0



OBJECTIVES/                      ACTIONS TO BE                        ACTIONS TO BE                         ACTIONS T Io                       REMARKS
STRATEGIES    -    --              TAKEN IN                             TAKEN IN                             TAKEN IN
- --       -G              -S  f   PHASE I                               PHASE 2                             PHASE 3                          -      - -
S. STRENGTHEN SECTOR ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT (PART B OF THE PROJECT)
1. Strengthen                (a) Satisfactory functioning of        (a) Satisfactory functioning of   (a) Satisfactory functioning of   In accordance with
organizational structure   both the central and decentralized   both the central and                    both the central and                legislative instruments
and coordination             management structures;                 decentralized management            decentralized management            (as referenced in
mechanisms of MSPAS (at                                             structures;                         structures;                          nnex Vl  of SAR).
the centrat as well as
intermediary and
peripheral levels).          (b) Convening meetings of              (b) Evaluation of the new
intersectoral and sectoral             organizational structure
conmittees.                            (including lntersectoral/
sectoral coordination)
completed.
2. Improve physical          a) Satisfactory comalLetion of         a) Satisfactory convIetion of                                           In accordance with SAR:
corditions of centrat        works and equipment of 1st Phase       works and equipment of 2nd                                              Section on procurement.
nd decentralized             (10 DPSAS and 1 IRSAS).                phase (8 DPSAS and MSPAS).
management structures.
b) Contracts for works siqned for
1st year of 2nd Phase.
c) Compietion of bidding documents
for equipment (1st Year of 2nd
Phase) and preparation of works
l _______________________     (2nd  Year  of  2nd  phase).
3. Institute adequate        (a) Annual review of budget            (a) Annual review of budget         (a) Annual review of budget         In accordance with DCA
financial management,        expenditures for previous year and   expenditures for previous year    expenditures for previous year    Section 3.04;
budgeting and cost           proposals for foltowing fiscal         and proposals for following         and proposals for fotlowing
sharing mechanisms.          year: and agreement on expenditure   fiscal Year: and agreement on         fiscal year: and agreement on
level for non-salary recurrent         expenditure level for non-          expenditure level for non-
expenditures,                          salary recurrent expenditures.    salary recurrent expenditures
for each subsequent budget
exercise of that phase:
(b) Implementation satisfactory to   (b) Implementation satisfactory   (b) Implementation satisfactory   In accordance with DCA;
IDA of a financial and stock           to IDA of a financial and stock   to IDA of a financial and stock   (Annexe 2, Part B.2) and
management system at MSPAS             management system at MSPAS          management system at MSPAS          Project Implementation
(including its decentralized           (including its decentralized        (including its decentralized        Manualagreed with IDA.
services of the project area) and    services of the proiect area)         services of the proiect area)
at Health Facilities,                  and at Health Facilities,           and at Health Facilities.
jc) Annual review of 3-year            (c) Annual review of 3-year         (c) Anrual review of 3-year         In accordance with
investment Plan and agreement on       investment plan and agreement       investment plan and agreement       Section 3.05 of DCA;
investment Program: and prior          on investment program: and          on investment program: and
review and agreement with IDA of       prior review and agreement with   prior review and aareement with
additionat investment items            IDA of additional investment        IDA of additional investment
exceeding a cumulative amount          items exceeding a cumulative        items exceeding a cumulative
equivalent to USS 1 million:           amount equivalent to USS 1          amount equivalent to USS I
_            _         _        _         _        _         _       B      L                            million:                               __



CUJECTIVES/            AC~~tiONS MM 3                       ACTIONS. TO PE                      ATOST                            REMARKS
STRATEGIES               TAKEW 1W           TAKEN I                                             lAKEW I M
PHASE. I                             HAE2                              PM5S.
3. (contInued)              (d) Satisfactory iaytementation of  (d) Continued satisfactory           (d) Continued satisfactory         In accordance with legal
cost recovery in accordance with    imptementation and evatuation        implementation of cost recovery  text on decentralization.
criteria set for system in Health    of cost recovery and adoption       system in accordance with the
Facilities.                          and implementation, as             criteria set;
appropriate, of recommendations
____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ___ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ___ in   Health   Faci lities.   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _
4. Improve the personnet   (a) Continued iMtementation of        (a) Continued Inylementation of   (a) Continued iiplementatfon of   In accordance with OCA;
managenent system.          the Staffing and Redeplowment Ptan   the Staffing and Redeptoyment       the Staffing and Redeptoyiment
and evaluation of its                Ptan and evatuation of its         Plan and evaluation of its
iimptementat ion;                    levI ementation;                   inptementat ion;
(b) Satisfactory frptementation of   (b) Satisfactory                   (b) Satisfactory faplementation   Ref. Annex VI of SM;
supervlslon plan In accordance        impmentation of supervision       of supervision ptan in
with timetable;                      plan In accordance with            accordance with timtable;
timetable;
(c) Satisfactory imptementatlon of   (c) Satisfactory ilementation   (c) Satisfactory fmplementatlon   Ref. Amex Xi of SM;
the training ptan; and               of the training plan; aid          of the training plan; and
(d) Set-up system for performance    (d) Implementatlon of staff        (d) Isptementation of staff
evaluation of NSPAS personnet.        evaluation ptan.                  evatlution plan.
AAGELMENT ACTIONS           (a) Procurement preDaration           a) Procurement preparation                                            In accordance with SAR
RELATED TO OBJECTIVES A     inctuding terms of reference,         inctuding terms of reference,                                         procurement activities
AND B.                      draft bidding documents and           draft bidding docuients and                                           and Annexes XIl and XIV
timetabte for 2nd Phase finalized;   timetabte for 3rd Phase                                               of SAR
fi nalized:
(b) Couvuterized prolect             b) Computerized prolect            (a) Coffouterized prolect          DCA Sections 4.01 & 6.01
accounting and financial             accountins and financiat            accounting and financial
management system functioninng       management system functioninq      management system functioning
satisfactori Y;                      satisfactority;                    satisfactori ty;
(c) All PPF study results apptied;  c) Study resutts updated as         (b) Imptementation inmaLt
necessary;                         fotlowed and -if necessary-
adjusted;
Cd) Implementation maual,            d) ImpLementatfon manual
fotLowed;                            procedures evaluated end, if
necessary, adjusted;
PI
(Ai



OBJECTIVES/                      ACTIONS TO BE                        ACTIONS TO BE                         ACTIONS TO                         REKARKS
STRATEGIES                         TAKEN IN                              TAKEN IN                           TAKEN IN
PHASE 1                              PHASE 2                             PHASE 3
(e) Proiect account opened and         (e) Project account replenished   (c) Proiect account replenished   In accordance with DCA,
Government counterpart financing       at beginning of 3th and 4th         at beginning of 5th and 6th         section 3.02.
of USS 258.000 equivalent in GNF       project year with Goverrnent        project year with Government
to be deposited no later than 12       counterpart contribution.           counterpart contribution
months after Effectiveness Date.
in account to meet 2nd year of 1st
phase requirements.
1) DCA: means the Development Credit Agreement for the Health and Nutrition Sector Project as negotiated between the Borrower and the Association between May 10 and May 21, 1993
2) Action Plan is the Action Plan referred to in Section 1.02 (a) of DCA.
3) Essential Actions referred to in Section 1.02 (e) of DCA are actions underlined in this Plan.
4) The several terms defined in the DCA have the same respective meanings in this Action Plan.
5) SAR is the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 11684-GUI, final version).
6) The term "Project request documentm refers to the document indicated In section 1.02(K) of DCA.
7) The term UDPSASM means Prefectoral Directorate for Health wid Social Affairs.
8) The term IRSASO means Regional Inspectorate for Health and Sociat Affairs.



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR PROJECT                        ANNX XI
TRAINING SCHEDULE                               Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET DE SANTE ET NUTRIlTION
CALENDRIER DE FORMATION
1. SANTE MATERNELLE                   A. Maternite Sans Risque
ET INFANTILE                      -13 Medecins: 7j/Cky                    x
-8 Medecins: 1 mois/Cky                 x
-23 Infirmiers: 7j/Kindia               x     x
-19 Sages-Femmes: 7j/Kindia             x
- 170 AC Villageoises: 7j/Kindia              x
B. Surveillance de l'Enfant
- 25 Agents: 7j/Cky                     x
C. Bien-Etre Familial
-8 Medecins: 45j/Cky                          x            x
-5 Sages-Femmes: 45j/Cky                      x
-33 Sages-Femmes: 30j/Reg.                            x
- Format.10 Pers. I mo./Kigali          x
-Seminaire Kindia:50pers./7j                  x
2. MALADIES NUTRITIONNELLES           A. Volet lode
-Atelier 30 Pers.:5j/Cky                              x
-Format. 46 Agents: 7VCky                     x
B. Volet Allaitement
-Atelier Mess.:38 Pers./1 OjCky         x
-Elab. Fiches Techniques/Cky            x             x
-Format. 24 Agents: 7/Cky                     x
-Sem. Dev. de la Strategie                    x
Sectorielle/50 Pers./Cky
3. MALADIES TRANSMISSIBLES            A. Paludisme/Diarrhee/Tuberculose
MST-SIDA
-Format. 35 Medecins: 15 j/Labe               x
-Format. 23 tnfirmiers/Labe                   x
-Format. 23 Microscopiste: 12j/Kindia         x
-Format. 23 Chefs CS/CSA/15j/Labe             x
-Formar. 1 Laborant./Morocco                  x
4. MOBILISATION SOCIALEI              A. Mobilisation Sociale
IEC                               - Atelier: 30 Pers: 3VKindia                          x            x
et Labe
-Seminaire Appui Logistique et
Administratif/Labe                                 x            x
- Seminaire: Enquete sur la Particip.                 x           x
des Beneficiaires: 6OPers./3VCky
- Format. 25AS/10j/Labe                       x       x
- Mobilisation Sociale:25pers./5j/Labe        x       x
B. Eau et Assainissement
-Format. 3Pers./12 Mo.(Afrique)                       x



REPUBUC OF GUINEA
HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR PROJECT
TRAINING SCHEDULE
ANEX XI
REPUBUQUE DE GUINEE                           Page 2 of 2
PROJET DE SANTE ET NUTRITION
CALENDRIER DE FORMATION
5. FORMATION SANITAIRE               A. Developpement des Normes
-Format.Planification et Maintenance      x
(Afrique)
- Format. Informaticien (Afrique)         x
-Format. Management (Am. Nord)            x      x
-Adoption des Normes:5jCky                x
-Adoption d'un Guide Materiel: 5j/Cky    x
-Revision des Normes/Cky           x      x      x      x      x
B. Rationalisation Gestion Materiel
- Format. Systeme Comptabilite:70j/Cky    x
- Format. Systeme Comptabilite:40j/Reg.   x
-Atelier: 70j/Cky                         x
6. PLANIFICATION/ORGANISATIO    A. Programmation et Planification
ET REFORME INSTITUTIONE           -Atelier: 50Pers.13j/Cky            x
-Seminaire Management:10 Pers/15jlCky     x
-Atelier: Manuel Procure.:50p/5j/Cky      x
-Voyage d'Etude:10 pers./2semaines (Afr.)        x
-Conference Nat'l. Sante: 10OPer./4j/Cky  x
B. Niveau Central: Gestion
-Format.2Pers./4mois/Bruxelles            x             x
C. Niveau Central: Fonct. Services
-Format.Plan./Econ. 2Pers./Canada                x
-Format. CESAGICNPG Dakar/Cky                    x
-Format. BPers./2mo. (Yaounde)                   x     x
D. Niveau Central: Gestion Financiere
-Format.Passation des Marches (Dakar)            x
-Format. Audit: 2Pers/Afrique                    x
-Format.Audit Fem.:2Pers/Afrique          x
-Format.Econ.Sante: 1 Per./Dakar/Cky             x
E. Niveau Local
-Format.Gestion. 7OPers./5VLabe                  x
-Format. Finan. 26Pers./1 51fLabe                x
-Format.SNiS:26Pers. 15/Kindia                   x
-Format.Gest.Proj.Fem.:1 1 Pers./Cky      x
-Format.Comite de Gestion/138Pers./7yLabe        x
- Format.Recycl .Com.Gestion. :204Pers.lLabe            x



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA                                              ANNEX XHI
HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR PROJECT                                       Page 1 of 1
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET DE SANTE ET NUTRITION
ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE
ANNEES
PHASE I  PHASE2    PHASE 3                                  TYPE DE
jPROGRAMMES                          *CTIVITES                                1   2    3    4                 5   6            DUREE CONSULTANT
I
|lw4 IE5 .IIIIIj                     A. VOLET AUAr      WlENT                                                                     1 moi   IndMdurJ
-D0v de i Straihl Sdoris                     x
MAI#JM  TPANSSMIMMS                 A. Li  C0*6 Is Pinbd_w
-NaUaonu                                                                                    4 moi  IndMduoi
-Cgraphatr-haa  rEldiSrnWokn0                x       x        x         x
11111011111.18TIOM ON L             A. UobIhbn Om     d
- Enques apra des brn                                x                  x                   5 m.oi  Individua
- Enqualis FoaA Gro.                   x    x        x        x         x                  40 moms  Individual
- Dev du CurrkxlAuw                    x                                                   2 mo-  Individua
S. Eau al Asl_k_mau,omnt
_ I,t1t knSIfll
- Orqgenislwn tbanv                    x    x                                              12 moes  Scoite
foncoonnisAl.
FORFT1" AWA*                        A I     l Dva"bpp_.m    de d _
- hnIsmaUande
- Guid devlualon de Iratl de                 x                                             3 rno   IndMducl
- LoqbW dkwwih_r                             x                                             3 mroi  IndMduO
-Gma.on                                      x       x                                     2 moX   Indidua
S. R _xeu  de le O.mv^w.
-      hinamnde
- Etxm sodo-sa,r km                          x       x                                     8 rnois  socdeb
- DOoeis r  vtq  (Appl dOIr)                 x       x                                     8 moi  Soite
-N&&Wa*
- Ekjda Sodo-sar4hkm                         x       x                                     4 rnom  sociao
- Doesisr 1x0inio  (Appe dOr4)               x       x                                     4 mo-  Societ
PVANIFI      lCMOKJORGAIWATIO1111  sA  P ro_p vm *m et PF_dhAsm
Er PWFOMME 11111MMUT1011MLE         -Nislonale
- Dwlplen des Pcslm                    x                                                    1 mois  IndiMdua
B. i_two Cumk O1ma
-inenimallonate
- LoW adapi.x basclrs du SIS                          x                                     I rmoi  Indedud
C. Nlmab   Crrl: FoamLS-   I
-lntrn.ationate
- E-boe lbn du pisn I km                     x                                              2 moi   Indidual
-N&6wado
- ga*rrmromu conhrau  dam le                          x                                    2 moe  Individua
mkW fIlhow 
0. Ilm u tl Cm1 emln Fhwm
-hnuTmaons.
- Comnpsibl: Ardlyquat                                x                                     3 mios  indivki
FonmaSon des uehum
E N_sn Lnsd
-D_p dOe P          _ai.Nm     iONA#l        x                                              3 molx  Individua
Day. du Cwiluah
Aupdltwnum                              x   x          x       x        x      x          12 no     Soo.s
Ev Sjait PA-P                                         X                                    4 moi   | Sodinx



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR PROJECT
STUDIES AND RESEARCH
REPUBUQUE DE GUINEE
PROJET DE SANTE ET NUTRITION
ETUDES ET RECHERCHES
f   lL. .1 ...... ...rEf 01 1
1. SANTE MATERNELLE             A. Bien-Etre Familial
ET INFANTILE                 - Etude CAP                    x                  x
4. MOBIUSATION SOCIALE1         A. MOBILISATION SOCIALE
IEC                           - Enquete aupres des Beneficiaires         x           x
- Enquete Focus Groupe         x     x     x     x     x
6. FORMATION SANITAIRE          A. Developpement des Normes
-Eval./F.S. conformes aux normes    x  x   x     x     x



ANNEX XIV
REPUBLIC OF GUIEA                                   Page 1 of 5
HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR PROJECT
IIPLEWEHTATION SCHEDULE
Calender of Activities
(Q * Quantity; .... = Preparation, design, procurement, etc.; x   Quarter of Implementation; CE * Conditions for
Effectiveness
PROJECT ELE ENT                  PROJECT          PNS  I                 PII;E 12               PILE S 
_   _  _ _  _    _  _  _ _  _    _  _  _ _                     1           2)  3              _ _  _         5          6--
EXPAND SERVICE COVERAGE
Rehabilitation of Health Facilities
Physical Happing                           x x x x
(PP F)
20 Health Centers (CS)                     .......   x x x x   x x x x   x x x x   x x x x
(0)                                                  (5)        (5)         (5)        (5)
2 Improved Health Centers (CSA)                                                        . . . .   x xxx
(0)                                                                                                 (2)
4 HospitaLs                                          .......   .........    x x  x    x xxx    x x x x
(0)                                                                          (1)        (1)        (2)
Maintenance of Health Facilities                   .                 x x  x    x xxx    x xxx    x xxx    x x x x
IMPROVE SERVICE QUALITY
Druo Supoly for Basic Health Services
Initial Stock of Essential Drugs           .......   x x x x       x x x
(IDA Financed)
Restocking                                                                   x x x x   x x xx           x xx   x x x x
(Financed by Beneficiaries)
Training                                              .... x x    x xxx    x xxx    x x
SuDDort for Technical Programs
Maternal & Child Health &
Family Planning
Distribution of Vaccines &
Contraceptives                                .......   ... . x  x xxx    x xxx    x xxx    x xxx    x x x x
Training                                              ... . x    x xxx    x xxx    x x
KAP Study (See Health & Community
Education)
AGBEF Intervention                                    ......      x x x x    x x xx    x x xx   x x x x
Nutrition
Strategy Development & Analysis                       x x x x   x x x x
Distribution of Iodized Capsules           .......  .... .x x   x x x x   x x
Production of Educational Materials                   .... .x x   x x x x   x x x x
Training                                   .......     ...x  x  x xx    x x x x



ANNEX XIV
Page 2 of 5
~~~PDErE JIT                         .        ,-.,,. ,    P......   ''"...A '.'::i......1  ' IS~      "        u~
I  :   -  :   .:    ...  :-   ,   .....~~~~~~~~~~~~~..-.-.........
Communicable Disease Control
Treatment Protocols Preparation                                   x
Training                                                          ..  x x
Surveillance System                                              x.x x.x x   x x x    xxxx    x x xx   x x x x
Mosquito Net Impregnation                                         x x x x   x x x x    x x x x    x x x x   x x x x
Health & Community Education
Strategy Document                                        x
Focus Group Activities                                            x x x  x    x x x x x    xxxx    x x xx    x x x x
(Communicable Diseases)
KAP Study                                              ....x x                                x x
(FamiLy Plaming & Breast Feeding)
Beneficiary Assessment                          x                                        x x                         x x
CurricuLum Development                                 x x
IEC Training                                               x x    x x xx   x x x x    x xxx    x x x x   x x x x
Message Production & Dissemination                     x x x x    xxxx              x x    x x xx    x x x x   x x x x
AGBEF Intervention                                    x.x x.x x   x x x    xxxx    x x xx    x x x x
STRENGTHEN SECTOR ORGANIZATION &
MANAGEMENT
MSPAS Organization & Sector
Coordination
Completion Job Descriptions &
Implementation of new structure            x x x x    x x x x
Procedural Manual Prepared &
Effective                                x x x x
Training                                               x x x x   x xxx   x x x x
Provision of Office Support                . .         x xxx         .......   x x x x
Sector Coordination Workshop                                 x
Decentralization
Rehabilitation of 18 DPSAS                             x x x x    x xxx    x x x x    x x x x
(Q)                                                       (5)        (5)        (4)          (4)
Rehabilitation of 1 IRS                                    ...    x x x x
Rehabilitation of MSPAS                                           x x x x
Job Descriptions & Positions FiLled                    x x x x
Evaluation of New Structure                                                         x
Training                                               x xxx      x x x x     x x x x    x x x x   I x x x x



ANNEX XIY
Page 3 of 5
__________ r                                                __                                                 I        
t-:0.; f-,-i- tt.'.t-t. 0 i'.  0 -   ,.'-'..,;; ......'.,' ." ''" . ....".
. .   ,   ..  .....  ,~~~~~~~~.... ....
lmroved Systems of Financial. Material
& Nunn Resources Manaoement
Accountinag Financial L Stock Mangement
Establishment of System                  x x x x   x x x x
Training                                            x x x x   x xxx    x x x x
Annual Review and Programming                              x          x          x          x          x          x
Cvarterly Hospital Monitoring                        x x x x   x x x xxi     xxx            xx   x x x x   x x x x
Semi-AnruaL HeaLth Center Monitoring                   x   x      x   x      x   x      x   x      x   x      x   x
Systm Evaluation (Mid-Term Review)                                                    x
Human Resource Devetooment L
Detolov ent
Dwelop Curricula L Educ. Materials                   x x x x
Training                                                        x x x x   x x x xxi     xxx            xx   x x x x
Expanion of Computerized Personrel
Data Base                                           .x x
Regional Personnel Mgmt. Workshops                         x          x          x          x          x          x
SIIS Development and Evaluation                                                  x
Resource Mobilization L Generation of
Additional Budgetarv Supoort
Annual Budget Preparation                                x          x          x          x          x          x
Training                                             .... x x    x xx    x x x x
Establishment of Cost-Recovery System                ....x x        x x x x   x x x x   x x x x   x x x x   x x x x
Syst_m Monitoring                                          x          x          x          x          x          x
Sytm EvaLuation (Mid-Term Review)                                                     x



Republic of Guinea - Health and Nutrition Sector Project
Implementation Schedule                                     ANNEX XIV
Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Payments                                 Page 4 of 5
(US$ million equivalent)
(Q = Quantity)
Project Year
Pre-
Project Etement                   Project        Phase I.'            Phase                         i h     Tot          - 
;          -   -         -Z03i-             -4  )                            ms'-
_  _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _    _ _  _ _       1          2         34
Credit Timing
Sign./Effect./Close                  x
Close: 7th 1/2
Works                                                                                                                  year
(Costs include 10% for
design + Superv. services)
Architects'Contracting
Health Centers (CS)                  x
- Design (Q)                                     5         5         5
- Bidding+Contracting(Q)           (5)          (5)       (5)       (5)       (5)
- Construction (0)                              (5)       (5)       (5)       (5)                           (20)
- Cost                                          0.8       0.8       0.8       0.8                            3.2      LCB
Improved Health Centers
(CSA)
- Design (Q)                                                        (2)
- Bidding+Contracting(Q)                                                      (2)
- Construction (Q)                                                                      (2)                  (2)
- Cost                                                                                  0.9                  0.9      [CB
Hospitals
- Design (0)                                    (1)       (1)       (2)
- Bidding+Contracting(Q)                                  (1)       (1)       (2)
- Construction (Q)                                                  (1)       (1)        (2)                  (4)
- Cost                                                              0.9       0.9       2.0                  3.8      ICB
Prefectoral Directorates
DPSAS
- Design (Q)                                    (5)       (9)       (4)
- Bidding+Contracting(Q)                        (5)       (5)       (4)       (4)
- Construction (Q)                              (5)       (5)       (4)       (4)                            (18)
Cost                                         0.4        0.4       0.3       0.3                            1.4      LCB
Regional Inspectorates
IRS
- Design (C)                                    (1)
- Bidding+Contracting(Q)                        (1)
- Construction (Q)                                        (1)                                                  (1)
- Cost                                                    0.1                                                 0.1    LCB
Ministry of Health (MSPAS)
- Design (Q)                                    (1)
- Bidding & Contract.(Q)                                  (1)
- Construction (Q)                                                  (1)                                      (1)
- Cost                                                              1.2                                      1.2      ICB
Total                                                                                 10.6     lnct. 10% for
design & spn.
services
Goods
(Costs include 10% for
design + superv. services)
Proc. Spec. Contracting
Bidding Doc. Preparation             x            x         x          x         x        x
Bidding+Contracting                               x         x          x         x        x         x
Vehicles                                        1.3                  0.3                  1.0                  2.6     ICS
Medical & Other Imported
Equipment & Supplies                            0.2        0.2       0.4       0.3        0.4                  1.5     Ic8
Materials and Supplies                          0.1        0.1       0.1       0.2        0.1                  0.6     LCB
Furniture                                       0.1        0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1        0.1       0.6      LCB
Total                                                                                            5.3      mncI. 10%
specs. & spn.
services



ReDublic of Guinea - Health and Nutrition Sector Prolect
Implementation Schedule                                       ANNEX XIV
Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Payments                                   Page 5 of 5
(US$ million equivalent)
(Q = Quantity)
Pro;e   ctElemn                    F ]et    T is  -                -         00phee2.          P:s  3 i::-J -- I-36rit 
Remarks
Drugs, vaccines nd
lodized Caroules                                 0.6         0.7       0.4        0.5       0.5       0.5         3.2       UNIPAC/ICB
services                                                                                                                    IDA
TORs                                   x                      x                    x                                        Consultants
LOI and short lists                    x            x         x          x         x                                        Directives
Selection & Contracting                x            x         x         x          x         x
Foreign SpeciaLists                              0.1         0.2       0.5        0.1       0.1       0.1         1.1       +1.0  CincL. In
Local SpeciaLists                                0.1                              0.1                             0.2       +0.3. works &
Training Abroad                                              0.1       0.1        0.1                             0go3 gods)
Total                                                                                   1.6
Miscellaneous
Local Training/
Seminars                                       0.2        0.6        0.3        0.1       0.1       0.1         1.4
PPF Refinancing                                   0.7                                                             0.7
Oper. & Maintenance                               0.4        0.5       0.7        0.9       1.0        1.0        4.5
Total                                                                                    6.6
TOTALS                                            5.0        3.8       6.1        4.4       6.2        1.8        27.3
IDA financed                                     5.0         3.8       5.7        3.6       5.5       1.0        24.6



Republique de Guinee
Credit Sectoriel de Sante et Nutrition
GNF
Project Conponents by Year
Base Costs                                                   Total
1994         1995          1996          1997         1998          1999       GNF         USS
A. Acces/Couverture Services
1. kUcGRAMME 1                     117956.98    187178.40      34761.42      22074.90      19215.90      19215.90    400403.50        420.15                O
2. PROGRAMME 2                      41704.50      78150.60      34222.50       1012.50      1012.50       1012.50    157115.10         164.86
3. PROGRAMME 3                       16582.50    126234.50      15412.50     19912.50      15412.50      15412.50    208967.00        219.27
4. PROGRAMME 4                     237010.20      95674.50    231623.60      66649.50    110351.90       68674.50    809984.20        849.93
5. PROGRAMmE 5                    1593361.60   1641417.10   2226465.67   2111442.17   3265794.88    571418.70  11409900.12           11972.61
Sub-total                            2006615.78   2128655.10   2542485.69   2221091.57   3411787.68    675734.10  12986369.92           13626.83
B. Reforme Institutionnelte
1. PROGRAMME 6                    1645453.20    9613T3.30   2270804.69    877123.54   1118835.40    479237.00   7352827.13           7715.45
C. Refinancement du PPF              667100.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00    667100.00         700.00
Total BASELINE COSTS                 4319168.98   3090028.40   4813290.38   3098215.11   4530623.08   1154971.10  21006297.05          22042.28         
Physical Contingencies             447760.52    396473.85    644913.78    411001.52    581569.59    136744.24   2618463.52           2747.60                <
Price Contingencies                 70284.19    241275.35    400747.58    446T31.99    783042.81    454969.05   2397050.98            2515.27              Q
Total PROJECT COSTS                  4837213.70   3727777.61   5858951.75   3955948.62   5895235.48   1746684.39  26021811.55          27305.15                -)
Taxes                                    0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00              cn     _
Foreign Exchange                  4003346.82   2330869.19   4685602.06   2847955.10   4661263.71    559755.02  19088791.89          20030.21
- --- - -- - - - --- - -- - - - -- ---- -- - - -- - - - -- - --- - ----- -- - ---- - - - -. --- - - - - -- - -- - - - - - -- -- - - -- -- -- - - - -- --- - - - - - - - -- - - - - -- -  - - -- - - - - -z >
Values Scaled by 1000.0 11/22/1993  17:53
Ini
s0 



Republique de Guinee
Credit SectorieL de Sante et Nutrition
Project Cost Srmnary
GNF                                        USS                                       X Total
---------------------------------------         ------------------------------          % Foreign           Base
LocaL       Foreign          Total         Local   Foreign        Total         Exchange          Costs
A . Acces/Couverture Services
1. PROGRAMME 1                       292142.70    108260.80    400403.50            306.55    113.60    420.15               27.04           1.91
2. PROGRAMME 2                       140247.00      16868.10    157115.10           147.16      17.70    164.86              10.74           0.75
3. PROGRAMME 3                       196578.00       12389.00    208967.00          206.27      13.00    219.27               5.93           0.99
4. PROGRAMME 4                       532470.60    277513.60    809984.20            558.73    291.20    849.93               34.26           3.86
5. PROGRAMME 5                      1251579.60  10158320.52  11409900.12           1313.30  10659.31  11972.61               89.03          54.32
Sub-Total                               2413017.90  10573352.02  12986369.92           2532.02  11094.81  13626.83                81.42         61.82
8 . Reforme InstitutionnelLe
1. PROGRAMME 6                     2537118.00   4815709.13   7352827.13            2662.24   5053.21   7715.45               65.49         35.00
C . Refinancement du PPF                      0.00    667100.00    667100.00              0.00    700.00    700.00              100.00          3.18
Total BASELINE COSTS                    4950135.90  16056161.15  21006297.05           5194.27  16848.02  22042.28                76.43        100.00
Physical Contingencies                497929.59   2120533.93   2618463.52            522.49   2225.11   2747.60               80.98          12.47
Price Contingencies                  1484954.17    912096.81   2397050.98           1558.19    957.08   2515.27               38.05          11.41
Total PROJECTS COSTS                    6933019.66  19088791.89  26021811.55           7274.94  20030.21  27305.15                73.36        123.88
Vatues Scaled by 1000.0 - 11/22/1993 17:52
WVa



Repubtique de Guinee
Credit Sectoriel de Sante et Nutrition
Projects Components by Year
TotaLs Including Contingencies
usS
1994         1995          1996          1997          1998          1999         Total
A. Acces/Couverture Services
1. PROGRAMME 1                         141.13        245.16         46.36         32.81         31.05         32.91       529.42
2. PROGRAMME 2                          50.67        103.79         49.21          1.54          1.64          1.73       208.59
3. PROGRAMME 3                          20.29        167.63         22.16         30.35         24.90         26.40       291.74
4. PROGRAMME 4                         286.98        128.63        309.92        101.60        176.60        117.62      1121.36
5. PROGRAMME 5                        1924.41       2047.41       2816.54       2752.00       4374.19        846.28      14760.84
Sub-Totat                                 2423.49       2692.63       3244.20       2918.31       4608.38       1024.95      16911.95
B. Reforme Institutionnetlte
1. PROGRAMME 6                        1950.66       1218.99       2903.70       1232.74       1577.60        807.88      9691.58
C. Refinancement du PPF                   701.62          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00        701.62
Total PROJECTS COSTS                      5075.78       3911.62       6147.90       4151.05       6185.98       1832.83      27305.15
Values Scated by 1000.0 11/22/1993 17:53
II



RepubLiqrue de Guinee
Credit Sectoriet de Sante et Nutrition
Summary Accounts by Year
Totats Inctuding Contingencies
GNF
1994         1995           1996          1997          1998          1999         Totat
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works                        1098109.84   1185545.33   3057966.76   1986531.85   2744610.63               0.00  10072764.42
B. Foreign Tech. Asst.                 180793.78    224793.98    415910.10        46755.68      48299.35       49892.42    966445.31
C. Local Technical Asst                 15636.06      64576.51      56409.65       17650.37      57422.59      19831.96    231527.14
D. Foreign Equipment                   163816.99    167926.96    449194.57    285540.68    404353.14               0.00   1470832.35
E. Local Equipment                     103279.85    112893.58    126068.79    133240.69         93879.58           0.00    569362.48
F. Foreign MateriaLs                        0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
G. Vehicles                           1253475.37          0.00    251228.00            0.00    990976.69           0.00   2495680.06
H. Local Materials                     144617.81      94558.46    122911.21       75831.22       73451.69      77858.79    589229.20
1. Training Abroad                          0.00    148386.80    107669.14        73680.85           0.00          0.00    329736.79
J. LocaL Training/Seminars             153527.22    586520.78    246217.12        93154.73    120197.46    107973.99   1307591.30
K. Trng. Materials/Publicat.            10682.89       5396.75        7005.88       6118.80       6485.92       6875.08      42565.32
L. Studies and Research                  6330.68       3204.90       8918.05       6708.42        9470.87       3579.24      38212.17
M. PPF Refinancing                     668648.62           0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00    668648.62
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                3798919.13   2593804.06   4849499.27   2725213.29   4549147.92    266011.47  18782595.14
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Incrementat Oper. Costs               9575.77       9225.22        9867.43      10459.48      11087.05      11752.27      61967.22
B. Medicaments Essentiels              632171.52    640071.63    436495.05    448737.62    463553.02    506283.36   3127312.19
C. Vehicle Maintenance                 227174.11    260012.71    279347.03    294800.41    313874.32    331237.75   1706446.33
D. Fourniture                           66636.90      73225.15      77089.32       81714.68      86617.56      94752.68    480036.29
E. Deplacement                         102736.26    114190.88    123519.29    129468.74    138786.28    145471.07    754172.52
F. Equipment Maintenance                    0.00      28829.95      64312.23    118520.28    166334.82    212453.14    590450.42
G. Building Maitenance                       0.00      8418.01       18822.13    147034.13    165834.52    178722.65    518831.43
TotaL RECURRENT COSTS                 1038294.57   1133973.55   1009452.48   1230735.33   1346087.56   1480672.92   7239216.41
Totat PROJECT COSTS                   4837213.70   3727777.61   5858951.75   3955948.62   5895235.48   1746684.39  26021811.55
Values Scated by 1000.0  11/22/1993  17:52



Republique de Guinee
Credit Sectoriel de Sante et Nutrition
Summary Accounts Cost Summary
GNF                                      USS                                     X Total
---------------------------------------    ------------------------------           X Foreign          Base
Local       Foreign        Total         Local   Foreign       Total        Exchange          Costs
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works                            0.00   8309207.00   8309207.00            0.00   8719.00   8719.00             100.00        39.56
B. Foreign Tech. Asst.                58320.00    742625.25    800945.25           61.20    779.25    840.45             92.72           3.81
C. Local Technical Asst              166561.20          0.00    166561.20         174.78       0.00    174.78             0.00          0.79
D. Foreign Equipment                      0.00   1268221.90   1268221.90            0.00   1330.77   1330.77             100.00          6.04
E. Local Equipment                   421360.20          0.00    421360.20         442.14       0.00    442.14             0.00           2.01
F. Foreign Materials                      0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00       0.00      0.00             0.00          0.00
G. Vehicles                               0.00   2169981.00   2169981.00            0.00   2277.00   2277.00            100.00          10.33
H. Local Materials                   435114.00          0.00    435114.00         456.57       0.00    456.57             0.00           2.07
1. Training Abroad                        0.00    289521.40    289521.40            0.00    303.80    303.80            100.00          1.38
J. Local Training/Seminars           977421.60          0.00    977421.60        1025.63       0.00   1025.63             0.00          4.65
K. Trng. Materials/Pubticat.          31122.00          0.00      31122.00         32.66       0.00     32.66             0.00           0.15
L. Studies and Research                   0.00      32783.20      32783.20          0.00      34.40     34.40           100.00           0.16
M. PPF Refinancing                        0.00    667100.00    667100.00            0.00    700.00    700.00             100.00          3.18
Totat INVESTMENT COSTS              2089899.00  13479439.75  15569338.75         2192.97  14144.22  16337.19             86.58          74.12
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Incrementat Oper. Costs            44212.50          0.00      44212.50         46.39       0.00     46.39              0.00          0.21
B. Medicaments Essentiels                 0.00   2576721.40   2576721.40            0.00   2703.80   2703.80            100.00          12.27
C. Vehicte Maintenance              1211292.00          0.00   1211292.00        1271.03       0.00   1271.03              0.00         5.77
D. Fourniture                        341100.00          0.00    341100.00         357.92       0.00    357.92              0.00          1.62
E. Deplacement                       535734.90          0.00    535734.90         562.16       0.00    562.16              0.00         2.55
F. Equipment Maintenance             389191.50          0.00    389191.50         408.39       0.00    408.39             0.00           1.85
G. Building Maitenance               338706.00          0.00    338706.00         355.41       0.00    355.41              0.00          1.61
Total RECURRENT COSTS               2860236.90   2576721.40   5436958.30         3001.30   2703.80   5705.10             47.39         25.88
TotaL BASELINE COSTS                4950135.90  16056161.15  21006297.05         5194.27  16848.02  22042.28             76.43        100.00
Physical Contingencies            497929.59   2120533.93   2618463.52          522.49   2225.11   2747.60             80.98         12.47
Price Contingencies              1484954.17    912096.81   2397050.98         1558.19    957.08   2515.27             38.05         11.41
Total PROJECTS COSTS                6933019.66  19088791.89  26021811.55         7274.94  20030.21  27305.15              73.36       123.88
Values ScaLed by 1000.0 -   11/22/1993  17:53
II|



Republique de Guinee
Credit Sectoriet de Sante et Nutrition
Financing PLan by Disbursement Category
USS
Republic of          Community
IDA                Guinea          Beneficiaries             Total                     Local
---------------------------------------------------------     For.      (Exct.    Duties
Amount       %      Amount       X       Amount       X       Amount       %       Exch.    Taxes)    & Tax.
A. Civil Works                     10569.53   100.00        0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00  10569.53    38.71  10569.53         0.00       0.00
B. OP/Central: Yrs.2-6.             1291.07    50.00   1291.07    50.00         0.00      0.00   2582.14       9.46      0.00   2582.14        0.00
C. Gen.OP Costs (Yrs.2-6)             32.21    50.00      32.21    50.00        0.00      0.00      64.42      0.24      0.00      64.42       0.00
D. OP Central: (Year 1)              284.26   100.00        0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00    284.26       1.04      0.00    284.26        0.00
E. Gen.OP Cost (Year 1)               10.32   100.00        0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00      10.32      0.04      0.00      10.32       0.00
F. Phase 3-CSA/HP                     33.93    50.00       0.00      0.00      33.93    50.00       67.85      0.25      0.00      67.85       0.00
G. Oper Cost: Phase2-3                28.31    50.00        0.00     0.00      28.31    50.00       56.62      0.21      0.00      56.62       0.00
H. Maint./OP Costs(Yr.2-6)           546.52    50.00    546.52    50.00         0.00      0.00   1093.05       4.00      0.00   1093.05        0.00
1. Maint.Cost.CSA/HP:Yr.2-6            3.64    50.00       3.64    50.00        0.00      0.00       7.28      0.03      0.00       7.28       0.00
J. Maint/OP Cost (Yr.1)              128.81   100.00        0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00    128.81       0.47      0.00    128.81        0.00
K. Foreign Technical                1014.11   100.00        0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   1014.11       3.71    929.28      84.83       0.00
L. Locat TechnicaL Assist.           242.95   100.00        0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00    242.95       0.89      0.00    242.95        0.00
H. Locat Equipment                   589.42   100.00        0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    589.42       2.16       0.00    589.42       0.00
N. Foreign Equipment                1543.37   100.00        0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00   1543.37       5.65   1543.37       0.00       0.00
0. Vehictes                         2618.76   100.00        0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   2618.76       9.59   2618.76       0.00       0.00
P. PPF Refinancing                   701.62   100.00        0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00    701.62       2.57    701.62       0.00       0.00
G. Locat Training                   1379.43   100.00        0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00   1379.43       5.05      0.00   1379.43        0.00
R. Materiats                         646.25   100.00        0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00    646.25       2.37      0.00    646.25        0.00
S. Training Abroad                   346.00   100.00        0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00    346.00       1.27    346.00       0.00       0.00
T. ME/lode (Phase 1)                 825.69   100.00        0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00    825.69       3.02    825.69       0.00       0.00
U. Vaccines                         1692.05   100.00        0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00   1692.05       6.20   1692.05       0.00       0.00
V. ME:Phase 2/3                        0.00      0.00       0.00     0.00    763.81   100.00    763.81         2.80    763.81       0.00       0.00
W. Studies/Research                   40.10   100.00        0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00      40.10      0.15     40.10       0.00       0.00
X. Emission/RR                        37.31   100.00        0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00      37.31      0.14      0.00      37.31       0.00
Total Disbursement                  24605.66    90.11   1873.45       6.86    826.04       3.03  27305.15   100.00  20030.21   7274.94          0.00
Vatues Scaled by 1000.0 11/22/1993 17:53
\0 



Republique de Guinee
Credit Sectoriel de Sente et Nutrition
I i f.4 ir fo   ml &,  / Ptf ej ec t C4,PW t a
uss
Republic of          Community
IDA                Guinea          Beneficiaries             Totat                     Local
----------------------------------------------------------------------------           For.      (Excl.    Duties
Amount       %      Amount       X       Amount       X      Amount       %        Exch.    Taxes)    & Tax.
A. PROGRAMME 1                       457.78    86.47      71.64    13.53        0.00      0.00    529.42       1.94    127.07    402.35        0.00
B. PROGRAMME 2                       204.73    98.15       3.87      1.85       0.00      0.00    208.59      0.76      20.35    188.24        0.00
C. PROGRAMME 3                       287.88    98.68       3.87      1.32       0.00      0.00    291.74       1.07     14.57    277.17        0.00
D. PROGRAMME 4                      1097.40    97.86      23.96      2.14       0.00      0.00   1121.36      4.11    340.01    781.35         0.00
E. PROGRAMME 5                     13454.21    91.15    480.58       3.26    826.04       5.60  14760.84    54.06  12916.84   1844.00          0.00
F. PROGRAMME 6                     8402.04    86.69   1289.53    13.31          0.00      0.00   9691.58    35.49   5909.75   3781.83          0.00
G. Refinancement du PPF              701.62   100.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00    701.62      2.57    701.62        0.00       0.00
Total Disbursement                  24605.66    90.11   1873.45       6.86    826.04       3.03  27305.15   100.00  20030.21   7274.94          0.00
Values Scaled by 1000.0 11/22/1993 17:53
LI
la 
OCD
-0 



Repubtique de Guinee
Credit Sectoriet de Sante et Nutrition
Disbursement by Financier by Semester
usS
Commnunit
Republic      y
of     Benefici
IDA     Guinea     aries      TotaL
Amount    Amount    Amount    Amount
Semester
1    400.99      0.00       0.00    400.99
2    835.72      0.00       0.00    835.72
3   1534.05       0.00      0.00   1534.05
4   2377.85    128.81       0.00   2506.66
5   1708.03    128.81       0.00   1836.84
6   1750.95    144.64      94.45   1990.04
7   1728.42    144.64      96.06   1969.13
8   2681.55    199.14      98.82   2979.51
9   2422.65    199.14      98.91   2720.71
10   1804.59    220.35    102.22   2127.16
11   2294.85    220.35    107.12   2622.32
12   2740.24    243.78    110.53   3094.56
13   2213.84    243.78    110.93   2568.55
14    111.92      0.00       7.01    118.94
15      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
16      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
TOTAL      24605.66   1873.45    826.04  27305.15
Values Scaled by 1000.0 11/22/1993 17:53
Ii|



Republique de Guinee
Credit Sectoriel de Sante et Nutrition
Financing Plan by Foreign Exchange / Local / Taxes
USS
Community
Republic of Beneficiari
IDA         Guinea          es             Total
Amount        Amount       Amount        Amount
I   Foreign                       19266.40          0.00        763.81      20030.21
11  Local (Exct. Taxes)            5339.26       1873.45         62.24       7274.94
III Taxes                             0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
Total Project                     24605.66       1873.45        826.04      27305.15
Values Scaled by 1000.0  11/22/1993  17:53



AUNNEX XVI
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(in US$ Million)
'iS.tliplj/;,~~~           ~    ~  ~   ~~~~~ tt  i  j  j   |FFF~   ii   'EI  F, Fl  l   '
02e11ar111 e meser    iSeeter    cumulative         %          P~ 11110 +'rnfl    
(Approval)
1          1            0.0             0.0          0%              0%
2            0.4            0.4           1.6%           10%
2          3             1.0            1.4          5.7%            14%
4            1.5             2.9         11.8%           22%
3          5             2.4            5.3         21.5%            34%
6            1.7            7.0          28.5%           42%
4          7             1.7            8.7         35.4%            54%
8            1.7            10.4         42.3%           66%
5          9             2.7           13.1         53.3%            74%
1 0           2.4           15.5          63.0%           82%
6         11             1.8           17.3         70.3%            86%
1 2           2.3           19.6          79.7%           94%
7         13            2.7            22.3         90.7%            96%
14            2.2           24.5          99.6%           98%
8         15            0.1            24.6         100%            100%
Profile:   All sectors, (Guinea (8/93)



REPUELIC OF GWJINEA                            ANNEX  X
HEALTH AMD NUTRITION SECTOR PROJECT                        Page I of 2
Bmk Supervision Irput into Key Activities
APPROXIMATE                                                       EXPECTED                    STAfF
PERIOD                     ACTIVITY                              SKILL                    INPUT
___________ __  REQUIREMENTS            (staff-weeks)
PHASE 1/YEAR I   Proiect Launch Workshon                 Public Health                            2
PROJ. YEAR I                                             Implementation                           2
Health Planuning                         1
I.E.C.                                   1
Health Facilitias Planning               1
Nutrition                                1
Supervision Mission                 Public Health                            1
Start-Up                            Implementation                           1
Cost Recovery and Annual Budget     Hcalth Economics                         1
Bidding Documents for Phase 1       Health Facilities Planning               1
Staff Redeployment
Training                           _
Surervision Mission                 Public Health                            2
Bid Evaluation for Phase 1          Procurement                              1
Strategy Doc. and KAP Studie        IEC                                      1
Hospitals' Resource Managemcnt      Hospital Management                      1
and Committee Functioning
Other                               Public Health                            4
Implemcntation                           3
Resident Mission                         2
TOTALIYEAR 1                                                                26
PHASE 1/YEAR 2   Supervision Mission                     Public Health                            2
PROJ. YEAR 2        Community Participation              Implementation                           2
Decentralization and Training       Institutional Development                2
Ist Phase Review                    Public Health                            2
Implementation                           2
Health Economics                        2
Health Facilities Planning               2
I.E.C.                                   1
Nutrition                                1
Other                               Public Health                            3
Implementation                           2
Resident Mission                         2
TOTAL/YEAR 2                                                                23
PHASE 2/YEAR 1   Supervision Mission                     Public Health                           2
PROJ. YEAR 3                                             Implemcntation                           2
Supervision Mission                 Public Health                            2
Evaluation of Capsule Distrib.      Implementation                           2
Decentralization and Training       Nutrition                                1
Institutional Development                2
rOther                              Public Health                            4
Implementation                          3
Resident Mission                        2
TOTAL/YEAR 3                                                                20



ANNEX XvII
Page 2 of 2
PHASE 2/YEAR 2   Mid-Term Review                         Public Health                            2
PROJ. YEAR 4         (After Beneficiary Assessment)      Implementation                           2
Nutrition                                1
I.E.C.                                   1
Institutional Development                2
Health Economics                         2
Hospital Management                      1
2nd Phase Review                    Public Health                             2
Implementation                           2
Health Economics                         1
Health Facility Planning                 2
Other                               Public Health                            4
Implementation                           3
Resident Mission                         2
TOTAL/YEAR 4                                                                 27
PHASE 3/YEAR I   Supervision Mission                     Public Health                             2
PROJ. YEAR 5                                             Implementation                           2
Nutrition                                1
I.E.C.                                   1
Suoervision Mission                 Public Health                            2
Implementation                           2
Health Facility Planning                 I
Other                               Public Health                            4
Implementation                           3
Resident Mission                         2
TOTAL/YEAR 5                                                                 20
PHASE 3/YEAR 2   Supervision Mission                     Public Health                            2
PROJ. YEAR 6                                             Implementation                           2
Hospital Management                      2
Sutervision Mission                 Public Health                            2
(Completion Preparation)            Implementation                           2
Nutrition                                1
I.E.C.                                   1
Health Economics                         2
Other                               Public Health                            2
Implementation                           2
Resident Mission                         2
TOTAL/YEAR 6                                                                 20
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ l



AX XVIII
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HEALTH AND NUTRMON SECTOR PROJECT
Status of Bank GrouD Qperations in Guinea
Aout In USS ml lI Ion
(less cancellations)
Loan or       Fiscal                                                                                        Undis-  Closing
Creo!t No.      Year  Borrower                           Purpose                      Bank          IDA      bur-sod   Date
Cred ts
27 Crecits(s) closed                                                                              393.44
R) C17250-GUI      1987    GUINEA                            LIVESTOCK SECTOR REH                      9.80        4.25  12/31/1994(
R) CI8150-GUI      1987    GUINEA                            TRANS SECT                               55.00        5.45  12V31/1993&
C18370-GU      1988    GUINEA                            POP/HEALTH                               19.70        3.49  12/31/1993
C1864a-GUI     1988    GUINEA                            AGRIC.SEEOS                               9.00        2.16  06/30/1994
C19150-UI  l1988    GUINEA                               HIGHWAYS IV                              55.00       22.32  12/31/1993
C19550-GUI     1989    GUINEA                            RESEARCi EXTENSION                       18.40        6.71  12/31/1994
C19850-GUI     1989    GUINEA                            WATER II                                 40.00       14.99  10/31/1996
C19950-GUl    1989    GUINEA                             SDA                                       9.00        6.96  12/31/1994
C2068WU1       1990    GUINEA                            FORESTRY & FISHERY M                      8.00        3.98  06/30/1994
C2106-GU1      1990    GUINEA                            NAT RURAL INFRASTRUC                     40.00       21.77  12V31/1995
C21120-GUI     1990    GUINEA                            SECOND URBAN                             57.00       44.51  12/31/1995
R) C21550-UI       1990    GUINEA                            EDUC SEC AOJ PROGRAM                     20.00        7.48  06/30/1994(
C23980-GUI     1992    GUINEA                            PE SECT.RAT.&PRIV TA                      7.30        7.09  12131/1995
C24070-GUI     1993    GUINEA                            AGR.EXPORT PROAOTION                     20.80       18.74  12/31/1999
C24160-GUI     1993    GUINEA                            POWER II                                 50.00       44.98  12/31/1997
C24440-GUI     1993    GUINEA                            TELECOIJNICATIONS                        14.60        9.82  12V31/1995
TOTAL nunber Credits      16                                                                       433.60      224.68
Loans
3 Loans(s) closed                                                                    73.50
All closed     for     GUINEA
TOTAL number Loans -    0
TOTAL**                                                               73.50      827.04
of which repald                                                     73.50        5.13
TOTAL held by Bank & IDA                                                .00      821.91
Amount sold
of which repald
TOTAL und Isbursed                                                                           224.88
Notes:
Not yet effective
'   Not yet sIgned
*   Total Approved, Repayments, and Outstanding balance represent both actIve and Inactive Loans and Credits.
(R) Indlcates formally revIsed Closing Date.
(S) Indicates SAL/SECAL Loans and Credits.
The Net Approved and Banr Repayments are hIstorical value, al I others are market value.
The SlgnIng, Effective  and Closing dates are based upon the Loan Department offical data and are not taken
from the Task &Wget fIle.
IClosing date extended to June 30, 1995.



Page 2 of2
Status Of Bank Group Operatlons In GUINEA
PFDBR25B - List of Closed SALs and Secals
By Country
Country:    GUINEA
Amount In USS million
(less cancellatlons)
Loan or    Flscal                                                                                       LUndls-  Closing
Credit No.   Year   Borrower                          Purpose                       Bank          IDA     bursed   Date
CAO11O-GLIl  1986    GUINEA                           SAL I                                     17.00         .00  12/31/1988(R)
C16590-GUI 1986    GUINEA                             SAL I                                     25.00         .00  12/31/1988(R)
C19260-GUI  1988    GUINEA                            SAL II                                    65.00         .00  12/31/1993(R)
C21480-GUWI 1990    GUINEA                            PRIVATE SECTOR PROMO                      50.00         .00  12/31/1992(R)
C19261-GUI  1993    GUINEA                            SAL II                                      .10         .10  05/07/1994
Total GUINEA
157.10        .10



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA                        ANNEX XIX
HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR PROJECT                    Page 1 of 3
IMPLEMENTATION MANUAL: TABLE OF CONTENTS
REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
MANUEL D'EXECUTION DU PROJET SANTE NUTRITION
TABLE DES MATIERES
SECTION 1:         LE PROJET
1.1.               Document de politique sectorielle
1.2                Cadre du projet
1.3                Objectifs du projet
1.4                Description du projet
1.5                CoOt estimatif du projet par programme et categorie
1.6                Plan de financement
1.7                Phases d'execution par programme
1.8                Principales conditionnalites
SECTION 2:         DISPOSITIONS D'EXECUTION
2.1                Les intervenants
2.2                Coordination nationale
2.2. 1                    Direction nationale du projet
2.2.2                     Coordination nationale
2.2.3                     Cellule r6gionale de coordination
2.2.4                     Cellule prefectorale de gestion du projet
2.2.5                     Gestion du projet au niveau local
2.3                Suivi et coordination
2.3.1                     Niveau national
2.3.1.1                         Le Secretaire gen6ral du MSPAS
2.3.1.2                         Le Comite technique de coordination
2.3.1.3                         Le Comite de suivi
2.3.2                     Niveau regional
2.3.2.1                         Le Comite technique regional de sant6
2.3.2.2                         L'Equipe regionale de formation
2.3.2.3                        ILe Comite regional de sante
1''2 3                    Niveau prefectoral
2.3.3.1                         1Le Comite technique prefectoral
2.3.3.2                         I.'Equipe prefectorale de formation
2.3.3.3                         L e Comit6 de sante de prefecture



ANNEX XIX
Page 2 of 3
2.4                Supervision
2.5                Monitoring-6valuation, contr6le
2.6                Procedures d'execution
2.6.1                     G6nie civil
2.6.2                     Mobilier et equipement
2.6.3                     Consultants
2.6.4                     Formation
2.6.5                     Fonctionnement
SECTION 3:         PLAN D'EXECUTION
3.1.               Calendrier d'ex6cution des programmes
3.2                Calendrier d'acquisition des biens et services
3.3                Indicateurs cl6s de suivi d'execution physique
SECTION 4:         ACQUISITIONS
4.1                Regles de passation de marches de l'IDA
4.2                Documents a soumettre a l'IDA pour avis
4.3                Procedures specifiques de passation des marches
SECTION 5:         DEBOURSEMENTS
5.1                 Cat6gories de deboursements et reallocation des fonds
5.2                PPF
5.3                Compte sp6cial, relev6s de depenses et remboursements
5.4                Retrait du compte de credit
5.5                Fonds de contrepartie
SECTION 6:         TENUE DES COMIPTES ET AUDIT
6.1                Systeme comptable et budg6taire
6.2                Appui a la tenue des comptes
6.3                Termes de r6f6rence des auditeurs
6.4                Calendrier d'intervention des auditeurs
SECTION 7:         SUIVI ET EVALUATION
7.1                Formulaire de suivi
7.2                Planning de supervision de l'IDA
7.3                Revue a mi-parcours
7.4                Rapport d'achevement du projet



ANNEXXIX
Page 3 of 3
ANNEXES
Annexe 1: Modele de contrat avec un bureau d'6tudes pour la maftrise d'oeuvre
Annexe 2: Modele de dossier d'appel d'offres de travaux de genie civil
Annexe 3: Modele de lettre d'invitation pour les services de consultants
Annexe 4: Modele d'appel d'offres pour l'acquisition de mobilier et d'equipements
Annexe 5: Lettre de d6boursement






IBRD 25378
-  MAURITANIA                                                                   12 -
' > r,, . '. ~~~~~S E N E G  A  L;
SENEGAL V           A L ISE
/-, RURINA 
CUIMA. ,% -- )r    FA50SO .- \  
GUINEA   1>.   | _   (-
SIERRA LENEf   w   c6T
i  WORE ~GHANA            ~         ~          
OHMIA' \                                                                                                                                                                                         12-   )  '- >[>.r-K  2
MURNEA        C             , OER                            ()A
G  I N E A                                      ~                                                                              RE /U \t  1/ EC  '  /
MARITI>                            ER           '                           ;,PE /GUSEA
10t              '                                                                     -HSIL E   A0 N E IO
COrNAK.\   \\
4       < noIs               Crtrend urld rePewt Project
h..ty     ~               I    Prefecmures
Covered undr Preious Project
Finrt C.tegory Roods                             !                                                                       ;
G  U  I N  E A                                             ROiRrood          ,                                              FO4EST   REGION   -
HEALTH AND  NUTRITION  SECTOR PROJECT                                          R.g.lry SIrt,oiot   Airp.rtJ
Rivers
Pre.fetur. Roundor,?_
-         Region Boundor,es
-8-                                                                  _      - Internetionol Boondories                                     {u
KILOMETERS 0   20  40  60  80  100           j                                    /NrSE                 Lola
0IL'                   '  o              L   I B  E  R   I A                                            J / co
;*4[Cz>;'._'_~~~~~~ '''-    W   W~~~~ 9   ;    f           \f 
14 *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OEE 1 2   .38



