Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24243
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-25740)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 17.4 MILLION (US$24.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A
HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR PROJECT
October 3, 2002
Human Development n
Country Department 11
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Guinean Franc (GF)
GF1 = US$ 0.001
US$ 1 = GF953
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGBEF        (Association Guineenne pour le Bien-Etre de la Famille)
Guinean Association for Family Well-Being
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CBDs          Community Based Services
CDD           Commnunity Driven Development
CTC           Comite Technique de Coordination
Technical Coordination Committee
CTRS          Comite Technique Regional de Sante
DAAF          Division for Administrative and Financial Management (MSPAS)
DH            Hospital Division (MSPAS)
DNES          National Directorate for Health Facilities
DNPL          (Direction Nationale de la Pharmacie et Laboratoire)
National Directorate for Pharmacy and Laboratory
DPSAS         (Direction Prefectorale de la Sante et des Affaires Sociales)
Prefectoral Directorate for Health and Social Affairs
FP            Family Planning
ICR           Inplementation Completion Report
IDA           Intemational Development Association
IEC           Information, Education and Communications
IGS           Inspection General de la Santi
General Health Inspectorate
IRS           Inspection Regional de la Sante
Regional Inspectorate for Health and Social Affairs
MCH           Maternal and Child Health
MDG           Millenium Development Goals
MOH           Ministry of Health
MPF           Ministry of Plan and Finance
MSPAS         Ministere de la Sante Publique et des Affaires Sociales
Ministry of Public Health and Social Affairs
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization.
PHC           Public Health Care
PIU/UGP       Project Implementation Unit
PPF           Proiect Preparation Facility
PPSG          Projet Population Sante Genesique
Population and Reproductive .exIth
PTHG          Plan Triennal A Horizon Glissaat
(Three-Year Rolling Plan)
RH            Reproductive Health
SIAC          Conmmunity-Based Nutrition Ir 6 nma'tion Sys:emn
SRO           Sels de Rehydratidn Orale
UNICEF        United Nations Children's FunCt
Vice President:  Callisto E. Mae vo
Country Manager/Director-   Mamadou Dir
Sector Manager/Director:  Alexandre V. a.mrncs
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Khama Odero Rogo



GUINEA
HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                8
6. Sustainability                                                                   10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  12
9. Partner Comments                                                                 14
10. Additional Infornation                                                          14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               26
Annex 8: Summary Borrower/Executive Agency                                          27
Map No. IBRD - 31718






Project ID: P001070                                     Project Name: HEALTH/NUT.SCTR.
Team Leader: Astrid Helgeland-Lawson                    TL Unit: AFTH2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: October 3, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: HEALTH/NUT.SCTR.                             L/C/TFNumber: IDA-25740
Country/Department: GUINEA                                             Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: Health (89%), Central government administration
(I11%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   07/27/1990                            Effective: 06/28/1994         12/21/1994
Appraisal:  06/26/1992                              MTR: 03/01/1996           02/08/1999
Approval:  03/01/1994                             Closing: 06/30/2001         03/31/2002
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/MIN OF PUB H & SOC.
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                       Edward K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Matnadou Dia                             Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:      Alexandre V. Abrantes                    Ok Pannenborg
Team Leader at ICR:  Astrid Helgeland-Lawson
ICR Primary Author:  Khama Odera Rogo
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=-Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M-Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The original objective of the project was to improve the health status of the population of Middle and
Lower Guinea (the prefectures in Boke, Kindia, Mamou and Labe regions), especially the most vulnerable
groups of the population, by increasing quality and access to low cost basic health services. This was to be
accomplished through (i) expansion of service coverage and quality improvement of health, nutrition and
family planning services, and (ii) strengthening sector organization, management and resource mobilization
and community participation in order to build a sustainable program.
This was the second IDA-financed health sector project in Guinea. The project objectives were broad but
hopeful. It would cover a population of over one million, or roughly 20% of the country's population.
Guinea had gone through more than two decades of political uncertainty and economic stagnation. By
1984, when the Second Republic was declared, Guinea's health care system had virtually collapsed giving
the country some of the worst health indicators in the region. A new health policy was formulated in 1986
focusing on improving primary health care coverage and quality, especially for women and children.
Indeed, considerable improvement in policy and service delivery had taken place in the intervening period,
thanks to multiple donor support, including the first IDA-financed project.
Guinea had implemented an economic and financial reform program from 1986, focusing on improving
incentive framework for the private sector, phasing out state monopolies and streamlining the civil service.
The process had not been entirely smooth and human resource limitation was recognized as a major
constraint to the country's economic growth and improvement in the health sector. In response, the
government doubled basic wages in 1991, but at a time when revenues from mining were on the decline.
This led to a severe liquidity crisis that affected availability of counterpart financing of foreign assisted
projects. The government formulated appropriate reactions and by FY93 there had been overall portfolio
improvement. A Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was prepared in 1993.
The first IDA project was a three-year specific investment loan, with IDA-financing of US$ 19.7 million
and Government and beneficiary contribution of US$ 2.0 million and US$ 0.8 million, respectively. Its
objective was to strengthen MSPAS (Ministere de la Sante Publique et des Affaires Sociales) strategic
management and improve basic health services in Middle Guinea. The project successfully tested out
approaches to service delivery, community involvement and cost recovery. It raised levels of utilization of
essential primary care services, improved institutional capacity and renovated some facilities. The lessons
of this first project were: (a) proper coordination between the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and the
MSPAS is essential; (b) availability of counterpart funds is critical to avoid delays in implementation; (c)
supervision is a key element in ensuring success; (d) consultation of beneficiaries is important; and (e)
shortages in supplies and poor staff motivation have a tremendous impact on quality of care.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives of the project were not revised.
-2 -



3.3 Original Components:
The project had two major components made up of six sub-components:
I. Expansion of Service Coverage and Improvement of Service Quality: (i) rehabilitation, construction
and maintenance (works, equipment, furniture and spare parts) of twenty (20) health centers, two (2)
improved health centers and four (4) prefectoral hospitals, as well as their operation and maintenance (in
three (3) prefectures in Middle Guinea and four (4) prefectures in Lower Guinea)(Cost: US$ 11.5 million);
(ii) supply of low-cost essential drugs, vaccines and materials for health facilities in these seven (7)
prefectures and limited support consisting of vaccines and iodine capsules for the five (5) prefectures
(Cost: US$ 3.3 million); (iii) strengthening of key technical programs through training, small equipment
and operating costs to strengthen and fully integrate priority technical programs, such as matemal and child
care, family planning and nutrition, into the primary health care delivery system (Cost: US$ 2.2 million);
and
H. Strengthening of Sector Organization and Management: (i) rehabilitation of central and peripheral
directorates and provision of goods and services for strengthening further decentralization and sector
coordination, (ii) training, goods and services to improve systems for financial, material and human
resource management, and (iii) support for generation of new resources through user fees and adequate
budgetary allocations, including rehabilitation (Cost: US$ 9.7 million).
Rehabilitation was to be undertaken in three (3) phases and criteria for site selection included population
density and level of neglect. Communities were expected to contribute labor and provide latrines and
shelters for Health Centers.
Drug supply component was supposed to provide a basic package of essential drugs and training in drug
management and improved prescription practices. An initial two-year stock of essential drugs was to be
provided.
Modest rehabilitation of central services building of MSPAS (Ministere de la Sante et des Affaires
Sociales) and strengthening of central coordination of the Ministry as well as regional and prefectoral
levels was planned. Facility health committees for hospitals and health centers were to be trained in
financial, material and human resource management. To enhance sustainability, cost recovery system was
to be extended into all new IDA-supported hospitals and health centers.
3.4 Revised Components:
There were no major revisions during the life of the project. The PPSG (Projet Population Sante
Gen6sique) took on many reproductive health activities from 1999.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry was satisfactory. There was no QAG review at that time. Entry was based mainly on
experience gained during the first IDA-supported project. The lessons learnt were taken into account. And
under two PPF advances, several studies undertaken and documents prepared, including a study on sector
budgeting and financing; a national health inventory of infrastructure and equipment and a plan for
developing norms, facilities and equipment; the design of a new hospital management system; a feasibility
study on iodine deficiency; a beneficiary assessment in the project zones; job descriptions for MSPAS
- 3 -



(Ministere de la Sante Publique et des Affaires Sociales); project implementation manual and preliminary
architectural studies for year one of the project.
Detailed outlines on project management were worked out, further drawing from the first project's lessons.
Implementation schedule, disbursements, accounting and procurement procedures were also prepared.
The main risks identified were weak political will, financial constraints and limited management skills.
Benefits of the project were to reach the poor and vulnerable whose health status was to be improved
through increased coverage and quality enhancement. Health care coverage would expand to three
additional prefectures in Middle Guinea (five were covered in the first project); and four prefectures in
Lower Guinea. More specifically, immunization rates were expected to rise to 70% and antenatal coverage
from less than 60% to 70% in the project areas.
It should be noted, however, that although considerable effort went into addressing some of the
shortcomings identified in the first project, the issue of human resource, an important ingredient to project
success and sustainability, was not definitively tackled. In addition, comprehensive targets were not set and
indicators were left open to be worked out after the inception of the project. On the technical side, the
specific choice of intervention against iodine deficiency by supplying iodine capsules rather than focusing
on iodination of salt was inadequate. If there was any intended linkage between these two activities, it was
not specified in the project documents.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the project achievements, especially within the confines of catchment populations of the health
facilities, were satisfactory. It is, however, important to distinguish between the catchment population of
health facilities and the total population of the two geographical project zones as the two provide different
denominators. Most of the quantifiable outcomes are based on the catchment population.
The project management was set up in confornity with the agreements and a strong implementation unit
established to provide administrative, technical and financial oversight. The PIU (Project Implementation
Unit) was much stronger than was the case in the first project, probably because the previous coordinator
had been retained and was now more experienced. Actual implementation was undertaken by various
divisions of the MSPAS, the regions and prefectures. Compared to the first project, there was great
improvement in their coordination this time. Regular assessments and the mid-term review were carried
out, reports forwarded and appropriate revisions recommended and for the most part undertaken.
Although most of the project activities were limited to Middle and Lower Guinea where it supported the
development of primary health facilities, district hospitals, and regional and district health administrations,
there was also considerable national reach. For example, most of the training was done for the whole
country and was only restricted to staff from the project zones. The project assisted the MSPAS improve
its management capacity and decentralize decision making, set up a management information system,
update the Carte Sanitaire and issue an Infrastructure Development Plan. It also strengthened key technical
programs, such as Maternal and Child Health and Family Planning, Nutrition, Communicable Disease
Control, Health and Comnunity Education and more generally enhanced sector organization and
management.   Other areas that benefitted included improvement in donor coordination {with set up of
regular meetings of the CTC - Comite Technique de Coordination - and the annual evaluation of the
Primary Health Care Program}, the 1998 update of the Health Sector Policy and the launch of a
-4 -



Three-Year Rolling Plan (PTHG). Lastly, with assistance from this credit, important progress was made in
cost recovery which is now applied across the board in the public sector.
4.2 Outputs by components:
PART A: Expansion of Service Coverage and Improvement of Service Quality:
Sub-component 1: Rehabilitation - The project supported the construction, equipment and maintenance of
twenty (20) health centers and four (4) prefectoral hospitals. The central offices of the MOH, eighteen (18)
prefectoral health offices and one (1) regional inspectorate were also rehabilitated.  All planned
constructions and rehabilitations were completed or in advanced stages of completion by the time of the
ICR mission. The quality of construction is satisfactory. There were only a few design issues that could
affect patient flow or efficient function of newly built hospitals and health centers such as lighting in
operation theatres and ramps for transportation of patients to theatre.
The offices and health centers have all been equipped, furnished and are in use. But at the time of the ICR,
not all hospitals were opened. According to government officials and communities, this was due in part, to
delay in the delivery of some equipment and furniture. Since these facilities were not yet operational, it was
difficult to conclusively judge the quality of services and referrals since their construction was a means to
achieving this and not an end on its own. There is little doubt, however, that these facilities are badly
needed and should improve coverage and quality of care in the project zone as soon as they are, opened.
As a result of this intervention, it is estimated that coverage of primary health care in Middle and Lower
Guinea has increasedfrom 50% in 1997, to 70% in 1999, and 85% in 2001. (target was 70%)
Sub-component 2: Drug supply - Facilities in the project zone received supply of iodine capsules and
Vitamnin A in the early days of the project.
Although the project did not purchase vaccines and essential medicines, it made immense contribution in
strengthening their logistics system in the public sector, hence reducing shortages and stockouts.
Sub-component 3: Strengthening Key Technical Programs:
(a) Training: Training and capacity building for management and improved service delivery were a major
component of this project. These activities were undertaken at all levels and involved all cadres of formal
and informnal staff. Scholarships were also provided for overseas training. The ICR mission met and
observed some of the trainees at work and was pleased with the quality of their performance. An example
is that the current head of Diarrheal Disease Program who had just completed a Masters in Public Health
course in Belgium.
All the scheduled trainings were completed. (See Output Indicators)
(b) Transport and Communication: Radio communication was installed in all new health facilities,
linking health centers with prefectoral, regional offices and the MSPAS headquarters. This now serves as
the major means of communication and is used in weekly surveillance of communicable diseases. In
addition, the project also procured forty-five (45) vehicles and fifty-three (53) motorcycles to enhance
supervision and emergency referrals. In nearly all instances, these were the only serviceable vehicles in
their units. Rising maintenance cost and heavy use have, inevitably, taken a toll on some of the vehicles
which have been grounded.
-5-



(c) Maternal and Child Health and Family Planning Program: Prenatal care coverage among target
populations of facilities in Middle and Lower Guinea has increased from 31% in 1997 to 65.3% in 1999
and to 85% in 2001(target was 65%). Skilled attendance at delivery rose from 13 to 22% in the projet
areas. Maternal mortality dropped from 666 in 1994 to 528/100,000 in 2001. Infant immunization
coverage has increased from 50% in 1997 to 61.3% in 1999 and 80% in 2001 (target was 65%).
Contraceptive prevalence has not improved much, rising from 2% to 6%. It should be noted that the Projet
Population Sante Genesique (PPSG) has been undertaking most of the Reproductive Health (RH)
interventions since 1999. Therefore, those results cannot be attributed to the Health and Nutrition Project
alone.
(d) Nutrition: Nutrition was a major aspect of intervention for the project and micronutrient deficiency
was specifically targeted (Vitamin A and Iodine deficiency). The iodine deficiency intervention was mainly
through community education and the supply of iodine capsules. Later, with advice from UNICEF, the
government enacted a salt iodination decree. This has had a broader impact. Today up to 50% of the salt
in Guinea is iodized. This action, rather than the project intervention, should be credited with the perceived
drop in the prevalence of goitre in the region.
The most significant nutrition output was the community level intervention where one hundred and eight
(108) villages were involved in training, education and surveillance of childhood malnutrition. This effort
has contributed to a reduction in moderate and severe malnutrition in 0 to 5 years old children in the
catchment populations, from 36% in 1997 to 27% in 1999 and 18% in 2001 (target was 27%).
(e) Communicable Diseases: This component focused on malaria, diarrheal diseases, yellow fever,
tuberculosis and assisted with the control of the meningitis epidemic. Although the figures were not easily
verifiable, it is estimated that the utilization of impregnated bed nets in Middle and Lower Guinea was 5%
in 1997, rising to 30% in 1999 and 70% in 2001. The use of oral rehydration solutions and management of
childhood diarrheas has also impr6ved. More important was the support to the Division of Communicable
Diseases in training and setting up of an effective national surveillance system. The system relies on the
radio communication network for weekly data collection and reporting and has been given credit for recent
improvement in response to epidemics in mral Guinea, including a recent meningitis epidemic. It is
acknowledged that the epidemic would have caused many more deaths, if it were not for the project's
contribution. The number of cases of tuberculosis has risen due to the emergence of HIV/AIDS, and the
same surveillance system is already being used to report and monitor trends.
(f) Health and Community Education: As part of the numerous training programs for communities and
mobilization efforts, the project also produced significant amounts of health education materials,
undertaken as part of the IEC intervention. A stakeholder and beneficiary meeting was held prior to the
ICR which reported community satisfaction with these efforts. This was reaffirmed in focus group
interactions with communities in Mamou and Mali and in individual discussions with govemment officials
and beneficiaries of the trainings.
-6-



PART B: Strengthening of Sector Organization and Management
Sub-component 4: Rehabilitation and strengthening of decentralization process: MSPAS (Ministere de la
Sante Publique et des Affaires Sociales) undertook a major reorganization and sectoral coordination was
improved. Construction and renovation of health directorates and the central administrative building were
appropriately completed. These structures are now providing essential office space and meeting rooms for
managers. They have all been furnished and computers installed.
Health sector management has been decentralized in 18 Health Prefectures and I Regional Health
Inspectorate (Kindia) which are now fully functional (i.e. adequately staffed, equipped and reporting
regularly). The regional inspectorate of Kindia and 18 Health Prefectures have been strengthened through
the development and introduction of administrative procedures and the establishment of financial and
administrative units.
Sub-components 5/6: Human resource development: With project support, some analytical work on
human resource was undertaken in 2001. The project and the government have used this information to
develop a good computer based health staff and staffing pattern database for the whole country. The report
now forms a useful basis for discussion of human resource issues in Guinea. In addition, a draft human
resource development plan for 2001-2010 has been prepared by the ministry.
Mobilization of additional resources: The Bamako initiative has been implemented around all health
facilities in the project zone and is now applied across the board in the public sector as a sustainable
method for cost recovery. Cost sharing is rapidly becoming an accepted norm in Guinea. MSPAS
non-salary recurrent budget reached FGN 5.4 billion in 1999 (target was FGN 5.3 billion) and was
executed at 70% (target was 90%). Scarcity of resources and competing priorities were sited as the main
reason for the failure to reach the targets. It was envisaged that the budget in 2001-2002 may show an
improvement in this area.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N.A.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N.A.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has contributed to the strengthening of management and decentralization of the health sector in
Guinea. It has developed norms and training programs/materials in various aspects of Primary Health Care
(PHC). It has mobilized communities and mainstreamed their participation in health promotion, disease
prevention and management of health facilities. In addition the project has experimented with cost sharing
and demonstrated that communities can indeed be good and reliable managers of health institutions.
Establishment and institutionalization of the Communicable Disease Surveillance system is another
important contribution. The draft national human resource plan by the Ministry is an important first step in
the long road to redress the serious personnel problem in the country. Most of these activities and
contributions have gone beyond the confines of the project zone and have been implemented in the whole
country.
-7-



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The economic performance of the country remained depressed during the life of the project. This continued
to affect the ability of the government to allocate more resources to the health sector.
Political instability in neighboring countries and insecurity in the sub region created refugee problems and
additional demand for health services.
The human resource crisis observed during the first IDA project was not resolved and continued to plague
the country and the project. Indeed, it only worsened as older staff continued to retire without adequate
replacement.
Delay in the delivery of equipment and furniture which partly accounts for delay in initiation of services in
-some facilities was beyond the control of the government and the implemeriting agency.
Finally, some communities lost their savings through collapse of a cooperative/saving society. This was a
major setback to the cost recovery efforts and put a dent in the confidence communities that had adopted
the system. It has also affected financial sustainability in some health centers and may have discouraged
some communities from adopting this approach
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
There has been a general improvement in the working environment in the mninistry, especially during the
second half of the project. This was a widely held perception both in Conakry and in the districts. The
government has made many changes in the administration of the ministry and strengthened the regions and
prefectures, an important aspect of decentralization.
But political commitment to reproductive health, especially family planning, remained weak throughout the
life of the project. This required special attention with multi-pronged approaches, focusing on politicians,
religious and traditional leaders. Religious and traditional support is especially crucial in Guinea where the
majority of the population is rural and holds strongly to its cultural and religious beliefs.
The human resource issue, a major obstacle to project sustainability, remained unresolved and should have
been given a more urgent attention by the Government. Recent attempts to hire retired staff on contract and
reopen training institutions should be accelerated.
The private sector is an important player in the establishment of comnmunity based and maternal/child
health services. Its effective participation requires an enabling policy environment. The Government has a
primary responsibility of making this possible. There were several opportunities that an aggressive private
sector could have easily filled in training, service delivery; and commercial iodination/distribution of salt.
Levels of utilization of new facilities have in some cases remained low or declined. Reasons for the decline
include medicines stockouts, poor staff attitude, cost, ignorance, culture and preference for traditional
healers. Adequate numbers of clients are an important factor for sustainability of the cost recovery plan.
This is a pressing issue and should be addressed immediately. And while doing so, it would be useful to
assess the impact of cost recovery on service access to the poorest.
- 8-



Shortage of water and lack of electricity have already hit some the hospitals and health centers. Unless
resolved, this is likely to affect the quality of care. The issue of land on which the new facilities have been
built can also be solved by the Government to preempt future problems with expansion.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Project Coordination Unit has had two directors with different, but complimentary styles of
management. The first coordinator moved to head the Projet Population Sante Genesique (PPSG). There
is some overlap in the activities of the two projects which could complicate attribution of results. Probably
more effort should have been made to reduce these overlaps. A country in the early phases of introduction
of family planning, needs community level activity. Stronger attempts should have been made to introduce
innovative and effective community-based services for family planning (CBDs)
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The actual cost of the project did not exceed the initial estimates made at appraisal. The table below shows
the categories of disbursement as initially scheduled and as actually paid in thousands US dollars.
Planned and Actual Expenditure by Cost Category
As of March 31, 2002
July 1, 2001               Actual of
Revised       Actual       Rev.
Cat  Description           APR Estimate Adjustment I/    Estimate   Disbursement   Estimate
1   Works                         8,500        (1,230)       7,270        8,715     120%
Equipment & Furniture for
2   Health Facilities             1,500          947         2,447         2,777    114%
Other Equipment &
fumriture, materials and
3   vehicles                      3,000         (311)        2,689         2,661    99%
Drugs, Iodized capsules
4   and Vaccines                  2,000                      2,000          921     46%
5   Specialist Services           3,000          353         3,353         3,820    114%
6   Training                      1,500           71         1,571         1,988    127%
7-A  Operating Costs               2,000          240         2,240         1,819    79%
8   PPF                             700                        700          715     92%
9   S/Account                     2,400           (71)       2,329           92      3%
Total                        24,600          -          24,600       23,508     96%
At the time of closure of the project, 96% of the funds had been spent. In July 2001, the Government
made a request to reallocate among other categories (as shown in table below) in order to: (i) finalize the
equipping of four district hospitals that have been rehabilitated/constructed; (ii) finalize an ongoing
beneficiary assessment and an infrastructure development plan; (iii) cover training due to underestimation
of cost; and (iv) ensure sufficient operating costs in project coordination unit following the extension of the
project closing.
-9-



Revised
Cat  Description            APR Estimate   Reallocation   Estimate
1   Works                      8,500,000    (1,230,000)    7,270,000
Equipment & Furniture for
2   Health Facilities           1,500,000      947,241     2,447,241
Other Equipment &
furniture, materials and
3   vehicles                   3,000,000      (311,034)    2,688,966
Drugs, Iodized capsules
4   and Vaccines               2,000,000                   2,000,000
5   Specialist Services        3,000,000       353,448     3,353,448
6   Training                   1,500,000        70,690     1,570,690
7-A  Operating Costs            2,000,000       240,345     2,240,345
8   PPF                          700,000                    700,000
9   Unallocated                2,400,000       (70,690)    2,329,310
Total                     24,600,000                  24,600,000
The contributions of Government and beneficiaries counterpart were fully made available despite a
difficult economic environment.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The prospect for sustainability of the activities undertaken by the project is rated as likely. This rating
takes into account the likelihood of both institutional and financial independence. This likelihood will be
greatly enhanced by continued Bank support to the health sector. There is the opportunity to use the new
HIV/AIDS project to build on what has been achieved. The willingness of some bilateral donors to replicate
the successes of this project and to support the reestablishment of formal training of health personnel in
Guinea is a positive sign.
There are encouraging examples of community commitment and cost sharing. But it is unlikely that the
cost sharing resources on their own will suffice to sustain the services. Incomes from cost sharing arise
from curative services. And unless workloads increase steadily this source will not expand. The expected
increase in the budgetary allocation for health, has not risen above 5% and is insufficient to cover the gaps.
The human resource crisis, is probably the biggest threat to institutional sustainability. The project has
been implemented by civil servants. There has been minimal external support to the implementation. But
the available skilled staff are thinly stretched and cannot be expected to carry the load for ever. A steady
in-flow of skilled workers is therefore needed to sustain and expand services both centrally and at the
periphery. The mixed results from the various activities and sites are a reflection of the strain on resource
and management capacity.
The achievements of the project form a solid basis upon which a very sustainable health system can be
built. This project is, therefore, best seen as an entry point for sustainability which is likely to be achieved
if both the Government and development partners continue with their efforts.
- 10 -



6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Since the project was fully implemented by various departments of the ministry, there should be no major
problems in transitioning activities to regular operations. Indeed, most activities are already part of regular
operations. The issue of supervision needs extra vigilance, including both human and financial resources.
With aging motor vehicles and limited resources, managers will be handicapped in the performance of their
supervisory duties. A hiatus in fimding could easily undermine the gains already made, taking Guinea
several steps backwards.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Project preparation is rated satisfactory. Although the objectives were broad and ambitious, the Task
Team did a commendable job in keeping the focus. Lessons from the previous project was also assimilated
well.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision was well and effectively done. The performance of the Bank during supervision is rated as
highly satisfactory. Most impressive were the financial, technical and human relation aspects of
supervision. Despite limitations in local technical capacity, effective working relations were established
between the Bank and the client. This helped streamline some of the design problems that may have been
inherent in the project. A good example of the quality of supervision and interaction could be seen in the
manner in which funds that were stolen by a project accountant, were recovered through the Government
without any interruption of activities.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is satisfactory
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Being the second IDA-credit to the sector, lessons learnt from the first project informed the preparation.
The borrower accepted the shortcomings identified in the first project, strengthened the PIU and improved
coordination with the ministry. More important, the borrower made adequate preparation to ensure
adequate flow of counterpart funds. The performance of the borrower is rated as satisfactory
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance was satisfactory. The Government maintained its commitment
throughout the life of the project. Basic conditions were met and staff recruitment accomplished.
Counterpart funding was duly paid, with very few delays. Construction was undertaken well and
Govemment inspectors did their work dutifully. The training and service delivery components were also
undertaken without undue constraints.



7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency was satisfactory. The performance was an improvernent on
the first project. Apart from project accountants, there has been relative stability in staff complement.
There were no major audit queries and most records were readily available and computerized. The Project
Implementation Unit (PRI) maintained an excellent relationship with other sections of the ministry, regions
and prefectoral leaders, communities and donors.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
This project provides many important lessons on what can be achieved through commitment and focus in a
low resource environment and with limitations in highly skilled personnel. It also underlines the
importance of long time engagement in order to ensure sustainability.
1. Government commitment is critical.
The Govermment of Guinea is clearly committed to improving the health of the population. This is evident
from policy pronouncements and changes in mnanagement in MSPAS. It was also reaffirmed by the regular
payment of counterpart contribution despite adverse economic situation. The importance of Goveniment's
commitment in the success of this project is underlined as an important lesson.
The project realized most service delivery objectives and hence improved the health of the population in the
catchment areas of the facilities. The message and lesson is that with adequate commitment and resources,
health outcomes can improve rapidly, even for populations living in remote villages.
2. Coverage and sustainability are a continuous challenge
Sustainability, although likely, will require renewed commitment by donors for a longer period. HIPC
resources should be used to ensure continuity of activities. Every effort should be made to ensure that the
vulnerable groups are not left out by the implementation of cost recovery program. Household surveys
need to be conducted during the project to ensure that sources of inequity in access to services are
addressed.
3. Local management is feasible
Guinea has shown the potential to manage complex health programs. Performance of the PIU and the
strengthened regional/prefecture administration was satisfactory. Community level activities were also
reasonably managed. This is a lesson in the value of investing in local management.
4. Weaknesses in project design
There were some inherent design issues in the project at entry. Most significant is the iodine intervention.
This calls for a more critical technical oversight during appraisal.
5. Local contractors have a part to play
Financial Management and contracting were on the whole, carried out satisfactorily. Local contractors
were given a chance to participate in smaller projects. This experience should be built on to determine their
ability to undertake bigger projects.
- 12 -



6. Improving quality of services is a bigger chaUenge
Construction was, justifiably, a major contribution of the project. And it has given Guinea's health facility
landscape a badly needed face-lift. The bigger challenge now is to sustainably translate the beautiful
structures into actual services and improvement in the health of the population. This is not a given.
Sustained focus and determination on the part of the government and the other stakeholders will be
required.
7. Land, water and energy should be given special attention
Water and land for health facilities are two problems that need to be resolved. The Government should
address these issues before they affect the provision of care. In addition, Bank-funded projects should refer
to WHO guidelines on sizes of plots needed for establishment of different types of facilities.
8. Community mobilization is critical
The nutrition intervention and community level surveillance were very well received and should be
replicated in other parts of the country. Future programs should put extra emphasis on community
mobilization and interventions. This applies to all aspects of primary health care.
9. Staff training should be mainstreamed, sustained and linked to retention
Much training took place within the project. They were mostly short courses. The training must now be
sustained and translated into improved quality of care. There is therefore a need to take a comprehensive
look at the training needs in the long term. This will require better coordination between Education and
Health ministries as more donor support is sought to reestablish basic training programs. In this regard,
retired nurses and midwives should be recalled to provide skilled care and help with training.
For Guinea the human resource issue must go beyond training. Retention, deployment and incentives also
need to be addressed. The HR study conducted by the project is a good start at defining needs and
elaborating strategies. Professional associations should be strengthening and encouraged to participate in
the health reform dialogues.
10. Utilization of facilities needs to increase
The level of utilization of health services, especially by the rural poor, needs to be escalated. Operations
research should be conducted to delineate issues and provide solutions. Informal providers, including
traditional healers should be courted and linked with the formal system.
11. Private sector participation is needed
The project had very little dealings with the private sector. Support to the Family Planning Association
(AGBEF) was the only notable activity. Iodization and distribution of salt is an example of an area where
the private sector can be relied on. The private sector in Guinea is still small, but is growing. The
Government should examine policies on private sector participation in order to escalating private
investment in the health sector.
12. Exploit opportunities for inter sectoral collaboration
Most of the existing Bank projects in Guinea offer great opportunities for addressing health issues. They
include projects in Mining, CDD, Water, Urban and Education sectors. The mining industry already runs
several health institutions and programs. Community poverty alleviation programs could be designed to
address health while the water and education projects could link directly with the decentralized health
activities.
- 13 -



13. Use current lessons to improve future programs
This project benefited from the lessons of the first project. The state of health sector in Guinea and the
indicators were very depressing before the two projects. Much has been achieved since then. But unless
there is a clear follow up and continuity, these achievements could very easily be squandered. It is critical
that substantial HIPC resources are allocated to the health sector. In addition, the success of this project
provides a unique opportunity for the Bank and the Government to extend and expand their relationship.
The lessons learnt from this project should be fully assimilated and support for the Health sector enhanced.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/inmplementing agency:
An impact evaluation may be the best way of determiining the extent to which the objectives of this project
have been achieved. This should ideally be done after all the facilities have been opened and are functional.
The Government was very concemed about the changes in Bank teams during this project. They would
have preferred more stability and attributed some of the problems on the frequency of the changes. The
govemnment was otherwise very complimentary of the achievements of the project, including; (i) training,
(ii) improvement in quality of health services, (iii) enhancement in activities and nutrition status of the
population, (iv) strengthening of management of the health sector and decentralization, and (v) increased
mobilization and better management of resources. Borrower comments are summarized in Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
Not Applicable
- 14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix  -  .      .      Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Increase coverage of primary health care in  2001: 85%                     Mid-Term: 70%
Middle and Lower Guinea                                                     End of Project: 85%
Increase infant immunization coverage in  2001: 80%                        Mid-Term: 65%
Middle and Lower Guinea                                                     End of Project: 80%
Increase contraceptve prevalence rate in  2001:7%                          Mid-Term: 4%
Middle and Lower Guinea                                                     End of Project: 6%
Increase the prenatal care coverage in Middle 2001: 80%                    Mid-Term: 65%
and Lower Guinea                                                             End of Project: 80%
Reduce the prevalence of moderate and  2001:18%                            Mid-Term: 27%
severe malnutrition in 0 to 5 year old children                              End of Project: 18%
in Middle and Lower Guinea
Increase the ublization of impregnated bed  2001: 70%                      Mid-Term: 30%
nets in Middle and Lower Guinea                                             End of Project: 70%
Make all Regional Health Inspectorates and                                 Mid-Term: 10%%
Prefectoral Health Directorates fully                                        End of Project: 100%
functional in Middle and Lower Guinea (i.e.
adequately staffed, equipped and reporting
regularly) under decentralized management
system (increase to 100%)
Increase MSPAS non-salary recurrent                                        Mid-Term: FGN 5.3 billion and executed at
budget to at least FGN 5.3 billion in 1999 and                             least 90%.
its execubon to at least 90%.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrixri -  *  -         ProJected in last PSR1               Actual/Latest Estimate
Program 1:
Matemal and Child Heaflth and Family
Planning                             Adoption of National Plan to reduce matemal Completed
- Reinforcement of framework intervention  mortality; Dissemination of procedures in
reproductive health; and Printing of
Vaccinabon Cards
Training of 12 OB/ynecogistsdoctorsandCompleted
- Managemer.t of Pregnancy with High Risk  Training of 12 OBlGynecologists doctors and During the mid-term review it was decided to
hospital midwives;                   transfer the activities from PSN to PPSG
Training of 44 trainers in child birth
programs;
Training of 40 trainers in the management of
family planning programs.
Program 2:
Nutrition                                                                  Completed - distributed
- Fight against iodine deficiency     Purchased of 2667 boxes of 1500 iodine  Completed
capsules;
Trained 360 trainers on how to fight against
goiter
Trained Lab Technician to control salt
- Fight against Vitamin A deficiency  iodinabon                            Completed - distributed
Completed
Purchased Vitamin A capsules
Elaborabon of strategy to prevent Vit. A  Completed
deficiency;
- Integration of nutribon activities in Health  Dissemination of results of survey in the use Done
- 15 -



Centers at local level               of Vitamin A
- Community mobilization awareness   Training of 263 trainers to prevent   Done
malnutrition
Training of trainers (316 x 5 days) in SIAC
Trained/equipped with facilities in SIAC to
108 villages;
Evaluation of SIAC
- Nutrition service capacity          Research and production of technical data on Done
breast feeding
Program 3:                            100%                                 Done
Communicable Disease
-Survey of communicable disease       Purchase of software and computers
determinants
Trained 86 trainers in epidemiology   Done
- Integration of activites in the management  monitoring;
of communicable diseases             Trained 35 doctors for 3 days in integrated
epidemiology monitoring;
Training of 54 hospital doctors;
Workshop in coverage of diarrhea cases;
Training of community agents in SRO;  Done
-Testing of impregnated mosquito nets in  Training of Dr. Antoinette Hall at Univ. of
communites to control malaria    ,    Bruxelles;
Retrain 20 microscopist to diagnose malaria  Done
- Reinforcement of capacity service in  and tuberculosis;
leprosy, malaria and tuberculosis
Training of trainers on technique of testing on
Program 4:                            impregnated mosquito nets            Done
Social Mobilization
- Identification of determinants      Purchase of software and computers
Procurement of Health Printed materials  Done
- Improvements in capacity and competences                                 Done
- Message production and dissemination  Study on preliminary research in EPS and
IEC
Training DPS and 30 CS trainers in personal
communication;
Training of 25 media representatives on IEC Done
- Reinforcement of capacity service in social for integrated prevention;
mobilization                          Elaboration/Dissemination of educational
messages for media;                  D
Water and Sanitation:                 Training of 38 trainers in IEC/SR      one
- Operation of water structure to function  Dissemination of messages to educate health
center agents
Purchase of software and computers   Completed
- Human Resources development
Study/Analyze the situabon in public hygiene
and sanitation;                      Done
Constructon of 22 Productive Well and
- Reinforcement of the capacity in services  Water Drainage;
Proposition of functional structure
Program 5:                            WorkshopNalidation of modules in Hygiene
Health Facility Rehabilitaion and     & Water Sanitation;
Maintenance:                         Training of 46 trainers on Hygiene and Water Done
Sanitation modules
- Planning of Health Facilities       Support in software and audio-visual
equipment
Completed
- Rehabilitation of Infrastructure
- 16 -



Studies and Supervision of dvil works;
Architectural Design and Management;
Supervision of Construction/Civil works;
Contract Management for construcion;
Supervision of construction worker;
Architectural Studies and Supervision
Done
Construction of 4 Hospitals
- Improve management of local health  Construction of 18 Urban Centers
centers                               Construction of 18 Health Centers
Improved 2 Urban Centers             Completed
Purchase of Medical, Lab Equipment and
- Strengthening of the capacity in service  Fumiture;
Purchase of Solar and communication
Program 6:                            equipment;
Program 6:                 ~~~~~~Construction of Water Drainage
Strengthening Sector Organizaton and  Procurement of medicine              Completed
Ministry of Health (MSPAS)            Purchase of motorcycles and vehicles
- Rehabilitation and strengthening of MSPAS tools for hospitals  entathn of manaement Done
Purchase of software and computers
- Strengthening of the Capacity in Human
Resources                                                                  Completed
- Assistance in the Operational Cost in  Rehabilitaton/construction of MSPAS;
MSPAS                                 Procurement of office equipment and  Completed
fumrture;
Supervision of Construction
Survey & Monitoring of Studies Information
(SSEI)                               Training of 4 agents in Public Health
- Sector Coordination and Consultabon  Management;                         Completed
Participation of 10 agents to Intemational
Conferences and Seminars             Completed
Procurement of vehicles and equipment  Not done
- Establishment of Planning Methods   maintenance;                         Done
Financed Fuel
Hold forum on National Health        Done
Hold donors meetings and CTC
Support Annual review on PEV/SSP/ME and
- Collect, Analyze and Data Disseminabon  CTRS                             Completed
Development of PTHG 1996-1998 and 1999 Completed
to 2001;
Support Development of Annual Action Plan  Completed
for the Minister;
Training of 58 Prefecture Agents in Budget
Planning;
-Strengthening of the capacity in services  Workshop/Procedures of Manual
Development on Planning and          Completed
Decentralizabon;
DAAF: (Direction des affaires administratives Training of 40 statisticans to collect/analyze Completed
et financiers)                       statistics;
- Management on Administrabon and Finance Execution of software on EPISURV at SNIS
level;                                Done
Dissemination of Annual Statistics   Completed
1994-1998;
Production and Disseminaton of the bulletins
- Development of Human Resources     of SNIS info.
Done
Purchase of software and computers;
Contract Personnel on radio communication Done
- 17 -



and supervision
- Strengthening of the capacity in services
Technical assistance in budget and   Completed
bookkeeping;                         Completed
Decentralization:                    Support in the development of Annual  Done
- Strengthening of Capacity Building  Budget;                             Completed
Training of 30 managers on intemal audit and
office administrators;
- Supervision of activities on Health Training 2-Year contract for auditors
Done
Revision of Personnel status and job
descriptions;
- Support to FuncUional Structures   Implementation/Evaluation of steering
committee on continuing education;
Technical Assistance in HR           Done
Purchase of software and computers
- Establishment of Cost Recovery     Training of 2 Office Technology Specialists  Completed
PSN                                                                       Completed
- Technical ManagementtProject Finance  Rehabilitation of 2 iRS/Equipment of 4 IRS  Completed
Construction and provide equipment to 8  Completed
DPS Training of IRS and DPS
Done
Training of CS officers in SAIC and SRO;
Training of mid-wives
Training of Water Sanitation
Held meetings on CTRS and CTPS
Support to Monthly Supervision and mid-term
revie,w;
Payment of salaries to support personnel;
Support to daily functions of IRS and DPS
Study tariff rates system of Hospitals and
Health Centers;
Manual Development on Project Execution;
Held meetings on Planning and Budget of
PSN;
Evaluation of Phases 1 and 2 of the project;
Financial Management and Annual Audit of
Project;
Training of Administrative Officer and
Financial Management;
Purchase of software and computers
End of project
-18 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
'! C -                           -  -   ' ' '--  _, ' t {E, 't,,  " t > . 1, Appraisal-, ActuallL'atest. Percentage of
Estimate'     Estirmatel-   Appraisal
Projetticost-By Codmonent            US$ million  ' S$ million  ..  _..
A. Improving Service Coverage and Quality
1. Health Facility Rehabilitation and Maintenance  9.30         12.80            1.4
2. Supply of Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines         2.70           0.90            0.3
3. Strengthening of Key Technical Programs        1.60           3.10            1.9
B. Strengthening Sector Organization and Management  7.70          9.90           1.3
C. PPF Refinancing                                  0.70           0.64           0.9
Total Baseline Cost                                22.00          27.34
Physical Contingencies                             2.70
Price Contingencies                                2.60
Total Project Costs            27.30          27.34
Total Financing Required            27.30          27.34
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Pr,curement Method
Expenditure Categgory ,  : -   ICB    ,.CB  B  '   "' Othr -    N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                     5.40         4.30         0.00         0.00        9.70
(5.40)       (4.30)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (9.70)
2. Goods                     3.80         1.10         0.00         0.00        4.90
(3.80)       (1.10)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (4.90)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         2.90         0.00        2.90
(0.00)       (0.00)       (2.90)       (0.00)      (2.90)
4. Pharma & Vaccines 11      1.20         0.00         2.00         0.00        3.20
(0.70)       (0.00)       (1.80)       (0.00)      (2.50)
5. Miscellaneous (Training   0.00         0.00         5.90         0.00        5.90
and OperationlMaint. 13     (0.00)       (0.00)       (3.90)       (0.00)      (3.90)
6. PPF Refinancing           0.00         0.00         0.70         0.00        0.70
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.70)       (0.00)      (0.70)
Total                     10.40        5.40         11.50        0.00         27.30
(9.90)       (5.40)       (9.30)       (0.00)      (24.60)
1/ UNIPAC (UNICEF Procurement Agency)
2/ In accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency
(August 1981).
3/ In accordance with Government procedures.
-19-



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
'-E'penditureCt                        Pr       ent Meth             N.e.        Tot Cost
NCB    ~ _'-Other-J-__                     __
1. Works                       5.78          3.37          0.23          0.00         9.38
(4.73).       (2.19)        (0.02)       (0.00)        (6.94)
2. Goods                       2.95          1.27          0.78          0.00         5.00
(2.06)        (0.87)        (0.75)        (0.00)       (3.68)
3. Services                    0.00          0.00          2.63          0.00         2.63
(0.00)        (0.00)        (1.60)        (0.00)       (1.60)
4. Pharma & Vaccines /I        0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous (Training     0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
and Operation/Maint. /3       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. PPF Refinancing             0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                       8.73          4.64          3.64          0.00         17.01
(6.79)        (3.06)        (2.37)        (0.00)       (12.22)
Please note that Table applies to procurements only and not totalfinancial outlay.
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
4 i | - | J - __i j -_ -           -         +                  ,f;, ].centl. ofA .r.is
p'-Pra'isal Esthiate-. -. Actual/Latest'Estimate                  -
____________V___        Bank      Govt.    CoP.      Bink--:   Govt.    CoF.     Bank   Govt.' CoF.'
Maternal and child bealth,  0.20  0.07               0.17      0.07              85.0   100.0
including family planning.
Nutrition               0.50      0.00                1.38                       276.0   0.0
Communicable Disease    0.29      0.00               0.62                        213.8   0.0
Social Mobilization      1.07     0.02               0.91      0.02              85.0   100.0
Health Training         13.45     1.31               12.82      1.31             95.3   100.0
Capacity Building       9.40      1.29               9.94      1.29              105.7  100.0
Total                   24.60     2.69               23.17     2.69              94.2   100.0
Government totals included contributions from beneficiaries.
- 20 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
-21 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty           Perforrnance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
May 1991                     1   Public Specialist
I    Implementation Specialist
1   Nutrition Specialist
I   Health Economist
October 1991                 1   Public Specialist
I   Nutrition Specialist
I   Health Economist
I   Projects Officer
Appraisal/Negotiation
June/July 1992               2   Public Health Specialist
2    Implementation Specialist
I   Health Facilities Planner
I   Nutrition Specialist
I   Health Economist
I    Projects Officer
Supervision
02/06/1995                   3   (I)Sr. Public Health Spec.          S             S
(1) Implementation Spec
(1) Public Health Spec
11/29/1995                   4   Consultant (3); Health Economist   S             U
06/16/1996                   2   Task Team Leader (1);               S             S
Implementation Spec (1)
02/28/1997                   2   Sr. Health Economist (1); Sr.       S             U
Operation Officer (1)
10/28/1997                   3   Health Economist (1);              S              S
Disbrusement Anaylist (1);
Implementation Spec (1)
04/07/1998                   3   Health Economist (2); Public        S             S
Health Spec (1)
09/03/1999                   2   Team Leader/Health Econ (1);      .               S
Principal Public Health (1);
11/22/2000                   4   Team Leader/Health Econ (1);       S              S
Lead Sp. Public Health (1);
Financial Management (a);
Implementation Spec. (I)
05/11/2001                   4   Team Leader/Health Ec. (1);         S             S
Public Health Spec. (1);
Procurement Spec (1);
Implementation Spec (1)
11/09/2001                   4   Team Leader/Health Econ (1);       S              S
Implementation Spec(l);
- 22 -



Financial Management (1);
Procurment Spec (10
ICR
April 2002                   1    Lead Health Specialist            S             S
1    Sr. Operations Officer            S             S
I    Financial Analyst                 S             S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle  1                Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              34.67                      156.01
Appraisal/Negotiation                   53.23                     239.53
Supervision                            145.70                     655.63
ICR                                      7.95                     35.796
Total                                  241.55                    1,086.97
- 23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM       O N   O NA
OSector Policies                          O H   OSU*M       O N  O NA
f Physical                                OH *SUOM ON ONA
Z Financial                               O H   OSU*M       O N  O NA
2 Institutional Development               0 H   * SU O M    0 N  0 NA
? Environmental                           0 H   O SU O M    O N  0 NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                O H   OSUOM       O N   * NA
Gender                            OH *SUOM ON ONA
O Other (Please specify)            O H  OSUOM       O N   O NA
* Private sector development              0 H   O SU O M    0 N   0 NA
* Public sector management                0 H   0 SU O M    0 N   0 NA
M Other (Please specify)                  O H   OSUOM       O N   O NA
Other: Developed community linkages and
participation. Strong linkages with other
development partners, e.g. UNICEF and GTZ.
- 24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
0 Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
0 Supervision                                       OHS OS      O U    O HU
F Overall                                           OHS OS      O U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
(? Preparation                                      OHS OS       O U   O HU
F Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
F Implementation agency performance                 O HS OS      0 U   0 HU
F Overall                                           OHS *S       0 U   O HU
- 25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Staff Appraisal Report - Health and Nutrition Sector Project. Report No. 11684-GUI,
December 22, 1993
- Memorandum and Recommendation of the President - Report No.P-6024-GUI, February 7, 1004
- Development Credit Agreement, March 28, 1994
- Aide-Memoires, 1994-2002
- Project Status Reports, 1994-2002
- PSN Mid-Term Report, February 1999
- PSN Rapport D'Inventaire des Immobilisations, December 31, 2001
- La Gestion Mobilisatrice Des Ressources Humaines, Ministere de la Sante Publique, Novembre 2000
- Rapport sur La Situation Du Personnel De La Sante En Guinee, Ministere de la Sante Publique,
Octobre 2000.
- Plan Directeur De Developpement Des Ressources Humaines Du Secteur De La Sante, 2001-2010
Ministere de la Sante Publique.
- Procurement Decentralization and Country Responsibilities in the Africa Region, December 2001
- L' Initiatve de Bamako en Guinee (1991-1995)
- Guinea Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) 2000
Programming for Safe Motherhood. Guidelines for Maternal and Neonatal Survival. UNICEF, 1999
- Republique de la Guinee, Ministere de la sante publique, Projet Sante et Nutrition, Credit IDA No.
2574-GN, Rapport final de fin du projet, du 20 mars 2002
- 26 -



Additional Annex 8: Summary Borrower/Executing Agency
INTRODUCTION
Apres le PDSS (Projet de Developpement des Services de Sante), le Gouvemement guineen a demande a
F'IDA son assistance pour financer un deuxieme projet de six ans visant a appuyer la mise en ceuvre de la
strategie de d6veloppement de son systeme de sante pendant la periode 1992-2000. Les grandes lignes de la
politique et de la strategie adoptee dans ce domaine par le gouvemement ont evolue depuis 1986 et
concement aujourd'hui les questions de qualite et de couverture aussi bien que la perennite du systeme de
soins de sante.
Ainsi, le PSN (Projet Sante et Nutrition) se situe dans un contexte politique et historique de redresse-ment
socio-economique et de promotion des ressources humaines en cours depuis F'avenement de la deuxieme
Republique. I1 appuie le programme de reformes institutionnelles du secteur de la sante.
PRINCIPAUX PROGRAMMES TECHNIQUES:
* La Sante Maternelle et infantile / planning familial:
*      La nutrition.
*      La lutte contre les maladies transmissibles.
*      L' education sanitaire et communautaire.
*      Le renforcement de l'organisation et de la gestion du secteur.
*      Amelioration des systemes de gestion des ressources.
Resum6 de la contribution du PSN
Analyse par programme.
Le Tableau 1 ci-apres resume les depenses du PSN par rapport aux six programmes prevus.
Tableau 1: Repartition des depenses par programmes
Programme          Prevision         Realisat.         R6alisat.
(USD)             (USD)          (GNFX1000)         realisat.
1        SMI/PF                       198.786       165 ?550,01       157.7703,20
2         Nutrition                   504.539       1.382.649,5      1.317.665274
3         Lutte contre la             278.031        623.143,76     593.856224,10
maladie
4        Mobilisation sociale        1.068.653       914.606,50      871.62085 ,50
5        Fornations                 14.967.077     12.818.268,6    12.215.81091,40
sanitaires
6        Renforcement              10.290.914       9.935.870,93   9.468.88597,20
institut.
To           27.300.000     25.840.089,41   24.625.60694,60
Le taux de change utilis a l 'e'aluation du projet est: I USD = GNF 953
- 27 -



11 ressort de ce tableau que le taux global de l'execution du budget par programme montre un niveau de
94,60%. On note un large depassement au niveau des programmes nutrition et lutte contre la maladie. Ces
faits resultent de la sous estimation des besoins au cours de la preparation du projet.
Analyse de la contribution du Gouvernement (BND).
Tableau 2: Contributions annuelles du Gouvernement.
Ann1es               Prvision 1Ralisat.                         % real.
1                   1995                                _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
2                   1996              260.000.000        260.000000100,00
3                   1997              300.000.000        233.250.00067,00
4                   1998              442.700.000        335.000.00075,60
5                   1999              471.000.000        473.000.000100,40
6                   2000              450.000.000        429.600.00095,40
7                   2001              450.000.000        450.000.000100,00
Total general.            2.373.700.000      2.180.850.00091,80
nI ressort de ce tableau que la contribution du Gouvemement, en depit du contexte economique difficile du
pays se chiffre a 92% de ses engagements a la preparation du projet. Cependant, cette contribution varie
d'une annee a l'autre.
Au cours de P'annee 1997, la contribution a e de 67% alors qu'elle l'a ete de 100% en 1996, 1999 et
2001.
Toutes fois les contributions sont versees en general a partir du 6eme mois de l'annee budgetaire eu egard A
la tenue de la session parlementaire au mois de mars de chaque ann6e.
Analyse de la contribution des beneficiaires.
La contribution des beneficiaires s'est effectuee A travers:
-      La mise A disposition des domaines d'implantation des structures sanitaires et la regularisation des
papiers administratifs y afferents;
-      Le paiement des soins par la population A travers le recouvrement des cofits qui fera l'objet
d'analyse dans le chapitre << mobilisation des ressources financieres > qui cemera la capacite
du recouvrement des cofits des structures de sante.
- 28 -



CONCLUSION
Points forts et points faibles.
Points forts.
Au terme de l'ex6cution du projet sante et nutrition, on note:
Au niveau central.
(i)    La forte amelioration dn cadre de travail des services centraux par la renovation du siege du
Ministere
de la sante publique et l'equipement des bureaux.
(ii)   L'amelioration de la capacite d'encadrement du Ministere par la formation et la mise a disposition
de moyens logistiques efficaces et de fournitures diverses pour le fonctionnement des services.
(iii)  Le respect des engagements financiers du Gouvemement lors de la negociation du projet.
(iv)   L'important soutien de la Mission Residente dans l'execution du projet.
Au niveau des structures deconcentrees.
(i)    L'amelioration du cadre de travail et de la capacite de gestion des DRS et des DPS.
(ii)   L'elargissement du paquet minimum des activites techniques par leur integration.
(iii)  La mise en place des structures de coordination a tous les niveaux de la pyramide sanitaire
a permis un echange d'experiences entre les agents.
(iv)   L'aptitude des structures deconcentrees regionales et prefectorales a organiser de facon
autonome leur fonctionnement.
Points faibles.
(i)    Le retard de 1'execution des travaux de genie civil qui a induit une prorogation de la date de cloture
du projet de 9 mois.
(ii)   La lourdeur administrative dans les procedures de passation de marches.
(iii)  Le decalage entre la renovation/construction et l'appui au fonctionnement des structures affaiblit
les effets du projet sur la sante de Ia population.
(iv)   Les equipements ne sont pas livres a temps et en totalite avant la cloture du projet.
(v)    La sous estimation des couits de certaines composantes du projet.
Recommandations.
Au niveau central.
(i)    Alleger les procedures de passation de marches.
(ii)   Encourager les administrations prefectorales, communales et sous communales a contribuer
au fonctionnement des services de sante.
(iii)  Encourager l'appropriation des structures par les beneficiaires pour garantir la perennisation
du fonctionnement des structures.
Au niveau deconcentre.
(i)    Poursuivre l'implication active des communautes dans la gestion des services de sante.
(ii)   Amener les structures prefectorales et sous prefectorales a contribuer au fonctionnement
des services de sante.
(iii)  Encourager dans les zones respectives la mise en place des systemes de solidarite dans le paiement
des soins (mutuelle de sante, M U R I G A ).
(iv)   Mettre en place des mecanismes et des outils de gestion du patrimoine des services de sante.
(v)    Developper un systeme de maintenance decentralise des infrastructures et des equipements.
- 29 -






1'2-                   ~~~~~~~~1,00                    80
E ~  ~         ~         ~        ~        GIE
~~-~~~-~~-~~~-g-~~~~-~~~-t<> ~ ~ ~ ~~o                                  G     U   I                     G UN NEEA
G  N E A  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   ~   ~  ~   ~~~~~           _~~Nyagassolo
IN                                                                             To Bomoko
.,.             C~~~~~~~~~~~My          N
-,llJtilEIERS  *-  ,i;   8:  Wl  t  <~TgFreetown   CHEMINDEFER   -  &   sKIs:> Niandu koro L  L  I
- => FLEUVES t \                                                      bcl/  K   < |  iana
rE   't t Lr       ,  I p(            69IATIONELCPTLfV                                         I 
1M ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                             Kankan    ~~             ~ 
aranah    I N                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~100
)          Moriba~~M4r
2A tI  n  t  i cS                            IERUSPRAT E S  PAR TO US LEEMPS   f  4r                  -
*.tCE_o'            ** *- /...    .       P ECTREAPILTALS        _-_ I     K/ d f ugouvr>,
GUINEA N -- -. ! ~Fretw       CHEMINE DES PRFECTRES..'>(J( 
PAVEDRIVERS
ROEUTES PVE
ROU NTERNATIONAL IARPR TO                        K
A t In n  c   , g  u. .er   ay lU9men on Phe lgol taPtYs o  any  Pe,----------  yidnB I  GAILROADS  K.is   ouTo  f  nu
LAUA1NIA                        AEROPORT INTERNATIONAL               G                 . E0 
/              ~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL  Rc'1             et    ISIC4EgRnE
THE NEGi LCAPITALE                                                                           E.LsIIL
rH -'            1                        AD IMINISTRATIVE REGION CAPITALS
G4ASBIA- --                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CA P1TALES DES MINIS TERES RESIDENTS  0r
-~~~~~~  0 ~~~~~~~0         PREFECTURE CAPITALS2
BISSAd~~~,   tilt  ri.0  80 ~~~~PREFECTURESBUDRE                                                             O E    8
B  -s -A-                                 ADMINISTURAIE RGO BOUNDARIES                oko
GUINEA J,                           LIMITES DES PREFECTURES                        z'~     '   Ll
Con~Isr1~  **'  .~  I  4               LIMITES DES MINISTERES RESIDENTS  -                 ~D'IVO~I R
SIERRA'kE,_CNE           IINTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
CTE                  FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES 
I The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information  LIBERIA Aa
A t I an it Ic  bp Ishown on this map dlo not imply, on the port of The Worcld Bank Group0        0TA            jo
O  ceon,                        any judgment on te legal status of any territory, or any endorsement
C_I/ot,. r  or acceptance of such boundaries                                              8



