The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
MI CROGRAPHI CS
Report No: P-   6024 GUI                               Rpot N. P-6024-GU
Type: MOP
DORANDUM AND            TION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTOENTIONAL DEVELOPMET ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMNTOM EQUIVALENT TO SDR 17.4 HILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GUIN
FOR A
ELTH AND NUTITIMON SECTOR PROJECT
FEBRUARY 7, 1994
This docume  has a restited distibution and may be used by ciDpi   oy in th perfoamae of
their official duties its contents may not othewise be disclosed wid  Woldd Ban authoriation.



CllRRENCY EOUIVMENTS
Currency Unit = Guinean Franc (OF)
US$1 = GF953
GFI = US$0.001
GFl000 = US$1.05
I m = 1.09 yd
1 m2 = 10.76 sq ft
1 km2 = 0.38 sq mi
ABREATIONS AnS
CSP          Project Review Committee
CTC          Technical Coordinating Committee
ESW          Economic and Sector Work
MSPAS               Ministry of Public Health and Social Affairs
EMALAIEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HEALTH AND NUTRMON SECTOR PRI;Ci
CREAND PROlE SURRY
Government of Guinea
AmQImt:                     SDR 17.4 million (US$24.6 million equivalent)
TM:                  Standard IDA, with 40 years maturity
Fnaningg Plan:             (US$ million, net of duties and taxes)
Felg InL l
IDA                  19.2                 5.4                  24.6
Government           0.0                  1.9                   1.9
Beneficiaries   0 8
20.0                 7.3                  27.3
Rate of Retur:       Not applicable
Staff AprRWaisa
MMpQf:                      No. 11684-GUI
IBRD No. 25378
rThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipients onfs,, :n  performancez
|of their offcWa duties. Its contents may not otheowie be disclosed without W. e. d Dat lA authorization.|



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENrT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A HEALTH AND NUTrRMTON SEC=YRP013I
1.                 I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation
on a proposed development credit to the Republic of Guinea for SDR 17.4 million, the equivalent of
US$24.6 million, on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years. This credit would help finance
a project to increase coverage and quality of health services in seven of Guinea's 33 prefectures and
to improve resource mobilization and overall management of the health sector. More limited serv*es
support would also be provided to the five other prefectures covered under the previous IDA health
project (Cr. 1837-GUI). In addition, decentralization of the management system would be supported
in 18 prefectures (the above-mentioned 12 and six others in the same two regions).
Part 1: Country Pol8des and Bank Group's-AsIsistane StrMe
A. Introductlion
1.1          This Country Assistance Strategy paper documents recent positive developments in
Guinea's economic performance, which provide an encouraging context for fitre development
assistance. Guinea has completed its most pressing tasks of stabilization and structural adjustmet, and
has embraced a democratic process. It now needs to deepen its adjustment effort so as to enable its
population to enjoy the benefits of sustained growth. Over the medium term, Guinea wil need to
continue to rely on the mining sector as the main source of foreign exchange and govenment
revenue, while intensifying Its diversification activities and pursuing an aggressive strategy to remove
the constraints to agricultural activity as the motor for long-term economic growth.
A. Rack==ld
1.2          Guinea is a country with over 6 million inhabitants and a high population growth. It
is richly endowed with agricultural, mineral and energy resources. Yet its per capita income is only
$537 1. Its social indicators are among the lowest in Sub-Saharan Africa: about a quart of the
chfldren die before the age of five; life expectancy is 44 years; only 34 percent of school-age children
have access to primary education; and 76 percent of the adult population Is illiterate.
1.3          From the late 1950's until the mid-1980's, the Government of Guinea pursued policies
designed to assert central control over the economy. The once dynamic agricultural sector regressed
to subsistence production, private activity went underground, and the country became heavily
dependent on mining eWorts. An ambitious public investment program failed to create a modern
stao-owned manufacturing sector, producing a substantial debt burden and incipient arrears. The
exchange rat became heavily overvalued, non-mining tax revenues shrank, right were sevedy
curtailed, the better educated migrated abroad in large numbers, inadequate education and health
policies left the population ill-prepared for the necessary modernization of the country, state banks
and public enterprises became insolvent, and the nation's existing infrastructure crumbled. As a result
of economic mismanagement, annual economic growth averaged only 2 percent during the entire
period, while demographic growth accelerated to 2.8 percent per year. In 1986, GNP per capita was
I A recent update of GDP figures in the country were used for the tables in Annex A4.
As a result, GDP per capita was increased from the 1991 figure of US$460 used in the 1993
World Development Report, to US$537. These data are currently being reviewed by the Bank
and the IW.



2
barely US$300. For all practical purposes, at the end of this period, the country's formal economic
system had ceased to function, with the exception of mining activity.
1.4          After the death of President Sekou Toure in 1984, the new Government of President
Conte embarked on fundamental changes in the economic and political processes. Pollowlng the
reintroduction of civil rights and freedom of expression, a new constitution was adopted in December
1990 which allowed for the creation of political parties. Presidential elections took place on December
19, 1993. They will be followed by legislative elections in early 1994.
C. Performanc
1.5          Since the adoption of its economic stabilization and adjustment program in 1985,
Guinea has been implementing policies aimed to promote sustainable growth by reducing the role of
the state in the economy. Major steps undertaken by the Government include the introduction of a
new currency (the Guinean franc), at a rate that implied a 93 percent rate of depreciation, and the
adoption of a flexible exchange rate system based on a managed float pegged to the parallel market;
dismantling of th'. price control system; elimination of import licensing procedures; application of a
uniform tariff of 10 percent for most goods; introduction of real positive interest rates; and improved
control over public finances. By most aceounts, Guinea could be considered among the better
performers of Sub-Saharan Africa. In a somewhat uneven manner, the country has undergone its most
pressing period of stabilization and is now ready to face its longer-term development constaints.
1.6          The Government's program has resulted in real economic grgwh. GDP growth
averaged 3.8 percent per annum during 1987-92 -an increase in real per capita income of about 1
percent per annum. lTis is nearly double average annual GDP growth of 2 percent during the 1958-
1984 period. Furthermore, GDP growth may be underestmated as nmch as 30-40 percent on account
of informal sector activities in construction, small manufacturing and services, which have incrsed
over the period. The tightening of fiscal policies has contributed to a significant reduction of inflation.
Following the 1986 devaluation, consumer prices rose by 72 percent during 1986, but the rate of
inflation declined to about 20 percent in 1988. It increased to 30 percent in 1990, largely as a result
of a stsrp dse in the domestic prices of petroleum, before slowing down again. It has steadily
declined for the past three years and is estimated to stand at less than 10 percent in 1993.
1.7          Guinea's fiscal and balance-of-payment performance, however, remains influenced by
fluctuains in revenues from mining, which account for 88 percent of export earnings and 58 percent
of Government revenue. The current account deficit, which had improved significantly in 1986-89,
rose to 9 percent of GDP in 1992, reflecting a substantial drop in bauxite and alumina export
earnings. Preliminary esmates for 1993 indicate that the deficit hias been reduced to 7.6 percent of
GDP and is in line with program targets.
1.8          Similarly, the overall budgetary deficit improved in 198648 and has stabilized at 8
percent of GDP. The primary budget deficit, however, was reduced from 9.4 percent of GDP in
1986, to 3.3 percent of GDP in 1992. 2 This important flsca adjustment has been the result of a
gradual increase in domestic non-mining revenue mobilization, largely from higher petroleum taxes
and customs daties, from 2 percent of GDP in 1986 to almost 7 percent of GDP in 1992, and   -
improved control over current spending, despite substantial wage increases in 1988 and 1991. The
2 The primary budget balance, which in this case is defined as Government revenues
'excluding mining revenue and foreign grants), minus non-interest current expendiures and
domestically-finced investment is considered a good indicuor of fiscal adjustnmt a it
involves only items on which the Government has discretionary power.



3
sharp decline in mining export prices led to a serious reduction of the sector's contribution to
government finances. This has severely constrained government revenues and resulted in the
accumulation of extemal debt payment arrears.
1.9          The fiscal program for 1993 aimed at reducing the overall budget deficit throgh a
combination of improved non-mining revenue collection and a containment of current expenditure. A
drop in non-mining revenues during the last quarter of 1992 did not allow the Government to meet
ESAF fiscal performance targets and, as a consequence, Guinea remains under a shadow program.
An IMF mission which visited the country from November 6 to 23, 1993 has found that the
Government has met shadow program targets up to September 1993 on the fiscal deficit. Despite
improvements in the performance of non-mining revenue -and in the collection of customs duties -
the Government effected substantial cuts in non-wage recurrent expenditure and the public investment
budget to meet IMF targets. A joint IMF/Bank mission scheduled for February 1994 expects to
review revenue mobilization efforts and expenditure performance for the last quarter of 1993 and to
agree on a realistic 1994 budget as the basis for a new ESAF arrangement.
1.10         The agriculure sector has grown in recent years, and higher rura incomes have, in
tr, boosted overall activity, particularly in the trade sector. National account esdmates show that
value added in the ;kricultural sector grew by about 3 percent per annum in 1989-91 and more than 4
percent in 1992. Production of food grains rose by over 60 percent between 1989 and 1992,
compared to a declining trend in the first half of the 1980's. Overall, the growth of non-mining GDP
has remained at a high level, averaging 4.5 per annum during 1988-92. While agriculturd sector
paformance has surpassed that of neighbouring countries, it is yet below the country's potential.
1.11         Key objectives of the Government's structural adjustment program were improving
fnancial intermeeiation, disengaging the state from commercial activities, Improving civil service
management, giving greater attention to human resources needs, and shifting public expenditure
toward economic and social Improvement.
1.12         The Government made progress in reforming the flnanmial &=. By late 1985, all
state-owned banks had been liquidated and new commercial banks were established with foreign
participation. New banking and central bank regulations were adopted. Partly as a result of weak
central bank supervision, and partly because of the failing of the legal and judicial famework in
enforcing business law, the financial position of commercial banks has deteriorated. Two banks did
not meet prudential regulations introduced in 1991; one has been recently restructured, and the second
is in the process of being restructured. The financial system is in need of a ;uch deeper
restructuring, in order to allow the Central Bank to fulfill its fundamental objectives of monetary
policy, supervision of the banking system and, ultimately, mobilization of the resources needed for
the country's sustained growth.
1.13         The restructuring of Guinea's public enterris sector has been another area of
improvement and is an integral part of the Government's efforts to reduce the role of the state in the
economy and strengthen the public finances. Of a total of 200 public enterprises operaing in the
commercial, industrial and services sectors, 90 were privatized or liquidated during 1988. After a
temporary slowdown of the privatization effort, the Government has undertaken to reform enterprises
of strategic importance. As part of this effort, it has privatized petroleum distribution, has
successfully transferred the responsibility for the management of Guinea's urban water supply system
to private hands, and is completing similar private management arrangements for electricity
generation and distribution, telecommunications and postal services.
1.14         Government objectives since 1985 have been to reduce the number of fivijvj
staff in cental government activities and to control the wage bill. During the first phase of this
nrogram (1986V1991), the Government reduced the number of staff bY nearly 40 nercent. Currenly.



4
the civil service force stands at 50,000, which is low when compared to most neighbouring counties.
After subsial wage increases In 1991, a computerized civil service management system was
established, which resulted in a 10 percent reduction of the wage bill.
1.15         Guinea has been able to achieve progress in its h1uuMDeaa =    d .nl en1Jua.
Poverty issues are being specifically addressed by promoting access to income generating activities
and Improved access to social services. While improvements have been achieved, given the very low
starting base, sustained efforts are required to bring social indicators to acceptable standards. After a
near-breakdown of education services, real expenditure fur eiduaion has inreased significantly, fom
12 percent of total government current expenditure in 1989 to 18 percent in 1992, and primary
education has been graned the highest priority. Net primary school enrollments have increased from
28 percent in the mid-1980's to 34 percent In 1992. Nevertheless, they remain dismally low, and are
even lower for girls (21 percent). Considerable attention Is being paid to factors whicb affeat the
quality of education -including improvements in student/teacher ratios and the availability of teachn
materis- as well as girls' enrollment.
1.16         After the nea collapse of its baleh system, a new health policy was adopted in 1987
to improve coverage, quality and efficiency. Overall, Guinea has made considerable strides In a
relatively short period: primary health care coverage increased from 7 percent In 1987, to nealy 40
percent in 1991, and child vacction coverage increased from 5 percent to 60 percent in some areas
during the same period. Particular attention is being paid to matenalchild care, family planning, and
basic preventive and curative health care. While some progress has been made to improve sector
management, broader sectoral and institutional issues, such as the overall level of budget resources
allocated to the sector, insufficient decenalization, and personnel and finncial magement problems
stll constiue impediments to furfther improvements of the health care sitem.
1.17         Concomitandy with these changes, the PIP was restructured to exclude several non
viable project, and to give a higher priority to the rehabilitation of nmi nkausI-r eand urban
:rice and particularly, transport infrastructure and urban sanitation, to meet objectives of greater
efficiency, productivity and employment creation through labour-intensive works executed by loca
enterprises.
1.18         The above stabilization and adjustment reforms have been supported by IDA and the
IMP, with co-financing support from France, the United States, the EEC and ADB. IMA support has
been in the form of two macroeconomic adjustment credits (SALs) and two sectoral adjustment
operations (private sector and education). IMF support has included two stand-by arrangements In
1986 and 1987. Guinea has been under an ESAF arrangement since November 1991, and under a
shadow program since April 1993.
D. External Environment
1.19         The principal issue confronting Guinea regarding external factors Is its dependency on
the mining sector, particularly bauxite and alumina, as a source of foreign exchange and government
revenue. The volatility of foreign exchange earnings which Is unavoidably linked to a nearly single-
export economy has rendered the country's structural adjustment process more difficult and has been
largely responsible for an uneven fiscal performance. GuinWa's long-term development strtegy will
necessarily need to stress the diversification of its export base away from mining and to concentrate
on the agricultural sector as the focal point of future GDP growth. Nevertheless, the country's
financing needs over the medium term wIll necessitate the continued growth of the mining sector as a
source of revenue. Its yet untapped mining resources of gold, diamonds and iron ore, the recent
interest of foreign investors in Guinea, and renewed Government efforts to improve the environment
under which foreign investment could expand, should result in real annual growth of this sector.



5
expected to increase from its current 2 percent to 4 percent in 1996, with considerable potential for
even higher growth thereafter. There are, however, genuine concerns over the damage to the
environment that mining can create. The Government is addressing these issues in the context of the
ongoing revisions of the legal and regulatory framework for the mining sector, which will place
particular emphasis on specific investment requirements to prevent environmental degradation, in both
the industrial and artisanal mining sub-sectors.
1.20         Despite sizable debt relief, particularly in 1989 and in 1992, Guinea's external debt
burden has remained heavy. Total debt ouanding stood at US$2.6 billion as of December 31, 1992,
and was equivalent to about 80 percent of GDP in 1992. Total external debt service due was
equivalent to about 33 percent of export earnings as of December 31, 1992. Debt service paid in
1992, however, was equivalent to 73 percent of total service due; the remaining debt service due was
rescheduled in November, 1992. Gufnea's debt outstanding and disbursed (DOD) to the Bank group
as a share of total debt stood at 21 percent at the end of 1992. Debt senr.ce to IDA was equivalent to
25 percent of toal debt service obligations at the end of 1992; however, it declined considerably in
199% (to just 3 percent) after the old IBRD portfolio was fully repait. Execuition of an IMFdupponed
ESAF is expected to resut in furter restructuring of Guinea's exten  debt under the Enhanced
Toronto Convention. Guinea would also benefit from IDA's Debt Reduction Facility.
LE. 5m mLQWnifr Obes and Poides
1.21         A hard look at where Guinea stood in 1985 in terms of economic and social policy
and where it stnds now demonstrates the substantial progress achieved and the Govmentes fim
resolution to change previously entrenched behavioral patterns. T'e economic reforms lmplemented
so far under the policy framework have direciy contributed to generate real positive growth. Yet,
these effots have not been sufficient to sustain a higher level of GDP growth.
1.22         'me Government intends to continue to put in place the fimdamentals for
develom. On the economic front, the principles of stabilizing, libelizing and privaziag the
economy remain valid, and are necessary to consolidate and deepen the on-going eonmic refrm
process. There are, nevertheless, a number of issues that arise from the Government's agenda.
A centrat Moncem is the need to further reshape the role of the public sector and to improve the
enabling environment for private sector-led growth. In order to address issues of goverace, an
overriding principle of such a transformation would be to establish and adminstr a regulatory
framework which creates a level field for all. Financial sector management must be improved.
Continued improvement of the country's infrastructre must be susd  throug improveme  in
economic efficiency. Seod, and equally important to such an agenda, is the fact that the country bas
not invested sufficiently in the development of its human resource base; it remains a long term
constaint to economic growti that must be addressed. idb is the need to effect changes In sectoral
policy and in the institutional framework of the country's key productive sectors - mining and
agriculture -to elicit the needed response. FnllWy, the country's capacity to manage its natral
resource base and its enviromment must be improved.
1.23         Consistent with the objective to further redefine the role of government In the
economy an -address issues of governance, the Government seeks to effect ctanges not only on
nublic administration behaviour and skills but on continued Improvement of the efficlency of the use
of public resources.
1.24         Redefinition, of the Govemment's role bas so far concentrated largely on ciil savridi
refrm  In the coming years, Guinea's public adminstration will need to undergo profod cbnges to
adapt itself to the creased role of the private sector. The next pbafe of civil service reform wfll
theref teed to focus on the redefinidon of objectives and specific aeas of responsibility for each of,
ihe central and ublic sector institutions. includina improvements on their skill mix. so as to allow



6
them to become part of the enabling environment -not an obstacle- for private sector development.
A key area of reform is the restructuring of Guinea's judicial system, which until recently has
constituted an impediment to private initiative. Main reforms being implemented are the creation of a
disciplinary council within the Council of Magistrates to reinforce the ethical standards of the legal
profession, the professional training of magistrates, and the effective execution of judicial decisions,
particularly as regards financial contract disputes. Over the medium term, revision of the
compensation structure for magistrates and review of budgetary allocatons for the Judiciary remain
key objectives.
1.25         The Government's prora to restructure. privatize and liquidate public enterprises
will be continued as a fundamenal measure to reduce the role of the state In the economy and to
correct infrastructre deficiencies. Despite the adoption of a privatization law In April 1993,
Government delayed actions to privatize or restructure the larger, very inefficient publie; enterprises,
with a corresponding negative impact on the public budget and reduced effectiveness of infraucture
services. G(wvernment is now completing arrangements to itroduce private management of power
distribution and the post and telecommunications systems,with specific project assistance from IDA
and other donors. Government is also focussing on a more systematic approach to evaluation of
privatization propossl with assistance under an IDA-financed technical assistnce project. Beyond
these ongobg efforts, Government decision is needed to liquidate two key revenue-loss enterprises -
the national airline (Air Guinde), and the public transportation company (SOGETRAG)- and to
privarae the puh'lic equipment agency (SOGUITRO), all three of which are key for continued IDA
involvement in the rehabilitaion of the transport sector. Although Air-Guinde was put under new
management and is no longer receiving direct Government subsidies, it is a long way away from
being financiahlly viable. In the longer runt, expenditure savings resulting from Government action on
these entpses would result in improved resource allocations for maintnce of transport
infratcture, which at this point consutes a major management containt An additional 43 public
enterprises with commercial functions are being examined for possible privatzation.
1.26         After the restructuring of the banking system in 1986, it was hoped that Guinea's
inancia system would gradually diversify and expand. Major impediments to the development of
bank credit have been the lack of collateral and difficulties in the enforcement of financal contracts.
Reflecting a general increase in non-performing loans, the financial position of commercial banks has
deteriorated, and two banks did not meet prudential regulations established in 1991. Their
restructuring is nearly completed. Criical shortcomings have been the de facto granting by the
Central Bank of waivers on prudential regulations; banking regulations which resulted in excessively
risky concentration of loans of up to 100 percent of bank net equit to a single borrower, th bsen'v
of unified accounting and audit systems applying to banks; poor risk assessment capabilities; and
inadequate monitoring mechanisms on compliance with foreign exchange requirements and prudentia
reguation. Ihe already mentioned inadequacies of the legal and judicial system in the application of
business law have also affected the financial position of the banking system. Government is
implementing a major program of financial reforms, including the redesign of major cenral bank
policy instruments and improvements in finncial intermediation through the introduction of treasuy
bills. The first treasure bill auction, which took place in mIdDecember, 1993 was considered a
success. Improvements are being made to the process at a second auction being held in February,
1994 with asistance from the Bank's financial complex.
1.27         To address one of Guinea's major development constraints, am    ro
development strategyis being implemented. Key areas of concern are population growth and poRM
with particular emphasis on women and children, and the provision of socalsrvce. ouiis'
population Is concentated In rural areas: nearly 75 percent derives its income from agricultral
activities, mostiy of a subsistenco n%r. There ate indications that the situation of the rMi r is
gradually improving as tesult of the liberalization of the eoonomy and the ongoing rehabilitation of
transport Infraructure, which enables producers to market their products. Their prosets wi



7
inevitably continue to be tied to future economic growth. Government, with IDA assistance, Is also
building the capacity of key government institutions through training to assess poverty issues and Is
promoting initiatives to create small-scale and micro-enterprises.
1.28         In reoent years, rban pvet has become an important problem, particularly in
Conakry. Rural migrants and large numbers of refugees from neighbouring countries have settled In
squatter neighbourhoods lacking basic services of water, electricity, solid waste collection, and
saniary disposal of human waste. Industrial and port pollution contribute to the general deteriration
of the quality of life. Government programs, supported by IDA aitd other donors, to provide Conakry
and secondary cities with basic urban infrastructure and services have so far been insufficient and are
being intensified through the involvement of beneficiaries and local enterprises. Major constraints are
the limited managerial capacity of urban institutions and the inadequate maintenance of works and
equipment.
1.29         Sin e 1990, there has been a sharp improvement in the share of education in the
current budget, and priority is being given to improving access to priary education, where
enrollments are expected to increase from th*. wrent 34 percent to some 40 percent over the next ten
yeas. Issues affecting the edutiga ar are of an institutional and financial nature, but eforts to
decentralize maagement are expected to result in improvements. Of equal importance, however, is
the issue of whether the education system continues to be relevant to Guinea's economic development
objectives. Government has shown strong commitment to the reform of the system by fowssing on
basic education, the provision of public education services, which wt go beyond the elementary
skills of literacy and numeracy to provide young people with skills for employment In both the formal
and informal sectors. Women's access to the education system is limited. lhus, great  attention will
be paid to the insdtutionalization of programs designed to enhance girls education.
1.30         While substantial progress has been achieved in providing health services to a larger
proportion of t&O population, and particularly to the rural poor, much needs to be done to inprove the
quality and coverage of health services, and to address issues of sector managment, efficiency, and
overall susanability of the health care system. At the core of these problems is the fact that current
budget allocations for health have steadily declined. Current spending fell from 5.2 percent of total
current budget expenditure in the late 1970's to 2 percent in 1991. It increased to 3 percent of tOW
current expenditure in 1993, but remains insufficient to enable the Government to provide basic health
care to the Guinean population. Recognizing these consaints, the Government is commit  to
increase current budget allocations for the sector, to accelerate decentralization as a means to improve
sector management, to institute a new hospital policy, and to support the expansion of cost recovery
and the role of the community in managing health care.
1.31         Guinea is endowed with one of the highest concenatwion of miuerat resources in
Africa: an estimated 25 billion tons of bauxite deposits, equivalent to one-third of known world
deposits; considerable proven but unexploited iron ore resources; large deposits of diamonds with an
estimated potential annual output of about 250,000 carats; and substantial gold deposits, with an
estimated potential yield of 10-15 tons per year. Geological exploration indicates that there is some
potential for other minerals as well, including lead, zinc, silver, uranium, nickel and platinum. Only a
fraction of this resource base, however, is being exploited. Between 1985-91, foreign investment in
Guinea's mining sector amounted to some US$600 million in assets. Government investment in
mining-related transport infrastructure raises total investment in mining to about US$1 billion. About
three-quarters of this investment is in bauxite. Significant artisanal activity takes place in gold and
diamonds.
1.32         Weak world demand in the past four years has caused a substantial decline in mining
export prices and has forestalled new investment in mining. Yet, the mining sector will need to



8
the rate of economic growth, not only because of its current importance in the ftnances of the
country, but because of the above-mentioned untapped exploitable resources. Notwithstanding the
current environment for investment, several major foreign investors have been working alongside the
Guinean Authorities on arrangements that would allow for private mining ventures.
1.33         Interna  constraints that slowdown foreign investment decisions are: (i) the extent to
which the existing framework may have reduced Guinea's competitiveness vis-a-vis other producers.
For bauxite, Guinean prices In 1988 were higher than those of In Brazil, Jamaica and Australia,
reflecting higher costs in exploitation, transportation and taxes. Guinea's competitiveness has
improved in recent years, but remains below that of other producers; (ii) the Government's insistance
on a high degree of participation in mining ventures; and (iii) even when the new mining code
itoduced in 1986 sought to streamline and standardize investment incentives, it continued togrant
broad discretionary powers to Government in their administration.
1.34        Bank Group financing has supported mining activity in the past. It has o assisted
the Government in reviewing the sector's major constraints, and contributed in a substantive way to
the adoption of a new mining policy in November of 1991. While the new policy advocates
retenchment by the state from the ownership and operation of mines, revision of the mining code,
reintbrcement of Its role of promoter and regulator, and application of a new tax regulation -
Government has applied this policy unevenly. In November 1993, however, the Government signed a
contract allowing for total private ownership of a gold mine partially financed by IFC, and is
negotiating fill private ownership with two other mining companies. It has also initiated restructurig
of its largest bauxite company. Beyond these effots, Government needs to implement the key actions
of its new policy and to remove instiutional bottlenecks to investment. Tbe negative effects of
mineral exploitation on the environment are also being addressed in the context of the legal and
regulatory fiamework reform, though the establishment of a system of incentives for Investment to
address environmental issues.
1.35         Acgdulure was traditionally the dominant economic activity in Guinea. Its
contibution to total GDP in 1965 was about 57 percent. It declined to 45 percent in 1981, and to less
fan 30 perent in 1989. Severe policy distortions have been the primary cause of this trend. With the
introduction in 1985 of price liberalization for most food Items, and the elimination of food import
monopolies, the Government sought to promote the growth of the sector. In the face of an inadequate
response, it adopted in 1991 a statement of aicultural policy which focussed on the development of
high potential crops -rice and vegetAble oils- to achieve food security In the short run; coffee and
horticutural crops, to resume growth in traditional exports; and a program to diversify exports. In
support of production, a nominal tariff of 20 percent on imported rice was established, and the
remaining administered prices for agricultural exports were to be removed. Despite high levels of
public investment, backed by IDA and donor assistance, the sector is far from recapturing its
historical contribution to GDP. The central reason is that reform actions have not been flly
implemented and investment has continued largely in the hands of the state, becoming increasingly
inefficient. The low investment in agriculture reflects the continued inadequacy of the regulatory and
incentive framework. The sector's potential remains high, both for domestic production and for
traditional exports products (coffee, cotton), where exchange rate and wage factors would contribute
to competitiveness, and in the long run, for diversification of production for exports within the region
and abroad.
1.36         The Government is seeking to identify and temove constraints to agricultural growth,
and has explicitly requested Bank assistance to carry out this work. Until recently, the concept of
individual land rights did not exist. A new land rights code establishing private owmership was
adopted in 1987, but i.9 application has been limited. Likewise, while the Government has promoted
the creation of producer associations and cooperatives, the response has been slow. Althougb an
imnrnvmnpnt over naSt nnlicies. the rei,i,latnrv framework stiffiem from a combinatfin of over-



9
legislatlon and under-capacity to apply regulations and monitor reforms. The institutional apparatus is
plagued with numerous entities with ll-defined and overlapping mandates, and no clear
accountability. This is true of the several entities charged with production, and of key services of the
Ministry of Agriculture. Consideration would need to be given to privatization or dismantling of
public etities involved In production, and to reducing public employment in agriculture. Remaining
price and trade constraints need to be removed. Improvements in the overall environment for credit,
product marketing, and technical innovation are necessary ingredients for an appropriate market
respase.
1.37         Guinea is confronted with four serious enviwromenta issues: rapid urbazatiorn,
increasing rural population density, large number of refugees, and the impact of mining activities.
Rapid urban growth in Conakry (5 percent per annum) is exacerbated by serious drainage problems,
the lack of a comprehensive strategy for human waste disposal and inadequate solid waste collection
services. Ongoing Govenment efforts to decentralize services will provid, an opportunity to improve
the urban environment through improved programming and planning of investments, local resource
mobilization and community participati :n. Rural population density, aggravated by refugees frm
neighbouring counties, combined with traditional shifting slash-and-burn techniques, is cnt
to deforestation and soil erosion. Mining companies are contribufting to dust and river pollution
While Govenument was initially slow in responding to environmental concerns, our dWogue on
natural resource management and the environment has er. auraged the Goverment to speed up the
preparation of an Environmental Action Plan which can serve as the basis for donor copation. Ihe
Action Plan has been prepared through extensive consultation with the various grOUps affcted, and is
expected to be approved by the Government before June 1994.
W. II)A'  Antrv Adn   t Y
1.38         This section (a) summariz  IDA's assistance objectives and aeas of priort, (b)
proposes fure lending levels and composition; and (c) highlights portfolio manageent issues.
Finally, it discusses the role of FIAS, IFC and MIGA, and cooperation with other donors.
1.39         IDA's strategy will support the Governmen's objectivos, which seek to inesf the
change in economic management initiated in 1986 in support of sustinable developmen
Macroeconomic management issues will remain in the forefinut, and will reqire continued focus on
domestic resource mobilizadon and measures to improve tax collection. A fudamenal redefinition of
the roles of the private and public ectors, strict adherence to tight fiscal discipline, and a subtanti
reduction In regulatory and legal impediments to economic activity -patcularly in mining and
agriculture- are crucial to private sector-led growth. On social Isues, the Government's goals are to
(a) improve services that Government should provide through dcentalized management of these
activities; and (b) promote grassroots participation at the local level in the   -rision of these services.
1.40         The Guinean Administration has underscored the importance of remaning fully on
course with the above policies in order to gradually improve real GDP growt in the next tree yean;
from 3.6 percent in 1993 to 4.8 percent by 1996. This is expected to be supported by growth in the
mining sector (from its curet level of 2 percent to 4 percent in 1996), and growth In non-mining
activity (from 4 percent in 1993 to 5 percent in 1996). Nevertheless, the current account deficit of th
balanceof-payments is expected to remain at about 10 percent of GDP for the entire period which
ends in 1996, and to begin to decline only in 1997. Ibis situation is th* resultof two factors: the fi-
relates to the projected low prices of mining exports, a   in pacular, of bauxite and alumilum the
second rela  to the level of imports of intermediate and capital goods that a  needed fo0susta GDP
growth. Beginni  in 1997, the current acount balance is expided to imp    as eft to 4irsfy
snd mnsand thAern'nt hbs h&vin t shonw riientS In,mvall tP.nrm  hoeAu,r. flenina't nnd br. --



10
balance-of-payments support wIll continue to be sizeable. IDA is prepared to be a key player by
providing direct assistance and mobilizing resources from the donor community at a Consultative
Group meeting tentatively scheduled for September 1994.
1.41         At the political level, the Presidential elections held oti December 19, 1993 have
assured continuity over current economic and social policies, and the upcoming legislative elections in
ealy 1994 wUi serve to cement the process of market re! Tns. On these bases, the new
Administration should be able to maintain the current hign levels of donor assistance. To this end, the
IMF and IDA intend to intensify the dialogue on short-term macroeconomic issues in order to
strengthen the basis for actions involving longer term developmental objectives. IDA had in the past
highlighted issues of governance as possible impediments to government capacity to Implement
reforms. The recenly initdated reform of Guinea's judicial system -a cornerstone for improved
governance- and the proposed involvement of IDA under a future Financial Sector Restruturing
Operation, and of other donors in Its implementation, go a long way to demonstae the Govemment's
cmmitment to improvement in this critid  area.
1.42         IDA's proposed assistance strategy signals a shift from previous years. It is centered
on one principal objective: to help p.riv initiative to play increasingly the leading role in a market-
oriented economy. Such a strategy, however, can only be achieved if a sound macroeconomic
magement environment is maintained, and If fundamental changes are affected in key areas of
actvity. Central administration as well as public sector institutions must adapt to the new evmironment
and provide a more suppordve role to the private sector. The finanial sector must be restructured.
Povty alleviation and human resource development and policies must be pursued. S2=W refrm
must be undertaken in mining and agriculture. Environmenal deterioration must be arested through
better magement of the country's atural resources. Economic Infiastructure servies must continue
to improve as part of the enabling environment for private sector acdvity and for employment
generation through abor-intensive works.
1.43         IDA will support the above strategy by intensive development of 13 and a
systematic Meny  ofagroli      MMerLoImull. The ESW program will increasingly use a participatory
approach through the involvement of local technical staff, and includes: (a) the preprton of a
county economic memorandum; (b) a public sector expenditure review with regular updas and
follow-up; (c) a poverty assessment; (d) assistance in the preparation of a natIonal envirnment acton
plan, followed by a Country Envimental Strategy in FY95; (e) agriculural sector work; and (t) an
update of the constants to mining sector growth. Pundamental field work and data gathering for the
country economic memorandum will take place in the second half-of FY94, with completion of the
report schedued for early FY95. The poverty asse;sment was completed and will be disussed with
the Government during the second half of FY94. The nationa1 environment action plan wJi be
completed in PY94, and the Environmental Strategy in FY95. A public secoor expenditure review is
schedued for FY95. This task responds to a specific request of the Government to assiSt it in
detemining expendiure priorides, particularly in the investment program. An agricultural sector
memorandum which is to focus on the policy and institutional constan  and the sector's poteni for
development will be completed in FY95. The constraints to the mining sector's efficiency and growth
identified in a previous sector report would be reviewed and updated in FY95. Work on the refrm of
the financial sector and the strategy for the transport sector have recently been completed. A Country
Portfolio Perfomance Review (CPPR) Is scheduled fur March 1994; it undersores the imortanc
being given to effective portfolio management, which has been intensified by the high policy content
of the proposed program, and by the complementarity of investment lending to the policy
environment.



11
Lending Ptioiixg
1.44         Private Sector Activity. IDA support for private sector-led development would be
cented on retrenchment of the state from economic activity. Continuation of the Government's
program to improve public administration, to restructre, privatize or liquidate public entepis, and
to improve the policy frmework for mining activity will remain central theme of a proposed
macroeconomic adjustment lendn operation in FY95. On public administation reform, the proposed
operation would seek to effect fundamental improvements in the management of administrative
services, involving not only a better definition of skill profiles to match redefined infsdonal and
managerial objectives, but a personnel management system that allows for competitve recruitment,
and for an appropriate incentive and career development structure. Such an effort will require a full
consensus of Government and the international donor community. On public enterprise reform, effors
would be centered first on achieving the liquidation and privatizton of the three major transport
enterprises mentioned in para. 1.25, and on continued privatization of public services and commerial
enterpises. On tae mining sector, key areas to be addressed in the proposed operation are foreign
investment regulations, the tax legislation, incentives for investment in environmenta protection, the
removal of institutional botdenecks, and, specifically measures to impre  the cost struue of key
bauxite companies where Government participation is predominant.
1.45         Complementary to the above would be an economic management capacity building
prect in FY94. Lerning from past IDA experience, where assistance was too dispersed,
encompassing too many institutions to achieve an impact, and where technical assistance did not
provide for an adequate trser of skills, the proposed project would be directed to a single enti,
the Ministy of Plan and Fitance. Ihis will help to srengen both management and technical sl
of macroeconomic analysis and planning and of the public investment programming fnctons. he-
.PI process would be restuctured to give priority to areas where government invesM t is most
efficient and to take in  account the maintenance needs of rural, urban and lnter-urbu roads and
services. Assistmce under this operaion and those of all future IDA operations will conceate on
the transfer of technical skills, to provide guidance and traing t6 help nationals to cary out their
responsibilities.
1.46         A first financial sector reform program under SAL I supported the individual
restructuring of financial institutions, but did not pay sufficient attention to the monetary, reuaty
and legal environment within which fincial institutions operate. A      ananW a=  adjutment
operation in FY94 would focus on: (a) policy improvements involving development of instruments for
financial intermediation; (b) government disengagement from the capital and management structure of
financial instttions; (C) adoption of a more coherent stem of monetay con    and bank regution,
and; (d) strengthening of Central Bank's ability to fulfill more effectively its cental banking
functions, including guidance to the banking and insurance sectors. The mutual savings and loan
system would be extended to rural areas in order to establish a clear link with the country's infomal
sector. Finally, and to address key issues of governance, this operation would include a component
designed to reinforce the judicial system to improve compliance with financial contracts and recovery
of non-performing debt through technical assistance and training.
1.47         IDA and several key donors have provided considerable assistance for aulUim
during the past eight years. Yet, the results have been disappointing, and IDA's investment portolio
necessitated major restructuring in November 1992. Consistent with the Government's desire to
review the stau  of implemetation of the Government's agricultral policy refotm, and idently thed
constraints to agricultural growth, we will undertake a review of this sector. Sectorwork schedued to
be completed in FY95 would assist the Government in a broad review of the agricultural sector
hamework and the identification of key areas of agricultural development potential. It will see as
the baois for an agricultral sector adjustment operation in FY96. -



12
1.48         Pvr and Human Resource Dsomg    Explicit recognition of socW  sues and
a strateg to address them is a priority in the Government's development policis. In addition to
ongoing programs to address poverty issues, the opeations described below are pecifically designed
to provide srvices to the rural and urban poor.
1.49         Prior govenm t programs to provide the urban poo with water, sanitadon and
electricity have been insufficient. lTis sitation, coupled with periodic flooding, particularly in
Conakry, has negatively affected the health of the urban poor. IDA will continue to support
improvements In the living conditions of Conakry's urban poor through a Conakry Environment
Project in FY95 and a water and sanitation services project in FY97. These projects will focus on
improvements in managerial capacity, mobilization of local resources, development of a housing and
land development policy and the upgrading and maintenance of essential inErastructure and services.
1.50         Two IDA-financed projects in FY95 will assist the Government to expand basic
education service, with a particular emphasis on girls education, whie incorporating management
requirements aimed to promote greater decentization of the system, partiuarly as regards resource
availability. Government policy is also beginning to focus on skils training. This is being achieved
by extending the earlier priority of primary education to the first cycle of secondary general and
vocaional/techlmcal education, with particular emphasis on apprentice programs. Higher educatio
reform is also being considered in light of severe shortcomings in the adequaq of higher education
taning vis-a-vis economic development needs and high unit costs.
1.51         In the health    the operation presented in this document will specifically address
the issue of public resources allocated to the sector, while simultaneously addresing issues of
management, coverage and quality within the health care system. Specific technical progrms of
family planning, mother and child care, nutrition, and preventive and curatie health at the primary
level are being addressed through this project, with active participation from communties.
1.52         Contnued improvement of the nation's iniastu  is considered another key
element of the enabling environment for private sector development. In the Mm sector, the
Government will conne to hold ownership of hydropower and,thermal investment through its
holding company. Nevertheless, and with IDA assistance, the Government will engage private
management for power generation and distribution as a first sep towards ownership diversification.
Arrangemes with the selected private operator are being finalized. These decisions have set an
appropriate environment for continued IDA involvement in the power sector. 'Me GAd power
generation project, which would provide electrcity to the westem part of the country, would be
financed by IDA in FY95 with cofinancing from other donors. After -a relatively high level of past
IDA lending for the rehabilitation and expansion of the country's road inftastrucntm wok, IDA
lending will largely concentrate on projects for periodic maintenance of the highway network, while
contimuing to build capacity for sector management and financial sustainability, private participation In
both construction and operation, and employment creation. Specific condidons to improve efficiency
are key to our continued involvement in the road transport sector; they concern the transport
enterprises mentioned in para. 1.25. and the Government's commitment to provide adewate financing
for road maintenance. Over the longer term, however, Conakry's g   will constitute a severe
bottleneck to export expansion-both in terms of its location and capacity. Studies will need to be
undertaken for the most cost-effective manner to remove this bottleneck. An inmestment'in the ports
sector is scheduled for FY97.
1.53         Natral Resources and Protection of the Environment. Over the long trm, auinea's
development will have to be secured by well-managed natural resources and environment. The
Government has recently undertaken the preparation of an, E QinmelIl Action PEin, with assistance
from IDA, Canada, UNDP and the US. The Action Plan Is to be finalized in June, 1994 and Is
^vv~I tn1- tha    &__; S:r% IA 1Q gQQ; t n A  mL- -*9Q AIQ -          -.- nn; fttSa "1



13
management project, in close cooperation with German development assistance. It aims at protecting
fragie ecosystems by the introduction of pilot approaches to community-based resource management
around threatened forests and protected areas, with the triple objective of Improving forest
management, productivity of agricultural land, and restoring vegetative cover.
1.54         Areas of Secial- Emphasis. Women constitute a large majority of Guinea's rura
labour force. Yet, their status is such that they are excluded from rights to property and credit.
Moreover, the long-term implications of their limited access to health care and education are
enormous. IDA supports a Government program for women through the financing of micro-pjects
in productive atvities. Basic beath care programs financed by IDA pay particular attenton to
mother-child health. A basic education project scheduled for FY95 includes a girls education
component. EPpulation growth and its effects on the environment is a concern of the Gunean
Adminttion. A population policy has been adopted. It gives priort to increasing the
consciousness of Guinea's population on this issue through education and progms to substanly
increase the use of contraceptives and reduce population growth. Govermnent is acdvely seekin
donor assistance in finanoing family planning programs. A family planning component 3s included in
the Health and Nutrition Sector Project.
Pr _os  Lending Levels and Lendng nstrumentS
1.55         Crt Lendin. In the current fiscal year (FY94), fteo aratio    whose
preparation was inkiated as part of the June 1992 straegy will be presented to the Board. lhese
operations are consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy oudined in this document. A
US$24.6 million equivalent IDA credit for a Health and Nutriton Project is presned below. It is
central to the Goverment's long-term health development progam, which aims at Inain qualit
and access to health services, particularly for the most vulnerable groups, including women and
cidren. A US$30 million equivalent IDA credit for a Road Sector Management Project to support
the rehabitation and maintenance of the country's road network has been appraised. A third US$10
milion operation wil be the Economic Management Capacity Building Project. Its nia design and
scope has been renty revised in line with the lessons leared from previous technc  assistce
projects. Iuaddition a US$20 mi}lion Financial Sector restucng adjusment operion which
forms part of the proposed Country Assistance Strategy was originally scheduled for Board
presention in FY95, but ls being moved frward to FY94.
1.56         eUg   Lending. Our strategy for IDA's lending for FY95-97 places  creased
emphasis on the deepening of the adjustment process through m oe ic and seor adjustment.
Poverty alleviaton and human resource development will take a greater sbare of fiur lending.
Natural resource management ad the environment will be a new focus in IDA's aiace to Guina
Infraucure improvement will continue to take an important share of fuAre assstance. Ilvestment
lending in inrsuucture will- be focussing on corrective meaes to eliminate bottenecks and
Inefficiencies in.the power, road and ports sectors.
1.57         Proposed IDA lending for FY95-97 is expected to aerage three to four projects
annually, and would repreent about 20 percen of new fiancng requrems. 'he program is
predicated on Oi an active IMP supported ESAF pgram. (ii) strong performance under the
Government's stabilization and adjustment program, (iii) Implementation of the poverty alleviaion
component of the asistance strateg, and Qtv) improved portfolio management. Key benchmarks
against which we will be mering progress are: the Government's public entprise divestiture
progm; and in partidular, regarding those enterprises which provide public services and the mining
sector. In agriculre, the effeciveness of reforms in the price, policy and institutional framework
will be measued by tie m  of new nvement to diveify production and export. Finaly, progress
to meet poverty alleviation objectives will be meawred by both the level and the inter  distribution



14
of resources to the health and education sectors. As shown below, the composition of proposed
lending represents a substantial shift from past lending patterns:
LENDING COMPOSITION: A COMPARISON
(As percentage of total)
FYI               .YI                                                     l
A4uhnuding of whcb                     II%    Adusa lendiJg, of wbh              24%
Snctural                                      stutural                           15%
Sectoool (plmal Sector)               1 %    Sectmal (cr)                        09%
l_vement din n Agicul, eeneggy,       76%  .vestment    for the enablt           44%
-duauncabow udbaaluctrwu, and             esvmet includig power, d tanpo
ehiald ""amssac for economice managment       ports an technical asdisane for ecoomic
Poveqy and Human Resoue
13%    Poventy and Human Resur            22%
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _  En i,onme.     10%
TOl                                    100%                   ,of1
1.58  In the next three yeas, Guinea's external resource requrements are likely to total US$1.2
billion, a large part of wIich are expected to be finced by commercial sources (especialy the
minin sector naeds). Public and private medium and long-term financing, including IDA's, is
expected to total some US$600 million for the same period. An IM backed ESAP will enable Guinea
to seek substnia exten  debt relief at the Paris Club, reducing further the fincig gap. Balance-
of-payments support will nevertheless continue to be required, justifying IDA's proposed structual
adjustment lending.
1.59         Donos have Indicated that continued implementaton of the Gove 8mets economic
reform program will be key to continued high levels of assistance. France Is epectd to mainan its
present overall assistance level, and the European Union (EU) is likely to Increase Its own. The
United States, Canada, Germany, the ADB, and UNDP will continue to hawe a solid prence in
Guinea.
Portfolio
1.60         Over the 19851993 period, IDA lending amounted to SDR639 million for a total of
27 credits. ITe portfolio is distributed as follows: 25 percent for policy-based adjustment operations
(two SACs, two SECALs); 44 percent for economic infrastucture, a large part of it for road
infrastructure; 19 percent for agriculture; 8 percent for human resources; and 4 percent for technical
assistance. Ten credits have been fully disbutsed and are formally closed. Seventeen opetions are
under execution.
1.61         Slow decision-making, cumbersome procurement and payment procedures, and
financial magement weaknesses resulted in a substantial slow-down of IDA disbusements, and
important lags in project execution. Beginning in 1991, project execution also suffered from delays in
the availability of countpart funding. Largely because of delays in compliance with SAL Jl
conditions, but also as a result of the above portfolio management problems, no operations were
approved in PY91, and only one IDA operation was approved in FY 1992. A Country
-Implementation Review (CIRY and the review of the agriculture portfolio in FY92 addressed a nmber
of project-specific issues which resulted in the closing of a problem project in FY92, the restruct
of another and the release of the last tranche of SAL nI. As project managem    Improved, IDA
lendg incased agaiA in Y93. Overall portfolio ratings improved fom 2.4 in FY92, to 2.1 in



is
Regarding the status of the portfolio, thirteen operations, or 76 percent of the portfolio is rated "1" or
"2", with no serious problems. The remaining four were rated a "3". Among the projects
experiencing difficulties, the rural inrastructure and road trasport projects have suffered difficulties in
obtaining the resources that are required to maintain the infrastructures which have been rehabllited or
Improved by these projects. Recent frank discussions with Government resulted In plans of action
designed to resolve this Issue. A transport sector credit has recently closed. A livestock sector
rehabilitation project has had major implementation lags in achieving the privatzation of livestock
activities. Restructuring of support activities is being discussed with both project beneficiaries and
Government
1.62         Counterpart funding delays and weak project and financial management are generic
issues that must be addressed. Financial management problems have affected the agriculture portfolio,
where there are ten outstanding audits. Relevant project accounts have been completed, which will
enable the Government to fidly address this issue. A Country Portfolio Perfrmance Review (CPPR)
in March 19S4 will focus on major areas for improvement of the overall portfblio and in particula,
project counterpart funding. The CPPR will review (a) whether project developmental objectives
continue to be relevant; and (b) generic issues of counterpart fund availability, application of
procurement procedures and financial management, with the objective of introducing specific
requirements designed to correct the situation. This may involve a joint formal annua review of work
programs for each project, including procurement process, audits and comunterpart funding needs as a
basis for annual approval of withdrawals of IDA funds. A second area of review would involve a
systematc effort to draw lessons from the experience of previous projects and increasing local
participation in designing new ones.
FIAS. FCA
1.63         The Foreign Investment Advisory Services (FIAS) assisted the Govenument to prepare
a report on the investment climate in late 1988. lTe report presented recommendations on the design
of an investment promotion policy to diversify and increase foreign investment and to promote local
investment
! .64        IFC has been involved in Guinea since 1983 through two mining operations totalling
US$22.3 million (diamonds and gold) in loans and equity and quasi-equity participation of US$1.0
million in the largest commercial bank. It sold its shares in the diamond mining company in late
1992, and the remaining gold mining operation has faced severe financial difficulties. With the more
recent government moves to promote larger foreign ownership in mining and in other acdvities, IFC
has been involved in the restructuring of the gold mining operation cited above. A contract recently
signed between the Government and a foreign investor resulted in 100 percent ownership by the
latter, and will allow for mining activity to move beyond the present level of exploitation to explore
an additional site. This may provide the opportuity for a new foreign investment operation of the
order of US$60470 million in two to three years' time, and an IFC investment of about 25 percent of
that total. IFC has also recently approved an investments of US$4.4 million in the privatization and
renovation of the largest hotel in Conakry, and of US$1.7 million in the privatization of a cement
plant. IFC is also considering further investments in the hotel industry and is exploring various other
sectors.
1.65         Guinea signed the MIGA convention in 1989 and has recently ratified its participation
in light of more recent interest by foreign investors.
operation with Other Donors
1.66        IDAIMF collaboration has been close since 1985, when the Govemment adopted its
comDrehensive stabilization and adinitment nrnmrAm  CInnen1ttLinne h.*.. Vi.iA awA Tr' A ao.. c -



16
been facilitated by joint missions carfied out recently In the co6atext 6f tfie three-year ESAF and SAC
programs. Other donors, including France, the European Union (EU), the United States and the
African Development Bank bave also provided balance-of-payments assistance to support the
Government's program.
1.67         Donor assistance is largely in the form of gats, and has concentrated on investments
to reconstruct or expand economic infrastructure, including a large involvement In rurl
development, and assistance to improve the public administration's management capacity. France is
among the largest donors, averaging over US$100 million per year. The European Union is also
heavily involved In Guinea, with an average annual level of assistance of about US$60 milion. The
United States participation averages USS$40 million per year. Other donors inlude the African
Development Bank, Canada, Germany and the UNDP. There has been a remarkable convergence of
interest on the part of the donor community to collectively push for improvements in the efficiency of
management of the ihsutions responsible for economic inastructure. This was demonstrd at a
donors' meeting in late November, 1993 where IDA and other donors pledged to support the US$230
million Garafiri hydropower project on the basis of the Government's action to privatize power
generation and distribution. lTis level of cooperation wIll continue to be pursued after completion of
a PFP and Country Economic Memorandum, wbich are to serve as the basis for a Consultative Group
Meetng in September, 1994.
F. Aenda for Board Consideration
1.68         lisks and Coting  wPlanS. There are two major risks associated with the proposed
lending program; a first is that the Government may not follow up on its commitment to continue
with its economic and social reform agenda. This risk is mitigated by the results of the December 19,
1993 presidential elections, wbich ensures continuity in the public administation, and by fitur joint
work of IDA and the IMF to deepen the dialogue with the Government on macroeonomic
management policy, and on the longer-term structal constan. A second risk is the low capaciy of
the public administaion to implement the program. This risk is mitigated by the attention paid by the
proposed progrm to fundamental Improvements in public admiistration. Shoud the Government not
follow up on its commitment to Implement the reforms, or should  untiample tion
problems be encountered and not rapidly addressed, the IDA lending program would be reduced to
two projects per year, primarily in poverty and human resource development and the enviromente
1.69         Summa  Assessment. IDA lending to Guinea has made available a subsantaW
amount of wesources for the country's economic and social development. Most important, however,
the Bank Group's presence in the country has helped to shape consensus on major economic and
social reform issues. Our dialogue has moved to one of trust and reliance on our macroeconomic and
technical advice. An IIDA mission at end-October 1993 discussed this paper with the Guinean
Authorities. There is fill agreement on the Govermnent's development strategy and on the proposed
major areas of Bank support. The proposed IDA lending program would help the country in its
transition to a market economy, and to maintain a focus on human resource development and the
environment.
Part I: The Projeet
2.1          Elackground: Guinea's population of over 6 million (1991) has an annual growth rate
of 2.8 percent and 47 percent of the population is under 15 years. The country's socio-economic
indicators place it as the lowest-ranking country in the world based on the United Nations assessment
of living standards. Nutritional status is poor and health indicators are among the worst in Afica.
Service coverage (40 percent) and utilization rates are low, resulting in high rates of Infant and
maternal mortality, 136 and 8 per 1000 respectively. The disease profile, dominated by Infectious
and narasitid diapnat mnt'luwtln a mr d z.endr,tnev 2ndisarrheal disasae renilts in an



17
estimated 25 percent of children dying before five years of age. Access to safe water Is only
42 percent in the rural areas and access to sanitation is nmch lower. Constraints to increasing service
quality, coverage and utilization rates Include: (a) lack of drugs and operating means, and poor staff
performance; (b) weak sector organization and institutional capacity; and (c) poor resource
management and inadequate budgetary allocations to the sector (2 percent of the total Government
recurrent budget in 1991), due in part to previous investment decisions and recent additional
recruitment of personnel.
2.2          When the Second Republic was declared In 1984, Guinea inherited a health system
that had almost totally collapsed, with health indicators among the worst in Sub-Saharan Africa. In
the context of a large socioeconomic reform program initiated In 1985, the Government assigned
high priority to human resource development. It formulated a health policy and strategy aimed at
improving coverage, quality and efficiency of the health system, focusing on key areas such as
maternal and child health, family planning and basic preventive and cuative care. While Guinea has
demonstrted receptivity to taking some important policy decisions to improve sector management,
delays in some of the more difficult political and institutional decisions on staff deployment,
decentalization and budgetary commitments have slowed down implementation. The first IDA-
ficed project, which became effective in 1988, aims to improve the quality and efficiency of basic
health services by strengthening strategic planning and management functions generally, and
improving basic health services in five prefectures of Middle Guinea through support for
rehabilitation, priority health programs and service management Although implementation of this
project has been somewhat slower than expected (owing to management weaknesses and problems
with counterpart financing), in some facilities health care coverage has reached 50 percent, pre-nal
and vaccination coverage have increased to over 60 percent and, at some hospitals, bed occupancy
rates have reached 50 percent. Over the past year, Government has made a major effort to address
project implementation issues. In the coutext of the recely prepared sector policy statement and
health sector pogram, the Government intends to address the systemic constrains affecting sector
performance, by taking m-asures to increase decentralization, improve resource management, and
promote greater community participation in the financing and management of the system.
2.3          Poec QW&e: The overall objective of the project is to expand
coverage of low cost health services In order to imprve t  healdt stu of the communities reached
and, in particular, the most vulnerable groups of the population. It is aimed at (a) expanig
coverage and improving quality of health, nutrition and family nlanning services with specific
coverage indicators for each program; and (b) improving sector organizalon? manager .nt and
resource mobilization in order to build a sustainable program. This is fully consistent with the
Govenment's policy franmework and sector strateW and would complement and expand the work
undertaken by the ongoing project.
2.4          Project D   iS  : The project would finance: (a) phased rehabilitation, construction
and maintenance of twenty health ceenters, two improved health centers and four pre6fctoral hospitals,
as well as their operation and maintenance On three prefectures in Midle Guinea and four prefecus
in Lower Guinea) (US$11.5 million); (1) low-cost essential drugs, vaccines and matsials for health
facilites in these seven prefectures and limited support consisting of vaccines and iodine capsules for
the five prefectures financed under the previous project (US$3.3 million); and (c) specialist services,
taining, small equipment and operating costs to strengthen and fully intgrate priority technical
programs, such as matern  and child care, family planning and nutrition, into the primary heath care
delivery system (US$2.2 million). In addition, the project would finance activities to sengthen
decentalization and improve sector organization and management (US$9.7 million), including: (d)
rehabilitation and opeadon of 1 prefectoral health directorates and one regional I Dsecrt, and
modest rehabilitation of the central services building of the Minstry of Public Health ad Social
Afar (MSPAS); (e) tining, goods and services to improve financial, maeral and human rou
msP sn-A 'M A-J_m                -f r-    thser n*Pr -  nteA e



18
budget allocations. Government is expected to implement complementary policy measures, such as
strengthened decentralized management structures, greater autonomy for health facilities including
community participation in their management, and improved allocation and mobilization of resources
for the sector. Due to severe liquidity problems in Guinea and the incremental operating costs to be
borne by Government for the current project, Government counterpart financing would only be
required from the second project-year onwards (US$1.9 million), the balance of project costs (US$0.8
million) to be financed by beneficiaries. Combined, this represents 10 percent of overall project
costs. Breakdown of project costs and the financing plan are shown in Schedule A. Amounts and
methods of procurement and disbursement and the disbursement schedule are presented in Schedule B.
A timetable of key project processing events and the status of Bank Group operations in the Republic
of Guinea, including generic implementation issues, are given in Schedules C and D respectively.
2.5                           1 Wect WW=M ion: The project would be executed in three two-year phases with
disbursement for the second and third phases conditional upon satisfactory completion of the previous
phase. An Action Plan, agreed at negotiations, contains time-bound "EssentW Actions". Satisfatory
implemenion of these Essential Actions would be a condition for disbursement for all works and
health facility equipment for the second and third phases. The annual review of the Action Plan,
review of the execution of successive phases and a mid-term evaluation would provide the basis for
evaluating project implementation and taking corrective action. The MSPAS would ihplement 1he
project through a coordinator within its General Secretariat and provide a direct linkage between
central technia units and regional and prefectoral management teams, thereby improving decision-
makdng. A Technical Coordinating Committee (CTC), comprising key MSPAS division heads and
representatives of the Ministies of Plan, Finance, Interior and International Cooperation and selected
donors, would review problems and issues and propose solutions In project execution. A newly-
created iministeal committee "Comit6 de Suivi des Projets" (CSP) would also provide
intesectrl coordination and evaluation of the MSPAS program. It would have an oversight and
monitoring mandate to ensure that the health program, including I)A's support, and sector measues
remain coherent with sector policy.
2.6            Tiabiliq: Ihe major threat to project sustinanility is the reliance on Government
finance. The mobilization of resources through the expanded cost recovery system would help
develop a sustanable program and protect the sector against teWmporary Government budget shortfalls.
Improved efficiency gains would also help to meet the sector's recurrent cost needs. With donors'
adherence to constuction standards, the risk of unwise investments would be reduced. In order to
build capacity to manage and expand the system, the project would support measures to decentralize
and improve management as well as streamline the central strategic planning and management
functions. Active community involvement i the management of health facilities would also buid
capacity and ownership.
2.7          Lessons Learned and Project Design: Experience from the first IDA-financed project
and other sectoral operations Identifies weak technical and management capacity (procuement,
financial management and supervision), unclear lines of responsibility and lack of counepart funds as
key issues to implementaion. In addition, execution was delayed due to slow implemation of key
reforms, e.g. staff redeployment. To address management weaknesses, continued trdning and
technical assistance would build on the experience gained in the first project. A clearer definition of
the roles and functions of key MSPAS units, the development of monitorable action plans and fbll
integration of the project's management into the Ministry would clear lines of responsibility ad
expedite decisions. An annual review of the Action Plan and the mid-term evaluation of the project
would allow for necessary adjustment. In addition, investments would be phased and undertaken
sequentially as justified by successful implementation reviews under specific conditions of
disbursement. Both the CTC and the CSP would have oversight responsibilities to ensure that key
measu   are implemented.



19
2.8          Ratonale fr MxA Invol       Experience under the first project has been usefil in
laying the groundwork for longer-term reformns towards building a strong and efficient sector, testing
the basic service delivery system and improving resource management and investment planning. By
funding a fallow-up ;)oject, IDA can substantively assist the borrower to continue to address systemic
issues which Imped good implementation. The project Is fully consistent with the Country
Assistance Strategy being presented to the Board.
2.9          Ations Agree. Agreements for credit &WIveness consist of measures to accelerate
and facilitate project implementation such as (a) selection of health facilities to be rehabilitated; (b)
signature of contracts for architectural, technical and control services, and for the first year of
pharmaceutica supply; (c) continued implementation of the staffing and re-deployment plan; (d)
completion of the financing study and adoption of the financing plan; (e) a sector budget allocation for
PY94 for non-salary recurrent expenditures of no less than GF 2.3 billion; and (f) installation of a
project computerized accounting and financial management system. The Government also agreed that,
during                    Itoect IMprXntt0. k will review with IDA, not later than September 30 of each year (i)
the sectoral non-salary recurrent budget allocation, which should be no less than OF 3.4 billion for
FY95, GF 4.5 billion for FY96 and amounts acceptable to IDA for the following FYs; and (Hi) the
sectoral three-year rolling investment plan, in the context of overall resource availability (annual
sector investments not included in the above mentioned program and cumulatively exceeding US$1
milion equivalent being subject to D)A's prior approval). This will help prevent problems with
diminishing sector resources. Furthermore, to ensure progressive and efficient project execution, the
Government agreed that satisfactory implementation of the Essendal Actions underlined in each of the
three phases of the project's Action Plan be a condition of disbursement of the IDA Credit's funds for
the following phase.
2.10          vexv  reduction: This project is classified as a "Project of Targeted Irvention",
due to the project's focus on rural populations and vulnerable groups (such as women and children),
decentrization and beneficiary involvement, as expressed also in Project Objectives.
2.11         Environ         AM=: The environmental category of this credit is 'C' and there are
no environmental or natural resource management issues. A substantial beneficial impact is expected
within communities due to the educational and promotional efforts to develop community hygiene and
use of safe water and sanitation systems.
2.12         PiThes  Cg&=     le proposed project addresses Guinea's poverty
alleviation strategy by focusing on improved quality and coverage of health, nutrition and family
planning services for mral populations and vulnerable groups, in particular, women and children.
The project Is expected to benefit women and children in a number of ways by focusing services on
pregnant women and lactating mothers and by Its emphasis on a program of family planninq and
nutrition. 11he improved hospital referral system and management of high risk pregnancies will
directly address pregnancy complications, the major cause of maternal mortality in Guinea.
2.13          enefits: By the end of the project period, both the quality and coverage of health
care would have increased, thereby helping to impro-. tie health status of the population and
particularly the vulnerable groups in the project area. ,  project would expand health care coverage
to three additional prefectures of the ten prefectures in Middle Guinea (of which five are already
covered by the ongoing first project), and to four prefectures in Lower Guinea, directly benefiting_
over one million people or almost 20 percent of the country's population. In addition, the health care
coverage for particular target groups would increase, with 70 percent of children under one year of
age fully immunized, ante-natal cwre coverage for 60 percent of pregnant women (a minimum of three
ante-natal visits and fill immunization with tetanus toxoid) and 50 percen coverage by a trined birth
attendat  By supporting the development of decentralized management structures, sector financing
and management and Governmet's caoacitv to plan future investments and coordinate donor



20
activities, the project would help establish the basis for a sustainable program and build people's
confidence In the public health system.
2.14         Risks: The main risks are: (a) weak political wIll in following through on policy
measures already begun under the preceding project, such as decentralization and personnel
deployment; (b) financial constraints disrupting operational performance; and (c) weak management
skl}ls affecting implementation of the project. A weakening of polidcal will would be minimized by:
(i) including up-front measures on key issues (e.g. decentralization) and by linking progress on these
measures to conditions of disbursement for specific project components; (U) regular monitoring of
program implementation by national authorities; and Ciii) an increased involvement of communities In
local mangement and decision-making. Tbe risk of diminishing sector resources would be addressed
by expanding the cost recovery system, reducing inefficiencies In the sector and including review of
sector budgetary allocations in annual discussions of project and sector performnance. lhe MSPAS'
weak institutional capacity would be addressed by strengthening strategic planning and
mnanagementand project management through training and short-term specialist services.
2.15         Recomnendattos: I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
articles of agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve It.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washington, D.C.
February 7, 1994
Atachments



21                                SCEDUA
Pasg 1 of I
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HEALTH AND NUTRMON SECTOR PROJECT
Project Cost Su ary, n      dng Plan and Estimated IDA Dlsbumnwnts
(net of taxes and duties, In US$ mllion)
O CSJE      T OSUMM1                                              Lad  Frn
A. IMPROVING SERVICE COVERAGE AND QUALITY
1. Health Faciltehabiin and Maitance                               1.2      8.1     9.3
2. Supply of PF bmaeodcab and Vacin                               Q0.1      2.6     2.7
3. Strengthening of Key Technical Progmm                           1.2      0.4      1.6
3. STRENGTHENING SECTOR ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT                 2.7       5.0     7.7
C. PPF REFNANCING                                                   0.0       0.7     0.7
Total Bs Cos&                                                La       L        au
Physica Contingencies                                              0.5      2.2     2.7
Price Conigencies                                                  1.6      1.0     2.6
Total Contlngenes                                            LL        1       $
TOTAL:                                    O am    Ll
FINANOQZL&N
IDA                                                                5A       19.2    24.6
Government                                                         1.9      0.0      1.9
Beneficiada                                                        0.0      0.8     0.8
TOTAJb                          l        21LQ    2ma
IDA  eal Year
Annual             0.0      1.4     3.9      3.4      4.4      4.2        5.0         2.3
Cumulative         0.0      1.4      5.3     8.7    13.1      173        22.3        24.6
Rate of Reurn: Not applicable



22                              SCUIs B
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC O0  GUiINI
MALTH AMD NUTRIION SECTOR PROJECT
Summary of pSononed Procurement Arran aement
(USS million equivalent, net of taxes and duties)
&ogrement M        hod               Total
Project Element               ICa       LCB        Other     N.I.P.    Cost
1. Works
20 Health Centers (HCs)                2.9                            2.9
(2.9)                         (2.9)
2 Improved Health Centers    0.8                                      0.8
(0.8)                                   (0.8)
4 Hospitals                  3.S                                      3.5
(3.5)                                   (3.5)
18 Prefectoral Directorates            1.3                            1.3
(1.3)                         (1.3)
1 Regional Inspectorate                0.1                            0.1
(0.1)                         (0.1)
NSPAS                      1.1.                                     1.1
(1.1)                                   (1.1)
2. Goods
Vehicles                     2.4                                      2.4
(2.4)                                   (2.4)
Medical a Other Imported     1.4                                      1.4
Equipment                    (1.4)                                    (1.4)
Materials and supplies                 0.6                           0.6
(0.6)                         (0.6)
Furniture                               0.5                           O.S
(0.5)                         (0.5)
3. Pharmaceuticals and Vacoin.s
Drugs and Vaccines for RC&                       2.0 a               2.0
(1.8)               (1.8)
Drugs for Hospitals         0.8                                      0.8
(0.3)                                   (0.3)
Iodized Capsules            0.4                                      0.4
(0.4)                                   (0.4)
4. 80rvic g (T.A.)
Policy Support                                    0.1 b               0.1
(0.1)               (0.1)
Proj. Prep. Impl. sup.                            1.6 b               1.6
(1.6)               (1.6)
Institutional Dev.                                1.2 b               1.2
(1.2)               (1.2)
5. BIsisclane2m
Local Training/seminars                           1.4 a               1.4
(1.4)               (1.4)
Operation/Maintenance                             4.5 c               4.5
(2.5)               (2.5)
PPF Refinancing                                   0.7                 0.7
(0.7)               (0.7)
10.4       5.4      11.5                27.3
Total                 (9.9)      (5.4)     (9.3)              (24.6)
Notes   Figures in parentheses ar  the respective amounts linaOed by IDA.
N.I*F.s Not IDA-Financed.
a. UNIPAC (UNICrF Procurement Agency)
b. In accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank
lBorrowere and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981).
c. In accordance with Government procedures (Implem. Manual, anex XIX to the SAR).



23
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF 
Amount of the Creit           % of
Allocated ( x soed            expenditure
Cat__o___     _         IUS, mili2o aUanU    1to be financed
(1) Works                         8.5                 100% (not of taxes a duties)
(2) Equipmet a furniture
for health facilities          1.5                 100%
(3) Other equipment, furniture,
materials and vehicles         3.0     *           100%   "
(4) Drugs, iodized capsules
and vaccines                   2.0                 100%   -
(S) Consultant services           3.0                 100%
(6) Training                      1.5                 100%
(7) Operating costs*              2.0                 100%    for the 12 months
following the
effective date,
S0% thereafter.
(8) Refunding of 11F              0.7                 100%
(9) Unallocated                   2.4                 100%      .
TOTAL                             24.6
* Coerating goats:t            project-related      u        Incurred by =PaS Mad Helth
Facilities for supplies, operation and maintc  of equ        t and vec19les, maintenane
of buildings, pr diem f  miLsson and local trag         d doestic travel of staff of
XSPAS and Halth Facilities.



24
Page 1 of 1
RIEPUB3LIC OF GURqEA
HEUMAND NUTRMTON SZCTOR !IC
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
1. Inital EPS                          July 27, 1990
2. Identificaton Mission Depatue       May 13, 1991
3. Preparaton Mission Depare            Octber 21, 1991
4. Pre-appraisal Mission Depature       February 26, 1992
5. Apprisal Mission Departur*          June 29, 1992
6. Start of Negotiations               May 10, 1993
7. Planned Date of Effectiveness       July 1, 1994
List of Relevant PCRs and PPARs        Not applicable
The project was appraised in JunelJuly 1992 by Mines/Messrs. Ethma Johnson (Public Health
Specalist and Task Manager), Alain Papineau (Implementaton Speialist), Malon  Miatudila
(Public Health Spedalist), Tonia Marek (Nutrition Specialist), Carin Lengen  (Health Facilities
Planner, Consultant), Marc Reveillon (Health Economist, Consultant) and Seydou Ly (Prqjects
Officer, Resident Mission).



25
Page 1 of 4
REPBLC OF GUA
LTHM AM NUTRMOSN SECTOR PROE&C=
S    s of sank Groum   Opraftons in  uinea
bo0tt In US1 oillIon
(Isson  ltls
Loan or      FIsoal                                                                               Ur    Clo
Credit No.     Year  Bowr                           PurPose                    Bank         IDA    burIed  Date
Credits
27 Credits(s) closed                                                                      393.44
R3 C17250-GUI    187   GUINA                            LIVESTOC( SECTO REN                    9.80      4.25 12/31AlIg
R  C1815-G1I8I    MJINEA                            TRAN  SECT                           55.00       5.45 12/31/1893
C18370-GUI    1988   GUINEA                         POPIEATH                              19.70   .  3.49 1V31193
C18840-GUI    1IM     GUINEA                        AGRIC.SEEDS                            9.00      2.18 08/30/1994
CisiSO-GU   I M18    GUINEA                         HIGHWYS IV                            55.00     2232  12/31/1993
C19550-GI    1989   GUINEA                          RESEARCH ETENION                      18.40      8.71  1231a/84
C19950-I6I    189    GUINA                          SDA                                    9.00      8:9t t2/3l1994
C20680-Wl    19M    GUIWA            FORESTRY& FISHERY M                   8.00       3.98 08/30/1994
C21080-GUI    1890   GUIE                            AT  RAL INFRAST                      40.00     21.77 12t/995
C21120-GtUl    1890   GUINEA                        SECOND URBA                           57.00     44.51 12/31/1896
R) C21550.GUI    1890   GUINEA                          EDUC SEC ADJ PROGRAM                  20.0       7.48 M8/0/994(
CU23-WI    192   GUIEA                              P SECT.RAT.&PRIV TA                    7.3       7.09 12531/1995
C24100-UI    1993 i    u                            AGR.PORT PROWTION                     20.80     18.74    11/999
C24160-GUI    1993   GUINU             POWE  II                             50.00      44.98 12431/189
C24440-I    1993   GUINEA                           TELECOMICATIONS                       14.80      9.82 12131/1I8
TOTAL nubr Credits .  18                                                                   433.60    224.C8
Loans= 
3 Loans(s) closed                                                             73.50
All closed    for    GUINEA
TOTAL ruMer Loans      0
TOTAL*                                                          73.50     827.04
of which repald                                               73.50       5.13
TOTAL held by Bai & D                                             00      819
Amount sold           A                                                    81.91
of which repald
TOTAL urdisbursed                                                                    224.88
Notes:
*Not yet etffectIve
_ iNot yet signed
Total IAproved, Rlepaymeints,c an utstandIng balanm  represent both actIve and Inactive Loans and Credits.
S)Indlcates SAL/SECAL Loans and Credits.
The Net APproved and Bnk RepaYmets are historlcal value, al I others are market value.
The Stn_g, Effective, and Closing dates are bad mmn the Loan  epartment offioal data and are not taken
frmITask Budaet f Iles.                                        rO
C C1si, dae *zepded to Junc 30, 199S.



26
SCHEULE D
Page 2 of 4
Stausof  an  GrupOpRaztis in  um
Iaaiz* In W$ million
.                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(les asul letlau)
L  oanra  Fltsca                                                                        UdlS- Cla8s11
Credit l.' Year  Bwom                         Pupose                  S*          IDA  hirsud  Oate
CA0110-GI 'im-   GUINEA                       SAL I1GO                                    -O
C18592-I 198   GUIIA                         S II                               2
C21460l  MD1  1   U0ICA                       PRIVATE SECMIO PRUM                  lo       a
CTot1al  I9    GUIEA                          S5 I?.10                                     .10
T"   WINFA                                                  W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5.10  .10



27
SCHEDUL D
Page 3 of 4
REPUBLXC OF GU}NEA
HEALE AND NUTRMOQN SECrOCREI
GOMEC I  LMNAONISSUE
In the context of the implementation of its economic stabilization and adjustment program
initiated in 1985, Guinea has been able to mobilize considerable development assitance, IDA
assistanc included. Partly as a result of institutional and human resource wealmesses, IDA's
portolio began to expenrce substantial project execution delays. This required IDA to slow
down new lending in FY91 and FY92 and to provide greater emphasis on implementation
issues. In FY92, IDA organized a joint Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) with
Govenment, aimed at tackling major implementation problems of (a) slow p ent and
payment procedures, (b) inadequate contributions of government budget funds, and (c) weak
administrative and financial management capacity. As a reslt of this review, changes in
procurement and payment procedures have been adopted and pecific project management
problems are being addressed.
The recently completed Bank-wide FY93 Annual Performance Portfolio Review indicates
that overall portfolio performance has improved. The FY93 average rating was of 2.1,
coompared to 2.4 in FY92. Similarly, the disusement re increased from 18.3 percent in
FY92, to 28.7 percent in FY93. The imprvements in overall portfolio performance respond
in part to an increase in supervision staff-weeks by both hadquates and Resident  n
staff.
Despite improvements in disbursement rates, important disbusement lags still eadst.
Persistent problems of counterpart funding have contributed to slow pret execution and
costs and management issues, although less prevalent, still requre attention. This has
affected particularly trasport and agriculure sector opeations. An additional problem which
affects the transport sector is the inadequacy of budget resources for maintenmce, which
raises a question of the long-term s ility of these investments. Government is
begining to tackle this last issue through the adoption of a medium-term road maintenance
stregy. To address management problems, the Government is promoting grer
decentalization of responsibility, and private sector management of key investments. Both
procurement and payment procedures are being improved.
A yet not fully addressed issue is financial management, which often has an impact on the
timeliness of audit rers. This has affected particularly the agricilture portfolio, where
there are 10 outstanding audits. Work is, however, underway on improving project
accounts, which should result in completion of the outstanding audits over the next three
months. The proposed CPPR in March 1994 will focus on the above issues.



28
Page 4 of 4
RUEiUBLI OF 1;4lu
(As of September 30, 1993)
VentFfs" t                    =of
$83           30ei6'  I4bt6  Aredw SJ4inr  S.A.    ni._N Nlno         136       t4       14.5 t
1916     3       ae  m tmtatIs      ' pw . tc      tmuasil I                    1.1
et de t'Iidstrfe de La &dnd.
5BlC;-CUt)
1987          IoScidt In:arnatiuit do Otant        Rs8Si chd 0t.1               *        0.1 -
Ifa#   aOt tachaft Aatmie (s R    O lott
A'kirtfe  6 uinde                    Sld flltng.                  _        t.Z
Tacit Cumftiwi                                           1 .2.    2         .L
Les Cafcetatia, Iasym, Saesz an                        *lt    ,          i
WWW*e AdjuiN,tS
Moe Ccw,, ma    . id by I FC7
C') Inveaamnts paid off.



29
ANNEX TABLE AND FIGURFS FOR
PART I
COUNTRY POIUCIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY



30
POLCY GOAIS FOR FY9S-97LEDN_l
Supnort for Private Sector-Led Growth
Genal
. Rigorous fiscal performance
- Reduce the role of the State in the Economy
- Continue to reform public administration
1umaudal
- Assist to maintain a sound financial system
Improve the functioning of the Central Bank
- Improve finacil intermediation, particularly in rural areas
- Reduce Government ownership in banking system
- Improve legal and judicial framework for the business emironment to ensure supply response.
MiAng
- Improve regulatory framework to promote foreign investment
- Improve institutional capacity to regulate mining sector
- Improve competitiveness of mining costs
Agriculture
- Continue to liberalize agriculural prices and trade
- Simplify regulatoy fraewok
- Restuctr institio  and reduce public employment in agriculture
- Improve the envronment for credit, product mobilization, and tecical novation
R Povr and Blunm  Rtsum=eDedpm
- Increase share of public expenditure to programs dtat help the poor, including basic education
and health services
- Provide basic services for the urban and rural poor
- Srengthen decentralization process
- Upgrade the quality and relevance of education and trainig
- Promote girls educadon
- Reduce malnutrition
- Instit family planning programs
- Increase cost recovery
Enw
- Insdute privae management of power generation and distribution
- Support private sector participation
- Achieve financial self-sufficiency
- Liquidate public transport company and privatize public works
- Reinforce public investment in road maitenance
- Adoption of strategy for human waste and improvement in collection of solid waste in Conakuy
- Improve port mnagement and efficiency
- Adopt Enviromental Action Plan
- Greater use of incentives and minimize control methods to reinforce    o l regulation



31
Anmex Al
Page 1 of 1
Guinea - Selected Indicators of
MlA Portfollo Performance and Management
FY91  FY92 FY93
Portfoio Perfouance
No. of Projects under Implementation                 24    22    22
Average Implementation Period (Years)                6      6    5.8
% Projects Rated "3" or "4"                         33.3  35.4  24
Development Objectives                             33.3  35.4  24
Overall Status                                     33.3  35.4  24
Disbwsement Ratio (%)                                13.6  18.3  28.7
Memorandum Item: % Completed Projects                -      8.0   -
Rated Unsatisfactory
Portfolio Managemet
Supervision Resources (total SWs)                    335.0 338.2 4S2.3
Avecage Supervbion SWs/project                       14.0  15.4  20.6
Supervision Resources by Location (%)                100.0  100.0  100.0
% Headquters                                         75.0  75.0  75.0
% Resident Mission                                   25.0  25.0  25.0
Supervision Resources by Rating Category (SWs/project)
Projects Rated "1" or "2"                           n/a   n/a   n/a
Projects Rated "3" or "4"                           n/a   n/a   n/a



32
Annex A2
Page 1 of 1
BANK GROUP FACI SHEET
BANK LENDING PROGRAM FY 95-97
BY SECTOR AND BY LENDING INSIRUMENT
East      Currn            Pjanned
FY92 EY29  FY94          EP9  EX26 EX2I
Commitments (US$M)        7.3  -85.4  83.0          -(UTS$127.)1/-
Secor (%)
Agriculure                      24.0                      26.0
Financial                              24.0
Power                           59.0                      57.0
Telecommunications               17.0
Public Sector Magement    100.0
Infrastructure                         36.0                      80.0
Human Resources and Poverty            28.0         47.0         15.0
Environment                                         12.0  17.0
Economic Management                    12.0         41.0
Total                    10I0.                           nuQ. 10 0
Lending Instruments (%)
Adjustment Loans          -      -    24.0          41.0  26.0   -
Investment and Others     100.0  100.0 76.0         59.0  74.0  100.0
Total                    'u   10.  100 0u         100.  10    ()
Disburements (US$m)       89.0  139.0  140.0        N/A   N/A   N/A
IE!
Approvals (US$M)          -     -      4.4           9.0   2.4   N/A
Sector (%)
Hotels                                 100.0               100.0
Industry                                             17.0
Mining                                               83.0 2/
Total                    -     -      lOO,Q       IQ  10U   MA
Investment Instrument (%)
Loans                                   80.0         17.0  100.0
Equity Funds                           20.0          83.0(1)
Total                    - lO. lO0  I=2 MA
1/ ITis represents a core program allocation, and will be modified based on future
developments.
2/ Restructuring of a loan commited in 1988 to equity participation.



33
Aonn  A3
I 1of I
Culaea  ProrY Nbm# Idiato
Indicator              Unit of         1S-20   MoSt        Redna
Measur         Ys  Recet  Subat Nedigh
Ago    Estaut   Africa   iscoG  OMUP
poverty
Upper Poverty Line    IoN. cwr.       -       -       -
Headcount Indx         %of pop.       -       -       -          _
LowerPoe    LiW       loo. awm.        -      -       -          -
H.SatlMW=              % of pop.       -      -       -          _
GNP4P p eapia          USS             280.   m37.   350.        900.
Sbort-Torm I:com,
Unkle U*ba hvag        Ji.u.           -       -    _            -
Unkie Rua wag                          - _     _          _
Rwd Tems of Trade
ConumerPrInex          1987100         -       233A   -
Lower com
Urban-                                                --
. Rurd -l                                  -       -        -
Rbn
Soci alIdicaMur
Pubi opdk    oan       *oDP            -       -       -         -
baso socal sevic..
Ganes    _IhaBmaos   % scbool ao pop
Prima-'                           33      37      65         1t0
Male                                   _      _       _          _
Female                                -    .21        29         97
Mortality        UWL atiouoflvbblbs
lofnt Moa-y                           -        in     13        1t9
Under S Mortaliy                              -       237        10
Immulxaton           of ag gu.
Measles                               -       39      S2         -
DPI                                   -       41      52 
clid Ml Uitdol'
(Unde)        '_
Life bseoty            yon
Total                                 -       44      32         li
Femalesals             ratio          -       -
Total Feiity Rat       bt pe woma-             6.5    6.7         4.1
matma moaty am         10o,00          -      . n80    530
Populiaon gow  ra     t                1.4 2l9         25        2.6



34                                AJD       A4
GianeeKey acomic g sinCat                                                              P3s   of 2
1988    t989    1900    199      :992    199      199     19 95 
............. ..................... ^*^*e***-.-.................................. s-...-.**....-.........-......-........ ........
I'MUL ACCUIR(as IMP 3 cur. kt. 'P.)
amsc Ometfdc ProAast(curent not ewe) 11s4.0  1628.0    0j   2097.0  2919.0  3147.8  3496.3  339.9             S
Aglcutttws                              30.98   30.95   31.61   32.11   32.85   33.7Z   34.35   34.85   3$.7%
tIndutry                               33.05   32.45   32.1X   31.n   31.55   31.3    31.55   30.15   30.2X
Servics, *itc.                         34.85   35.25   34.9    34A.8    34.35   34.2    33.21   32.85   32.4S
Crtapts                                 87.        .     83.32     .6    8.75   91.95   91.05   89.41   p.as
Cro  omte alt                            15.95   15.4X   17.45   15.7X   17.3   18.15   17.05   17.85   19.1
Caroni Gome                            11.28   10.33   9.002   U.S1   7.405   5.455    .39    4.87    7.98M
Privete Sector                          $."X   6.1OX   6-.8S    7-.    10.0X  10t.6   10.    10.895  11.161
Cbnse In Stocks                       .1.1   -16.3    31.4        L.A     2.9     0.0    @00       0.0     0.0
twe Of =Fs                              30.25   26.5X  2685   27.95   3355   27.0    8.65   8.Z   24.X
g t  of W$                               36X   31=.25   2.tLX   2.        19."A    1L.95   17.75  1.0    18.SX
Gross netftea  eag                        4.          . 7.35    7.75 TJX    6.05    3.31    3.15    35    38  35
Gaos" deasle ien                         12.35   16.5   1675   13.45    9.2         L.     9.05   10.65   13.91
=ross Omlc _XPradt                     2435.8  31.6  M099.32  3126.6  3561  33.4  3515.7  367.5  34.0
tllidn UWS gt eanwt price)
Grans Domestic Frsa  per Capitt         4KA.   405.3   524.    56.8   517.  .5354   549.0   556.    566.
(ml Llui fensUs  tcawrt pilcos).
. .. . ..                                                                             ..   _         ............. 
PALIC FINUMI
Owrpatw IanUMS                          162.    2.    3.8  M3             361.1   341.1   3.?   47.8   513.6
cawtwmt 1tmpuit                         152.9   18J    3.0  M30.3    02.7   2              301.9    W.3   M2.3
wrplut$(*) O 3f s1t*)                    * 9.9    34.7    43.8    49.7    564    4            .8    A.5     71.3
Caphat gpff;ts                          15.5   159.    1         354.9   26.6        .    3.0       3.mo    285.0
Porswsin Ffnsui                         113.6   135.1   164.9   1834   207W.    203.3   1MA.3   17.5   183.7
.......... .....*..*.. .....        ......................    ...
UKA ANIIL OWIN PA13(5
rou omitfc Preat                         5.90       X .1  440    2.;      33      3SAN    40X   4.4         4.S.;
arms4 Ostfe0 trmw                        1.14X   4.8      L.0    3.1    0.0    0.1           .1    1.305   Z.M
UAKL CMMMI. CROM   PAM
G  per eaita gr outb                      3.15    G.1    1.45   -am         Us   0.        1.145   1.435   1.885
Caraiptlwn                                4.55    0.15    6.05    4.95    5.AX    4.9       2.85    3.7      3.0%
Privtet Conasr tlom                       5.05   -.6.6     4.55    4.7     3.1S    3.91    5.35    L.O       8.31
........... .... *..                               .......... .......- ............
.3169           .L1       r.0     7.2-   7.        77      73       7.3     7.3      ?.3
&GM* of le                          UJ1     20.8    8.1      2.1J    J.L4      L.O    11.15    9.85   10.-0
Private  ect oredi tltott credit  9mt  157.0       .      1.       0.9'    1.$              17       1.8     8.0
.............                                                ...................  ......   ..
age 1.                                             4 Jan 1994, 12s8 ON



35                              Amx A4
Gulnea-Cey Economic tad e                                    ~Pap  2 of 2
198t    1989    1990    1991    1992    193         t 199    99       96
....... ........... .. ,,,,,..........................-...........
"ALACt OF PATS (USS N)
)t _ts of OpS                          652.2   748.2   842.4   812.9   621.9   610.t1           4     6- 04.4   692.4
Merchand so 4F0l)                      620.6    7Z.1   7B9.4   755.1   622.0   623.0   636.4   660.8   7t.
IqPCrne  of IMPS                       740.9   724.5   86.6   586.0   860.0    46.   9.0   941.0   989.0
IlrChandiae (95)                       603.6   586.9   73.1   743.0   768.?   776.4   8o3.j   845.4   893.1
Resairce bltace                         *88.?     3.r7   21.2   n73.1   *21.1    54.5  -291.8  *28.06  -%96.6
Not Factor Pents                       -17Z.1  -203.1  .230.9  .20S.8  -236.?  "2U1.t 1        j53.   4256.1   263.7
t of WhAch nterest p&ormts             60.0    66.6   110.7    57.6    71.0    79.8   100.8   123.6   142.2
Not curr"nt tra nter                    *Z4.0   -44.2   *40.2   -30.8   .53.0    52.3    45$.7    40.5   *40.2
Curr. A/C 3at b efr af". Crnt         -28.4  -221.7  -209.?  .307.9    24.6   493.0    2t1.2t  .546.4  .57.9
Off. Capital gants                      83.5    98.0   100.9   1O9.5   135.    155.-   150.a  U15.    153.5
Curu A/C Mt After Cft Crants           *203.9  -12.?             -190.4 9  346.1  *-mW.   4311.4   -C0.9  -418.4
Privagt Diret  ewes t  tt                6.5    10.0    10.9    11.4    14.6    15.1    16.1    16.9    17.?
MLt Loan  WnOt)                          86.4   119.5   117.8   114.6   179.0   1*1.0   212.2S 230a   89.1
a of which Officat                      108.1    89.W3     3.5    03.0   175.4   178.5   210.1  324.    266.8
s of htAdc  Piv'te                      -21.?    30.2   201.3    31.6        3.       2.5     2.2      2.0      2.3
Otuer eapltal(tCnudrn  erors and m      * -2S.2    20.2   190.4   300.2  .37.8    1549    145.9    635   w15.6
Chownge fn not r eV| t27.6    20.0    37.6    67.6    a.5                            13.      Z.      29.,    ;.L 
NinOrwinc tt1s
Gre"Rcaer ve as* .ont  ofi pt             3.2      1.2      1.     2L5       3.2      3 3      S.       3.7     3.8
EXports  S of UW                         26.61   27.191  28.081  2n.5      1=942   1S3.=    t?.2t  17.583  17.911
trports a X of GOP                       30.23    26.3    23.83   2.95   26.0s  26.01s   2s311  2*.701  2n461
Reesaee stani, as I oft MP                3.6X    0.91   -0.71   -2.31    4.61   r.476    -S.301   ..t12       y.7.=
*... ..--........................................ ...................................... ..... . *-.* .......... ...
EAL AML =M  RAES
Nerchandlse Exports                       8.91    3.3    -1.71   00.61    .9.41    1LZS    6.01    4.01    3.11
Prior.y                                    ..       ..       ..       ..      ..       ..       ..       ..
Manufactures                               ..  '.                     ..               ..       ..
Merchandss  taports                      10.1      4.11    13.51    LIS    0.4X   -0.5tX   2.641   3.601   3.5S1
PRICE t180CE (1987.100)
Expot Prfce indem                        91.3   102.8   114.2   109.9    99.9    09.2    86.0   8U.2    8?.?
lmowr price Index                       104.0   105.5   114.5   111    118.8   120*6   131.6    15    125.0
Ters of trade index                      87.8r    97.5    99.?   9ff        84.1    74.0    70.7    67.2    48.4
Reat Exchango Rate                     -110.3   115.8   103.2   107.5    96.7   117.2   127.5    3S.1   136.4
CPI                                      27.4   163.8   195.2   23S.4  '2Z.2   291.5   303.1   3153    327.9
Rel, interest rate                      .15.4   .14.3    -2L4        1.4     4.4      5.0      5.0      5.0     5.0
GDP deflator (growth rate)               20.01    35.01   16.0X   17.01   18.0X 1     811    5.01    5.01    4.02
.......................................... .........................................................................................,  .. .... .. 
page 1.                                        '   ^4 Jsn 1994, 12:04 VP



36                                              Amwx AS
Guinea-Key  awnc Indicators                                                                             pop  lot 1
o19t8    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
(miltien Us S at current prices)
Total Debt Outstanding (MO)         2177I0  2136.0  2412.0  2349.0  260.0  2784.0  3094.5  3450.8  3803.9
Not Obwusawnts                       187.2   187.3   100.5   156.8   142.5   181.0   310t.    3S6.3   353.1
Total Debt Service                   116.9   100.0   148.4   120.7   150.7   223.5   233.4   237.5   235.7
Debt and Oebt Service Indicators
DooX=                              332.S7X  284.762 285.44x 312.882 376.86x 425.04X  458.442 496.522  M27.M9K
Too/GDP                             88.65   77.632  80.42K  t0.17    SO.44"  83.762  88.02x  93.842  98.70K
TOS                                  17.a6x   13.3M   17.57X  14.812  2t.82X  34.13X  34.582  34.1IX  32.69x
Contesslnal f10                     68.022  65.09x  69.19K   72.66    78.7SX  74.032  69.812  63.41%  S6.812
I11 IDA EXPOSW IND1CATORS                                   (percentages)
ID IDA DS/Puble DS                 1S.SOX  16.49s  11.SX   14.952  13.29X   3.182   3.472   3.8s3    4.47X
Prof. Credit/Pubtle 0                27.32n  34.45x  22.23X  25.82  30.27X  16.36X  21.762  25.612  29.692
IBIO IDA DS/XGS                       2.?7X    2.202   2.03x   2.21X   2.90X   1.09M   1.202   1.31X   1.46X
IORO IDA Portfollo Sae               13.96K  16.57K  17.39x  19.37x  21.042  26.41t  24.90s  25.142  24.242
(milticn US $ at current pries)
NIGA Guarante                           ..       ..       ..      ..       ..      ..       ..      ..
page 1.                                             1 eb 1994, 3:44 P



lbe Status of Bma Operations in Guinea
Statoment of IDA Credits
as of Decmber 31, 993
Undisb.
relat to        LAtARPP
L.oma/       Pisea                                                                  apprais        Supeivion ting
Creft          Year   Bo,rrnr            Ppoe             IDA         Undisbrwd    pwjection   Dev. Olbect.   Oveall Object.
C17250-OUI   p987    GOVNT          LfotockSecReb                 9.8             3.92           0             3                3
C18150-UI   i7          GOVNT       Tusp Sect                     55              455            0             3               3
C18370-GUI   1988    GOVNT          Pop & Heath                  19.7             3.29         2.1             2                2
C18640-GUI   1988    GOVNT          Agrilc Seeds                   9              1.93           0             3                3
C19150-GUI   1988    GOVNT          HighwayWI                     55             20.22         3.8             3                3
C1955i  JU     1989    GOVNT        Research Exes                iSA               6.1     L     7             2               2
C19850-GUI   1989    GOVNT          Waterl[                       40             14.69        16.4             1                2
C19950-GUI   1989    GOVNT          SDA                            9             6.74          3.6             2               2
C2680-GUI   1990    GOVNT           Forestry& Fishery              8              3.8          2.3             2               2
C21060-GUI   1990    GOVNT          NIat Rual frasir.             40             21.17        12.2             3               3
21120-GUI   1990    GOVNT           SecondUrban                   57             43A          11.1             1               2
C1SS0-GUI   1990    GOVNT          Edc. Adi. Prog                20             7.46            0             1                2
C23980-GUI   1992    GOVNT          PE. Sectat. & Pr TA           73              7.07         5.              3                3
C24070-GUI   1993    GOVNT          Agr. Epot Pm.                20.8            18,67           0             2               2
C24160-Gil   1993    GOVNT          Power H                       50            42.44         45.J             1                1
(24440-GUI   1993    GOVNT          Tebonmuacatioas              14.6            9.75         13A              1                1
C19260-GU      1993    GOVNT        SAL I                        6S.1             0.1            0             2                1
Totl
Of W     has been red                                       78.63
Total nowbeldby IBRD and IDA                                   P2191
Amountsol
Of whldat peld
Total ndlburd                                               21539



.MAP SECTION



_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBR  2537
MAURITANIA                                            12                                  10
.  wa ot.._._ s               ~~~~S E N E G  A  Lj
'           MALI           M-A -                                                                                                L I
1o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11
--G-UI-NEA e-                -                                    VRi   FETRGOm*
HEALTh AND NUTRtIO   ETORt                                                                      FOE$  REGION)f_
e - - > - s- rv v~~~~~~/                                                                           FLAI3 
- L ES          0   ND      )A 
U lN-EkF4  IT  I-EGIO
' - . '. ' ;SL, '~~~~~~~~~~~~ --to'e''t'>:&- A''^';+i '   w.- -   
*~~H T AND NU-                    CTOR_.''''.''' PR,'  '''.'',.,'



