Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6382-ZR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZAIRE
SOUTH SHABA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 6, 1987
Central Agriculture Division
Eastern and Southern Africa Projects
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY AND EXCHANGE RATES/a
Currency Unit - Zaire (Z)
US$1.00         Z 60
Z 100        =  US$1.67
WEIGHTS AND NEASURES
Metric                          British/US Equivalents
1 are (100 m2)                  0.02 acre
1 hectare (ha)                  2.41 acres
1 kilometer (km)                0.624 mile
1 kilogram (kg)           =     2.2 pounds (lb.)
1 liter (1)                     0.26 US gallon (gal.)
1 meter (m)               =     3.28 feet
1 metric ton (m ton)      =     2,204 pounds (lh.)
1 square kilometer (kn2)  =     0.386 square mile (sq. m.)
FISCAL YEAR
Government       s    January 1 - December 31
7a As of July, 1986.



FOR OFFICIAL UE ONLY
ZAIRE
SOUTH SHABA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GLOS$ARY OF A3EREVTZX
ANEZA   Association Nationale des Entreprises Zairoises
National Association of Zairian Enterprises
BCA      Banque de Credit Agricole
Agricultural Credit Bank
BCZ      Banque Commerciale du Zaire
Commercial Bank of Zaire
BDD      Bureau Diocesain pour le Develc;pement
Diocesan Developmeat Bureau
BUNASEM Bureau National de Semences
National Seed Bureau
CCC      Comiti Consultatif de Coordination
Coordt'-ting Consultative Committee
CDD      Commission Diocesaine de Developpement
Diocesan Development Commission
CEATA    Centre d'Encadrement Agricole et d'Experimentation de Techniques
Appropriees
Center for Agricultural ExtenAion and Experimzntation of
Appropriate Technology
CEPC     Centre d'Execution des Programmes Communautaires
Center for Execution of Community Programs
CPD      Caisse Populaire de Developpeaent
Credit Union for Development
DADR     Departement de l'Agriculture et du Developpement Rural
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
DAGP    Direction de l'Administration Generale des Projets
General Direction of Project Administration
DTP      Departement des Travaux Publics
Publics Works Ministry
FAC      Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
Fund for Aid and Cooperation
FAOIIC   Organisation des Nations Unis pour l'Alimentation et l'Agriculture
Food and Agriculture Organization, Investment Center
FCD      Fonds de Convention pour le Developpement
Development Agreement Fund
GOZ      Gouvernement du Zaire
Government of Zaire
IDA     Association Internationale pour le Developpement
International Development Association
IFAD     Fonds International pour le Developpement Agricole
International Fund for Agricultural Development
IITA     Institut International de l'Agriculture Tropicale
International Institute ior Tropical Agriculture
INERA    Institut Nacional pour l'Etude et la Recherche Agricols
National Institute for Research and Studies
This document has a restricted distribution and may oc used by recipients only in the pefformaco 
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not othefwise be disclosed without World Bank authoaXtion.



-2-
ISNAR    Servico Intetnational pour lAssistance ' la Recherche A,ricole
Itternational Service for National Agricultural Rebeairh
NGO      Organization Non-Gouvernementale
Non-Governmental Organizations
ONDE     Office Natlonal do D veloppemont de lElevage
National Livestock Development Office
OR       Offic, des Routes
Road Office
PAT      Projet d'Assistance Technique
Technical Assistance Project
P1U      Units do Gestion du Projet
Project Management Unit
P1RO     Projet Maas Kasai Oriental
Smallbolder Maize Project
PNS      Prograse National Engrais
National Fertilizer Program
PNL      Prograume National Legumes
National Grain Legume Program
PNM      Program. National Mais
National Maize Program
PvO      Organisat'on Volontaire Privie
Private Voluntary Organizations
URONAM Programme National Manioc
National Cassava Program
MAV      Projet Recherche ot Vuigarisation Agricole
Program for Applied Agricultural Res*arch/Extension
SAC      Credit d'Ajustement Structurel
Structural Adjustment Credit
SNCZ     Socioto National. des Chemins do For Zairois
National Society of Zairian Railways
SOlIDS Socitoh Financi4re do Developpement
Financial Development Society
UCPD     Union des Caisses Populaires pour 1. Diveloppement
Federation of Credit Unions for Development
USAID   Agence des Etats Unis pour le Diveloppemont International
United States Agency for International Development



SOUTH SHABA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPHENT PROJtCT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABXi OF COOTENTS
P620 No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUNMARY ...............................(iv-vi)
A.   Introduction .......................                     1
B.  The Agricultural Sector..................................2
C.  Government Strategy for Agricultural Developmnt ......... 6
D.   Previous IFAD Operations in Zaire........................6
E.  Bank Group Support for Zairian Agriculture ...............7
II*  PROJECT AREA .................................. .08
B.   Farming Practices ......................................
C.   Institutional Infrastructure............................1l
D.  Rural ....................................0g....... 13
E.  Regional Development, Resources and Institutions ........ 19
III.   THE PROJECT          ........................................21
A.   Project Concept and Rationale...........................21
B.   Project ..................................00g ......... 22
C.  Genew.l .....................                 g         23
D.  Detailed ..................... 0 23
E.  Project Costs ..................... .                   28
Go  Disbu:rsements  ..................... *ooooo*ooo29
J.   Environmental Impact .........................................31
K.   Impact on Women ..........
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMHNTATION.......................................32
A.   Project Organization....................................32
B.  Implementation of Project Components....................35
C.  Reporting and Accountability ....         ........................ 38
D.  Mid-Term Review ....                .......................... oo**39
E.  Project Completion Report ...................      ...40
F.  Post-Completion ................... *0@.................. .40



Pane No.
V.   AGRICULTURAL PODUCTION .......  ............................... 40
A,  Production .........      ............. .   .              42
VI.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS- ...................... .........o.........44
A.   Marketing and Financial Prices   ........................44
3.   Financial Projections...................................45
D.   Cost Recovery and Fiscal Analysis .......................47
E.   Budgetary System ........................................4?
VII.   ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION ........................................47
A.   Justification and Benefits ........ 0.00. .*.....*....6.60..47
Bo  Economic Analysis.......................................48
Co  Risks........000..0......0.00..0.......0...............  50
VIII.  RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED .................50
TABLES IN THE MAIN TEXT
Table 3.1:  Project Costs Suauary............................28
Table 3.2t Procurement Procedurese................... 006060.31
SUPPORTING TABLES. ANNEXES. CHARTS AND MAPS
Tables
1.(a) BCA Financial Statements
1.(b) BCA Projected Income Statement
2.     UCPD Financial Statements
3.     Project Cost Summary by Year
4.     Priject Cost Summary by Component
5.     Financing Plan
6.     Disbursements from IFAD Loan and IDA Credit
7.     Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
8.     Road Rehabilitation/Maintenance List and Costu
9.     Crop Models
10.    Farm Budgets
11.    Goverment Cash Flow
12.    Economic Analysis - Cost/Benefit Streams
13.    Economxc Analysis - Sensitivity Analysis



-iii-
Annexes
1,     Project Area: NGOs Involved In Agriculture
2.    Agricultural Extension/Input Supply in the Project Area -
NOO.Involvement and Cost Recovery
3.    Agricultural Credit - Lending Terms and Conditions
4.     Economic Analysis
5.     Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Charts
1.     Organigrame DADR
2.     Organigrame BCA
3.     Organigrame CEPC
4.     Organigramme Projet Organization
S.     Stream of Incremental Benefits and Costs
Have
TBRD 19768 Rural Road Component
IBRD 19769 Project Area
:4



FOR omCL USE ONLY
ZAIRE
SOUTH SHABA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATION
ANEZA    Association Nationale des Entreprises Zafroises
National Association of Zairian Enterprises
BCA      Banque de Credit A ricole
Agricultural Credit Bank
BCZ      Banque Commerciale du Zaire
Commercial Bank of Zaire.
BDI)     Bureau Diocesain pour le Developpement
Diocesan Development Bureau
BUNASEM  Bureau National de Semences
National Seed Bureau
CCC      Comite Consultatif de Coordination
Coordinating Conr-ltative Committee
CDD      Commission Diocesaine de Developpement
Diocesan Development Commissicn
CEATA    Centre d'Encadrement Agricole et d'Experimentation de Techniques
Appropriees
Center for Agricultural Extension and E-perimentation of
Appropriate Technology
CEPC     Centre d'Execution des Programmes Communautaires
CenteL for Execution of Community Programs
CPD      Caisse Populaire de Developpement
Credit Union for Development
DADR     Departement de l'Agriculture et du Developpement Rural
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
DAGP     Direction de l'Adhinistration Generale des Projets
General Direction of Project Administration
DTP      Departement des Travaux Publics
Publics Works Ministry
FAC      Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
Fund for Aid and Cooperation
FAO/IC   Organisation des Nations Unis pour l'Alimentation et l'Agriculture
Food and Agriculture Organization, Investment Center
FCD      Fonds de Conventi n pour le Developpement
Development Agreement Fund
GOZ      Gouvernement du Zaire
Government of Zaire
IDA      Association Internationale pour le Developpement
International Development Association
IPAD     Fonds International pour le D,veloppement Agricole
International Fund for Agricultural Development
IITA     Institut International de l'Agriculture Tropicale
International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
INERA    Institut National pour l'Etude et la Recherche Agricole
National Institute for Research and Studies
This document har n restricted distribution and may be used by trcipients only in the porfomuc
of their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authodzation.



-2-
ISNAR    Service International pour l'Assistance a la  Recherche Agricole
International Service for National Agricultural Research
N3O      Orgsaization Non-Gouverneu.ntal,
Non-Governmental Organizations
ONDD     Office National de D4veloppement de l'Elevage
National Livestock Development Office
OR       Offlee des Routes
Road Office
PAT      Projet d'Assistance Technique
Technical Assistance Project
PHU      Unito de Gestion du Projet
Project Management Unit
PHKg     Projet Mais Kasai Oriental
Smallbolder Maize Project
PD!      Programme National Engrais
National Fertilizer Program
PNL      Programe National Legumes
National Grain Legume Program
IDE      Programe National Mleis
National Maize Program
IVO      Organisation Volontaire Privie
Private Voluntary Organizations
PRONAM   Programme National Manioc
National Cassava Program
RAV      Projet Recherche et Vuigarisation Agricole
Program for Applied Agricultural Research/Extension
SAC      Credit d'Ajustement Structurel
Structural Adjustment Credit
SNCZ     Societe Nationale dea Chemins do Fer Zairois
National Society of Zairian Railvays
SOlIDE   Societe Financiere de Developpement
Financial Development Society
UCPD     Union des Caisses Populaires pour 1s DAveloppeo nt
Federation of Credit Unions for Devolopment
USAID   Agence dos Etats Unis pour lo Diveloppement International
United States Agency for International Development



-2-
ISMAR    Service International pour l'Assistance a la Recherche Agricole
International Service for National Agricultural Iesearch
NW0      Organization Non-Gouvernementale
Non-Governmental Organizations
OND0     Office National de Developpe_ent de l'Elevage
National Livestock Development Office
OR       Office de* Routes
Road Office
PAT      Projet d'Assistance Technique
Technical Assistance Project
PHU      Unite de Gestion du Projet
Project Management Unit
PMRO     Projet Mas Kasai Oriental
Smallbolder Maize Project
PNF      Program. National Engrais
National Fertilizer Program
PNL      Programe National Legumeso
National Grain Legume Program
PNM      Programs National Mais
National Maize Program
PVO      Organisation Volontiire Privie
Private Voluntary Organizations
PROMW4   Programs National Manioc
National Cassava Program
1kV      Projet Recherche et Vuigarisation Agricole
Program for Applied Agricultural ResearchlExtension
SAC      Credit d'Ajustement Structurel
Structural Adjustment Credit
SNCZ     Sociato Nationale de& Chemins de For Zairois
National Society of Zairian Railways
SOFIDE   Socioto Financiore de Developpement
Financial Development Society
UCPD     Union des Caisses Populaires pour le D6veloppement
Federation of Credit Unions for Development
USAID    Agence des Etats Unis pour le D;veloppement International
United States Agency for International Dovelopment



UA1R1
SOUTH SEAM AGICULTURAL DEVU.OPMEUT PROJBCT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACRGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01     The proposed South Shaba Agricultural Development Project is
intended to increase food crop production and crop diversification in the
Shaba region of Zaire. The project would aim primarily at increasing mal-e
production to meet the needs of the mining area of south Shaba by expanding
extension services and input supply, Improving rural roads and village
infrastructure, providing medium-term credit and improving marketing. To
ensure sustainability, the project would rely on existing organizations -
both governmental and private - presently involved in agricultural
development activities. Innovative features in this respect include the
substantial participation of non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and
cost recovery of extension and input supply services.
1.02     The proposed project was among those selected for identification
work in 1983 by International Fumd for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and
Food and Agriculture Organization Investment Center (FAO/IC) because it
responded clearly to the priority given to food crop production in the
..gricultural Recovery Plan. South Shab4 was selected as priority among
three possible projects identified by the FAO Investment Center (FAO/IC)
because of the high food demand in the mining area and the availability of
technical packages. There was a consensus among the ministry, IFAD and the
International Development Association (IDA) on the attractiveness of the
Shaba project. The proje<ot was prepared by an FAO/IC mission which visited
Shaba in November 1984.
1.03     A follow-up mission was carried out by IDA in March 1985, and in
October by IFAD/IDA to review the preparation work. Substantial changes to
the FAO/IC proposals were deemed necessary. A pre-appraisal mission which
concentrated on institutional issues took place in December 1985.
1.04     This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
composed of Messrs. Pelissier, Rambocus and Van der Ven (IDA), Sourang
(IFAD). *nd Dinh and Couillaud (IDA Consultants), which visited Zaire in
May X0 Q 
1.05     This would be the first project in Zaire for which IFAD is the
initiating agency and the main source of external financing. Currently
IFAD is co-financing with the Bank Group two agricultural development
projects: the Smallholder Maize Project (Loan 47-ZR) and the Lulua
Agricultural Development Project (Loan 160-ZR). It would be the thirteenth
agricultural project financed in Zaire by the Bank Group for a total of
US$129.8 million. Total costs of these projects including co-financing
amount to US$344.8 million. In addition, the Bank Group has financed eight
lines of credit (US$160 million) to a local development finance company,
Societe Financiere de Developpement (SOFIDE), of which approximately 302
has financed agricultural investments.



- 2-
B. The Atricultural Sector
General
1.06     Zaire'b natural resources, climate and size permit a wide range of
agricultural pursuits, making agriculture an important element in the
country's economic development. Agriculture provides direct employment and
support to 70 to 751 of Zaire's active population, and to an additional 1OZ
employed in agro-industrial processing. Rowever, the sector contributes
only 352 of GDP and 92 (1983) of export earn!ngs. Rural per capita income,
about $100 (1983), is among the lowest in Afri:.a.  It is estimated that
about 30 to 352 of the total land area of 2.3 villion km2 is suitable for
agricultural development, although only about 52 is currently cultivated or
developed as ranches. The country is divided into four major ecological
zonest rain forest, mixed forest and savanna, savanna belts and tropical
uplands. A wide variety of agricultural commodities are grown in Zaire.
The major staple food crops are cassava, matize, rice, bananas, groundnuts
and beans. The most important industrial crops are cotton, palm oil and
sugar cane, while export crops include coffee, tea, rubber and cocoa.
Zaires forestry resources are abundant but largely unexploited.
Recent Policies aid Performance
1.07     The Government of Zaire (GOZ) had in the past sought to regulate
and control the pricing and marketing of agricultural products which proved
to be a disincentive to production aatd impeding circulation of goods across
regional borders. The Government took measures to free producer prices and
abolish local authorities' rights to intervene in 1983; yet there are still
isolated areas which have not benefitted from the liberalization. Although
the reliability of agricultural production data is highly questionable,
preliminary figures from 1984/85 seem to indicate an improvement in
production, reversing a 15 year negative trend. The agriculture sector
showed an overall 3.2Z growth from 1984 to 1985. During the 1981-84
period, there has been consistent improvement in the production of the five
major food crops: maize (18%), cassava (142), paddy (13X), groundnuts
(8x), and grain legumes (4Z).  "espite this growth, food imports increased
with rice, wheat, meat and fish, being major import items. Export crop
production stagnated or fell between 1979-84, with the exception of sugar
production. This disappointing performance stems from a variety of factors
includings (a) limited resources devoted to the sector; (b) lack of
production credit; (c) weak agricultural institutions; and (d) difficult
tranaport conditions.
Structure of Production and Marketing
1.08     There are two distinct types of production systems in Zaire.  The
large farm, or modern sector, which contributes about 402 of agriculture's
share of GDP is composed of large, corporation owned plaAtations as well as
individually owned farms and ranches of at least 5 ha. The principal
commodities produced are palm oil, sugar, rubber, cocoa, cattle and coffee.
Modern sector output has declined since independence due to nationalization
measures in the mid-1970's, the shortage of foreign exchange and the low
priority given to agricultural investment by the Government. The small
farm sector comprises an estimated 3 to 4 million farming units. A bush



- 3-
fallow production system predominates and farming techniques rely on family
labor and simple tools. The principal crops grown are maize, cassava,
rice, bananas, cotton, groundnuts, coffee and tropical fruits. The
traditional sector also accounts for about 602 of the national cattle herd.
Much of crop processing for rural and part of urban consumption is
artisanal. Agro-industries include breweries, sugar and oil mills, cotton
ginneries, coffee, tea and quinine processing. Marketing of agricultural
products has benefited from the liberalization measures taken in 1981-83 to
free producer prices and allow the circulation of goods across regional
borders. Those measures have driven up farm gate prices and stimulated
production.  The main constraint to marketing is transport (para. 1.17).
Sector Manatement
1.09     The Department of Agriculture and Rural Development (DADR), Chart
1, is responsible for extension, veterinary, research services and
technical supervision of agricultural parastatals. It has broad
responsibility within the Government for sector plannirg and for the
preparation, implementation and supervision of agricultural projects.
Services provided have generally been weak and DADR has been unable to
carry out projects due to inadequate physical resources and poor sector
planning capabilities.
1.10     To address these deficiencies and to make DADR a more effective
agency for planring and managing key services and projects, a number of
important steps were taken to reorganize DADR beginning in June, 1982.
These bave included: (a) reorganization of DADR along department lines at
headquarters; (b) reduction in DADR personnel rolls by 7,000 (a decrease of
40A) combined with salary increases and performance bonuses; and (c)
reorganization of regional staff, focusing on the coordination of sectoral
activities at the regional and sub-regional levels. Additionally, action
has been taken to strengthen sectoral planning and resource management
capabilities. Support for these activities is being provided under the IDA
supported Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1244-ZR) in the form of
senior advisors for planning and management.
1.11     Progress on the institutional front has been uneven.  The new
departments are not fully operational as objectives, tasks and
responsibilities have not been determined for all units and skill
development and training in new functions has proceeded at a slower pace
than expected. Reduction in staff is progressing slowly while the
incentive system is being dealt vith on a project-by-project basis rather
than in a sector-wide context.. The most concrete results have been
registered in the area of project budgeting and financial management where
serious attempts have been made to set up effective accounting systems to
train staff in monitoring work program and budget preparation, and to work
closely with the Department of Finance for timely budget allocation.
Although inter-ministerial coordination in the formulation and
implementation of agricultural policies continues to be a problem, there
has been some progress in improving cooperation between the agriculture and
planning ministries.



-4-
Sector Issues
1.12     While budietary allocations and actual provision of funds for
agriculture had improved in 1982, serious problems have developed since
then because of the tight fiscal policy. Tre capital and recurrent budget
allocations to agriculture remain extremely low, less than 1% for recurrent
and about 12% for capital expenditures in 1984 and 1985. Other funds are
also channeled to the agricultural sector: 'Fonds Agricole", external
donor counterpart funds and private sector funds. However, the total
amount remains far below the levels needed to develop and maintain strong
agricultural growth. This situation is affecting the performance of the
sector in many ways: firstly, practically all recurrent funds are for
salary payments with little left over for other operating expenses;
secondly, because of the imbalance between capital and recurrent
expenditures, the expected benefits from investments are not being
realized; and thirdly, project implementation is being adversely affected
by the slow, irregular and insufficient release of the appropriations.
This not only increases the dependence on foreign donor financing of
development activities but raises questions about the sustainability of
these activities once project funding ends. At the May 1986 Consultative
Group meeting, tentative agreement was reached with the Government on a
sector-wide counterpart funding proposal. Under this proposal, the
Government would release on a monthly basis one twelfth of the yearly
contribution of local counterpart funds for projects with external
financing. This system went into effect in September, 1986, and will be
monitored closely by the Consultative Group. The budget issue is related
to that of cost recovery. Because of lack of funds (and also qualified
personnel), the Government has been promoting the participation of the
private sector (especially agro-industries) and voluntary organizations in
the delivery of support services to farmers. The proposed project would
Involve the allocation of full responsibility for extension and input
supply to non-governmental organizations and would provide for full cost
recovery for these activities, thus making minimal demand on the Government
budget.
1.13     Agricultural credit is not well developed in Zaire.  Credit for
large operators is currently extended by six commercial banks and by
SOFIDE, an IDA supported development finance company established in 1970.
The eligibility criteria applied by the commercial banks and SOFIDE block
most medium and small farmers from access to formal credit (SOFIDE's
average loan is about Z 5 million). Recognizing the need to address the
credit requirements of small-scale agriculture, the Government established
the Agricultural Credit Bank (BCA), Chart 2, in 1982. BCA is primarily
engaged in short and medium-term financing in a few selected areas of the
country and has thus far wisely concentrated on lending to medium sized
farmers. The Fonds de Convention pour le Developpement (FCD), a para-
fiscal resource mobilization system established in 1978, also provides
credit for specific projects proposed by private companies.
1.14    The limits on Government credit from the banking system
accompanied by improved fiscal discipline have created a tight liquidity
situation for the entire economy. While the volume of credit available
from all sources increased between 1984 and 1985, available credit fell far
short of current demand. BCA alone received completed applications for
Z 1.2 billion (US$24 million), more than ten times its 1985 ceiling.



-5-
Moreover, although SOFIDE can make long-term investment credits to finance
foreign exchange purchases, other banks are limited to short-term lending,
mostly in local currency. Additionally, interest rates offered by
commercial banks at between 36 to 402 (compared to 28% for short-term
agriculture credit) dissuades many investors from embarking on long-tera
vensures requiring a high proportion of credit financing.
1.15     Agricultural institutions responsible for delivering services to
the sector are exceptionally weak. Aaricultural research for crops and
livestock is the responsibility of the National Institute for Agronomic
Research and Studies (INERA), an autonomous institute within the Department
of Scientific Research. INERA suffers from weak management, lack of funds,
irregular disbursement of available funds, an inadequate salary structure
and a deteriorating physical infrastructure. Also, while INERA was
transferred in 1982 from DADR to the Department of Scientific Research,
food crop research consolidated under the USAID funded Applied Agricultural
Research/Extension Project (RAV) remains under DADR, which results in
political in-fighting and affects the organization and management of
agricultural research. An inter-ministerial study group established in
early 1984 with the assistance from International Service for National
Agricultural Research (ISNAR) prepared a long-term development plan for
agricultural research. The plan's objectives are to reduce the number of
stations and to gradually rationalize and harmonize all agricultural
research activities in the country. GOZ has yet to take action on the
ISNAR recommendations. With respect to seed pro6uction, the Government in
1983 created the National Seed Bureau (BUNASEM), which is responsible for
implementing a seed production and distributiorz program through contracts
with other agencies (including private organ' ations) and for ensuring
quality control. BUNASEM, supported by the IDA financed Seeds Project
(Credit 1609-ZR) has developed a satisfactory organizational structure.
The establishment of regional seed farms under contract is underway; seed
production has started in Bas Zaire and Kasai Oriental and on a small-scale
in Bandundu and Haut Zaire.
1.16     The Government's agricultural extension service is largely
ineffective due to lack of funds, trained personnel and good management.
It has not been able to ensure full compliance with its liberalization
policy whereby it has abandoned its traditional role of enforcer of
production quotas set by DADR. Farmers who do not cultivate specified
areas of specified crops may still be subjected to fines by local
Government agents, and this may result in tLe farmers' averaion to dealing
with Government extension agents. The extension practices in the Bank
assisted projects have proven thus far effective in demonstrating new
technologies to farmers without imposing any quotas. Extension services
are also provided by agro-industrial companies, the nations.l commodity
programs and to a rapidly expanding degree by NGOs.
1.17     Severe transport constraints continue to limit agricultural
production and marketing. The result is that a large percentage of the
harvest remains on the farm and those farmers who manage to evacuate their
produce receive low prices. Typically, farmers receive no more than 20 to
401 of the retail value of the produce. Available evidence suggests that a
large share of the 60 to 801 marketing margin covers costs of transport.



-6-
The high cost of transport is due not only to the deteriorated state of the
transport network but alao to high fuel costs, poor running condition of
equipment and scarcity of spare parts and repair services.
C. Government Strategv for Aaricultural Development
1.18     The recently released 5 Year Plan (1986-90) can be briefl)
summarized as concentrating its efforts ons (a) achieving food self-
sufficiency; (b) increasing support to agricultural crops as raw materials
for local industry; and (c) increasing production of export crVps.
Realization of plan objectives will continue to rely on a major
contribution from the private rector and development investments will
concentrate on areas where there is already a basic infrastructure and
which are demographically important. These overall objectives cover almost
all areas of potential agricultural development activity. However, there
is still a need to define investment priorities based on economic viability
and financial and institutional sustaiaability.
1.19     Agriculture is expected to r'sceive about 12S of total resources
duri4ag the 1966-90 5 Year Plan period, amounting to Z 17.7 billion and
representing a dramatic Increase from the 12 of the past few years. it is
estimated that almost 242 of this figure (Z 4.2 billion) will be raised
from local sources, with the balance coming from external sources. In
order for the optimistic objectives of the plan to be met, the Government
must commit itself to undertaking concrete remedial actions that would lead
to: (a) dependable allocation of budgeted funds; (b) availability of
agricultural inputs; (c) resolution of administrative bottlenecks Impeding
agricultural research reforms; (d) cessation of excessive dumping of
agricultural comodities; (e) increased credit availability; and (f)
Improved road infrastructure. The specific actions necessary are being
addressed in the context of the Bank's proposed structural adjustment
credit and in the planned agricultural sector memorandum. Studies are
proposed to resolve the budgetary allocation bottleneck; encourage more
active participation by the private sector in the storage and distribution
of agricultural inputs; detail the specific steps necessary to implement
the ISNAR report recommendations on agricultural research (para 1.15);
establish the case for and define the measures necessary to provide Zairian
agriculture enterprises with the opportunity to establish their comparative
advantage for producing products locally (meat, sugar, maise, rice and
among commodities to be studied); and examine preferential interest rates
for agriculture. An ongoing IDA financed technical assistance project is
assisting in the preparation/monitoring of projects, while a transport
project currently under preparation will help improve the cost-
effectiveness of the rural road network.
D. Previous IFAD Operations In Zaire
1.20     To date, IFAD has financed two projects in Zaire, namely, the
Smallholder Maize Project (PMKO) and the Lulua Agricultural Development
Proj3ct (PRODALU).  Both projects cofinanced wi-h IDA (para. 1.21) aim at
increasing food production, particularly maize, strengthening agricultural
support services and improving rural infrastructure. The PMKO project
continues to be implemented successfully. Incremental production and
farmers' participation are in excess of appraisal estimates. The PRODALU



-7-
project was conceived as a logical follow-up to the PMKO project in a
neighboring reglon. It became effective in February 1986. The PMKO
performance is a result of several factors, including a high demand for
food in the region; a favorable policy environment consisting of market
liberalization and abolition of .mposed cropping patterns; and efficient
project management. Major constraints include inadequate and delayed
provision of Government financial contributions, and shortage of foreign
exchange for fcrtilizers, which raise the question of sustainability of
activities once project funding ends. Therefore, reliance on financial
contribution of the Government should be minimized and in view of foreign
exchange constraints, reliance on imported inputs should be minimized.
Also the capacity of Government Institutions, particularly with respect to
the provision of support services, is limited thus necessitating the
promotion of private sector participation In project Implementation. The
proposed project has addressed these issues by including full cost recovery
for most activities, involvement of the private sector and NGOs in
implementation, encouragement of beneficiary participation and promotion of
technologies with reduced imported inputs.
S. Bank Group Support for Zairian Agriculture
1.21     Bank support has included sector work, project financing and a
sustained dialogue with the Government to define and address more
coherently key policy issues. The Bank Group has also played an importaut
role in helping the Government coordinate the activities of external
financing agencies in the sector by taking a leadership role in setting up
co-financing arrangements and by organizing and chairing, under the aegis
of the Consultative Group, the 1982 Special Meeting on agriculture and the
1986 Consultative Group. The Bank Group has financed a total of 12
projects in the agricultural sector. Past lending operations have
addressed the rehabilitation and expansion needs of modern agricultural
enterprises (both private and mixed capital companies) as will as the
development of basic services for smallholders. The Bank Group's
agricultural portfolio has concentrated on several subsectors: livestock
(Livestock I, Credit 398-ZR, Ituri Livestock Development, Credit 697-ZR,
Ituri Northeast Rural Development, Credit 1325-ZR), cotton (Cotton
Rehabilitation I, Credit 660-ZR, and Cotton Rehabilitation II, Credit 1264-
ZR); industrial crops (Kwilu-Ngongo Sugar, Credit 1089-ZR, and Oil Palm
Rehabilitation, Credit 796-ZR), smallholder agriculture (Smallholder Maize,
Credit 1040-ZR; Kwango Kwilu Technical Assistance, Credit 1152-ZR, and
Lulua Agricultural Development Project, Credit 1540-ZR; and Seeds/Research,
Credit 1609-ZR).  Technical assistance support (Credit 1244-Z) for
institutional strengthening and policy reform has also been provided
through a freestanding T.A. project. Bank Group support for agricultural
development in Zaire over the next few years will continue to have two main
goales (a) help improve the policy and institutional framework so as to
create an environment conducive to increased investments, better management
and incressed outputs through the agricultural component of a structural
adjustment credit currently under preparation; and (b) help increase the
production of food crops as well as industrial and export crops through the
financing of production oriented projects.



-8-
1.21     An underlying feature of Bank Group operations in the sector has
been the effort to identify management approaches that work effectively in
the local context. As a result, a number of management arrangements have
been utilized including classical Government management ur4ts (PMKO, Ituri
and Lulua), mixed capital companies with joint publiciprivate sector
management (Kwango-Kwilu and Seeds) and mixed capital companies with
private sector management (cotton, sugar and palm oil). Implementation
experience has shown that each approach has its advantages and
disadvantages. On the one hand, area development projects have commonly
suffered from management problems, inadequate budget allocations and
shortage of qualified staffing, largely on account of the weaknesses of the
civil service. On the other hand, crop oriented projects with less direct
Government involvement and with autonomous or private sector management
performed generally much better. The focus of future Bank supported
operations will be on the development of management systems promoting
stronger participation by the producers and the private sector, aiming at
increasing the chances of project long-term sustainability.
II. PROJECT AREA
A. General
Location, Area and Administration
2.01     The Shaba region includes five rural administrative zones and
three urban sub-regions (Lubumbashi, Kolwezi and Likasi) with 36
administrative zones. It covers 496,877 km2 (nearly the area of France)
and 211 of the area of Zaire. The project area occupies a large portion of
south western Shaba, including the panhandle. It was selected to overlap
with the hinterland of the mining area which stretches over 30 to 40 km on
both sides of the main road from Sakania to Mutshatsha and includes three
major centers: Lubumbashi, Kolwezi and Likasi (IBRD Map 19769). The
98,464 km2 area lies between 10 and 130 south of the equator and between 25
and 280 east longitude.
Population
2.02     The project area has a total population of 1.5 million, made up of
250,000 families. Two thirds of the population is urban with
concentration in the three main cities. The farm population of 585,000
consists of about 100,000 farm families, mostly smallholders that represent
IFAD's target group. It is concentrated primarily within a 40 km radius of
the urban areas in the more fertile valleys and along the main road axes.
Population density of the project area is 15/km2 (the national average is
10/km2), but decreases to a low of 2.5/kml in rural areas.
2.03     The development of the mining sector led to the rapid growth of
urban and peri-urban centers. Migrants to Shaba come from the rural areas
of the Kasais, Kivu and Zambia. Th.. result is an extensive ethnic mix, and
a weakness in the traditional system of agriculture in some parts of the
project area. The dominant ethnic group in the peri-urban areas is the
Laba (Laba-Katanga and Laba-Kasai) followed by the Lunda.



-9-
Socio-economic Features
2.04     Shaba ranks first in the worJd for cobalt prcluction, and sixth
for high grade copper production. Other minerals mined in the area
include zinc, lead, silver, cadmium, germanium, rhenium, platinum,
tungsten, tin and manganese. GECAMINES dominates the Zairian economy. It
accounts for more than 90X of Zairian copper production and is by far the
largest global producer of cobalt. The parastatal employs 38,000 (200,000
including families). In 1984, the firm split into three subsidiaries:
GECW4INES Exploitation for mining, GECAMINES Commerciale for marketing, and
GECAMINES Developpement for agriculture and food supply, all under the
aegis of GECAMINES Holding. A second large mining company, Sodimiza, has a
majority of its capital held by Japanese private interests. It employs
3,000. In 1982, the Shaba mining companies exported US$1.38 billion worth
of products at various stages of processing; this represented 91S of the
value of Zaire's exports. Besides mining, Shaba produces cement and beer
and important sources of energy (hydroelectric and coal).
2.05     For years the socio-economic life of the mining area has been
dominated by GECAMINES, the area's main employer and provider of social
services, food and utilities. GECAMINES both imported and produced its own
food and guaranteed food supply to its employees. The reorganization of
GECAMINES' corporate structure in 1984 separated mining from other
operations and led to a significant change in GECAMINES' social
responsibilities. No longer was the giant responsible for feeding its
personnel. GECAMINES maintains support of smallholder agriculture through
the Centre d'Execution des Programmes Communautaires (CEPC, para. 2.35).
Spurred on by the Government's price liberalization measures, private
entrepreneurs, NGOs and private voluntary organizations (PVO) launched
production activities in the region. For now, the mining region remains a
food deficit area. According to 1985 surveys (Planning/Study Unit of DADR
and IFAD/IDA preparation mission), total annual demand by the urban/mining
area (not including the rural population) is estimated at 160,000 tons of
maize, and maize production at 101,000 tons (of which 60X by smallholders,
20% by GECAMINES Developpement and 202 by other commercial farms). The
annual deficit of 60,000 to 70,000 tons is made up primarily by imports
from other parts of Shaba and from Zambia. Data on other crops are not
available; cassava production has been severely affected by pests (para.
2.08) and there is a significant but unquantified demand for cassava,
peanuts, beans and rice in the mining area.
Climate. Topography and Soils
2.06     South Shaba has a tropical climate with a single rainy season
lasting about six months (end October to mid-April). Annual rainfall
ranges from 1,100 mm in the northwest to 1,300 mm in the southeast. The
mean annual temperature averages 200 C with monthly minimum of 150 C in
July and maximum of 220 C in November, daily minimum of 1.80 C (May) and
maximum of 35.10 C (October). The relative humidity rarely exceeds 802
(February) and reaches a minimum of 452 in September.
2.07     The area lies on a high plateau (1,400 m average elevation) cut by
a number of shallow valleys drained by rivers, the most important being the
Lualaba (main tributary of the Zaire) and the Lufira. The plateau consists



- 10 -
priaarily of schist and limited areas of sandstone. Soils of the plateau
are red lateritic with good texture (clays and clay loams), low to moderate
fertility and moderate to reportedly high acidity. Soils of alluvial
plains and valley terraces have a good clay and organic matter content,
good structure and water holding capacity, moderate to good fertility and
favorable potential for high yields. The lower parts of plains and valleys
subject to flooding are used for cropping (maize and vegetables) during the
dry season. Given their higher production potential, valleys and plains
are more intensively cropped than plateaus. Some sections of the project
area, especially in the north, are hilly with elevations up to 2,000 m.
Plateaus at tuat elevation have good potential for cattle raising. The
vegetation consists of a wooded savanna with grasses consisting primarily
of HvParrenia and Setaria and subject to yearly bush fires. Imperata is
present in some areas indicating soil depletion from cropping. There are
limited areas covered with a light forest, especially the hills of the
northern section and galeries along streams; the poorly drained valley
bottoms have a grass vegetation.
B. Panmint Sector
The Target Group
2.08     The smallholder (para. 2.02) family of 6 cultivates an average of
1.3 ha per yer. Typical farm models currently observable in the project
area provide a net per capita income generally comparable to the country
rural per capita income (i.e. about US$100 in 1983 prices) but vary
according to cropping patterns. However, because of the low level of
productivity due to inadequate services and material support, a significant
section of the target group has per capita incomes estimated at about US$40
ln 1983 prices, i.e. 401 of the nation's rural average. The current
cropping pattern is unusual for Zaire characterized by the predominance of
mono cropping of maize. Cassava, until recently the staple food, has been
virtually wiped out from most of the project area by mealy bug (IBRD Map
19769). Only small areas are devoted to beans, peanuts, sweet potatoes and
vegetables. Most crops are grown during the single rainy season but some
are also grown during the dry season in the valleys. Unlike most parts of
Zaire where fallowing is required to restore soil fertility and to ensure
weed control, the same plot of land may be cropped continuously for years
with sustained yields. Much of the crop is used for home consumption but
part is sold for cash. There are limited numbers of small stock
(especially goats) and no cattle raising except for a few medium-scale
dairy operations around Lubumbashi. Women play a major role in food
production, processing and marketing in the project area. Allocation of
agricultural tasks among women and men is not well differentiated, although
men are more heavily involved in land preparation and women in weeding,
transport and processing. In addition, women are responsible for fuelwood
gathering and water transport. In spite of the important role of women in
agriculture, agricultural extension has been provided by men; participation
of women in extension delivery is desirable and has been initiated in other
parts of Zaire. The project would promote enrolment of women as extension
staff as well as their access to credit and inputs.



- 11 -
Comwercial Farming
2.09     The commercial farming sector is relatively well developed in
Shaba. Established by Belgian settlers for the production of food crops,
vegetables, cattle and dairy products, it was virtually wiped out after
independence. Medium-scale farms belonging to Zairian nationals and large
comercial estates held by firms such as GECAMINES Developpement are being
rehabilitated. In addition to a few dairy farms and cattle ranches, maize
is the predominant crop. In 1984185, there were about 150 mediumllarge-
scale farms (over 5 ha) with an aggregate cropped area of som 18,000 ha
and accounting for 30 to 401 of the maize output. Some are in the hands of
absentee owners with no technical or managerial skill and no capital,
others are bona fide farmers, expatriate and national. The commercial
farms can be divided into three main typess (a) the approximately 60 small
farms (5 to 20 ha) which use primarily hand labor and may rely on larger
farms (especially GECAMINES Developpement) to supply mechanized land
preparation services and provide inputs; maize yields average 3.0 to 3.5
klha; (b) medium-scale farms (20 to 50 ha) often owned by city dwellers;
few own adequate machinery and equipment and they rely on GECAMINES
Developpement for tractor services and input supply who often rent out part
of their land to sharecroppers or other renters; despite the fact that
farming is not their primary occupation, these farmers tend to play
catalytic roles as early adopters and promoters of improved technology in
the region, however, there are about 25 such farms with yields averaging 4
tlha; and (c) about 15 large farms (over 50 ha) including GECAMINES
Divel6ppement (4,300 ha of maize), SAEL (400 ha) and Swanepoel (300 ha).
These are industrial operations utilizing their own equipment and Imported
inputs (hybrid 3eed and fertilizers); their yields average 5 to 6 t/ba with
a uiaximum of 9 tlha.
C. Institutional Infrastructure
Goverument Administration
2.10     The regional administration of Shaba is headed by a Governor
headquartered at Lubumbashi and appointed by the President of the Republic.
The Governor is also Regional President of the official party organization.
A similar structure is repeated at the sub-regionail and zone levels. In a
move towards regional autonomy, a regional assembly has been organized with
limited legislative powers. There are three administrative zones (gsmbove,
Kipushi and Sakania) in the Haut Shaba sub-region, two In the Kolwezi sub-
region (Mutshatsha and Lubudi) plus the three urban sub-regions subdivided
into 40 Mcollectivites" At the local level, the #collectivitesR are headed
either by traditional chiefs or by elected persons. They can play a
significant role in the m>re traditional villages, especially with respect
to community development and land tenure but they have seen their powers
eroded with the influx of migrants. Each "collectivite" is divided into
several 'groupementsu.
Ministry of Aariculture and Rural Develoyment
2.11     The regional inspector of agriculture represents the Minister of
Agriculture in the region but operates under the direct responsibility of
the Governor. The regional service of agriculture consists of five
officest general services, studies and regional planning, plant production



- 12 -
and protection, animal production and health, and rural development. The
same five services exist at the sub-regional level; at the rural zone
level, only the three technical services are represented. Total staff
numbers 603 agents. The services are poorly staffed with badly paid
personnel who have limited or no operating funds. A major function of the
200 field staff is to enforce compulsory cultivation and collect dubious
statistics on cropped areas and production. Each grower is still expected
to grow 0.6 ha of cassava even though the crop has been wiped out by a
parasite (para. 2.08). The regional inspection of agriculture organizes an
annual agricultural conference attended by representatives of agricultural
and other Government agencies and of the private sector including NGOs.
The conference deals with three main areas: production, marketing und
development and is designed to improve planning.
Agricultural Research
2.12     Until 1985, limited agricultural research was carried out on maize
by the National Maize Program (PNM) with h2adquarters near Lubumbashi. PNH
has been responsible for the development of the Shaba 1 composite which has
a superior yield potential under the ecological conditions of the project
area and finds ready acceptance among growers and consumers. In recent
years, the PNM has been hampered by lack of funds. Under the agricultural
research extension project "Projet de Recherche Agricole et de
Vulgarisation' (RAV) supported by the US Agency for International
Development (USAID), maize research is to be expanded to include work in
Shaba on cassava, grain legumes and farming systems.
The National Fertilizer Program (PNE)
2.13     Since 1976, the FAO supported national fertilizer program (PNE)
has been developing a program of fertilizer demonstrations with small -
groups of growers. It employs a staff of 37 extension agents selected from
the regional agricultural services and reached some 1,400 growers (about 50
groups) in 1984185. PNE has introduced a credit system for fertilizer
sales to NGOs and groups of farmers with a bonus incentive for the group
leader to recover credit from the members. Under this system, a 90%
recovery rate has been achieved. In 1985, PNE supplied 3,000 tons of
fertilizer on credit; it also supplies maize seed (cash sales only), tools
and vegetable seed. PNE participates in field trials on improved practices
and varieties in collaboration with other research programs. However, the
experimental basis for fertilizer recommendations remains weak. For
example, the need for potassium in complete fertilizer is not known, yet
recommendations are identical regardless of the soils (including bottomland
soil where continuous maize cultivation has yielded well without fertilizer
for years). PNE is currently expanding its area of action beyond the
mining area and has been working with the USAID supported North Shaba
Project.



- 13 -
D. Rural Infrastructure
Transport
2.14     Shaba benefits from a well developed transport infrastructure.
The project area is crossed throughout its length by a railroad from
Sakania to Nutahatsha (1,067 km) which serves the main urban centers. The
railroad continues northwards to Ilebo on the Kasai River, a tributary of
the Zaire River which links the area to Kinshasa and Matadi, with another
branch reaching Kivu. To the south, the railroad is linked to the Zambian
network and to Southern Africa. This railroad system is essential to the
region's economy, especially to the mining sector.
2.15     A 500 km paved highway runs parallel to the railroad.  This main
axis is linked to Zambia to the south and to the Kasais and Kinshasa to the
west, but this linkage to Kinshasa is difficult. Thus from a communication
standpoint, Shaba has a better linkage to other ports via the Indian Ocean
than with Kinshasa/Matadi via the Atlantic route.
2.16     The 850 km of national roads and 300 km of regional roads are
complemented by some 2,000 km of rural roads. These rural roads make up a
relatively dense network around the cities of Lubumbashi, Kolwezi and
Likasi. Their condition is generally satisfactory. Outside these peri-
urban areas, the condition of rural roads has deteriorated and key
structures (bridges and culverts) are in need of renovation. Shaba is the
only region of Zaire where a transportation tax (Z 150 per ton of marketed
maize) is collected to finance road mainteinance and where the Roads Office
(OR) is responsible for rural road maintenance.
Input Supplx
2.17     There has been no sustained seed production activity in south
Shaba outside the Lubudi Agricultural Development Project (para. 2.33).
The supply of seed from the Government farm of Kamema Kasese in western
Shaba has been unreliable. Accordingly, NGOs and comercial growers have
been importing hybrid maize (SR 52) from Zambia. Vegetable seeds are
imported from Zambia. No other improved seed is available in the area.
Pertilizer is generally imported from neighboring countries rather than
through the port of Matadi. Several firms in Lubumbashi (GECAMINES
Developpement and Swanspoel) deal with imports of fertilizer, pesticide and
agricultural machinery and serve the comercial farming sector.
Smallholders are being served by PNE (para. 2.13), Centre d'Execution des
Programmes Communautaires (CEPC) (para. 2.35) and voluntary organizations.
Agricultural Credit
2.18     There are six sources of credit in the project area:  SOFIDE, BCA,
the Federation of Diocesan Credit Unions (UCPD), NGOs, PNE and the
commercial banks. NGOs and PNE provide short-term input credit to their
clientele. PNE sells inputs for cash to individuals and provides some
credit to NGOs and extension organizations. CEPC (para. 2.35) provides
seasonal credit by way of a promotional kit ("colis promotionnel") to
farmers at the planting season and recovers 1,200 kg of maize per 'kit' of
one ha at harvest time. Repayment ratio for CEPC is 952. Another NGO,



- 14 -
Shalamo (para. 2.37), provides credit in kind to its members by delivering
fertilizer at planting season and collecting the repayment at harvest. The
repayment ratio for Shalamo is 872.
2.19     SOFIDE has a branch office in Lubumbashi and makes limited
investment lending to agricultural sector. Its outstanding losns as of
October 1985 to 13 projects for an amount of Z 33.1 million were allocated
as followss
Sector                        Z million              X
Livestock                      10.184              30.8
Food crops                     22.524              68.0
Marketing                       0.402               1.2
Total                          33.110             1002
Shabe agricultural loans represent 14.52 of the total SOFIDE portfolio.
Because of SOFIE's regulations, borrowers tend to be big commercial farms.
2.20     Banoue de Cridit AarAcole (BCA), a young institution established
In October 1982 is wholly owned by the GOZ. Its main responsibility is to
finance the agricultural sector not covered by SOFIDE, mainly medium
enterprises and smallholders. BCA provides a wide range of banking
services to the rural areas and lending operations are conducted from the
Kinshasa office. BCA was to establish a branch in Kwango-Kwilu in December
1986 and should establish one in Shaba in April 1987.
2.21     BCA's operations are governed by its charter and the bank is
autonomous in its organization and management. Its operating policies are
set up by the board of directors and are spelled out in a formal policy
statemnt. These policies have been reviewed and found to be satisfactory.
The full board of directors consists of the managing director and
reprosentatives of the Office of the President, Agriculturo, Finance,
Central Bank, SOFIDE and National Association of Zairian Enterprises
(ANEZA). Day-to-day management is the responsibility of the managing
director who is assisted by four directors. BCA has four departments
(administration, finance, project and commercial) and an office of the
managing director. The Administration Department handles general
administration and personnel and the Finance Department is responsilble for
accounting, budgeting and overall financial managment. The Project
Department supervises processing and monitoring of project loan and the
Commercial Department handles deposits, foreign exchange and credit.
2.22    As of February 28, 1986, BCA had a staff of 97 including the
managing director and employed a professional staff (three to four years of
university training) of 35 (361 of total personnel). The managing
director, a former senior SOFIDE staff member and an advisor to the Prime
Minister, is dynamic, experienced and well regarded in the financial
community In Zaire. The senior staff are generally well trained and
competent but BCA has a large number of young professionals who require
additional training. BCA has a comprohansive training program and during
the last two years, 24 professionals received training at local banks or
foreign institutions. Training is on an ad hoc basis through local



- 15 -
seminars and on-the-job training, and BCA has a training program agreement
with SOFIDI and staff planned for the branches are already trained and are
on internship in various SOFIDE branches. There is presently one technical
assistance expatriate financed by UNDP at BCA. The growth in staff has
slowed down after the initial build-up period. The current level of staff
seems satisfactory and can handle the additional future work load in
connection with this project and the IDA financed project in Bandundu. The
capability of BCA staff to evaluate loan applications and administer the
portfolio is considered satisfactory.
2.23     BCA's sources of funds comprise capital from GOZ and long-ternm
deposits with quasi-equity characteristics from other donors. The
authorized and issued capital of BCA is Z 130 million. GOZ has accepted in
principle to open BCA's capital to additional shareholders. BCA is looking
also for long-term loans with quasi-equity characteristics and its efforts
are promising.  USAID recently granted BCA a long-term loan of Z 50 million
on favorable terms (t = 15 years, g - 5 and r - 7g). GOZ has committed
itself to lend FCD funds at low interest rate and KfW (German Development
Bank) is in negotiation with BCA for a loan.
2.24     Loans are classified in two types:  commercial and agricultural.
Agricultural loans consist mainly of project investment loans and seasonal
credit and are appraised on the basis of project documents which conttain
technical, financial and economic information. Loan applications are
processed on a case by case basis. BCA's project evaluation is based on
banking criteria - investment and working capital requirements and
repayment capacity.  The limit per Loan is 60X of new investment and 802 in
the case of an inv#'stment for expansion. These procedures have been
reviewed and found to be satisfactory. Commercial loans consist mainly of
short-term loans. These commercial lomas do not require project documents
and are made on the basis of an evaluation and adequate security.
Commercial loans of over Z 0.5 million require Board agrement while loans
of less than Z 0.5 million need approval of the loan committee chalred by
the managing director. BCA loans vary from six months (short-term) to
three years (medium-term). BCA takes adequate security to cover its
portfolio (para. 2.25). For all projects, credit worthiness of the loan
applicant and the mortgage of land, equipments and installations (where
applicable) are the main security. BCA accepts personal and joint
guarantees in the case of partnership.
2.25     The audited financial statements for BCA for 1983-85 and the
projected income statements are presented in Tables la and b. The
accounting and internal control systems were reviewed and found to be
satisfactory. The financial statements are audited by a reputable
internttional firm of auditors. As of February 28, 1986, BCA had approved
99 projects amounting to Z 175 million, of which around Z 144 million had
been disbursed. The lending distribution by geographical region is as
follows:



- 16 _
Regior.        No. of Proiects        Amount       2 of Total
(Z million)
Bandundu              26                  27             16
Bas Zaire              17                 35             20
Equateur                7                 18             10
Haut Zaire              8                 10              6
Kasai Occidental        6                  9              5
Kasai Oriental          8                 13              7
Kivu                   12                 24             14
Shaba                  11                 28             16
Kinshasa                4                 11              6
99                175            100
BCA lending for Shaba includes 11 projects representing 15.9% of its
outstanding portfolio.  For 1985, the loan approval by sub-sector was as
follow:s
Tvye of loan     No. of Proiects      Amount           Total
(Z million)
Food crops             11                 31             27
Livestock               2                  7              5
Marketing               6                 20             18
Seasonal loan         32                  45             39
Commercial loan         5                 12             11
56                115            100
A major portion (67%) of the BCA portfolio is in short-term loans (less
than one year) distributed as follows: marketing 182, seasonal 39% and
commercial 102. However, this pattern is changing slowly and as of
September 30, 1986, short-term loans amounted to Z 67 million or 48% and
medium-term loans to Z 92 million or 52% of the total disbursed portfolio.
The progression of the BCA's portfolio is as follows:
Year                  No. of Prolects        Amount
(Z million)
1983                        3                    2
1984                       40                   58
1985                       56                  115
99                 175
As of September 30, 1986, arrears of more than three months amounted to
Z 13 million or 8% of its disbursed loans. The arrears situation is as
follows:



- 17 -
Approvals        Disbursed          Arrears         (Z)
Feb.   Sept.      Feb.  Sept.   Feb.  Sept.
--------- Z Million ---------------
Short-term          94           86     67         11      7     30      10
Medium-term          84          55     92                 6      0.5     6
178         141    159         11     13     12       8
BCA takes adequate security for its loans and collateral value amounted to
Z 54 million for arrears of Z 11 million. BCA has recently issued a set of
measures (better selection of clientele, supervision and monitoring of
loans and garnishment) aimed at recovering all its arrears. These measures
were effective and as of September 30, 1986, arrears decreased to 8% of BCA
portfolio from 12% in February 1986.
2.26     BCA portfolio is in local currency and interest rates are
regulated by the Central Bank. GOZ policy is to provide loans to the
agricultural sector on preferential terms. The onlending interest rates
for agriculture are 30% for commercial and seasonal credit, 32% for export
credit and 25% for investment credit. Since 1984, the Central Bank of
Zaire have revised the agricultural lending rate upward twice. In 1986,
the inflation rate has been steadily increasing and real agricultural
interest rates are now negative. The issue of agricultural interest rates
for Zaire is part of the agenda for the Sector Adjustment Credit
Negotiations.
2.27     Caisses Populaires pour le D;veloppement (CPDs) are credit unions
established in Shaba in 1983 after splitting up with COOPEC, the umbrella
orgaiiization for credit unions in Zaire. The organizational structure of
CPDs is decentralized with management at the grass root level. The Union
des Caisses Populaires pour le Developpement (UCPD) created in 1985 acts as
coordinating body. CPDs are associations with voluntary membership for the
purpose of providing financial assistance to their members and their
statutes conform with GOZ's cooperative union charter.
2.28     Each CPD is supervised by a Board of Directors (Conseil
d'Administration) of 5 to 15 members elected by the General Assembly for
four years. Typical CPD staffing consists of four persons (manager,
finance and cashiers). CPD managers are usually high school graduates who
are respected by the community. They receive an initial three month
training course at UCPD in Lubumbashi and refreshing courses over the first
year of operation. Cashiers are at least of eighth grade level. A similar
organizational structure exists at the central level. UCPD serves as
banker for its member CPDs. It has a very simple structure with four
services: credit, exploitation, technical and legalladministrative.
2.29     CPDs do not receive any funding from GOZ.  Deposits from members
are the principal source of funds. Members are required to pay a small fee
(Z 10) for membership. As of February 28, 1986, UCPD had a total of 30
branches, of which nine are located in the rural areas with a total
membership of 10,000. Typically a probatory period of one year is
necessary for each new CPD. This period allows the new CPD to build up its
staff and membership and to act as a savings institution before it can lend
out in the second year of operation. Day to day management of CPD is the



- 13 -
responsibility of the manager who is trained and supervised by UCPD.  CPDs
are required to report monthly to UCPD and deposit their excess savings
every three months. CPDs are required by law to maintain 502 of their
deposits in legal reserve that Aan be deposited in banks at commercial bank
interest rates, keep 10X in liquidity and the balance of 402 can be lent.
Depositors earn an interest of 1.5Z per month or 19.5Z per annum on time
deposits and 0.52 per month or 6.22 per annum on current accounts. The
interest chareged to borrowers is 2.52 per month or 34.52 per annum.
Members have to maintain their deposits for at least three months before
being eligible for a loan. UCPD maintains liaison with CPDs through the
radio network set up at each parish and CPDs situated in the remote rural
areas are in contact with UCPD in Lubumbashi at least once a week.
2.30     The financial statements of UCPD for 1984185 are presented in
Table 2. The accounting records are well kept. CPD's records are audited
by UCPD officials. Under the project, consultants would be engaged to
improve accounting and management systems and UCPD accounts would be
audited by external auditors approved by IFAD/IDA. As of the end of
February 1986, UCPD held deposits (from private members and surplus
deposits from CPDs) totaling Z 34.2 million, of which 402 is deposited in
accounts at commercial banks according to central bank regwlations;
Z 0.5 million have been loaned to CPDs (802 of these loans in agriculture)
and about 16 million loaned to private members in the Lubumbashi area.
Loans are made in local currency on the basis of an evaluation and adequate
security from the applicant or group of applicants. CPDs do take liens on
equipment and other personal assets. CPDs can lend up to twice the amount
the member's savings account. The amounts lent to individual members
rarely exceed Z 10,000 (US$170) and the repayment period varies between 6
and 12 months. Only 102 of the portfolio exceed six months. At the
central level, UCPD can lend up to twice the amount deposited by each CPDs.
*'APDs are required to report monthly to UCPD and deposit their excess
savings every three months. UCPD total arrears represent Z 25,000 (US$415)
or 62 of its agriculture portfolio.
2.31     The CF3 network has increased from one in November 1983 to 30 CPDs
in May 1986, using solely their own resources. The CPD structure is
simple, cheap and CPDs act as savings institutions for the underprivileged,
performing the task of mobilizing rural and financial resources as well as
extending the credit to the rural areas especially for the smallholders.
In the coming five years, UCPD intends to extend its network in Shaba from
30 to 75 branches, of which 29 will be in the rural areas. To be able to
grow and extend its activities especially into the rural areas, UCPD needs
to train its staff, reinforce its capacity through technical assistance at
the central level for planning and management, equip new CPDs and establish
a small revolving fund to initiate activities. UCPD is seen as an
effective channel to increasing lending and is expected to reach 20,000
smallholders (202 of the total project population) at the end of the
project implementation period.
2.32     Maize marketing credit is provided by the local commercial banks
and by the milling firms. Currently there is a general liquidity squeeze
imposed by the Central Bank of Zaire and the consequence is that Shaba has
Aot been able to obtain timely and enough credit for maize marketing.



- 19 -
U. Retional DeveloWment. Resources and Institutions
Government Programs
2.33     The Lubudi Agricultural Development Project in the Lubudi area is
operated by DADR with support from the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC)
of the French Government. Since 1983, it includes extension, input supply,
Input credit and seed production. The project involves some 1,200 farmers
(cultivating about 850 ha) and eaploys ten extension agents. In 1985, a
major effort was the production of Shaba 1 maize on 40 ha for distribution
in south Shaba. The project is also working on the development of animal
traction, crop diversification (groundnut, rice, soybeans and beans) and
the promotion of fanmers' associations.
National Association of Zairian Entergrises (ANEZA)
2.34     The National Association of Zairian Enterprises (ANEZA) has 630
members, some 50 of which are involved in agriculture. The association
carries out management/financial training for managers of associated
enterprises with financing from the European community.
CEPC
2.35     This non-profit organization (Chart 3) operating primarily under
the auspices of GECAfIINES succeeds similar organizations sponsored by
GECAMINES to support agriculture. CEPC's 1984 mandate is to provide
agricultural, community development and health services to smallholders
operating in the mining area. CEPC is also supported by the National
Society of Zairian Railroads (SNCZ) and Brasimba (beer manufacturers) and
expects to enlist the support of the Banque Couuerciale du Zaire (BCZ) and
GECAMINES Developpement.  According to the statutes approved in 1986, the
Board of Directors is made up of representatives of the three 'effective'
member organizations which contribute to the initial capital and make
yearly contributions (Z 250,000 each). CEPC's departments include
agriculture, training, community development and health. It operates at
the field level through 29 community development committees which work in
225 villages. It employs 26 agronomists and several voluntary extension
workers. Agricultural activities have focused on the supply of inputs
(tools, seed and fertilizer) provided to farmers in small kits (lcolis
promotionnelsa).  In 1984, 3,560 growers secured packages and cropped 1,900
ha. In 1985, CEPC received 11,000 requests for assistance and will respond
to 7,400. Beginniag in 1986, the atricultural program will be supported
through an interest free loan (100 uiillion Belgian francs, about US$1.8
million) by the Belgian Government. CEPC Is also receiving support from
Italy (medical equipment), USA (potato seed production, vegetable
production and soil laboratory), Canada (orthopedic equipment) and the
European Economic Community (EEC) (village infrastructure). Thus, CEPC
enjoys the trust of Zairian firms and the external donor community. For
1986, CEPC has an investment budget of Z 14 million, of which 2.3 million
is contributed by GECAMInES exploitation and 11.8 million by the Belgian
loan. The operating budget totals Z 90 million operating expenses for
agricultural activities and enjoy full cost recovery. Separate accounts
have been established for financing by external agencies.



- 20 -
2.36     CEPC is playing a key role in the development of smallholder
production in the mining area. However, to become more effective, CEPC's
organizational structure and financial management must be improved.
Management is dependent on a few key individuals and there is no systematic
cost aacounting system.
Shalamo
2.37     The Shalamo Project (in Swahili 'Unity fields") is a smallholder
association supported by a Catholic voluntary effort in the Likasi area.
It groups 3,400 growers in the peri-urban area who cultivate a total 1,400
ha of maize. The organization consisting of parish committees was founded
in 1982 by a missionary to encourage the urban unemployed (including
secondary school graduates) to grow maize for both subsistence and cash.
It now employs an agronomist, four salaried extension workers and a team of
volunteer extension workers who are also growers. It operates on a
shoestring budget provided by membership fees consisting of one kilo of
maize per are (.01 ha) of cropped land. Limited investments (buildings aiid
trucks) have been financed by European church organizations. Shalamo
supplies seed and fertilizer to its members on credit with CEPC and PNE
acting as wholesalers. With extension advice and inputs, growers reach
yields of 3.5 t/ha. Shalamo has organized a vigilante system to guard
against crop theft. Shalamo is a very successful grass root effort. Ita
activities have soared in a few years in response to a rapidly growing
demand for services. Its weaknesses are similar to CEPC's: youth,
inexperience and reliance to date on two individuals (missionaries) to
ensure administrative and financial operations. A descriptior. of CEPC and
Shalamo, the two main NGOs involved in agriculture in the project area, is
presented in Annex 1.
BDD
2.38     Diocesan Development Bureaus (BDD) have been created within each
Catholic diocese of the country for the purpose of fostering economic
development activities in conjunction with religious health and educational
programs. Each BDD is autonomous but is linked to a national liaison
office. There are three BDDs in the project area. For the Kolwezi
diocese, the Diocesan Development Commission (CDD) of the Lubumbashi
Archdiocese participates in agricultural development through its BDD. The
staff consists of four technicians at headquarters. BDD has been supplying
maize seed and ferti-izer to rural parishes on a cash basis. Lubumbashi's
BDD is also promoting the creation of credit unions ("caisses populaires").
BDD has been receiving some financial support from European churches, with
which it is developing revenue earning activities (e.g. a commercial farm).
The Kolwezi BDD has initiated a modest program of extension and input
supply along the Shalamo model and is supporting a smallholder cooperative
involved in input supply. Sakania's BDD is involved in education programs
(with agriculture included in the curriculum), agricultural production,
planting of fruit and forest trees, fish ponds and farm input supply.



- 21
Center for Aftricultural Extension and Experimentation of Appropriate
Tochnolota (CEATA)
2.39     The Center for Agricultural Extension and Experimentation of
Appropriate Technology (CEATA) is a spin off from SOMOM-D, another non-
profit Zairian organization created in 1980, CEATA receives funds inter-
alia !i-om Methodist churches and generates its own funds through the
manufacture and sale of small tools and machinery (pumps, shellers and
mills). It is developing upstream activities linked to agriculture and
rural development. Mo._ .iver, CEATA is promoting a comprehensive
environmental protection strategy which includes leucaena tree plantings
and energy saving braseros. CEATA is not yet organized for agricultural
extension on a large-scale except in Musaka, an area outside the project
where 1,000 farmers are receiving support. However, it operates three
training centers for extension agents (uanimateursl) on the outskirts of
Lubumbashi.
Other NGOs
2.40     Other NGOs involved or interested in agricultural development
include the Association for the Development of Kansenia and the Rural
Development Project for the Katanga village (jointly sponsored by the
Universities of Lubumbashi and Mons in Belgium). Religious communities
interested in initiating development actions include the Protestant,
Kimbanguist, Orthodox and Moslem communities.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Prolect Concept and Rationale
3.01     Sowth Shaba benefits from a unique set of favorable circumstances
for agricultural development not found elsewhere in Zaires a relatively
thriving economy based on an active mining sector; an urban population of
nearly one million constituting a critical market for food crops; a well
developed transportation network and access to suppliers in neighboring
countries; a dynamic medium and large-scale farm sector; a farm population
including educated 'urban' farmers, responding to market forces willing to
pay for input and extension services; active non-governmental agencies
supporting smallholder agriculture through training, extension and input
supply; favorable agro-ecological conditions such as relatively good soils
that can support sustainable yields and proven maize packages for both
composite and hybrid seed. The project is designed to cash on these
favorable factors. Major constraints faced by the agricultural sector
include the weakness of the Government support services and the
inexperience of NGOs attempting to fulfill the need for support services;
the inadequate supply of agricultural inputs including fertilizers, seeds
and tools; and serious marketing problems due to lack of credit and a still
inadequate transport infrastructure. The project would aim at alleviating
these constraints. It would build on the long standing experience of local
organizations and on the experience of the IDAIIFAD financed Snallholder
Maize Project (PMKO) project in Kasai Oriental where problems and prospects
have similarities with those of south Shaba. The emphasis would be on
increasing maize production, the staple food; the expected incremental
output during the five years of the project would substantially meet the



- 22 -
demand in the area. The project would also help promote diversification
into other food crops and the development of animal traction.
3.02     The project would collaborate with existing non-governmental
organizations already deeply involved in providing support services to the
rural population of south Shaba. The NOOs currently accepted for
participation in the project are CEPC, Shalamo, BDD Lubumbashi and BDD
Sakania. The best organized NOO, CEPC, would be given lead responsibility
for project implementation (para. 2.35).   A key feature of the project
would be to develop and maintain already existing mechanisms of full cost
recovery for the delivery of services to farmers. This approach is
expected to enhance considerably the chances of sustainability and
affordability of development actions by reducing the burden on public
finances. The project organization and management would differ from the
traditional project management concept in that its main responsibility
vould be coordination of Government and ROO agricultural development
activities and avoid the creation of a new permanent institution. The
small size of the project management unit and its coordinating role helps
increase the likelihood of project sustainability once external financing
is over. Participating governmental and non-governmental agencies were
involved in the design of the project's implementation arrangements. NGOs
participating in the project aim at developing farmer organizations to
enable smallholders to organize their own development and the project would
help build these organizations.
3.03     In its study on regional planning for Shaba, the Directorate of
Planning and Studies of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
designated the project area as a priority area for agricultural
development. The high market demand for food crops from the mining area,
the presence of CEPC and the activities of other development agencies were
among the reasons cited for their choice. The project is thus fully
consistent with Government priorities, and with Government's policy of
liberalization and increased involvement of private organizations in
development (paras. 1.18 and 1.19).
B.  P7olect Obiectives
3.04     The main objectives of the project would be to (a) increase food
production, especially maize, (b) promote agricultural diversification, and
(c) improve rural incomes and living standards. At full development, an
additional 85,000 tons of maize would supply the mining area. This amount
corresponds roughly to the current level of imports. To achieve this
objective, the project would support the improvement and expansion of input
supply and extension services primarily by NGOs to some 38,000 smallholders
and technical, management and credit support would also be made available
to some 50 small and medium-scale farms. Besides the rehabilitation of
cassava and the expansion of beans and other legumes, the project would aim
at promoting tree plantings and animal traction, and would assist with the
improvement of rural road and village infrastructure. In the institutional
area, the project would strengthen NGO programs and develop farmer
organizations through this support to ensure sustainability and minimize
demands on Government resources.



- 23 -
C. General DescriBtion
3.05     The project would be implemented over a five year period and would
include the following components:
(a) Supply ot agricultural inputs: improved seed, fertilizer and
tools.
(b) Reinforcement and expansion of agricultural extension by NGOs
to improve and diversify agricultural production and related
training.
(c) Support of agricultural research and development with a
concentration on farming systems, agricultural
diversification and animal traction.
(d) Medium-term credit to medium-scale farms and smallholder
associations for agricultural machinery, farm infrastructure,
animal traction, village infrastructure and equipment and
trucks for marketing.
(e) Rehabilitation and maintenance of rural roads.
(f) Establishment of a light project management unit (PMU) to
finance, coordinate and monitor development activities by
existing organizations.
The project would increase maize production by intensification of output
based on improved technology (high yielding variety, fertilization,
iproved cultural practices and pest control) as detailed In para. 5.01.
An effective extension service, input supply and agricultural credit are
prerequisites for the improved technology to be adopted.
D. Detailed Features
Input Supply and Seed Production
3.06     A major constraint to increased food crop production is the
increasing demand for seed, fertilizers, pesticides and tools. Annual
needs at full development (38,000 farmers cultivating 50,000 ha) would
reach an additional 10,000 tons of diammonium phosphate (DAP) or NPK
fertilizer, 5,000 tons of urea, 400 tons of improved maize seed and 100
tons of groundnut seed. Agricultural hand tools including 50,000 hoes and
50,000 machetes per year are also needed. Communal labor saving devices
such as maize shellers, mills and water p'ups would drastically reduce
labor time for food processing. The input supply system is based on
storage of basic inputs at the community development centers for
distribution by the village committees to members. It is anticipated that
38 already existing village committees would build their own small village
storage facilities.
3.07     Seed production would consist primarily of maize (Shaba 1 variety)
with basic seed supplied through BUNASEM. As other improved seed becomes
available (beans, groundnuts, soybeans and sunflower) and parasite



- 24 -
resistant clones of cassava have been tested, production of seed and/or
cuttings would be added to that of maize seed. BUNASEH would contract out
seed production to private farmers. In the case of beans, groundnuts and
soybeans, small quantities of seed produced by the Lubudi Agricultural
Development Project would be sold to growers who would then ensure their
own multiplication. BUNASEM would provide technical and financial support
to the seed producers for setting up production and processing operations.
Project funds would not be used for this purpose. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that seed production activities carried out by
participating agencies in the project area would be coordinated with the
overall seed production program under the project.
aeinforcement of Extension and Trainint
3.08     The various extension programs in the project area (CEPC, PNE,
Shalamo and PNM) have focused on an improved maize production package which
significantly increases yields and financial viability and hence is readily
accepted by farmers. A description of the extension systems and their cost
recovery features is in Annex 2. A major purpose of the project would be
to extend the use of the maize package to some 38,000 smallholders or about
half the farm population of the project area. The extension message would
also include the promotion of improved seed and cropping practices for
other crops as they become available and the organization of village
groups.
3.09     The extension work would be carried out at the village level
through volunteer contact farmers who already operate in the area. With
about ten contact farmers served by an extension agent and about 50 farmers
served by each contact farmer, the total need for extension workers (A3
level) would be 96. This field staff would be deployed over the first
three years of the project. CEPC currently employs 17 extension agents and
Shalamo employs four. After selection and training, the 75 additional
would be recruited from among agricultural school graduates and Government
agents by CEPC and PVOs (Shalamo, BDD Lubumbashi, BDD Sakania and others)
which have agreed to participate in the project, and other NGOs not yet
selected (para. 3.10). The participating organizations would manage their
extension programs under contract with the Government. Signature of the
contracts with CEPC and Shalamo would be a condition of effectiveness.
Management of the extension staff would be ensured by 15 field supervisors
(A2) and 7 extension chiefs (AO/Al). Under the project, salaries of
extension staff would be standardized at levels consistent with criteria
for good performance. Project financing would consist primarily of 'seed
money" supplied as a grant to cover investment costs especially for
vehicles (bicycles for field agents, motorcycles for field supervisors and
a four wheel vehicle for the extension chief and management) and operating
costs including incremental salaries for the first two years of
implementation. This initial funding is needed until the number of
beneficiaries reaches the critical mass required for full cost recovery
(Annex 4). For medium-scale farms, technical and management assistance
would be provided at cost by CEPC (in addition to management assistance
provided by ANEZA, para. 2.34). CEPC is currently carrying out extension
and input supply services with Belgian financing. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that this program would be coordinated with the program
carried out under the project.



- 25 -
3.10     An allocation for rural development of US$160,000 would be
provided to supply "seed money' (para. 3.09) to WOOs and fanmer
associations which intend to respond to grass-root demand for extension and
input supply services but have yet to define their programs (para. 2.40).
These NGOs and associations include CEATA, BDD Kolwezi and others listed in
para. 2.40. One of the aims of the project is to foster the development of
now extension services in the project area. The allocation would be made
to respond to the demand for extension and input supply from new NGOs. If
accepted by PMU, new NGOs would be provided with initial investment and
operating costs for the first year so they can be self-sustaining according
to the module presented in Annex 4.  It is expected that 12,500 farmers
could be supported by these new NGOs during project implementation.
Guidelines for project participation and financing of activities would be
defined by PMU (Annex 2). Criteria for selection are presented in the
manual of guidelines for participating agencies (pars. 4.01); the selection
would be made by PMU upon advice of the Coordinating Consultative Committee
(CCC) (para. 4.07) and would be subject to IFAD and IDA agreement.
Assurances on the selection of newly participating NGOs and farmer
associations by PMU were obtained at negotiations.  Prospective NGO
participants would present a program and budget for review by CCC (para.
4.08) with the approval of PMU. Financing and program details would be
clearly defined in an NGOIPMU contract and signing of a contract would be a
condition of disbursement. Criteria of size, infrastructure, experience,
financial viability and potential for growth applied to those NGOs would be
those used for the NGOs already identified by the appraisal mission. Their
applications would be reviewed and approved by PMU prior to contracts being
signed.  Already identified NGOs include CEPC, Shalamo, BDD and CEATA.
These NWOs are likely to account for approximately 802 of total project
funds earmarked for NOO activity.
3.11     Trainins would focus on improved technology for the main crops,
extension methods and the promotion and management of grower associations.
In accordance with the training and visit approach, training at each level
would be the responsibility of the imediate supervisor. At the village
level, it would be provided to growers primarily in the form of field days
conducted by the field agents. The agents would also participate in
bimonthly training sessions where current field operations would be
stressed. A special training program would be organized in input supply
management and accounting for operators of the village stores and of credit
unions. An internationally recruited training specialist would provide
short-term technical assistance to the program initially and then help
organize the yearly work prograrA. The terms of reference of the training
specialist were discussed at negsotiations; his selection and conditions of
employment would be subject to IFAD and IDA's agreement. Assurances to
this effect were obtained at negotiations. Financing would be made
available for training equipment including audio-visual equipment at the
field level and for vehicles for the training officer and his assistant.
NGO facilities (training centers) would be used for training sessions; such
centers are available at CEPC, BDD Lubumbashi and Sskania,
3.12     A pilot activity of the extension and input supply component w4_ld
be the development of animal traction which could make a significant
contribution to agricultural production. This activity would be promoted
through the creation of animal traction devel pment centers financed under



- 26 -
the project and managed by NGOs. Trainers would be MOO personnel selected
by PMU under arrangement with NGOs and trained in-country by the National
Livestock Development Agency and in other African countries. financing
would include simple infrastructure for the canter.s ox traction equipment
to be used as experimentalldemonstration units and expenses for trainers.
Famrers would purchase animals and traction equipment under the credit
scheme (para. 3.18).
3.13     A significant aspoet of the extension/training component would be
the use of the radio. NGOs extension and training supervisors would help
program and produce the two weekly sessions Aevoted by Radio Shaba to rural
topics. Financing would be provided under the project to support and
upgrade these programs. Becauso of the paucity of receivers, radio sets
would be included in the credit program for village equipment (para. 3.06).
3.14     The training component would also include financing of training
abroad for staff of PMU and participating agoncies on topics of relevance
to project activities. The program would focus on visits to agricultural
development projects in Zaire and other ares" with similar agro-ecological
conditions. The selection of training programs and trainees would be
aubject to IFAD and IDA's agreement. Assurances to this effect were
obtained at negotiations.
3.15     Another aspect of the project's extension work would be the
promotion of fruit and fuel tree plantings (para. 5.01 (h)) through the
creation of small nurseries by village committees and individual growers
and the promotion of direct seeding. Currently BDD Sakania is producing
and selling fruit tree seedlings and operates one central tree nursery as
well as accessory vegetable/tree nurseries at 29 schools under a small
USAID grant. CEATA is engaged in the distribution of Louceona seedlings to
farmers and communities for fuelvood. Financing under the project would
consist of seed money (para. 3.10) to expand the nursery infrastructure and
procure supplies for BDD Sakania and CEATA, and for CRPC to start
nurseries. Currently, these NGOs recover their costs through the sale of
seedlings and this practice would be continued.
Adaptive Research and Development
3.16     Research in the project area under the responsibility of RAV
encompasses three major commodity programs: maize, cassava and grain
legumes (para. 2.12). Up to 1985, only PNM was active. Under the project,
RAV ould receive complementary financing to carry out three activities to
respond to project noods: (a) biological control of cassava mealy bug and
Introduction of tolerant clones; (b) farm testing of improved maize
varieties and of fertilization; and (c) farming system research in the
project area. Financing for these activities would include vehicles and
equipment, additional personnel,, operating costs, training and backstopping
by the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture in Nigeria.
Agricultural Credit
3.17     Two distinct lines of credit would be financed by the project to
meet the financial needs of different clientele. SOFIDE's regulations and
commrcial banks tend to favor big commercial farms and operators.



- 27 -
Therefore, the project's lines of credit would be given to BCA and UCPD to
enhance smallholders and medium size operators' chances to access to
credit. The lin, of credit of US$2.1 million equivalent to be opened at
BCA would consist of short-term marketing credit in local currency to NGOs
and traders for the purchase of maixe eurplus and medium tetm Investment
credit to farmers and commercial operators. Medium-term credit would
include provision for the purchase of 25 trucks by NGOs and commercial
operators to help alleviate the transportation bottleneck in the region.
Priority lending, after meeting all criteria, would be given to
participating NGOs. Project loans for medium-scale farms Include farm
machinery such as tractors and implemnts, cosibinest spare parts and agro-
processing equipment.
3 18     The second line of credit channeled mostly through the village
committees of US$0.4 million equivalent would be opened at UCPD (para.
2.31) to provide smallholders access to both short-term input credit for
smallholdor members and medium-term investment credit In local currency.
Specifically, smallholders could apply for financing for the purchase of
cattle and animal traction equipment and small-scale agricultural and agro-
processing equipment (para. 3.12). Credit conditions are discussed in
para. 4.14.
3 19     Both banks expect to expand and reinforce their operations in the
region to keep abreast of the soaring demand for credit. BCA will be
establishing a branch office in Lubumbashi by April 1987 while the UCPDs.
will open 29 now branch offices throughout the project area in the next
five years   The establishment of the branch with adequate staffing and
installations would be a condition of effectiveness. Financlng under the
project would includes (a) funds to complete the establishment of the BCA
branch office; and (b) part of the infrastructure investments (building
repairs, furniture, equipment and vehicle) for UCPD. Short-term technical
assistance (eight person-months) for BCA would be provided to help improve
the management of credit activities in the branch office and eight person-
months would be provided to UCPD to help set up a more vigorous financial
and accounting system.
Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
3 20     In order to ensure crop marketing and input supply, the rural road
network needs to be rehabilitated and maintained to accomodate eight to
ton ton trucks. Out of 2,000 km of rural roads, a total of 815 km have
been selected jointly by the agricultural services and OR for priority
action under the project (IBRD Map 19768). Rehabilitation would involve
the repair of structures (bridges, culverts and dIkes), improvement of
sections that have deteriorated most (some 300 km) and selective
resurfacing. Improvment works would be carried out under contract under
the supervision of OR/Shaba. -Large-scale works would be procured under
local competitive bidding (LCB). The program would also include the
organization of maintenance service on 815 km under contract by labor
intensive methods ("cantonnage manuel"'). Financing under the project would
include all contract work including design and supervision by OR/Shaba,
equipment and operating costs for two additional engineers engaged by OR
for this component and tools, salaries and performance bonuses for manual
road maintenance of 815 km. Unit costs are Z 300,000/km for resurfacing
and Z 6,700/km for mnual maintenance.



- 28 -
Proiect Manatement
3.21    Investments to support the management of the project would include
the repair of office buildings in Lubumbashi, purchaso of vehicles and
equipment, salary bonuses and operating costs. Funds would also be
provided for tecbnical assistance in administration/finance (for PMj and
also for participating NOOs) and a total of two man-years in short-term
consultancies most likely in the field of training and management support
to the NGOs at the start of project implementation. Other costs financed
under the project would be monitoring and evaluation (para. 4.06), the
expenses of CCC task forces (para. 4.08) and additional expenses incurred
by the regional inspectorate of agriculture for planning in the project
area.
B. Prolect Costs
3.22    Total costs 1/ are estimated at US$13.9 million (Z 2,750 million),
of which about 73Z or US$10.2 million would be in foreign exchange.
Project coats by program are summarized as followss
7                  HD NAlr W Jr2 tLOfIENT -RJC
Table 3.1: MWC CM =I=
(ME '000)                    . '000)
-Z roreign horah DM2 rr       i
Local    !'ratim  Total  Exiw   Cuts   LOCAl rOt  TOtal  FXchaM    C4st
-   a.                       - " u.n| 
A. MUCI NAAMfUTf   l  33403.4   764790.6  l10)194.0  '0  12   407,4    36.5 1343B  70  12
a. FaE RIMSS    62*323   56,S59,? :119.2  40  :' '  ,2 # ,' 3A  16.S  40  13
C. IRANmJI      1 3V,72.?   24,724,S   37796,9  a5  4   X15.4   301.5   440.7  IL  4
3. EXnIS04sX IERVc  34#030.7   404874.6   74,72.5  55  E   415,0   487    913.7  55  8
E. 5'  CWPY     45#.1S,8  =3,t416,5  374,420.  00  4  =5.7   .U5  4,5U42  co  40
r.  aCH         14.S81.3    16191.?   31.172.7  52  3   102.7   177.5   300.  52  3
C. CREDIt       47s936.4   146,352.1   194,295.5  75  2  584,06  1,04.   2369.5  75  2
otal MELIC COST:  2517460?   6436,   942,20.5  73    100 3070.4  0.420,0 11,4707  100
1ISical Cntir.antio  371765,3  103,565.5   141,330.0  73  :5    460.6  1,=*3.0  1,73..  73  15g
"rice Cotinanciei  34,024.9 1213M t, 1.7.35.3  r7    177   156.9   475.2   652.1  76  4
Tots', MACT COSS  673459 7077s912  2#751471.4  76    272  3,07*8 104178#2 13,866.t0  3    121
1 Time phasing and a breakdown of project costs by expenditure
category are shown in Tables 3 and 4.
3.23    Project costs were estimated an the basis of March 1986 prices and
updated by projected inflation rates to December 1986. They include a
total of 134 man-months of consultant services of which 60 man-months would
be for a long-term consultant. Costs are inclusive of estimated taxes and
duties of Z 63.3 million applied to items other than used by Government
services, and amounting to about 5 of project costs. Without taxes and
duties, total costs are estimated at Z 2,688 million. A physical
contingency of 151 was applied to all project costs to reflect
uncertainties regarding detailed quantities and the possibility of design



- 29 -
changes during Implementation. Price contingencies for both local and
foreign costs vere based on expected increases in world prices for Imported
goods and services and price increases in Zaire for local costs. Annual
inflation rates were estimated as follows:
,1987    1988     198       1990     1991
................. .         X
Local             50.0      36.0     30.0     25.0     22.0
International      3.0       1.0      1.0      1.1      3.5
F.  rinscihs
3.24     The financing of project costs would be as follows:
Z m       US$ m        %
Government of Zaire        150        0.7         5
IFAD                     1510         7.6        55
IDA                       840         4.4        31
Beneficiaries             250         1.2         9
Total                   2,750        13.v       100
rhe proposed IFAD loan of SDR 6.05 million (US$7.6 million) and the IDA
Credit of US$4.5 million would be granted to the Government according to
standard terms and conditions. Jointly, the IFAD Loan and the IDA Credit
would cover 862 of project costs (excluding taxes and duties), including
1002 of foreign exchange costs and 47Z of local costs. Beneficiaries would
contribute 92 of project costs, especially through cost reco'ery of
exteasion services (para. 3.09), and payment of all taxes and duties, and
OoZ would cover 52 of project costs on a net of tax basis. The IFAD Loan
and IDA Credit would be cross-effective. The project costs that would be
Jointly financed by IFAD and IDA are specified in Table 5.
3.25     Proceeds of the IFAD Loan and IDA Credit for the purchase of
trucks for merchants and credit to medium and small farmers vould be passed
on to BCA and UCPD under conditions outlined in paras. 4.14 to 4.16.
G. Disbursoments
3.26     Disbursements from the IFAD Loan and the IDA Credit would be made
as presented in Table 6. Disbursements would be submitted on the basis of
approved annual work programs presented by the PMU and NGOs. IFAD would
finance 1002 of costs of smallholder credit, farm inputs, training and
tecenical assistance, and 801 of incremental salaries and bonuses; IDA
would finance 1002 of costs of buildings, equipment, credit for commercial
farm equipment and trucks, and research, and 502 of road rehabilitation and
maintenance and of operating costs other than incremental salaries. The
Government asa requested Project Preparation Facility (PPF) which wuld be
entirely financed by IDA and represents an initial advance of US$150,000.
This PPF would finance the set up of PMU, initiate training of NGO staff
and strengthen the accounting systems of participating agencies, carry out



- 30 -
the design work for rural road rehabilitation and initiate the biological
control of cassava insects (para. 3.16). Disbursements against recurrent
costs and purchase orders, contracts and training programs of less than
US$20,000 equivalent would be submitted against statement of expenditures
(SOS) and certified by the Project Coordinator and the Chief of Financial
Service. Full documentation would be retained by project management for
Inspection in the course of normal project supervision and by independent
auditors. The PMU would be responsible for the preparation and
presentation to IDA and IFAD withdrawal applications for all categories of
expenditures incurred by them and NGOs, while BCA would be responsible for
preparation and presentation of its own withdrawal applications.
3.27     An estimated Schedule of Disbursements is given in Table 7.  A
seven year disbursement period is projected which Is consistent with the
disbursement profile for projects in Zaire.
3.28     S2ecial Accounts.  The Government may have difficulty in pre-
financing expenditures to be reimbursed undor the IFAD Loan and IDA Credit.
Two special account funds (US$0.3 million from the proceeds of the IFAD
Loan and US$0.3 million from the proceeds of the IDA Credit) would be
established in a commercial bank for this purpose and operated under terms
and conditions acceptable to IFAD and IDA. The special accounts would be
replenished on a quarterly basis upon receipt of certified statments of
expenditures to be provided by project mnagement * Should any
disbursements be made from the special account which are not acceptable to
IFAD and IDA, the Government would deposit the corresponding aount in the
special accounts. Agreement on terms and conditions for using the spocial
accounts were reached at n gotiations. Also assurances were obtained that
Government would open an advance in a bank acceptable to IFAD, where the
Government budget allocation for the project would be deposited
periodically.
H. Procuremnt
3.29     Procurement would be handled by PMU except for the road component
for which procurement would be handled by OR. The procurement procedures
are summarized in Table 3.2; figures include physical and price
cont!ngencies. Vehicles and spare parts (excluding trucks for marketing)
totaling US$1.0 million and fertilizers for US$3.3 million would be
procured under international competitive bidding following IFAD guidelines.
Vehicles, equipment and Inputs costing less than US$100,000 would be
procured through local competitive bidding. Road rehabilitation and
maintenance (US$1.5 million) would also be carried out by contract under
local competitive bidding. Maize seeds ($0.7 million) will be procured
directly from an IDA financed seed project (Credit 1609-ZR). Trucks for
marketing (US$1.1 million) and farm machinery (US$1.0 million) would be
procured through direct transaction between purchasers and suppliers.
Building repairs (US$40,000) would be done by contract following local
shopping. Technical assistance/auditors (US$1.9 million) would be
recruited according to IFAD and IDA technical assistance guidelines.
Experts could be recruited either individually or via private firms. Farm
equipment ($0.4 million), office furniture and equipment ($0.04 million)
and agricultural inputs ($0.2 million) grouped in lots for less than
US$25,000 would be procured through local shopping.



- 31 -
Table 3.2t Procurement Procedures /-
Items    _                ICB     LCB      Other
..... US$ million 
I.   Vehicles and equipment    1.0               0.4
II.   Agricultural inputs        3.3     0.9      0.7 lb
I1I.   Roads                              1.5
TOTAL COSTS                        2.4      0.7
La With price and physical contingencies.
Lb Maize seeds to be procured by direct purchase.
I. Accounts and Audits
3.30     Consultants acceptable to IFAD vould be recruited to set up the
project authority's accounting and Internal control systems and to provido
follow-up support as necessary (a total of three man-months). Manuals
would be prepared to help project's accounting staff In applying the
systems. The consultants would also review NGOs, ,UCPD and BCA accounting
systems in order to ascertain that these are adequate to ensure that the
activities to be carried out and financed through the Project are properly
recorded. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that: (a) the PHU
would maintain records and accounts to explain all project activities, have
thes. accounts and statements of expenditures, if gay, audited each year by
external auditors acceptable to IDA and submit these accounts to IDA no
1 tar than six months after the close of the financial year; (b) UCPD, ICA
d the participating NGOs would: (i) keep separate accounts for project
ctivities managed and implemented by them; and (ii) provide these accounts
and records within three months after the close of the financial year so
that they may be audited together with the accounts of PMU by external
auditors acceptable to IFAD and IDA; and (c) Government would submit the
BCA and UCPD audits within six months after the close of the financial
year. With respect to the financial intermediaries as entities, BCA
accounts are audited by an independent firm and UCPD by the diocesan
organization; technical assistance would be included under the project to
reinforce UCPD audits.
J. Environmental Imoact
3.31     As discussed earlior, the cropped land in the project area
occupies but a small proportion of the total and is concentrated in valleys
(para. 2.07). The quality of soils, especially valley soils, Is such that
they can sustain agricultural activities without substantial degradation.
The danger of degradation is greater on the plateaus which are lees
productive, especially around the urban centers where overcropping is a
danger. Agricultural intensification under the project through the use of
improved varieties, fertilization and crop diversification would help avoid
a negative impact of agriculture on the environment through more stabilized
farming systems and reduction of land clearing. Another step towards
avoiding degradation would be the promotion of tree plantings, especially



- 32 -
fuelvood species such as Leucaena leucocephala, which are fast growing and
can help meet the urban demand for fuelwood and charcoal and thus reduce in
the long run the rate of deforestation. The promotion of animal traction
and use of manure would also contribute to soil conservation. It is
expected that the use of herbicide would expand at a modest rate as the
result of project actions. The safe use of pesticides (pares. 3.06 and
5.01) would be ensured through application of Bank guidelines which are
included in the manual of guidelines (pare. 4.01).
K. Imact on Women
3.32     Women play a major role in food production, processing and
marketing in the project area. Allocation of agricultural tasks among
women and men is not well differentiated, although men are more heavily
involved in land preparation and women in weeding, transport and
processing. Also, women are responsible for fuelwood gathering and water
transport. Increases in output brought about by the project would mean
increased work load for women (crop transport, maize shucking, shelling and
pounding). However, the acquisition of village equipment (maizo shellers,
mills and pumps) would substantially alleviate the tasks of women in
agriculture and water transport. For instance, the use of sheller. would
save some 15 days of work for one hectare of improved maize. The use of
herbicide would save another 15 days per hectare. The introduction of
animal traction would facilitate land preparation and transportation of the
crop. Planting of fuelwood trees would, in the long-term, result in time
saving for fuel gathering which is mostly a woman's responsibility.
Increases in food production due to project activities would provide women
with better food security. CEPC is actively supporting the promotion of
women through the involvement of women extension agents for home economics,
health, nutrition, handicrafts, education and the organization of women's
self-help groups.   Also some 20 women are participating in the CPC
extension work as contact farmers. While the project would not support the
works of CEPC in community development, both CEPC and other NGOs would keep
providing a greater involvement of women in decision-making at the
household and village levels through community development programs geared
towards women (education, health and self-help).
3.33     In spite of the important role of women in agriculture,
agricultural extension has been provided by men; participation of women in
extension delivery is desirable and has been initiated in other parts of
Zaire. Accordingly, assurances were secured at negotiations that the
Government would promote such participation in NGO extension work and
access of women to credit available under the project. Also, the inclusion
of women in NGO extension staffs would be monitored by IDA through its
review of work programs.
IV. PROJECT INPLEMINTATION
A. Proiect Organization
4.01     Responsibilities for carrying out project components would be
allocated as followst NGOs for input supply and extension, BUNASEZ for
seed production, RAV for research and development, BCA and UCPD for
agricultural credit and OR for road rehabilitation and maintenance. A



- 33 -
manual of guidelines for implementing agencies, including terms of
references for key staff and for consultants, was discussed during
negotiations. PMU would be responsible for overall project manage_ent,
coordination, training, monitoring and evaluation and financial control for
components other than agricultural credit. PMU would have its headquarters
at the office of the regional inspection of agriculture in Lubumbashi. A
senior civil servant acceptable to IFAD and IDA was designeted as Project
Administrator in time to participate in negotiations, and would serve as
head of PMU.
4.02     The responsibilities of PMU would include:
(a) Day to day coordination of project actions.
(b) Review of work programs under the project and corresponding
budgets of the participating organizations.
(c) Supervision and follow-up of execution of contracts by
participating agencies.
(d) Preparation of quarterly reports on project progress and
problems and consolidation of reports of participating
organizations.
(e) Budgeting and channeling of funds made available by the co-
financing agencies;
(f) Bulk procurement of inputs on behalf of NGOs.
(g) Technical and management support to participating agencies.
(h)  Liaison with Government agencies, external donors and the
private sector.
(i) Liaison with the regional agricultural services with respect
to planning in the project area.
Establishment and staffing of PMU would be a condition of effectiveness.
4.03     PMU would be divided into three functional sub-units:
finance/administration, technical and monitoring and evaluation. Each of
the three units would be headed by a suitably qualified civil servant.
Total staff would number 21 including four in finance/administration, one
in the technical unit, six field staff for the project monitoring and
evaluation unit and ten support staff (clerical, drivers and unskilled).
4.04     The financeladministration unit would be responsible for:  (a)
accounts, audits and budget preparation; (b) disbursement and procurement
for all project components except agricultural credit; (c) credit
management for input supply (fertilizer and tools); (d) personnel matters
for PMU and for technical assistance including determining training needs;
(e) preparation of NGO/PMU contractual arrangements; and (f) finance and
management training for NGOs (in collaboration with the technical unit).



- 34 -
An internationally recruited expert in finance/administration acceptable to
IFAD and IDA whose terms of reference were discussed at negotiations and
whose appointment would be a condition of effectiveness would provide
technical assistance to the unit and vould have major responsibility in
training PMU and NGO staff in management and finance.
4.05     The technical unit working very closely with NGOs would be
responsible for: (a) coordinating implementation of the extension,
training and research components; (b) assisting CEPC with extension
services to medium-scale farms; (c) providing information to the
finance/administration unit on NOO work plans and on NCO needs for seeds
and other inputs; (d) assisting the monitoring and evaluation unit with
progress reports; and (e) providing technical assistance to NGOs.
4.06     The nroiect monitoring and evaluation unit would design a
management information system for the project and would arrange for the
collection, analysis and dissemination of information to participating
,agencies. It would assist PMU ins (a) assessing the performance and
progress of project components and detecting problems; (b) providing a
database for a possible second project; and (e) preparing 'an annual report
for the project administration describing the various types of service
delivery practiced by NOOs and assessing their impact and cost. The report
would be based on information provided by NGOs (work plans, progress
rep.orts and financial statements) as well as on its own monitoring surveys.
4.07     An innovative feature of the project would be the active
participation of agencies in the region, both governmental and non-
governmental, in a CCC (para. 3.10). They would be intimately involved in
the coordination, planning and Implementation of development activities for
the project area. The participation of these organizations dictates a
slightly different organizational structure than is practiced in the
traditional rural development projects in Zaire (Chart 4). At the national
level, the Directorate General of Project Administration (DAGP), the
division of DADR especially concerned with externally financed projects,
would oversee the implementation and monitor the progress of the project.
The Project Administrator (para. 4.01) would report directly, and be
responsible, to DAGP.
4.08     CCC would be composed of representatives of the participating
agencies (NGOs, RAV, OR, BCA and UCPD) and work under the chairmanship of
the regional governor and the vice chairmanship of the regional inspector
of agriculture. The role of the committee would be to:
(a) Help plan, coordinate and monitor development activities in
the project area.
(b) Review the annual work program and budget prepared by PMU in
collaboratiorn with each participating agency and the audit
reports of PMU accounts.
(c) Review options, problem and recommend priorities for action.
(d) Review qualifications and participating arrangements for new
NGOs requesting participation in the project.



- 35 -
CCC would be called upon to review such issues ass (i) the area under the
responsibility of each participating organization; (it) the type of inputs,
prices and conditions of reinbursement for input credit; (iII) conditions
of employment of agricultural staff; (iv) the nature of tecenical packages
to promote; and (v) technical assistance needs and selection of candidates
and programs for training abroad (or in Zaire). The committee would hold
quarterly meetings to review project lmplementation progress and would
submit the minutes of these meetings to IFAD and IDA. Assurances that the
Goverrment would cause CCC to meet quarterly and to submit the minutes of
these meetings were obtained at negotiations. CCC would also create task
forces to investigate specific issues. The Project Administrator would act
as secretary to CCC.
B. Imlemeatation of Protect Cognonents
Input Supply
4.09     Inputs would be purchaed under international competition bidding.
The role of PMU would be to aggregate orders from NGOs (who are serving
mallholders, para. 2.17) and private traders (who are serving comercial
farmers), do the bidding and advance payment for Inputs to the suppliers.
The hiad of the financeladminiastration unit would be responsible for the
above. The orders would be delivered separately to each organization which
would be responsible for receipt, storage, Internal transport and
distribution to ead users. CEPC and Shalamo have found that credit for
inputs was not profitable and they Intend to phase out their sales on
credit; thus NOOs would sell inputs to village comittees (para. 3.06) at
full cost through a decreasing credit schme (to 01 by the end of project
implementation) and they would repay PMU at harvest time. Likewise, the
access to credit for inputs by a given beneficiary would be phased out
progressively with an increasing share of cash payment. With the expected
increase in maixe acreage and production, cost recovery in kind for input
supply and extension (Annex 2) would result in increased tonnages of maize
to be stored and marketed by NGOs. This prospect has led CEPC to consider
switching progressivoly to cost recovery in cash. Potential problems of
marketing by NGOs ware reviewed at negotiations. The procceds of the input
sales would be deposited in special interest earning accounts maintained at
BCA by participating organizations and would serve as revolving funds for
future input purchases. These special accounts would be managed by each
participating NGO and would be used for the purchase of Inputs during the
post-project period, while Input supply would also be handled by private
traders. Financing under the project would apply to incremental supplies
of fertilizer (over the previous year), to complement the contributions
from the revolving funds. Since these funds are in local currency,
ssurances wero obtained from Government at negotiations that it would
facilitate access to foreign currency for the purchase of fertilizers.
Traders would have the opportunity to participate in the input supply
process and to pay 1001 of the cost at delivory and the project would
encourage the participation of the private sector in input supply. UCPD
would open a line of medium-term credit for the establishment of village
warehouses by village committees and the acquisition of comunal equipment
(maize shellers, animal traction equipment, pumps and mills).



- 36 -
Seed Production
4.10     The project would secure Improved seed under arrangements with
BUNASEM. BUNASEM would contract with private farms and local organizations
such as the Lubudi Agricultural Development Project and CEATA for the
production of seed. Contracts acceptable to IFAD and IDA were presented by
Government at negotiations. The role of PMU would be to determine the
demand for Improved seed from NGOs and private traders, negotiate the terms
of the BUNASEM contract and advance payment to cover production costs to
BUNASEM upon receipt of an invoice. The participating NGOs and private
traders would assume transport costs and pay BUNASEM in cash for their
seeds. BUNASEM would reimburse PMU for their advance and financial
charges. BUNASEM would also be responsible for providing technical support
to seed growers and ensure quality control (para. 1.15).
Agricultural Extension
4.11     Each participating agency (para. 3.09) would continue to conduct
its own extension program, i.e. they would select their own agents and
supervise their field work. The role of PMU would be to coordinate and
fund extension activities and to organize training. PMU would serve as a
resource center for extension pamphlets, visual aids and training sessions.
The technical staff would periodically visit NGO extension programs to
insure consistency in technical information disseminated to farmers and
monitor extension methodology. However, harmonization of extension
approaches would be achieved primarily through concertation and exchange of
experiences at the CCC level (para. 4.08). Extension activities carried
out by several small NGOs in the same general area would be coordtinated to
avoid overlap. CCC and PMU would be involved in facilitating arrangements,
settling possible conflicts and promoting complementary activities. The
contracts between PMU and NGOs would include clauses designed to ensure
satisfactory performance of the extension work. With the extension
function handled by NGOs under contract with the Government, the activities
of DADR personnel would focus on statistics, land tenure, planning and
monitoring (including NGO activities). The monitoring and evaluatiop unit
of PMU would work in liaison with the regional DADR staff. Assurances
would be obtained at negotiations that Government would pursue its policy
of free choice of crops by farmers in the project area.
Training
4.12     All training activities would be under the responsibility of the
technical deputy of PMU with the support of short-term technical
assistance. An overall training plan satisfactory to IDA was submitted by
Government at negotiations. Based on annual work plans submitted by CEPC
and NOOs, the PMU technical deputy will draw up an annual training plan for
both in-country training and foreign study (paras 3.11 and 3.14). CEPC
would have lead responsibility for undertaking in-country training sessions
for extension although other NGOs which have demonstrated competence in
training of trainees may do so. Expenses incurred by CEPC and NGOs would
be reimbursed by PMU. For specialized training in finance, accounting,
credit administration, management and local expertise would be utilized.
The internationally recruited finance/administration adviser (para. 4.04)
assigned to PMU would also conduct training sessions for credit



- 37 -
associations and NGOs administrators. Selection of candidates for overseas
training would be handled by CCC in close collaboration with PMU and
subject to IFAD and IDA approval (para. 3.14).
Research/Development
4.13     Agricultural research in Shaba on maize, grain legumes, cassava
and farming systems research is the responsibility of the RAV project.
While the complementary program under the project is well defined with
respect to cassava and maize (para. 3.16), the farming systems research
program under RAV is yet to bo defined. CCC would have an input in the
programming of this program to ensure that the needs of the project area
are met.  Development actions such as animal tractJ_n (para. 3.12) and tree
plantings (para. 3.15) would be implemented by NGOs with programming, with
financing and coordination reviewed by CCC and follow-up ensured by the
Project Administrator.
Credit Terms
4.14     BCA and UCPD would on-lend to farmers at current rates of interest
(paras. 2.26 and 2.29) and in local currency. Other credit terms (down
payments, grace periods and length of repayment periods) are those
currently used by BCA and UCPD (paras. 2.24 and 2.30) which are
satisfactory to IDA and would be used under the project. In addition to
these standard terms, BCA loans made for trucks would be defined in
contracts approved by PMU (para. 3.17). The contract would specify thats
(a) trucks would be based in the project area; and (b) truck purchases
would be limited to two per recipient. Details on credit terms are in
Annex 3.
4.15     The main issues with respect to credit are macro economic:  they
concern interest rate levels and the carrying of foreign exchange risk.
Due to rising inflation, interest rates have recently turned negative
(para. 2.26) and adjustmer.cs are required to avoid financial losses with
the credit agencies. Furthermore, with past fluctuations in exchange
rates, borrowers are weary to take on the foreign exchange risk in loans
that are financing imported goods; this also tends to act as a brake on the
acceptance of investment credit.
4.16     Draft subsidiary agreements between GOZ and BCA, and between GOZ
and UCPD covering interest rates, repayment terms, eligibility and
selection criteria and foreign exchange risks were reviewed at
negotiations. For BCA, they include the following conditionst
(a) GOZ would on-lend the proceeds of the IDA credit with a 20-
year repayment period including a six-year grace period.
(b) The interest rate would be variable and re-adjusted annually
on July 1st to six percentage points below the rate applied
by BCA on its new sub-loans made the preceding January 1st.
(c) Government would carry the foreign exchange risk.



- 38 -
(4) BCA would on-lend from the proceeds of the credit only to
those borrowers whose main activities would be In the project
area, aid only for these activities, with an interest rate of
302 per year up to December 31, 1987 and thereafter at rates
determined annually by BCA and Government in consultation
with IDA, with the objective of attaining positive real
rates.
For UCPD, the repayment period would be 20 years Including an eight-year
grace period, and an annual interest rate of 182 on the disbursed amounts
not yet reimbursed by UCPD. Signature of the subsidiary agreements would
be a condition of effectiveness.
Rural Roads
4 17     The Roads Office (OR) would be responsible for the rehabilitation
and maintenance of the 860 km of rural roads undor the project (Table 8),
under the terms of a contract between OR and DADR. The contract was
reviewed at negotiations and its signature would be a condition of
offectiveness  The composition of the annual work program would be
determined by PMU wit) guidance from CCC. Criteria determining the order
of priority for road work includes (a) the condition of the road and
estimated cost of rehabilitation; (b) the size of the rural population
served by the road; (a) estimated tonnage of food crop that could be
evacuated; (d) the availability of crop storage In the area served by the
road; and (e) willingness of tEt local population to contribute labor
especially for maintenance. The work would be carried out under contrect
(mechanized work through LCB or cantonnage manuel through direct
negotiations). OR would appoint an engineer financed by the project for
the design and supervision of the work including assesmnnat of performance.
C. Reortinm and Accountability
Annual Work Protrams
4.18 The project would be implemented on the basis of annual work
programs prepared by each participating organization, then synthesized and
prioritized by the project administrator and presented to CCC, IFAD and IDA
for approval. The work plan would serve as a planning, biplementation and
monitoring tool and yet would provide the necessary flexibility to ensure
adaptation to changing conditions   Each annual work program would include:
(a) an evaluation of the previous year's performance and a discussion of
how the new program builds on that experience; (b) a statement of specific
quantified objectives to be pursued during the year and a description of
the activities to be undertaken in order to acbieve those objectives; (c)
detailed investment and operating budgets by component showing the human,
financial and physical resources required to carry out the proposed annual
program; (4) staffing and training plans; (e) a financing plan which
indicates the source of funds for Items in the investment and operating
budgets; and (f) a procurement plan for purchases and works scheduled in
the annual work program including the type of bidding and timetables.
4.19     Preparation of the annual work program would follow the cropping
cycle, and the Government's budget cycle in order to reduce risks of major
discrepancies between the figures proposed in the program and official



- 39 -
Government allocations. The preparation timetable would therefore respect
the following schedulet (a) the first draft work program would be prepared
by each participating agency during June and submitted to PMU; (b) a
consolidated draft would be transmitted to t.he Directorate of Project
Administration in DADR, to IFAD and IDA at the beginning of July for
preliminary review and comments; (c) DADR and Ministry of Public Works
(DTP) would incorporate project financing ueeds in their respective
budgetary requests presented to the departments of finance and of planning
in July; (d) following review of the draft program by the Department of
Planning's Budgetary Committee and by the Executive Council in
August/September, a revised work program would be prepared incorprating
suggestiona and amendments resulting from the review process; and (e) the
revised annual program vould be submitted to IFAD and IDA by the end of
October to permit final review and approval before the budget is submitted
to Parliament. Assurances that the annual work program would be submitted
to IFAD and IDA for review and comments by July and for approval by October
of each year was obtained at negotiations. The first year work program was
was submitted by Government at negotiations.
Proaress Reports
4.20     PMU would prepare semi-annual reports from the progress reports
roceived from the participating agencies. The semi-annual reports would
describe progress in achieving work program targets, compare actual costs
with budget estimates and explain variations between actual and planned
results In these areas. Comparisons between actual results and appraisal
estimate. would also be provided for selected project Indicators. Another
important function of the semi-annual reports would be to analyze major
problems encountered, propose solutions to these problems and identify
decisions and/or actions required by the Government, IFAD and IDA to
facilitate their implementation. Reports would be prepared in April and
October for the preceding six month period; this timetable was selected in
order to provide timely input into the annual work program exerciso and to
reduce competing demands on managers' time during peak periods of the
agricultural cycle. Assurances that PMU WOULD prepare semi-annual progress
reports on project implementation for submission to the Government, IFAD
and IDA by March and September of each year were obtained at negotiations.
D. Hid-term Review
4.21     A five year implementation period has been proposed for this
project to allow sufficient time for project activities to achieve project
objectives. However, as a number of innovative pilot activities are
proposed, particularly for handling input distribution, Government and IDA
would carry out a mid-term review at the end of two years to assess
progress and to determine whether revisions to the project scope, content
or implementation arrangements are required. As part of this review
process, an assessment of the impact of cash input sales on farmer
participation and project achievements would be carried out. To facilitate
the work of the mid-term review mission, project management would prepare a
mid-term report evaluating progress during the two year period, comparing
actual results against appraisal estimates and indicating management's
opinion concerning the project's future orientation during the remaining
implementation period. Assurances that PMU would prepare a mid-term report



- 40 -
by September 30, 1990, reviewing implementation experieneed during the
first two years in preparation for a mid-term review mission were obtained
at negotiations.
S. Prolect Coiletion Resort
4.22     PMU would prepare a draft Project Completion Report by the project
completion date and DADR would review and submit this report to IFAD and
IDA no later than six months after the Credit closing date. The Project
Completion Report would summarize project performante, evaluate its
successes and problems, and underline lessons to be taken into account in
the future design and implementation of similar projects. Assurances that
PMU would prepare a Project Completion Report by the project completion
date and DADR would review and submit a final version of the report to IFAD
and IDA within six months of the Credit closing date were obtained at
negotiations.
F. Post-Completion Phase
4.23     To ensure sustainability of project actions after termination of
external financing, an allocation (US$100,000) would be made to support
necessary actions by PMU such as technical assistance, institutional
development measures (especially to support grower associations, community
development committees and credit unions), privatization of input supply
and reinforcement of regional planning and coordination. One year before
project compl^tion, a "graduation mission' would be mounted by IFAD and IDA
to define with PMU, participating agencies and Government officials, those
steps required before the end of project implementation to keep the
development actions on a self-sustaining track and to transfer the
responsibilities of PMU to the appropriate organizations* If, however, a
follow-up project were contemplated, the funds would be used to finance its
preparation. The contracts with participating agencies provide for the
sustainability of development actions after project completion throught
(a) the creation of revolving funds where the repayment by beneficiaries
for goods and services and credit would be deposited; and (b) the use of
these revolving funds for the continuing delivery of goods, services and
credit. Assurances were obtained to this effect at negotiations. Also
assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government would encourage
participating agencies to promote beneficiary involvement to enable these
beneficiaries, through financial and technical support and training under
the project, to take over certain activities (input distribution, crop
storage processing and marketing). To this effect, the rural development
allocation (para. 3.10) would be used to strengthen new NGOs, and help
develop the capacity of smallholderf and their associations to handle input
supply and crop marketing.
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
5.01     Innovations already extended by NGOs and to be further extended
include the following:
(a) Improved Cultural Practices. The main Improvement would be
to switch from soil preparation in raised beds with low plant
population (20 kg/ha for maize or about 8,000 plants per ha)
to more thorough flat land preparation with higher plant
population (35 kg/ha for maize or 10,000 per ha). Another
important improvement is early seedling before mid-December.



- 41 -
(b) Improved CroM Varieties. A major impact of the project would
be the use of the Shaba I maize composite which was developed
for the local ecology fits well with the rainfall pattern and
is well liked by local consumers. Its yield potential under
mallholder conditions reaches some five ton/ha. Commercial
growers use the hybrid SR52 imported from Zambia and BUNASEM
is considering hybrid seed production. Hybrids fit under
high levels of technology and have a higher yield potential;
the problems for smallholders is that the seed should be
renewed yearly while it does not need to be renewed more
frequently than every four to five years with mass selection
in between in the case of the composite. In the cast of
soybeans, the varieties Hernon and Jupiter are well adapted.
For other major crops (beans, peanuts and cassava): improved
varieties cannot be recommended until conclusive trials have
been carried out. For peanuts, the variety A65 haa been
promising. For cassava, biological control of mealy bug and
the introduction of tolerant clones would make it possible to
reintroduce this crop in the area devastated by the parasite.
Improved varieties would be introduced under the tree
planting program (para. 3.15).
(c) Fertilizer. Fertilizer trials carried out under PNM between
1972 and 1982 led to the recommendation of 100 kg of
diamonium phosphate (DAP, formula 18-46-0) and 100 kg of
urea (46-0-0) which could bring yields of the Shaba I
composite to 5 t/ha. This rate may be more than adequate on
good alluvial soils but needs may be different on depleted
plateau soils. The minikit provided by CEPC currently
consists of 200 kg of 12-18-12 and 100 kg of urea, giving a
total of 70-36-24. The need for potassium (third number in
the formula) has not been established experimentally.
Another unknown is the residual effect of fertilization on
the following crop and the effect of legumes on reducing
nitrogen needs. Under the project, PNM recommendation would
be followed pending development of more comprehensive data
but complete NPK fertilizer may be made available if there is
a demand, especially by growers using hybrid seed.
(d) Pesticides. The more advanced growers would be introduced to
the use on maize of pre-emergence herbicide applied with a
manual ultra-low volume applicator. This technology would
make it possible to skip the first hand weeding requirod at a
time of high labor demand and would allow yields to increase
from an average of 3 tons to 3.5 tons/ha. The use of rodent
control chemicals, pioneered by CEPC, would be expanded.
(e) Mechanical Shelling. Since hand shelling is time consuming
(one person day for 60 kg shelled), the introduction of hand
or pedal powered shellers would be promoted. CEPC is
currently testing pedal powered models.



- 42 -
(f) AnImal Traction. While the use of tractors Is well
established In south Shaba among the better commercial
farmers, problems related to their use aboundt the high cost
of investment and operation, unreliable supply of fuel and
spare parts and scarcity of skilled oporators. These
problems are more apparent for the smaller operations (20 to
50 ha) where in addition, the size cannot justify the
investment. Conditions are favorable for animal traction
which was widely practiced in the area by commercial farmers
before the advent of tractors but the knowledge needs to be
reintroduced. From the standpoint of cost, custom land
preparation by tractor costs Z 6,000 per ha. With a pair of
oxen, one ca. plow six ha in one season; a pair of oxen costs
Z 30,000 to Z 36,000, roughly equivalent to the cost of
custom plowing of six ha. Hence the economic advantage of
animal traction cspecially since the oxen do not depreciate.
Animal traction would be encouraged for small farmers; this
system would permit an integration of crop and animal
production and the use of manure.
(g) Crop Diversification. The project would encourage
diversification into grain legumes and cassava (if a parasite
resistant clone is found). Sunflower production is also a
possibility. The promotion of legumes (soybeans, peanuts and
beans) either in rotation or mixed cropping would make it
possible to reduce nitrogen fertilizer, and crop residues
would be of value as cattle foed in an animal traction
system.
(h) Tree plantings for fruit (citrus, avocado, mango and guava)
and fuel (especially leucaena and eucalyptus) would be
encouraged in the villages (para. 3.15) for nutrition, fuel
supply and soil conservation.
(i) Cultural Practices for Grain Legumes. In the absence of
improved varieties, Improvements in technology would include
proper seed storage to ensure conservation, sorting of seed,
seeding early and at sufficient density and seed treatment
with thioral.
A. Production
5.02     Out of the estimated 100,000 farm families in the project area, it
is expected that by the end of the project period about 38,000 (incremental
over the pre-project period) would be reached directly by the development
organizations supported under the project and would adopt technological
Improvements. Yearly phasing would be as follows: 2,000, 5,400, 10,600,
12,200 and 7,800. The rate of adoption would be slower for Shalamo type
operations and for NGOs initiating extension activities. After the project
period, it Is expected that the maize production would stabilize taking
into account a near balance between supply and demand. Adoption of
improvements Is expected to continue albeit at a lower pace for other
crops, especially legumes, for which no such balance is expocted. The
distribution of families is shown below for the main agricultural areast



- 43 -
Total Number of Farms     Number Participating (1991)
Lubumbashi         34,200                        11,000
Likasi             31,600                        17,000
Kolvesi            32.200                        10.000
Total              98.000                        38.000
5.03     The major increase In yield and pro4uction is expected to occur
for maize on account of the availability and increasing popularity of a
proven package. From an average yield between 800 and 950 kg/ha (depending
on the cropping system) under the traditional system, the yield would
average 2,500 to 3,100 kg with improved technology after four years. This
is a substantial jump but such levels are easily reached according to field
evidence from all sources. The assumption is made that the areas under
maize will increase moderately, reflecting the trend noted between 1984185
and 1985/86. An increase in yield is expected for peanuts with the
introduction of Improved varieties but lack of current research precludes
any likelihood of substantial improvement for beans. In the case of
cawsava, the project would inltiate its re-introduction in areas where the
crop was nearly wiped out by parasites. Crop models are shown in Table 9
and production levels with and without the project are presented in Table
10 for the typical farm models.
5.04     Full development for the project area would be achieved about 15
years after project start up. This long-torm perspective is due to the
dynamic attitude of growers and of non-governmental support organizations,
which means a continuation of the momentum after external financing is
terminated. It is expected that overall yields and production levels will
evolve as a result of project actions as follows:
Without ProJect           With Proiect
Average  Production     Average  Production   Incremental
Crop         Area     Yield           Area     Yield        Production
(ha)    (t/ha)   (t)    (t/ha)    (t)        (t)   2 increase
Maize       46,200    0.90  43,268    2.70   128,955    85,687        198
Beans       29,150    0.21   6,093    0.40    11,835      5,742       94
Groundnuts     875    0.70     613    1.20      1,050       437        71
Cassava      7,700    1.20   9,240    2.00    15,400      6,160       67
5.05     Without the intensification carried out under the project, yields
and production would increase at a slow pace thanks to the actions of such
agencies as CEPC and Shalamo and the resumption of agricultural research.
Progess would be hampered, however, by lack of sufficient funding,
insecurity of input supply and marketing constraints.



- 44 -
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Marketing and Financial Prices
6.01     Zaire has been experiencing food deficits for a number of years
and has met deficit requirements partially through food imports. Maize and
wheat have been the commodities in shortest supply, but demand for rice
also exceeds local production levels. ..-rojections of output and demand by
DADR in 1985 (on a national basis) show that demand for maize is likely to
exceed domestic supplies by about 8,700 tons per year (officially, not
taking into account smuggling from Zambia) while unmet demand for rice
amounts to about 35,000 tons.  When national projections are broken down by
region, the immediate project area and surrounding regions (Kasai Oriental
and Kivu) account for a large share of the national deficit.   The maize
requirements (based on nutritional needs) for Shaba is estimated by DADR to
be around 450,000 tons and the maize demand would be around 160,000 t per
year. While food crop projects are underway in the general area (PNS and
PMKO) and a central Shaba project is at the design stage, the incremental
output from the south Shaba project would have an impact limited to the
mining area where it is expected to meet the local demand. The incremental
output would contribute to a reduction of national imports.
6.02     The urban/mining area of south Shaba has an annual need of some
160,000 tons of maize (of which 70,000 tons represents GECAMINES' demand).
In the past some l00,000 tons of maize are imported annually by GECAMINES
to make up the deficit. Since 1983, imports have been reduced and
incentives given to producers to increase maize production.   The
incremental tonnage produced as the result of project actions would
correspond roughly to this level of imports and is thus expected to be
absorbed locally. This additional output would come primarily from the
green belts surrounding the three main urban centers. Thus no major
marketing problem is anticipated. However, the feeder road program and the
line of credit for the purchase of trucks should facilitate marketing
operations. Marketed quantities of gr&in legumes and cassava are not
expected to increase substantially except if significant technical
improvements occur early during project implementation.
6.03     Project output is not expected to have a negative impact on local
prices as estimated marketed quantities would roughly match the demand and
would be produced close to the market, thus benefitting from competitive
transport costs. In fact the expansion of artisanal milling is expected to
cut into the margins of the industrial mills, reduce flour prices and
improve farm gate prices of maize. The ongoing north Shaba project and the
proposed central Shaba project can be expected to have but a limited impact
on the supply and dmand situation in south Shaba, since locally grown
maize in the mining area has a substantial comparative advantage with
respect to transport costs. Production of north and central Shaba should
find an outlet in Kivut and the Kasais.
6.04     Two issues continue to affect maize prices.  The first issue is
the smuggling of milled flour from neighboring Zambia. These imports have
averaged about 60,000 tons in 1985/86 and resulted in depressed local
prices for farmers. This traffic has developed as maize inputs in Zambia
are subsidized at the producer level and maize flour is subsidized at the



- 45 -
consumer level. After the devaluation of the Zambian kwacha in early 1986,
however, the prica of Zambian flour rose to Z 1,000/sack in Lubumbashi (May
1986) while the price of local flour remained at Z 750. The issue of maize
subsidies is currently under active consideration between IDA and the
Zambian Government and a solution leading to a reduced level of subsidies
is expected. Even if the subsidies were to be maintained, the
competitiveness of maize produced in the project area would improve on
account of increased productivity and lower transportation costs to the
markets compared with Zambian maize (para. 2.02). Assurances that the
Government would exchange views with IDA from time to time on the maize
market and on Government's marketing and pricing policies were obtained at
negotiations.
6.05     The other issue affecting maize prices is a de facto restriction
on inter-regional trade, although all restrictions were officially removed
under the liberalization measures taken in 1983. Traders from Kasai, for
instance, are not allowed to purchase maize from Shaba until the end of the
buying season in mid or late October. In October, prices in Kasai are well
above those prevailing in Shaba. A liberalization of inter-regional trade
would bring about higher producer prices in Shaba. Assurances that the
Government would enforce its policy of free movement of agricultural
commodities between regions and of free market pricing, specifically
restrictions placed by local authorities on maize purchases by traders from
Kasais would be removed through the abolition of marketing permits issued
by local authorities were obtained during negotiations. Also broadcasting
of price infonmation through the rural radio programs (para. 3.13) and the
development of village storage facilities (para. 3.06) would help improve
farm gate prices.
6.06     In addition, 1985 maize marketing suffered from restrictions on
credit made available to traders to finance maize purchases. Overall,
however, maize marketing has improved judging from the number of city
dwellers and former non-agricultural workers returning to farming. The
overall trends lead to the following estimates for farm gate prices of the
main commodities in 1987: maize Z 6,000/tons (US$100/tons); unshelled
groundnuts Z 20,000/tons (US$333/tons); shelled groundnuts Z 25,000/tons
(US$417/tons); and cassava ohips Z 8,000/tons (US$133/tons).
B. Financial Prolections
6.07     The projected Government cash flow (Table 11) shows a deficit for
the first four years. Revenues from taxes would ensure a positive
cumulative cash flow of US$2.3 million after ten years.
C. Farm Incomes
6.08     In the case of smallholders, the cropping pattern is rather
uniform. Slight variations led to the definition of the four following
farm models as representative of small farm enterprises in the project
areat
(s) Maize and beans (MB) model with an average of 0.7 ha of maize
single cropped and 0.7 ha of maize iztercropped with beans.



- 46 -
(b) Maise, beas and groundnut (MBG) model with 0.6 ha of maixe
single cropped, 0.6 he of maize intercropped with beasm and
0.1 ha each of groundnuts and beans single cropped.
(c) Malse, beans and csssava (MBC) model with 0.7 ha of maize
single cropped, 0.7 ha of maize inter-cropped with beans, 0.1
ha of beans single cropped *nd 0.7 ha of cassava planted with
maise and beans and single cropped after harvest of maize and
beans  This model accounts for only 202 of the farms as it
is limited to the western portion of the project area which
is currently free from the mealy bug infestations.
(d) Greenbelt (GB) model with 0.6 ha of maize single cropped
nitiallyg this model corresponds to operations in suburban
areas by urban dwellers who have turned to agriculture for a
living.
Average farm incomes without the project and with the project at full
development are presented belows
Farm Models
MB       MBG       MBC      GB
Z9000 0*-*e***
Without Pro1ect
Gross income                          9,925    10,075    16,645    3,420
Production costs                      1,270     1,270     1,480      360
Net income                            8,655     8,805    15,165    3,060
Return to family labor v man-day)        43        46        40       36
With Project
Gross income                         24,630    23,880    39,680   18,580
Production costs                      9,800     9,730     8,580    5,935
Net income                           14,830    14,150    31,100   12,645
Return to family labor (Zlman-day)       54        56        54       59
2 increase in net Income                 712       612      1052     3132
6.09     These increases in production per farm and in returns to labor are
achieved without capital investments only with inputs which will be
purchased in :ash. The required incremental labor is available and no
hired labor is necessary. Farmers' net incomes with the project (excluding
the value of family labor) would increase between 872 and 1202; returns to
family labor wruld increase by 222 to 642. These estimates are made on the
assumption of no change in cropping patterns; in fact current trends
suggest a progressive increase in cropped areas per family, thus higher
levels of family incomes.



- 47 -
D.  Cost RecoMer and Fiscal Anabl.n
6.10     Costs of providing inputs to farmers and NGOs under the project,
namely fertilizer, rodent control products, improved seeds and cuttings,
would be fully recovered. NGOs will undertake extension services
activities on a full cost recovery basis except of the "seed money' (para.
3.09) which would be supplied as a grant. BCA and CPDs lending rates
include a spread which allows them to cover all administrative costs (par"s
4.16 and 4.18). Costs of other project investments (training and research)
would not be recovered directly from beneficiaries. Investment costs for
road rehabilitation would not be recovered directly, but at the end of
project implementation, the maintenance of rural roads would be financed by
the regional transportation tax (para. 2.16). However, to minimize the
recurrent cost burden on the Government, the project draws upon the
existing organizations in the region (NOOs) to implement project
activities. A Government cash flow is presented in Table 11. The main
foreign exchange costs of the project would be the importation of vehicles
and spare parts, fertilizers and technical assistance. The main local
currency costs are in improved seeds, salaries and operating expenses.
S. Budaetarv System
6.11     Government budgetary procedures are complex and not well
understood within the technical ministries. This has been a particular
problem for the agricultural sector as DADR's budgetary requests have
traditionally not been well prepared and allocations have fallen far short
of needs. Also, inadequate or delayed counterpart financing has been a
major problem with agricultural projects: obtaining release of approved
allocations has been dificult due to Government efforts to respect agreed
ceilings under IMF programs and to unfamiliarity of DADR and project staff
with procedures to follow. Inability to obtain funding in a timely manner
has had a particularly adverse effect on agricultural projects as
activities have to be timed according to cropping calendars. The
Government is aware of the weaknesses in the functioning of the budgetary
system and is making efforts to improve resource allocation and financial
management both at the national and sectoral levels (para. 1.12). Progress
is being made in the areas of project accounting, sub-sector analysis,.
planning and monitoring of projects. With support from the IDA financed
Technical Assistance Project to DADR, improvements are being effected on
the elaboration of DADR's annual budget, financial management procedures,
performance indicators and training of staff. Under the proposed IDA
financed Technical Assistance Project for macro economic management,
provision will be made to strengthen the overall planning capacity and the
resource management capacity of the Government.
VII. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Justification and Benefits
7.01     General.  The proposed project would constitute an important
element of the Government's program to achieve food self-sufficiency.
Increased maize production would lead to self-sufficiency in this key
commodity in the mininglurban area of Shabal it would also generate
additional revenues for the rural population of the area and promote the



- 48 -
development of commercial farming. The project would help expand and
strengthen a system of non-governmental, sustainable extension and input
supply. In this respect, it would test an innovative, replicable model of
partnership between public, private and non-governmental actors to foster
agricultural development.
7.02     Quantified Benefits.  The project would generate substantial
incremental production of maize and some increased production of beans,
cassava and peanuts. Maize production at full develorment is expected to
increase by 72,000 tons after the fifth year and attain full production in
the ninth year. The incremental production would substitute for imports
and result in an estimated foreign exchange savings of about US$10.4
million per year.
7.03     Unauantified Benefits.  The increased production would increase
quantities available for home consumption and would ensure a livelihood for
otherwise unemployed city dwellers and school graduates. In addition to
the benefits outlined above, the project would also contribute considerable
unquantified benefits. Lhe improved communications, village infrastructure
and maize processing and marketing facilities would not only provide
incentives for increased agricultural production but would also improve the
quality of life of the rural population. The rural radio supported by the
project would have an impact felt beyond the project area by providing
technical and marketing information (para. 3.13). Smallholders, medium-
scale farm operators and collectors would have a better opportunity to
secure credit and there would be a better opportunity to invest local
savings right in the area. The promotion of agricultural diversification
and animal traction would result in improved soil, labor productivity and
nutrition. The project would strengthen PVOs, credit unions, village
associations and would improve the professional performance of the staff of
these institutions. It would also help reorient the regional services of
DADR away from unproductive, police type extension towards a constructive
role in planniag, monitoring and coordinating agricultural activities.
7.04     Beneficiaries.  It is estimated that about 38,000 smallholders
families that belong to the target group would benefit directly from
support services. A total of some 60,000 families would benefit indirectly
from the project's infrastructure and marketing activities.
B. Economic Analsis
7.05     For the purpose of the analysis, project benefits were based on
farm model estimates of incremental food production resulting from improved
yields. Increased maize, bean and groundnut production was valued at
import parity prices (CIF Sakania) adjusted for marketing costs and based
on Bank projections (Annex 4). Cassava was valued at the estimated farm
gate price used in the farm budget analysis (para. 6.08).
7.06     With respect to off farm costs, costs of incremental extension,
extension training, transport infrastructure and project management were
fully included during the project implementation period. During the post-
implementation period (1992 to 2006), only the cost of transport
infrastructure, extension and research were continued at their full project



- 49 -
expenditure level. No other costs were included in the estimates. Truck
investments required to market project incremental output were included in
the analysis for the entire 10 year period. Costs of credit for equipment
of medium scale enterprises were excluded because they would be reimbursed
at full commercial rates.
7.07     With respect to on farm costs, incremental costs for inputs were
based on farm budget analysis. Improved seeds were valued at full cost
recovery level and fertilizer has been valued based on Bank projections
adjusted for marketing costs. Family labor was valued at market price.
7.08     In estimating the economic impact of the project, only the
quantifiable benefits generated by maize, groundnut, bean and cassava have
been considered. The project's rate of return was computed over a 10 year
period including the five-year project implementation period and a standard
conversion factor of one was applied as it was assumed that the Government
would continue to apply exchange rate and tariff policies which would
eliminate distortions between international and domestic price levels. The
opportunity cost of capital in Zaire (OCC) has been estimated at 13.5Z.
With these assumptions, Zaire's economy would realise a present value of
the net benefit streams of Z 1,370 million (US$22.8 million) at 13.51. The
overall economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated at 562.  This high
overall rate reflects the low level of investment required to generate
substantial production benefits; this is possible because sgricultural
support services are handled by existing organizations. The summary of the
main project economic variables is presented as follows:
Summary Economic Analysis
ERR       NPV        Switching Values (X) /a
(LZ     Z million    Cost         Benefit
Total project        55.8       1s370       58            37
kL  Switching value is the percent change that reduces the NPV of the
project to 0.
7.09     The project's rate of return was tested for its sensitivity to
changes in costs and benefits and in phasing. Ten scenarios were tested
(Table 13). The sensitivity analysis shows that the project's ERR is quite
strong. A one year delay in recovering benefits which may be caused by
unfavorable weather conditions or a delay in project's implementation, in
addition to a 10X rise in costs, would decrease the ERR to 291. With a two
year slippage in adoption rates or a 30% decrease in producer prices, the
ERR would still be robust (23% and 29X, respectively). A cost increase of
251 and a two year delay in benefits would still result in a positive ERR
(17X).



- 50 -
C. Risks
7.10     The project does not carry any unusual risk.  However, project
performance will be subject to some general risks associated with the
overall Zairian environment. The main risk in this respect is the
unreliability of Government contribution to project costs, both with respect
to inclusion in the budget and to actual and timely release of budgetted
funds. The Government is making efforts to Improve resource allocation and
financial management both at the national and sectoral levels and the IDA
financed Technical Assistance Project to DADR is supyorting these efforts.
A risk relating to the Shaba situation is the recent and limited experience
of the NOOs that will participate in the project and their reliance on a few
key leaders. The training component is intended to help minfiize this risk.
Also, farmers in the area are highly motivated and are setting up their own
self-sustaining areociations and NGOs understand their role as temporary
promoters of devel,.ment and of rural organizations. There are start up
risks since PMU is yet to be created; this risk would be minimized through
PPF funding making it possible to appoint a Project Administrator before
negotiations. Another risk is the continued smuggling of maize flour from
Zambia, but recent developments in Zambia with respect to prices and the
expected impact of the project on reducing margins between farm gate and
flcur prices suggest that this risk is unlikely to be significant. In order
to avoid the risk of overproduction of maize, the marketing situation would
need to be carefully monitored and flexibility would be required to adjust
production targets to the demand.
VIII.  RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS RE&CNE)
8.01     The following agreements and assurances were obtained during
negotiations:
(a) Policy:
(i) Government would pursue its policy of free choice. of
crops by farmers in the project area (para. 4.11).
(ii) Government would exchange views with IFAD and IDA from
time to time on the maize market and on Government's
marketing and pricing policies (para. 6.04).
(iii) Government would pursue its policy of free inter-
regional trade of food crops (para. 6.05).
(b) Managements
(i)   Selection of newly participating NGOs and farmer
associations by PMU would be subject to IFAD and IDA's
agreement (para. 3.10).
(il) The terms of reference, selectiou and conditions of
employment of the short-term training specialist would
be s;ibject to IFAD and IDA's agreement (para. 3.11).



- 51 -
(ill) The terms of reference, selection, terms of   ployment
and appointment of the Project Administrator and the
Finance/Administration Adviser would be subject to IFAD
and IDA#s agreement (par"s. 4.01 and 4.04).
(iv) The Government iould cause CCC to meet quarterly and to
submit the minutes of these meetings to IFAD and IDA
(para. 4.08).
(c)  ,Imp2entation:
li) Selection of programs and candidates for training abroad
of UGP personnel and for project Implementation would be
submitted to IFAD and IDA for approval (para. 3.14).
(ii) Government would promote the participation of women in
NGO extension work, and their access to credit available
under the project (para. 3.33).
(i1,) The annual work program would be submittod to ATAD and
IDA for review and coments by July and for approval by
October of each year (para. 4.19).
(iv)  PMU would prepare by September 30, 1990 a mid-term
report reviewing lmplementation experienced during the
first two years in preparation for a mid-ternm review
mission (para. 4.21).
(d) be2ortinst
(i) PU wvould prepare seai-annual progress reports on
project implementation for submission to the Government,
IFAD and IDA by March and September of each year (para.
4.20).
(1i) PMU would prepare a Project Completion Report by the
project completion date and DADR would review and submit
a final version of the report to ITAD and IDA within six
months of the Credit closing date (para. 4.22).
(f) Financina:
(i) Term and conditions for using the special accounts
would be observed (para. 3.28).
(1i) PMU and participating organizations would maintain
separate records and accounts to explain all project
activities, accounts and statments of expenditures, if
any, audited each year by external auditors acceptable
to IFAD and IDA, and submit these accounts together with
the audit reports of BCA and UCPD to IDA no later than
six months after the close of the financial year (para
3.30).



- 52 -
'8.02    The following would be conditions of Credit effectiveness:
(a) Signature of the contracts between the project unit, CMC and
Shalamo, respectively (par&. 3.09).
(b) The opening of a BCA branch in Lubumbashi with adequate
staffing and installations (para. 3.19).
(c) Establishment and staffing of the PMU (para. 4.02).
(d) Appointment of the finance/administration adviser (para.
4.04).
(e) Signature of subsidiary agreements between GOZ, BCA and UCPD,
respectively (para. 4.16).
(f) Signature of the contract between OR and DADR (para. 4.17).
8.03     A condition of disbursement against the expenditures of WOOs or
smallholder aisociations other than CRPC and Shalamo would be that they have
signed contracts with PMU satisfactory to IFAD and IDA (para. 3.10).



- 53 -
Table 1 a
ZAIRE
SOUTH SHABA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BCA - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
A. Income Statements (1983-85)
1983      1984      1985    1986 /a
........... (Z million)
Income
Interests and commissions   2.524    29.523    52.555    85.00
on loans
Other income                  .012      .243      4.945    11.86
Total income                 2.536    29.766    57.500    96.86
Expenses
Financial charges             .001      .151      1.375     5.30
Administrative expenses      4.214    25.624    51.440    72.73
Depreciation                  .383     1.507      2.075     3.10
Provision for bad debt         -        .277      2.230     7.01
Total expenses               4.598    27.559    57.120    88.14
PROFIT                      l2.062)    2.20        .38      8.72
La Projections.
B. Balance Sheets (1983-85)
1983           1984            1985
(Z million) 
Assets
Cash and bank deposits          37.788          170.581        139.395
Other current assets             1.372          31.666          75.816
of which:
Short term loans               -               19.827
Receivables from clients       --
Interest due                   _               6.936          15.276
Advance payments               1.197            2.782          3.086
Paid-in capital                -               -
Others                          .175           2.116           1.287
Fixed assets (net)               4.080          22.007          63.796
Total assets                    43.240         224.254         279.008
Liabilities
Current liabilities              1.458          144.967        176.916
Ouasi-equity
LT loan
Equity
Paid-in capital                 45.000          80.000
Reserves and others             (3.216)           (.712)       100.046
Total liabilities               43.242          224.254        279.008



54 -
Table 1 b
ZAIRE
SOUTH SEAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BCA - Projected Income Statement.
1986   1987   1988    1989    1990    1991
Income
Interest and commissions      85       99     282     518      836    1248
Other income                  11.86    12      12       12      12      12
Total                    96.86   111     294     530     848    1260
Expenses
Finncial chargesla             5.3     21      44       66      88     104
Administrative expenses
including personnel /b      72.7     88     114     148      193     253
Depreciation le                3.1     56.25    7.8      9.7    12.2
Provisions for bad debtld      4.1      7      10.35    1.9      55     55
Total                   85.2    121.4   174.5   273.1   345.7   424.0
Profit                   11.6      0.6Q  119.    256.    503.    835.
La Financial charge - charge on new loans and old.
lb Administrative expenses for 1987 include Z 10 m for the installation of two
branches and Z 6 m for operating costs. After 1987, costs will grow at 302.
le  Over five years for the two new branches.
Id  2% until 1987, 51 in 1988 and 101 thereafter.
Notes Assumptions and details are in the Implementation Volume.



- 55 -
ZAIRE
SOUTH SUAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - UCPD
A. Balance Sheets (1984-86)
1984        1985           1986/a
.......... (Z thousand)........
Assets
Cash                           503       7.235         14.958
Other assets                 2.262       2.768          7.574
Fixed assets                    66       2.160          4.051
Total                        2.831      12.163         26.583
Liabilities
Current liabilities          2.789      16.663         26.652
Equity                          43         500            591
Total                        2.832      17.163         27.243
la Temporary (four months of 1986).
B. Income Statements (1984/85)
1984                      1985
(Z thousand),..,*
Income
Interests                  197.8                    1.479.6
Other income of whichs       2.1                      566.6
Membership fees            -                        263.3
Sales                      1.9                      263.3
Other                      0.2                       40.0
Total                      199.9                    2.046.2
Expenses
Financial charges                                     102.2
Administrative expenses   149.9                     1.138.6
Other                       26.3                      136.1
Total                      176.2                    1.376.9
Profit                      23.7                      669.3



-56-                                              Table 3
ZAI
31*0 MrtZ KMClWt  IrI0CCT
hoj*t Cuawwts X Y"r
Total ncl4uadI  CmtUWensi                           TotUS IJAlw        CmtirA#rcla
(ZflC '000)                                         tll  '040)
M7       176      177      2t70     1771     Total      170    10    170    170   191   Total
_~ -                 _ -                          -_ mm am _m am _-
A. PUGECT IMWC       MIt    45.021,6 176.0 4745 3.6   . .? 70#425.4  20167.4   445.  M2t1  27*.  386.D0  2523  1,612.0
3. flmII  MMG               M147,0 Mos55'' 72,522.0 48,215.5 41,96.l  286440.5   377*4  610*2  34.2  20.3  150*3 1#740.3
C. TA                       13MM905 15,75.3 19,190.3 2392.A4 26031.4   7975.   136.6  112.7  104*3  103.6   76.1   5#3.2
3. OtlI 9 CC                20W3.    34#.7,C  35.312,0 4A .021  40,47.10  173171.?  2M,33  247.5  11.   170.?  173.0 1t04
t. o51ST I IILY             43tX6.1  2.3.66 71,72.4 632431 510,911.0 1.#3204l   426.1  175.0  371.3 292.2 1,059.2 S,5,.2
F. KIMO                     18.161.4  10#502.t 11,443.4 16*772.1l 17,47.4   4,04.4   179.*   74.9   42.2   7.5   64.3   453.
s. IZT                      46,475  n.:#3 77,264 101,>6   152.d340M        5:,00=.2   40.S3  51.0  54.6  541*4  54    2*072
Toau) [ISSECt COM            213.2151 2609t* 7. 7041.3 M9166*7 077.1512 2.751.471.4  2.507*6 204.5 1,S714 4,20.7 3.142.C0 130G6.
-           --                                    m      _uau             -   _m               



ZAJC      ~                                          Table 4
NMM  MAIZE KVBZ=~N  FftOCT
0wmsav AcDoit be rwJKt Cwoot
(2MR i000
mwcgl
PROXJ                                                                                   Cotitlnmis
MM=SECN                          EXTCMSIN
UNIT    rECCt Wm40  T3INZ11   OCIICE  NWI  SIfft  RESEC    CREDIT           T01.       2   AMsto
Is ZUCOTIIW  COSTS
As 0011.81 CU     TION AND RPAII          300.0                 450.00                  7060.    47.0      400.0      2,6050  15,0    390.
D. c0uPI0I                              2,420.4     1I0722    737.1l   2A4103              -    2411.0                6,4510 to . MO   674)
t. VWULES                              17t,02.       7,216.0            16,175.0     35,5333.3  5,701.7   3,004.7    041,601,4 15.0 12,702.
D, CR317                                                                                                14664.04  166',34.0  15.0 24i795.
E. OFFiC E30hISI                                           -               20.0             -    502.0   1,366.7      3,06.  15.0    46343
r, OFICE flhhUu                           435,6                                                            497.0        9333 15.0    140.0
as MA IN ZoUT                                                                       W.28000                    -   327,200.0 15.O0 4992.0
No 15A1111                                                   14,226.7                            204.5               14,5112 15.0  21276.7
It ItNoTRI laws                                               4,.0                         -               400.0      53soo.0 15.0    004.0
it 1.061.It     COIILW2tT@                                  6,0.0   5,160.0                           6,8800      18,920.0  15.0  2,130.0
2, Ctl   i CICUTT                   62602.6                9,4.   16527.0                             15,110.4    110*311,2 15.0 1546*7
Ue Tota 1mOECI ACOTOTMIC               42f002.6              16,324.0  21,W607.               16r,47,2  21,920,    1M29,11.2  15.0 19,84W
K. MS                                              102,03.7                                                         102-032,7  15.0  15I,3049
Le. r11                                       -                                                3-774.-                3,74.0  15.0    56.61
iN    7 FROI CI ccwunu 1                                                      -MIM  4  -     .0-                       64.0  15.0      76.6
TOt al uiswi COST                        Nt,`31,2    110,320,? 36M72.   40,71.3    313,534  17,9962 1"94275.5   04?A2j22  15.0 127,004.1
J. t0N12W SC067
A. InEKIENTI 0*1*                      6,420.0      215"600             6,036.0        312.0  3X12.0               1MM46.  15.0  ~9.
I. TMWIC    13 t ALLOMIC               3,320.0                          4,570.         236.0  1,3900          -     8003,  15.0  1,504.0
t. WMIC WATIJII C0078                    277.5            -  93.J5       55.m0                  =.0.                 22203.0  15.0    =33.
3. 01.311 5613060CC                     53.7            -    241,5                            -   -                  252 15.         44.3
=VW IP DT37 C                            127.4                  20.1      101,3                  64.2                 315.0  15.0    4.S3
FsV. ZHL    CMTIND CLr67              12.2112,42    4.310,0            17$104.0     10,309.0  4.16S                5.6*3,36 15.0  7,5wo.
so 1lam1 461J1111C                     4,140.0      1567.5         -   4031,0                   mo0.               11.313,5  15.0  1tim4.
L. *vM111                                   -             -        -     200 2.0 0n20.0  15.0    30*0
n. OFrCE 1 MUTES .PT                         -            105.0e5.  6S.  15.0                                                         "0.6
Jo. REOCEW WOTINC 0167                                                                           90.7                  90.7 15.       13.6
TotW IICNTE CX06                         2,56U2.0       7.071,3  1.094,1  34.21341     1.m0 13.176.?                   "4,s3.  15.0 14,246.0
TOA  ELNE 01670                           110,194.0    119M322  MM89,   74.            374t42    31,.  1?4,2.t5         92,63 1A.0 141,330.8
Mimics! CatirAn   l                     16,59.1      1M6     59.5  11,233.0          56164.3  4,125.9  29,144.3   141,320.9  0.0         0.0
I'rte Coeitiss                         163,446,3    1498 39#5 56113.5 107.007*6   033,912.  3,7965 2,3.  1A7,53 13- -217,55(
YAW   0u*0  1CR67                         29,69.4    220.340.5  M59   173.1731o   1,2t4Ot..  74*047.4 U     22,807,2 2.75471.4 1S30 250,007.6
smanman  soaa oamuaa  inmsm                amambam m a metm   smmm    -opg              Xs" auimnsa
Tam6._20 4t                                         71103,0     31.0 t5             71,031.   4o16.0   2,080.7   115,86.  13.0 15,01L.
OiM  Exhab                             20.7    16.  6464.  103,002.3  1139,403.0 37,3902 394,756.6  2.077*912.5  13.0 27103.l



- 58 -
Table 6
Pianis Plan
ws l ,9 > Ot -~~~~~~~U                                  S    Sentlclrlea
A.      R        c
8uoWP  tfr Pertietiln  mcl
(a) stld    Costru"       ad                   86        -        0       -         -
(b)   tplmg sasnd furaltuan                   124        -      124                 -
(c) VeAles                                    787               7S7
siai eldus. sd SeallIheldews' As_1itiuas
(a) Form Inputs - sold ftr cash              ,8      8,5                 -         97
(X) Far    pt - on   dit                    1,"    1,577          -      -         48
(c) Squipms on Credlt                          75       7         -      -          -
Cd) Trck on Cr.dit                            418        -               -        116
Rural SatrWise Equipmet and Trcks
for Me rketIng                              2,170        -   1,77         -       4f0
Training                                     2S        28         -                 -
Techical Assistance                          1,84   1,8           - 
Reads                                        1,487       -       16    6            -
Researc  eNW studies                        ...      ...      ..J&      .         -
Total L.vestmt Cost                        12,472  ?7,1    8*,1         60" 
Incremental salariee, SoeeN  s,md Alloesan    481      U44        -                87
Other Operattas Cmo             I     _            60 0
Tetl Rcurreet Co*ts                                      -JA         - C
Ttl Prlc Cast                          13A      Lo.  I.814    3f           1. 2W



- 59 -
Table6
SO=  SRAB AGRICTURAL DEVONT PROJCT
Dsbursaments from IRA Lonen ID      LCredi
(US$ 000)
Cago4.                                             lEAIFAD   iDA    Z to be
* - . . _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~financed
1. Civil WowA
(a)  Iuilking Construction and Repairs                -      30      100
,b) Road. Reabilitation and   t      e                _     630     100 2 of foreign;
SO 2 of local
2. Vhicls and Equipmet                                    -      730     100
3. Farm Inputs
(a) CC A  Shalmo                                  4,020       -     100
(b) NOW  OOs ad farer asociations                   120       -     100
4. Consultant Services, Training ad Studies
(a)        an     rvies, training and studies    1,860        -     100
(b) Consultant Sevice, rearch, studies                -      50     100
and audits
5.  gricultural Credit
(a)  Smalkolder credft                              320       -     100
(b) Credit for rural enterprises                      -   1,70        -
6. Operating costs
(a)  Incramtel salaries, bonuses and allowances   170         -       -
for CHPC and Shlamo
(b)  Incrmntal salaries, bonuses and   llancs       50       - 
for ne NO  and suallholder asocti$ons
(e)  Incremea tal salaries, bonse  and allowances   150     200       -
for PMD and applied reserch
(d)  Other operating costs of PM-                           200     100
(.)  Other operating costs of EGOo                    -     200     100
7. Repaymet of PF advance                                 -     150      100
9. Unallocated                                          943     650        -
Total                                        7,633    4400       -



- 60 -
Table 7
ZAIRE
$OUh 81AMA AGRICULTURAL DEEOME       PROJECT
Estiated Schebule of Disbursemnts /a
*                                ~~~~~~~~~~(Use me|)  
WFAD/IDA Fisctl Y"er     Quarerly    Cumulative Dsblur'semnts        quarterly      Cumulative Dlsbarsement
,,________________    Disburs.msnt    at end of  uarter       Disbursoments       at ed of quarter
1967
Jun* U, 1067                                      O                     160 Lb              ISO
1968
iFember 89, 1087            100                 100                     100                 20
December 81, 1987           10                  200                     1W                  40
March $1, 1988              200                 41.                     400 /c              100
June U, 1068o                                   on                      200IM 1,
199
riemb.r U, 163             200                 600                     1s                1,1W
Decembr 81, 1066            200               1,000                     200               1,860
March 81, 1969             Is                1,15                     200               1,650
June U, 1989                Ig                1,800                    200                1,766
1996
iXember U, 1069             1s                1,460                     200               1,960
Deember 81, 109             166               1,i00                     200               2
March SI, 19W               200               1,800                    200                2,:61
June s,  low                200               2,0"                     200                2,7U
U4.mber U0, ie              20                2,200                     200               2,766
Decemer 81, 100             200               2,400                     200               2,060
March 81, 1991            1,900 /d            4,800                    200                8,166
June U, 1991                 W                4,600                    200                8,866
1992
E,ember 80, 191             800               4,900                     20                 ,
December 81, 1991           8W                6,200                    200                8,76
March 81, 1992            1,300 /, 6,00                                100                8,6W
June U, 1992                800               A,00                                        8,96
1995
UjEeMber U0, 192            200               7,000                    100                4,166
Decembr 81, 1992            200               7,20                     100                4,260
March 81, 1998              200               7,400                    1OO                4,866
June o, 1998                200               7,600                     so                4,4
a Ba   on coat "etimat  with appropriate lap in disburements to reflect country experienc.
PPF disburements (IDA flnancng only).
c Rotloct  likely timing of trucks for credit.
Reflecte Itkely timing of fertlizer purchase.



- 61 -
Table 8
ZAIRE
SOUTH SHABA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road Rehabilitation/Maintenance List and Cost
Name                               Distance
1. Lubumbashi-Kambikila-Musoshi-RN1                  76
2.  Kandiata-Kambikila                               26
3.  Lubumbashi-Ndibu                                 37
4. Mangambo-Kiebe                                     16
5.  Luishia-Kalongo                                   17
6.  Barrage Lufira-Kilepa-Kalunkumia-Luambo          66
7.  RN1 a Mulumgushi-Kalundu                         45
8.  RN1 a Matafu                                      8
9.  Bikondoma-Lukotola                               24
10.  Tshilongo-Katondo                                35
11.  Tahilongo-Pompi-Katondo                          45
12. Kiala-Mpala-Kasenze                               40
13.  Mpala-Kasekelesa                                 25
14.  Komeshia-Kiamasumba                              40
15.  Sakalesi-Yamba-Yamba                             32
16. Ceinture verte de Lubumbashi:
- Axe Karavia                                 45
- Axe Kasapa                                  15
- Axe Kafubu                                  20
- Axe Kasenga                                 21
17. Cointure verte Likasit
- Ancienne route de Kambove                   13
18. Ceinture verte de olWe:S.:
- Route Mamfwe                                25
- PK 7 route Mamfve-Bisamba-Katebi-           16
bifurcation RN 39
- Route de la ferme Mukanya                    8
- Axe Pwene-Mutanda                           12
- Axe Kambundji                               36
- Route Tshikobo                              15
- Route Muninga                                6
- Route Kasongo                                2
- Route Yav                                    7
- Route Charlier                               4
- Route de Kando                               9
- Route Ntanda                                 1
- Route de Musokatanda                        17
Total                                                    805 km
Unit Costs                                            Z'000
120 per km
300 per m
Culverts                                                  63 per unit
Bridges                                                   15 per m
Dikes                                                      1.28 per m
Manual maintenance                                         6.66 per km



- 62 -
Table 9
ZAIRE
8SII SM   AGR_CULTURAL DEVI.0M NT POJECT
One Hectar. Crop Models
Ingut.. hg/ha               Labor
Xield Is     Seeds     Fertillser     M. Days
ML-.. ainale crop
wJo project               950           20          -           139
Wi project              3,100           25        300 1b        210
azoe IntercoI,ged
i/o project               800           20          -           102
W  proaject             2,500           25        300 La        215
Gromudnat.
w/o project               700           80          -           153
VI project               1,200         100          -           186
Caawava. 2OtiiQ
./o project             1,200       10,000 /d       -           287
i project               2,000       10,000          -           300
Cassava. nva
./o project                 -            -          --
w/ project              2,000       10,000 Le       -           300
Bean. si ,le cro.
W/o project               500           30          -           128
wI project                600           35                      138
Bean. Intercropped
vio project               200           30                       52
VI project                250           35          -            57
Lo  Shelled g'z 4  for maise and beans, chips for cassava and in-shell
for groundnuts.
lb Inputs also Include raticide and herbicide.
Le Inputs also include raticide.
Id Cuttin-s.
/I Cuttings.



- 63 O
HolE.. eligle cra           0.7         0.6          0.6         .6          0.7        0.6          0.6         0.
Ho..in,tnerereg             0.7         0.7          0.6        0.6          0.7        0.7          -           -
son.  ingl cam              0.1         0.1          0.1        0.1          0.1        0.1          -           0.1
Seen. interouw              0.?         0.7          0.6        0.6          0.7        0.7          -           -
0urwnut                     ^           -            0.1         0.1         -          -            -           0.1
csa. *estingo                           -            -                       0-7        0.7                      -
Cas,.                        -          0.2                      0.2                     _ -                     0.1
Pbia.sdk                   US          81           89         81           3          U #1                     U
Selene..d,kg               11          as                                   so3                      - 
-rmmdnut  I.                -           -            _          _            _          _            _
Caaas,e igttln..O0 am                                -I                                 --
=Ferilizert.               -   il                   -        160           -          _             -         10
I%r% II er NM_.W kg        _           0                      me                                               i
Fertllaer Ur". kg                     145                      140                    145            -          s
Raiiekg                 -                       
arbletide.kg                -           4            -          4            -          4            -           4
Sm*s unite                  4          it            4          s            6         1i            8           7
To<lol, oa                              I            1          1            1          I                        I 1
phi" grain               is14       4,M10        I'00        ,0          1,U0       4.10          No0       1,40
Cassa Ahlp s                          460            -         410         040      1.490                       M
Soon grain                  5                      145         10    U       s        i              -          s
rndnt In sell                                                                                                   s   0    -  -  0
GrasI nlas,                 9.9         1.7         10.1       11.1         2.6        89.7          8.4        I.6
Predutlon _s%               1.5         9.1          1.8        9.1          1.5        0.1          0.4         5.9
Wt I_n.om                    .6.6                    5.        0.1          15.1       30.8          5.0        13.7
Incra. nstn_ I                         U4.0          -          4.J          -         I5.4          -           9.7
Not returne felty lsbw     48          84           46         St           40          6                       s o
(2 per eon/dsp)



64 -
Table 11
ZAIRE
SOUTH SNoa AGRICULTUA  DEVELOPEN  PROJECT
SOVERHHENT CAGN FLO#
1987     199       1989     190       1991     192       19M3      1994     1995     m
INFLONS
External Financing
IFAD Loan      880       740       800     2980      2280
IDA Credit     1432       844       758      887       551
Taxes
Sales taxes
Trucks       86        88        88       88        92
Equipmnt          3
Inputs        7         4        7        74       54
Transport taxes                           1         2        3         9       11        12       12        12       12
Naize tilling tax                 1        3        12       28        46       58        61       62        62       62
ReiSburseuent frog BCA                  32       95       160       251      342       402      432       467      458       458
TOTAL INFLOWS      2441      1775     1827     4311      3380       471      505       541      '32       532
OUTFOWIS
ProjKt casts financed from
external funding      2312      1584     1558     3867      2837
Project costs financed fros
nun resources       201      201       137       182      175
Reiburseuent to IFAD                    75        71       67        57       44        38       38        38       38        38
Reiabursesent to IDA                    24       27        29        31       33       56        56        56       56        56
TOTAL OUTFLOWS      2b12     1883      1791     4137      3089       94                 94        9        94
NET CASH FLOW                         -171     -107        36       174      291       37       411       447      438       438
CUtULATIVE C0SH FLOW                  -171     -279      -242      -68       223      599      1010      1457     1895     2333



SSITViTY TES
WVY AS A 1
PRESET             OF PRESEMT          INTL
VALUE ATCC         CSS T =             RATE W
TEST CAS     TEST  SE C AM  An                 OF 13*50            OF 13.50            ETM
UN CASE                                           1370054.3               581201         55,8Z
TST CASE  1 S1                 1A1 1in            1051M2                  44.62          473Z
TET CASE 2  DI                no 2                 733532.0               31.11          38.32
TEST CA   3  1                30  301              415270.9               17.6           23.51
TESCASE  4 CIO                UP  10
mli             UP  102
C12             Up  10:              11879601               46.82           49.3
TESTCASE S CIO                UP  251
Cli             UP   2
C12             UP  20S               924.1                 34.2            41.4Z
TEST CASE 6  1                LA     1 YEMS          1505.8               42.0t          3351
TEST CASE  7 31               LAB   2  EA          69829                  27,92          23.62
TEST CAS  8 DI                LAS   3 EA           364130.2               15.#4          18.11
TESTCASE  9 31                LAB        EARS
CIO             UP   102
Cll             IP   1z
C12             UP  1O0               809411.6              31.92           29.3
TEST CASE 10  1t              LA    2 NA
CIO             UP  2
Ci              UP  25S
C12             UP  20S               2379528                8.U6           16.91
TUT CAE 11 D1                  A    3 YEARS
CIO             w    0
Cil             up  50
C12             UP  302              -405519.4             -13*.Z            9J11



- 66 -                 tabl,e 13
illBInEgR
p               ~~1
I                il     X30|0
N~ 1EE110|
I         I  aEE        13X0lE
e            .4        q l~ ii 0 |g  flj.4i  I 4%SO.2ll



67 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 4
ZAIRE
SOUTH SIAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
rolect Area: Non-GovernmentAl Ornanisations involved in Agriculture
1.       In recent years, the impact of Government services on agricultural
development in the project area has been limited on adcount of lack of
resoures and of clear programs except for the fertilizer program which has
been operating in Shaba through a regional office. Development actions
have been spearheaded primarily by NGCs. Two organizations stand out in
this respect. The most active by far is CEPC which oierates throughout the
uining hinterland; the other is Shalamo which operates in the greenbelt of
Likasi. This annex is intended to provide details on their respective
organizations.
A. Center for Execution of Community Programs (CEPC)
Backaround
2.        Before independence the center for Study of Indigenous Social
Problem (CEPSI) had been created as a non-profit organization to study the
local socio-economic environment with a view to effecting improvements. In
1971, CEPSI became the Center of Execution of Social and economic Programs
(CEPSE) which was mandated to promote socio-economic development in the
mining area especially from the standpoint of health and cottage
industries.
3.       GECAMINES, the miaing parastatal created after the nationalization
of the Union Miniere du Katanga, has been following the tradition of
involvement in agriculture. The main concern has been the food supply for
its labor force. Since the early 1970's, GECAMINES had been promoting
maize production through its Center of Execution of Social and Economic
Programs (CEPSE); this - rganixation was mandated with the operation of
large-scale mechanized maize production and since 1981, with the promotion
of mechanized maize production by medium-scale farms through the supply of
input supply, mechanized land preparation and extension services under the
Rural Agricultural Promotion (PRA) program.
4.       Under the reorganization of GECAMINES in 1984, responsibility for
the operation of the farms and the PRA was transferred to AGRIS, a&branch
of GECAMINES, while CEPSE, which had boen dissolved in late 1983, was
replacei by a new organization, CEPC, with mandate to focus on the support
of smallholders rather than medium-scale farms.
Statutes
5.       According to its statutes approved in 1986, CEPC is a non-profit
organization (association sans but lucratif) whose purpose is to promote
social, economic and agricultural development. Its membership falls in two



- 68 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 4
categoriess (a) active members which make up the General Assembly and
consist of GECAMINES Exploration, SNCZ and BRASIMBA; and (b) associate
members who can participate in meetings of the General Assembly in an
advisory role only. The Board of Directors is made up of eight members.
Day-to-day operations are under the responsibility of a general director
who supervises three divisions: community development,
administration/finance, and the technical division. Accounts have to be
prepared at the end of each fiscal year and submitted to the General
Assembly.
Organization
6.       An organization manual has been prepared to define the functions
of the various units and describe the tasks of key staff. An
organizational chart is shown in Chart 3.  the administrativelfinancial
division comprises three services: administration, finance and supply.
The community development division is decentralized with three regional
units (Lubumbashi, Kolwesi and Likasi), plus one central unit for
orthopedic services; the regional units have each offices for
administration, agriculture, social services, medical services and cottage
industries. The technical division comprises three services: socio-
medical, agricultural (PRA) and training.
7.       As of October 1986, CEPC had a total staff of 275 of which 144 in
administration and 35 in agriculture including 29 agronomists as extension
agents. Twenty seven of the senior staff members are seconded and paid by
GECAMINES.
Activities
8.       In the community development field, CEPC is involved in the
following activities: operation of health centers, operation of an
orthopedic center, promotion of development of village infrastructure
(wells, pumps and maize processing equipment) and training (literacy, home
economics and cottage industries: wood and copper working and clothing).
In the agricultural field, CEPC is involved in extension, input supply and
maize marketing. In 1985, its agricultural services supported some 5,000
smallholders growing maize on 1,500 ha for 3,560 growers and 1,900 ha in
1985. CEPC operates in the field through 29 community development centers.
The creation and operation of these centers involves the participation of
traditional chiefs and of volunteers ("animateurs benevoles) to act as
leaders in activities in health, agriculture and training. Tho committees
are intended to promote self-financing and sustainability of development
actions at the grass root level.
9.       In the agricultural and other field, CEPC has been receiving
direct support from a number of donors: USA (development of potato and
vegetable production and installation of soils laboratory), Italy and
Canada (medical equipment and supplies) and Belgium (FB 100 million or
US$1.8 million to finance equipment and input supply).



- 69 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 4
Operational Capacity under the Proiect
10.      CEPC is by far the most active organization in supporting
agricultural development in the mining hinterland. Although the
organization is new and it recovers the costs of its services, these
services are eagerly sought by smallholders. CEPC has set up an effective
extension/input supply network at the grass root level. The organization
benefits from the strong support of 4ECAMINES which has been supplying
facilities, equipment, financing 27 senior staff members and guidance (e.g.
audit of accounts).
ll.      On the negative side, its extension costs are much higher than
those of Shalamo and there is the danger of building a bureaucracy at the
central level. Better cost accounting is needed for the various
activities. The system of credit for inputs and cost recovery may become
unwialdy as agricultural activities expand and in need of adjustment;
specifically cash payment will be required for inputs, purchases and
repayment in kind will need to be gradually replaced by cash repayment to
avoid handling of large tonnages of maize.
12.      CEPC has demonstrated its ability to spearhead agricultural
development in the project area. Its novel approach to extension with
provision for full recovery and work through community development
communities has scope for replication elsewhere in Zaire; a first step has
been taken in that direction by initiating cost recovery for extension
under the Smallholder Maize Project in Kasai (Credit 1040-ZR).
B. Shalamo
Backaround
13.      Shalamo is the acronym of "Shamba la umoja", Swahili for 'unit
fields', was started in 1982 by two missionaries in Likasi. It is an
association of unemployed or poorly paid city dwellers who have turned to
agriculture for survival. The main purpose is to ensure the proper
nutrition of members' families through the production of maize in the
Likasi greenbelt and protection of the crops against theft in the field.
While the association has been created and is guided by the two Catholic
missionaries, its structure rests on a parish structure and membership is
open to all. Another purpose is to enable members to handle their own
development.
Statutes
14.      According to the statutes which have been submitted to Government
services for approval and registration, Shalamo is an association of
smallholders, opened to holders of a piece of land. Members are attached
to 'groupements", each corresponding to a "localiteo or parish; the
1groupementsO are divided into 'blocs" of some 100 members. In 1986 there
were 29 blocks.



- 70 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 4
15.      Shalamo Is managed by a central coamittee which have also thoir
own committees which sets policies, ensures overall supervision and settles
conflicts; its membership includes representatives of each local committee.
Day-to-day supervision Is the responsibility of a central anagement
committee which executes the policy set out by the central committee.
Local committees are established at the  groupement  level and their
membership at each level is determined by elections.
16.      Resources of Shalamo come from membership fees and managed by the
treaurer of the central committee.  The central management committee
establishes annual budgets.
Organization
17.      The 3,400 members (1986 data) are grouped into 29 blocks and 4
tgroupements". The organization employs a paid staff of eight (four at the
central level and one elected lanimateur" for each 8groupement'. At the
block level, management is ensured by three elected volunteers (chief,
secretary and contact farmer) who receive bonuses only. the two
missionaries participate In the organization as advisers.
Activities
18.      The two major activities are agricultural extension (supplied by
the agronomist, the animateurs and the contact farmers) and the procurement
and distribution of inputs are sold to embers on credit, with repayment in
kind (maize) at harvest time. The blocks also organize protection of the
crops against thieves and each maintains a savings account with the credit
union, the account being fed by savings from members. Shalamo Intend to
extend its activities into crop markoting and storage, tree plantings, the
installation of village mills for maize and the development of aninal
traction.
Operation Cagacitv under the Proiect
19.      Shalamo has grown rapidly (70 members in 1983, 700 In 1984 and
3,000 in 1985) in response to intensive grass root demnd. It remains a
grass root organization which aims at full self-sustainability. The staff
which is either volunteer or poorly paid is highly motivated. Operating
costs are low and extension costs are recovered from members.
20.      On the other hand, the organization has a low management
capability and low salarles may be an obstacle to securing high
professional talent; also, the organization has difficulty locating
nationals who can handle finances in a professional manner. Shalaa-i is
aware of its limitations. Und;r the project, it would focus on staff
training and strengthening managment t the central and groupement levels
for the first two years; increase In membership would be programed for the
next three years in order to reach 6,00 (75Z increase) by the end of the
project period.



- 71 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 9
ZAIRE
SOUTM SHA8 AGRICULTURAL r.VELOPMENT PROJECT
Asricultural ExtensionIInrut Supply in the Proiect Area,
NGO Involvement and Cost Recovery
1.       The ineffectiveness of the official extension service in Zaire is
well documented. Among the problems faced by extension -in Zaire and other
African countrie as well- one can mention a counter productive top down
approach, sorely inadequate funding and lack of austainability.
Encouraging exceptions were uncovered In Shaba in the-course of the
preparation/appralsal of the South Shaba Agricultural Development Project.
Two non-govornmental organizations have been funding effective extensions
and Input supply services to smallholders who pay for services. Grass root
demand for such services Is high. The idea can be considered for
replication elsewhere. This paper is intended to present dotails on the
Shaba approach around which the South Shaba project is being designed.
Government Extension Services
2.       Currently the administration and operations of the GOZ extension
service allow for no systematic and adequate supervision of field agents,
nor room for  improvement and sustainability.  In Shaba, at all levels,
extension staff lack mobility, are poorly trained and irregularly paid.
Moreover, the extension service dispensed by the GOZ is often unacceptable
to farmers since traditionnally the extension service job has been
associated with the enforcement of crop cultivation against severe fines
and penalties.
NGO Extension Service in the Proiect Area of South Shaba
3.       In the project area, for the last five years and under pressure
from farmers, various EGOs have been carrying out extension services
because of lack of Goi extension services. The NGO services include input
supply and credit In addition to extension. The main feature of the NGO
extension service is that it is carried out under the principle of full
cost recovery. The main extension message is the promotion of improved
cropplng practices and the use of inputs for maize. Each NGO has its own
organizational structure. Two main types of NGO are described below:
CEPC
4.       CSRC is a non-profit organization (Association Sans But Lucratif)
created after the transformation and changes in GECAMINES, the mining
company in Shaba. The major objective of CEPC is community development.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 9
Paid personnel total 275 of which 23 are paid directly by GECAMINES and 73
are in agriculture. CEPC oversees 29 community development centers (CDC)
which include 225 villages or wlocalit's". Each CDC encourages farmers to
cultivate maize on an area of 200 ha. CEPC activities include: housing,
nutrition, medical support, handicrafts and farming.
CEPC Extension Service
5.       CEPC works with about 5,000 farmers through the CDC organization.
Its extension/input supply service is based on the distribution of mini
kits ("colis promotionnel") which include seeds, fertilizers end tools for
.25 ha of maize. CEPC distributes the "colis promotionnel" through its
extension service system, and recovers the cost of the colis, in kind, at
harvest. Repayment of the 'colis promotionnel' includes the fee for the
extension service. The repayment is in kind.
Charges for the 'colis promotionnel' for 1 ha of Maize
1985/86
z
Seeds 35 kg SR 52            1,400
Inputs 300 kg fertilizer     4,500
Tools                          100
6,000
Repayment in kind:  1,200 kg of maize at Z 8.4/kg or Z 10080/ha.
6.       The balance of Z 4,080/ha includes extension and credit costs.
CEPC also covers its costs by selling maize to GECAMINES development at 8.4
Z/kg or higher.
CEPC Costs
7.       CEPC is financed mainly by GECAMINES, Brasimba, the beer factory,
and SNCZ, the railways company. Currently, CEPC receives a no interest
loan from Belgium and small grants from Italy, Canada and the USA. CEPC's
operating budget is Z 77.3 million of which Z 53.3 million is for
agriculture. Personnel costs represent 112 of operating costs. CEPC
management staff is paid by GECAMINES and is not included in the CEPC
budget.
Shalamo
8.       The second NGO in the project area which offers extension seavices
is Shalamo. Shalamo which means 'Unity" in Swahili. It was originated to
help unemployed persons and poorly paid employees in the cities turn to
agriculture for survival. Its activities are concentrated around Likasi
(greenbelt). There is a staff of nine persons of which five are paid by
Shalamo. Shalamo is a non-profit organization (ASBL) and its objective is



73 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 9
the social and economic improvement of its members. Shalamo is organized
around parishes. At each parish levei, there is a local Shalamo committee
("Comita local") elected for two years by member farmers. Each committee
supervises six to seven blocks through a paid "animateur". A "block' is a
group of individual plots of 100 farmers. At the central level, there is
the Managing Unit of Shalamo ("comit; central d'action") which runs the
organization (two priests, onel agronomist, one administrator and one
accountant). Above the Managing Unit is the Ocomite central" composed of
members of the Managing Unit and a representative of each "comite local".
Shalamo Extension Service
9.       Shalamo extension service is organized around the concept of the
"block". Each 'block"' of 100 farmers elects a *chef de bloc" and a
secretary for two years. The "chef de bloc" is the "contact farmer". Six
to seven 'chefs de bloc" are supervised by a paid lanimateur". The "chef
de bloc' and secretary receive only performance bonuses. The main message
of Shalamo, which work in grouped fields and individual plots, is improved
cropping and use of inputs. Each member of Shalamo (they pay a small fee
of Z 10 to join the organization) contributes 100 kg of maize/ha for the
extension service fee (700 Z). Shalamo supplies seed and fertilizer to its
members on 1002 credit with PNE and CEPC acting as wholesalers.
Reimbursement for credit is done at harvest time. Starting from crop
season 1987, credit for inputs Nil! be up to 502 only. Each member saves Z
l10month and each urban salaried member Z lOOImonth. The savings account
is run by a 'comit. local" and is deposited at the local CPD ("Caisse
Populaire Diocesaine").  Shalamo work with 3,400 farmers on 1,400 ha or .4
halmember. The average yield is 3.5 tlha.
Shalamo Costs
10.      Shalamo main sources of funds come from the farmers themselves.
It also received a small grant from "Misereor" (a catholic development
organization) for a seven ton truck and for the construction of a main
warehouse. Total budget for 1985 was Z 10.5 million of which .4 a was for
personnel (3.82), which also includes performance bonuses.
Observations on the NGO Extension Service Systems
11.      The following strengths, problems and weaknesses have been
identified for the NGO extension services:
(a) In the case of CEPC, a somewhat top down organization, the
extension invlovement was motivated by the need to supply
GECAMINES with maize. The channel through which CEPC
promotes its "mini kits" is the 'Comite de Developpement
Local' (CDC) at the "localite" level. For Shalamo, decisions
are made at the 'comito local" (parish) level. The extension
message is determined by the local assembly according to the
needs of local farmers. By its organization, Shalamo Is a
lay "pri-cooperativel system established at the parish lovel.



- 74 -
Annex 2
Page 4 of 9
(b) As experienced in Shaba, NGO growth ste=4 from pressures from
the farmers themselves and NGOs are ill eqdiped to plan and
foresee problems. Therefore, the organizational structuvois
are week and normally depend on one or two persons.
Management problems must be addressed by a more systematic
approach to organization.
(c) Currently there is no agriculture credit system for
smallholders. NGOO have to extend directly credit in kind to
farmers and bear the credit risk. There is no insurance
scheme for agriculture in Zaire.
(d) A current weakness of CEPC is the 'colis promotionnell
itself. Currently there is no alternative option to the
'colisu, especially for more advanced farmers who wish to buy
only inputs or who wish to receive extension services only.
In the future, CEPC has to move away from the 'colis
promotionnell scheme.
5e) A weakness of the existing system is the unwieldy collection
and transport of the maize recuperated for repayment in kind
(100 kglha fee for Shalamo and 1200 kg/ha for *colis
promotionnell for CEPC).
(f) Another issue is the discrepancy int extension charges paid by
farmers in the two existing systems; this is shown in Table
1.
Table 1: Extension Serj'ice Charges
Shalamo (1 ha)                               CEPC
Extension service   1OQ kg/ha (Z 840)        Reimbursement of 1,200 kg
(Z 4,080) mini kit included
300 kg of fertilizer, seeds,
and tools
Inputs              Z 4,600 /a               Z 4,600
Seeds                  1,400 /b              Z 1,400
Cost for inputs     Z 6,000                  Z 6,000
Financial costs            0 /C              Included in the mini kit
Total costs            7,440 ZIha              10,080 Z/ha
la 300 kg of fertilizer @ 15 Z/kg and tools.
1k 3S kg of SR 52 @ 40 Z/kg.
lc Farmors received 1OOZ inputs credit for six months. The 1001 credit
has been reduced to 502 in 1987 crop season and O for inputs credit
in three years.



- 75 -
Annex 2
Page 5 of 9
(g)  CEPC cannot support 1002 of the management costs (currently
paid by Gecamines) and Shalamo cannot expand and attract new
good management personnel if it has to pay its personnel on a
"shoestring" budget.
(h) CEPC is 281 more expensive than Shalamo and because of this
difference In price charged to farmers, there is a possible
defection of farmers from CEPC to Shalamo if these two NGOs
vork next to each other.
(i)  For newly established NOOs, the first year is crucial.
Unless they reach a minimum number of farmers (sustainable
size or 'critical mass"), it is almost impossible for NGOs to
cover cost and grow. First lavestment (equipment and
training) and operating costs are crucial for NGOs.
Project's Extension Service Conceit
12.      The project extension component would aim at reinforcing existing
ROO extension services and helptng to foster new extension services in
other ateas. Taking into consideration past NGO strengths and weaknesses,
the project would help finance first investments and a revolving fund.
13.      The concept is built around a 'block mf 50 farmers" (smaller size
than Shalmo block) and each 10 blocks is suptxrvised by a well trained
extension worker (A3). Five extension workers are supervised by an A2 and
two A2 are supervised by an AO/Al.  Agricultural technical staff in Zaire
&re classified as AO, Al, A2 and A3 depending on the level of training.
AOs have four to five years of university agricultural training and are
called Agronomists ("Ingenieur Agronome") and usually hold senior posts.
Ala have two years of university training and are called 'zonal
agronomists". A28 have six years of secondary agricultural training and
A3S have three years of secondary agriculture training. The sustainable
"extonsion component" would be built around 5,000 farmers.
14.      The project would train field extension agents, management and
support personnel through basic courses, refresher courses both in-tountry
or overseas. Futhermore, the project would asm at strengthening MGOs
through technical assistance in organization and management.
15.      The repayment for extension services would be 100 kg of maize/ha
or the equivalent In cash, the Input supply and transportation cost would
be recovered by a 10 to 121 margin on input prices and passed on to
farmers. This margin would also include losses on transportation and
credit risk.
16.      The project would aim to supply inputs to NGOs on credit.  Yearly
input nee4s vould be Identified by participating NGOs. The Project
Management Unit would then aggregate those needs, place orders through
compotitive bidding and arrage the delivery of Inputs directly to the
participating orgsniattions. NGOs would aim to sell inputs to end users
Initially on credit but the proportion sold on credit would be gradually
phpsed out (1001, 502, 251 and O).



- 76 -
Annex 2
Page 6 of 9
17.      Credit Unions 'Caisses Populaires Diocisaines' (CPDa) would handle
crodit for input to smallSolders. Through the revolving fund, CPDs would
be able to increase their level of loan commitment to farmers. At the
central level, the Federation of Diocesaines Credit Unions (UCPD) at
Lubumbashi would on lend to local CPDs who will thrn pass the loans to
farmers. Collective or individual collateral would be taken to minimise
default risks.
Extension Modules
18.      In order to estimate extension costs and to provide a guideline
for NGOs which intend to organize extension services, an extension module
has been designed to reach 5,000 farmers.  The costs of the 5,000 farmers
module are shown in Table 2. Over a four year period, total costs are Z
10.76 million (US$180,000) or US$9 per farmer per year. At current prices,
this yearly cost is equivalent to 65 kg of maize.
Table 2s Costs of Extension Service for 5.009 Farmrs Unit
(1m constant n)
A.  Inittal Investmnt eoat.        unit Cost  Quantity    Toted
b01os  4 W                       1,l       1         1,m
Motorbike. 126 CC                  go       2           180
Bicycles                            16     10           100
Truck L                          2,0"       2         46W
Total
B.  Extension Personnel Costs      UC/e9   Total  Z'0
AS/Al                              66       1           66
A2                                 54       2           108
AS                                 as      is           as.
Contact farmers (bonuse)            a      1             00
Sugort Personnel Cost
Administrative                     66       1 
Accountant                         54       1           54
Secreary/clerk                     36       1           36
Unskilld/clerk                                          o 1  W
Maneament Costa
manoger/Ag                         120                 120
Equiment Onerating Costs
Dll 4 VD                          854       1           354
Motorbikes 125 CC                  78       2           150
Bicycle                             2      10           20
Office Oserating Costs
Lump sum
Equlpmnt maintenance/mlse-l laneous                     25
7'
Marketing Costa for Re.ayon (t
Handlino of repaynt In kind                100
Tot l Oseratino Csts                                  1.845
LO The truck Is for Input supply servlces.



77
Annex 2
Page 7 of 9
Cost Recovery for Extension Services
19.      Based on the Shaba extension concept, each farmer would contribute
100 kglha or the equivalent in cash for the extension service. For this
amount, NGOs should be able to cover all operating costs (personnel and
equipment) as well as the renewal of initial investment (truck, car,
motorbikes and bicycles). The cash inflow generated by the reimbursement
of extension services by farmers would be as follows:
Averate area per farmer(ha)      .4       .5       .7        1         1.5
No. of farmers (5,000)
Tonnage paid /A                200       250      350      500       750
Value (Z million) /b              1.68     2.10     2.94     4.2       6.3
la Ha x no of farmers x 100 kg/ha
lb   8.4 ZIkg
These figures show that the payment in kind of 100 kg/ha or the equivalent
in cash for extension service is sufficient to sustain the NGO's services
if average farmer tills .5 ha. It also enables the NGO to pay for training
of its personnel (accountant, extension service worker, etc.).
Input Transportation Costs
20.      Besides extension, a major service provided by NGOs is th*
delivery of inputs to farmers at village level. The tonnage of inputs
(fertilizer and seeds) varies according to the number of farmers and
acreage. By experience, a seven ton truck in Shaba can carry on the
average 750 t/year. The cost of transportation of inputs would be as
follows
Avo?afe Surtace (ha)               ,4    .5    .7         )    1.6
Tonnage to be transported        6ea     75   1,060   3,9OO  4,609
)r%:cksrequired                     1      1      1.4     8      4 to s
Opertln ceos  ('999) I/           709    700    980   2,100  2,609 to 3,605
P roanel (drivers, unskrilled labor)  80  80    112      240   400
Total co                          I80    7890  1,92   2,340  8,200 to 8,9G9
Average costa/distribuion/t    Z 1,200 Z 1,940 Z 1,040   Z 769 Z 80
/a Operating costs for a seven ton truck including depreciation.
21.      The average cost of distribution excluding losses and handling
would be between Z 0.8 and 1.2 Z/kg. If losses, handling and miscellaneous
are included, the cost of distribution is around 1.5 Zlkg or 10 of the
value of fertilizer. One of the conclusion is that in handling inputs,
NGOs should add at least 10 margin to cover costs. These costs does not
include financial costs or losses due to transportation and handling and
therefore a margin of 122 should be added to any transportation of inputs.



78 -
Annex 2
Page 8 of 9
Sustainability
22.      The above estimates on extension service and input distribution
costs show the sustainability of the NOO operations is possible. However
there are two'drawbackss (a) the initial investment problem; and (b)
attaining the 'sustainable size factor" or 'critical mass size".
23.      To deal with these problems, the project would introduce a
revolving fund designed to help NOOs start up their extension service.
This revolving fund would include personnel and operating costs as well as
transportation costs and would be managed by the Project Management Unit
(PMU). Each year, each NCO will present a work program to the PMU and upon
work program's approval, funds will be released to NGOs. The revolving
fund would help NGOs start their extension services operation for one yeart
which would allow sufficient tin, for the recovery of extension costs,
usually after the harvest. For the second year, the revolving fund would
finance the incremeiital build up of the extension service.
24.      To finance the initial investment costs (truck, equipment,
training, etc.), participating NOOs in the project would sign a 'service
contract' with GOZ through PMU, which would provide the first investment on
a grant basis. Subsequently, participating NGOs would be expected to reach
the 'sustainable critical mass size" and be on their own for additional
investment or for operating costs.
25.      One of the major weaknesses of NGOs is training for extension and
for management personnel. The project would help training NGOs personmel
(extension, management and logistics) through initial and refresher
courses. Also, technical assistancet which is crucial, would be provided
for organization, logistics and planning is crucial especially for new
NGOs.
Criteria for Participation of New NGOs
26.      In Shaba, there are many NGOs already well established in the
region for a number of years. Most of them are involved in providing
social services to the rural population. Decisions to accept new NG08 In
the project are based on qualitative and quantitative judgments. The main
criteria are listed as follow:
(a) Operating in the project area for a certain number of years.
(b) Having a minimum infrastructure (training facilities,...) and
field experience in carrying out support services to the
rural population especially the "target population".
(e) Leadership and potential for growth.
(d) Finaneial viability.
Neither of those criterias or the combination of those criterlas are
foolproof. A certain number of NGOs are described in sanex.



- 79 -
Annex 2
Page 9 of 9
Replicability
27.      Due to lack of past experience in relying on NGOs for extension
services, replicability should be viewed with care. In Zaire, suggestions
have been made to management of others IFAD/IDA projects to visit Shaba and
learn from this experience. Room for improvement and a.djustments to local
environment still exist. There is no major reaso.a why the principle of
invloving NGOs for extension service at full cost recovery in Zaire cannot
be replicable.
Future Directions
28.      Repayment in kind will present logistical problems as volume
increase and will hamper NGOs activities. Ideally, the marketing of maize
should be handled by private traders or by separate NGOs marketing
activities or by farmer's cooperatives. Handling repayment in kind would
take a fair amount of NGOs energy. Therefore, the project would afim at
finding ways and means for NGOs to recover their costs in cash. This
approach would be possible with the presence of the credit unions which
would provide credit ana cash to farmers.
29.      The CEPC's concept of "colis promotionnel" is interesting in the
early stage but as time goes by, this concept would need some adjustments..
Village warehouses would become warehousesigeneral stores where farmers
would be able to obtain inputs as needed (and as funds are available for
cash purchases).
30.      The project should enable NGOs to build up their support services
and farmer associations to build up their organisation through NGO support.
The coordinating committee and PMU would provide opportunities for
exchanges of experience, and provide a link between farmers, research,
extension, input supply and credit. Because farmers pay for services, they
would be in a position to insist on full accountability from NGOs staff.



- 80 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
ZAIRE
SOUTH SHABA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Agricultural Credit - Lendins Terms and Conditions
Item                From Government to            From Participating Banks (PBS)
Participating Banks (PBS)    to sub-borrowers
Purpose             Refinancing of viable         For trucks, agricultural
Investments in the Shaba     equipment and spare parts.
area.
Loan amount         Up to the total amount        Up to 10OZ of the total foreign
allocated for this purpose   exchange and 80X of the total
under the project credit     local costs.
component.
Currency denomina-  Currency denomination to be  Depending on preference of sub-
tion of loanb     the same as denomination of borrowers, part of the loan
loans to sub-borrowers.      extended by the participating
bank would not exceed the
foreign cost component of a
sub-project. The remainder
would be in Zaire.
Loan period         20 years, repayment in        Up to 36 months, repayment in
semi-annua. installments to semi-annual installments.
coincide with repayment
schedule agreed with sub-
borrowers.
Grace period        Six years.                    For principal: 15 months from
the date of withdrawal.
For interest: up to 6 months
from date of withdrawal.
Interest rate       Six percentage points per    30S per annum up to December
annum less than BCA's        31, 1987.  Thereafter rates to
lending rate for agri-       be determined annually by
cultural credit.             Government and BCA in
consultation with IDA, with the
objective of obtaining positive
real rates.



- 81 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
Item                From Government to            From Participating Banks (PBS)
Participating Banks (PBS)    to sub-borrowers
Collateral          To be determined in Sub-      Trucks and machinery, etec
sidiary Loan Agreement.      Members of groups to be liable
jointly and severally.
Approval            Up to the total amount        By BCA in accordance with
allocated in this project    criteria widch were agreed upon
to BCA and UCPD.             during negotiations.
Withdrawal of funds By establishment and          According to investment
replenishment of special     schedule.
account(s) ("revolving
Supervision         Through monitoring            By specialist staff at BCA with
reporting and in the         assistance of PMU and on a
context of auditing of       sample basis by IDA during
BCA and during IDA           review missions.
reviews.



_ 82 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 3
ZAIRE
SOUTH SHABA AGRICULTURAL DIVELOPMDNT PROJECT
Eeonomic Analsis
1.       The project benefits were based on estimated Incremental food crop
production by smallholdetr (Table 9). Increased maize, bean and groundnut
output was valued at Import parity prices adjusted for transportation cost
to Lubumbashi (Annex 4, Table 1). Cassava chips were valued at the
estimated farm gate price in Shaba (Z 8/per kg). The lnternal rate of
return was calculated and tested for its ensitivity to variatios In costs
and benefits. Ten scenarios have been studied and tested.
A. Costs
2.       Off farm costs such as cost of extension, training, feeder roads,
Project Management Unit, input supply, etc., wero included In full for the
duration of the project. During the post project period, extension
services, feeder roads, input supply and research were included at full
cost expenditure for tho ontire period of 20 years. Project Manaemnt
Unit and training costs were excluded for the post project period (1992-
2006). Credit cost was "celuded due to full cost recovery at standard
commercial rates.
3.       On farm Costs.  Incremental costs for Inputs were based on farm
budget analysis. Improved seeds, bean and groundnut seeds were valued at
import parity prices and cassava cuttings were valued at full cost.
Fertilizer and imported inputs were valued at Import parity prices from the
south, CIF Lubumbashi and based on Bank's projections. Family labor is
valued at market price in the project area.
B. Benefits
4.       Quantified Benefits.  The project would make a substantial
contribution to the GOZ's program to achieve food self suffliency.
Increased production would substitute for maise import in this maize
deficit region and would generate additional revenues for the rural
population of Shaba. The project by helping the Intensification of maisze
cultivation and diversification of crops through improved seeds and inputs,
would generate substantial increases in maize, bean, groundnut and cassava
production. This increased production would be available for home
consumption as well as for marketing. The marketed surplus would supply
the mining cities of Shaba and Kasai. It is expected that the project
would save US$41.4 million to the national economy during Its 20-year life
span. Benefits are based on farm budget analysis for Improved practices as
derived from FARMOD calculations.



q.83 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
5.       Unquantified Benefits.  Other benefits may be more important
though they are not taken into consideration in costs/benefits
calculations. The project would make a contribution to institutional
development by helping K00 agricultural services and by helping private
sector market development. It would have a positive impact on sectoral
policy and would make limited demands on GOZ's budget.  Furthermore Its
chance for sustainability is very bigh. Smallholders will get the benefit
of animal traction and thereby enlarge their crop surface and increase
their income. NG00, private marketers and farmers would have a better
access to credit by borrowing from BCA and CPDs for agricultural activities
and for marketing. BCA and CPDs will make their Investment lending
decision at the local level, therefore, speeding up disbursements.
Project's local managers, agronomists and credit officers would become
familiar with modern management methtds, financal planning, crop
development tochniques through on the jot training and various training
courses both in-country and overseas.
6.       Beneficiaries.  The project is expected to directly benefit 38,000
farmers and would have an important lipact on the rural population of
Shaba.
Internal Rate of Return
7.       ,n estimating the economic impact of the project on the economy of
Zaire, only the quantifiable benefits generated by smallholder maize,
groundnut, bean and cassava have been considered. The project's internal
rate of return computed over a lO year period and a standard conversion
factor of 1 was applied. The Opportunity Cost of Capital (OCC) has been
estimated at 13.52 and with these assumptions, Zaire's economy wvould
realise a net present value of benefit streams of Z 1,370 million (US$22.8
million) at 13.52. The project's overall ERR is estimated to be 561 (Table
12). The high IRn reflects the low level of investment (investment for
NGOs at full cost recovery basis).
8.       The sumary of economic variables is presented as follows:
Summary of Economic Analysis variables
ERR            NPV       Switching values (2) la
(X}         2 million    Cost        Benefit
Total project      55.8             1,373      58              37
/a Switching value is the change that reduce the NPV of the project to 0.
Sensitivity Analysis
9.       The project's internal rate of return was tested for its
sensitivity to changes in cost and benefit levels and phasing. Ten



- 84 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
1.     Benefits down 25X
2.     Benefits down 501
3.     Costs up 251
4.     Costs up 501
5.     Benefits lag 1 year
6.     Benefits lag 2 years
7.     Benefits lag 3 years
8.     Benefits lag 1 year and costs up 101
9.     Benefits lag 2 years and costs up 201
10.     Benefits lag 3 years and costs up 30%
10.      The analysis shows that for the three worse cases (8, 9 and 10)
the project's ERR would be 292, 172 and 92, respectively. The sensitivity
analysis shows that the project's ERR is quite strong. A one year delay in
recovering bonefits which may be caused by unfavorable weather or a delay
in project Implementation as well as slow start up, in addition to a 252
rise in costs, which may be caused by unforeseen rise in inputs prices or
in salaries, would have little effect on the ERR (291). With a two year
slippage in adoption rates or a 50% reduction in producer prices, the ERR
would still be robust (23X and 29%, respectively). A 502 rise in costs,
which may be caused by a rise in inputs prices (especially fertilizer)
combined with a two year delay in recovering benefits, would have a marked
effect on the project ERR (171). The results of the sensitivity analysis
show that the project would be more sensitive to an abrupt decrease of
benefits than a lag in benefits or an increase in costs.
11.      The benefit/cost switching values at OCC=30% illustrates how much
change the project can absorb and remain economically viable. The triangle
represents all economically viable outcomes and the rectangle represents
all economically adverse outcomes (Chart 5). The results from the
sensitivity analysis and the graphic show that it is very Important that
production can be sold and benefits obtained, and thatc the project is still
viable at an increase of cost of 581 or a shortfall of benefit of 37Z.



- 85 -
Annex 4
TableX
Economlc Prico for Ursa Ct)
198           19        1996
USO FOB South Africa                            176
Transportation SA/Lubumbashl                     69
HandlIng costs                                    2
Z  2461t
Z CIF Lubumbashi                             14,760
Treasportation Lubumbashi/Liknal                 80
Handling o cost 
Z 14,890
Economic Prico for NPK (14.6-22-14.6)
US$ FOS South Africa                            180
Transportation SA/Lubumbashi                     89
Handling costs                                    2
Z   26'5ia
2 CIF Lubumbashi                             16,060
Transportation Lubumbashi/Llkasl                 80
Handling coats 
2 15,198
Economic Price for Maize
1986          1990      1991
USS FOB USA (Feb. 86)                            97.16        120       120
Transportation USA/Durban                        46
Railro-d Durban/Lubumbashi                      102
244.16        120
Z CIF Lubumbashi /                           14,650        16,600
Handling                                        (50)
Railroad Lubumbashi/Likasi                      080)
Handling                                        (60)
Transportation Likasi/form gate (1211 km)    (2,640)
Handling                                        (4
Parity price at farm gate                  Z 1l,780
Economic Price for Groundnut (Vrginia)
1986                    Bean
US8 FOB USA                                    546                     745
Transportatlon/Durban                           45                      45
Railroad Durban/Lubumbashi                     102
698                     892
2 C.I.F. Lububashi                          41.680                  P .520
Z Parity/fargte,                            8,710                   50,
/    USSI a z 60



- 86 -
r"o  or 2
MUMN SAA AtICtLTURAL OEV!LPIMENT PROJECT
Se.led DoCUMent  and DO" Avolble i   PrOJec  FTIe
Document No.
A. SectorLSuk-SSctor Reorbs and Stwilot
1. African Development Sank DOuxtime Lige de Credit Agricola A Is SOPIK           S
2. Labor Constrainte In FPsiag In Zaire by P. Eklund                              $2
8. Department Agrultur - La Commerciellestlon dee Produits Vlvrelrs               SS
4. FAO - La Pol.tilqu des Prix des Engrol. en Afrique - Cos do Zaire              $4
S. Seed - Kinds, Production, Qualtty Control, Pricing, Varietal Maintaennce       SS
S. Project Related Reports and Studious
1. FAO/FIDA Identificatieon - DNv.loppemet Agricol de l'Ninterland Minier         Pt
du Haut Shaba
2. FAO/FIA Preparatlon - D4velop_ement Agrieole del NiteOrland Mnler du           P2
Haut Shaba
S. DADR Region do Shaba - Etude R4gional, pour Is Plaiftc ation RAglonale         P$
4. Appraleal Workin  Paper - ProfI e of NMCo In the Agricultural Sector           P4
S. Conferene Agrieal du Shaba 1905 - Inventalre des Projete                       PS
6. R pport oon ural sur Ia 86 Conference Agerlole Rdgional 1006                   Ps
7. Proet de 06v.l.ppemnt Agioole de l'Nintneland Mimicr du Shibs.                 PT
Rapport Mission Octobre 206 by E. Pap.:
6. Etude *ur I Co_erctaliseation do Vaie dens la R4gion Minl&re du Shaba 190      Po
by van. Pee et Oklkek Linambe
9. CICA. Note our la Farin de Male du Shaba ab de Is Zmbie                        PO
19. OfftIc  dbu Routes. Objectift de l'Off ico des Routes Shae en 1906             PI9
II. projet, Aricole Lubudi 1084                                                    Pll
12. PNE. CoOt de Is distributlon loal. des engrals 108                             P12
18. Socl4t6 Ferm  Mure Swenepoel                                                   P1i
14. DADR Inventalre des Forum  Agricoles at Parcinee Autour de Kbnshas
,t Lubuabshi - Vol 1.
15.               - Vol 2.                                                         Pis
C. Implmentation Reloted Documents:
1. CEPCs Manuel d'Organlsatlon                                                    CEPC 1
2. CEPC: Et.t. Flanclers CEPSE 1986                                               CEPC 2
S. CEPC: ConfIrence Agricole Rgional. 1086                                        CEPC 8
4. CEPC: ASSL Si an Exercice 1094                                                 CEPC 4
S. CEPCt Etatd  des PrIvision BudgItaires 1986                                    CEPC 5
6. CEPC: Arrangemnt perticullr entra Ia 8 lgique at '* Zaire                     CEPC 6
7. CEPCs Requte en Obtention de la Personalit6 Clvi                               CEPC 7
S. CEPC: Activit6. Socieles de la Dlvision du 0Ivoloppoment Communautalre         CEPC 8
0. Shaleo. Statute                                                                Sh I
1-. Shalaos Collaboration as Projat FPDA                                           $h 2
1i. Shaleos Mlecllaneous Documente                                                Sh a
12. CEATA: Statutes                                                                Co 
18. CEATAs Rapport-Budgeb-Progrom-Projots                                          C  2
14. UCPD: Avilt d'Agr4ation                                                        UCPD 1
16. UCPOD  Statutes                                                                UCPD 2
16. UCPDs Reglomnt IntIrleur                                                       UCPD a
17. UCPDS Proposal for Participation in Project                                    UCPD 4
16. UCPDs Accounts                                                                 UCPD 5
19. UCPD: Inetructlons to Credit Unlons                                            UCPD 6
20. 8DD Lubumbashi: Orgnitremmet Structuree                                        SDL 1
21. 800 Lububashi: Participation de a CDO au Projat                                5DL 2
22. 300 LubuAboshi: Participtio  au Projot                                         EDL S
28. MD0 Lubumbashi: Silon u S1 d6embr 1981                                         BDL 4
24. 900 Lubumbs hi: Ouide pour Is Prfsentation d'un ProJat                         3DL S
25. SDO Lubumbs hi: Le  iocese d4  Lubumbshi dens la Septnnent du Social           SOL O
26. MD0 Sekan'at Participation au Projoe                                           BDS 1
27. BCA: La BCA et 1. Proljt Shd Shake                                             BCA 1
2n. BCAs PNUO-Assltano e Prp  tPo & Is BCA                                         SCA 2
20. S?As Ordoena c  No. 82-162 Potnt Crtion                                        SC? S
80. SC?. Diclaretlon 4. Pdolitique GUnrale                                         SCA 4



- 87 -
Page 2 of 2
81. WA i  t"emenvlo de PM                                                       BCA 6
2. WSAt Condition 4d't       on                                                  SCA B
88. SCAt b ewor'b Asml 106/0                                                     SCA 7
84. KAt    P          1 1904                                                     WA 8
88. WSC         s   lea bet Financers                                            BA 9
#. SCA  Orgestr                                                                  SCA 18
87. W   AS  l    It6a   1                                                         CA 1t
88. KAs It_su de e'rit Age'beol (Isalet)                                         SCA 12
80. CAt S.l_|" de Flenmeso   Owes. (DM)                                          WCA 1l
40. SCs NoO. 8,e.i.  dlmfevsieol                                                 OCA 14
41. SCASo r$*r    Es Fi1essA ptour h. 06vOloppeont de to Pkehe                   BCA 15
42. WSAt Pe'vioiw S      tie  ILM                                                SCA 16
48. SAt Znteoel Delb_ts on Peroedres                                             SCA 17
44. SAt Fisesmmest - P          do    ol                                         SCA 1
45. SWAs Acuovele                                                                BCA 19
46.   MIP s Lip. de Crlt FPA                                                     SOFIDE 1
4J. M1ume  d'Estloe  do Prej)e                                                   Manuel
40. FARM  Tables                                                                 FARMOS
49. COSTA Tables                                                                 COSTAB



[ -88-                           Chart 1
...........
L~~~~~



8..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -
A0      ii                                                                                             . )|gl
JiB          I                                    {as Ih



- 90 -
Chart 3
ORGANIGRAMME C.E.P.C.
ASSEMBLEE GENERALE ]
CONSEIL
D'ADMNSTRATION
ADMINISTRATIVE ET                           W DELOPPEMENT             DIRECTION
FNANCIERE                                 COMMUNAUTAIRE            TE
SECRETARIAT           CONTROLEUR   1TRESO                            SEE DE                PROMOTION
ADMINISTATIF            GENERAL                   RAL                LUSUMASHI           AGRIOLE RURALE
GESTION DU             SERVICE                                      S  r                APPROVISIONNE-
PERSONNEL   |       COMMERCLAL                                        KA 1    JEAIREE
.  j    SIEGE DE  ]  LABORATOIRE
BUREAU TRA17EMENT   .  INFORMATIQUE           GESTION fONDS            KOLWEZI              PEDOLOGIQUE
PUBIQUES              DMA                  ETS ET PLAN           MED OSA
}  l                                |    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SERVICE
818UOTHEQUE            COMPTABEMTE |RMAnON
ANALY TIQUE
DELEGATIONl            COMPTABIUTE
SYNDICALE              GENERALE
POOL DACC
woren  ow'-30807



ZMAIN
PROJET OE EVIELOPPON AGMICOtE DE  WTMAM M*E DU SSW
OUGAMSAUOt DU PROJEI
AiWI*94LNt II IV
41           -I 4
AM As Abft-A)*J.LA4   LSM~OGMAMI@S    UOWES    vwAGAtASAIO    UtAILAMO    IRPM~NAIMA  CSa#4y"FFLM
~~~~~~~~I ACI.AC1  Z4Altg  com iES                                         a lic$10SU ItS    IBM t    SKtA   I   0tv                    Owl Xt t
--PNA4A X   I                      AG- COll            lA lQ l         E.l
ICE#SI           P~~~~~(AVIAMO               S      su alOCKI0
laASAI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.1*11 CR CASIIC. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~O" <OAWW *COKWPNICC
l.t , PtA.EtI UltGP JQS
$-AIIL#t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OON DE IBAV.-
&UAW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
U"Vl  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
QOOWIS I* WAVM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A



-92-                                             Chart 5
ZAIRE
SOUTH SHABA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Stream of Incremental Benefitt and Costa
S 1507121. t--        ----------+--- F           -     H    -
T                     I        I        I                _
R           I         I        I                          I
E           I         I        I                 I        I        I
Lf                            St7.8             -----------4---H  ----
I        I        I M      I        I        I
V           I         I        I#       I                 I        I
f.          I         I        1                 J l*II            I
L        I       U uI                         I
U 46824s.20 *---f-t--- -'UXXX--F-----                -              ^
E           I         I   . .XGOX       I        I        I        I
.4 ~     ixxxx ;   ,,       I        I        I 
1     t*1         1        1        1        1        1
-51191,40 +nU     I         1        I I                I        I
167.00  IM88.50   99.oo00  191.50  1993.00  14.50  1996,00
t = SUBTOTAL NCREIAL MEFITS
X  SUBTOTAL INCRENENTAL COSTS



J o'o CA                                 24t To Katnina                                                   5          6g                                                 To Mft-S wa                   ToPWoto/I MtlDba
J,      / 'ni FICAoN noULC  |>o ti                                                                                                    UPEMB tA                                    /-\ 
)caMRoooo                                                                               ~~~~~~~         ~~~~~~~~~ukami  ATO1A 
0   X                                            V          X         tt            t         %, 0 ~~~~~PARK -.i ,                                                              t\          f  
(     ZAIRE           AAO
A -
CT
F    RAOR*O    ~   100 
14    A   1  -    ||                                   X                            0             < ,!                                     (        )m )a /Senia.4                                                                                  10
/1'   *         Kibaomasumba                                a       ubno                                                                  aeg
/                           aketIOkl-SN~~~~~hiO  L kotola *Bikondoma
To             ,  .<w.S,<A'P                                     W.'Sakalesi               ana "e                            ke
olO                                                      (                   Mpala    Koweshia  ta                        n                                 Kil ea
_.   41>   /                                   (         9             <\               /t 9    (   g                                  0            /~~~~~~~~~~~Ka  ov                           LJ,7,t,
M'tohataha  *    Kiala            ,-ata  * o//Kiebe
W G( i-7\ anmbo                      Minga
j  }  I   /   ~    ( o'         >                         t                 KaIon         90                                        ?jt
uiswishi        ,                          Z   A      M      B      I  A
ZAIRE                                                         '\                 K kIttTt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ba  Li~H
Z  A  I R  E                                                                                                                            Kni (.
SOUTH SHABA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT '-<                                                                                                                           >  anbikilasosh/
PROJErDE DEVELOPPEMENTAGRICOLEDEL'HINTERLAND oWJIERSLID SaABusoseao
120                                  RURAL ROAD COMPONENT                                                                                                                                                                                                               120M
COMPOSANTE ROUTESRURALES                                                                         4 A M  B    A
Malum-         alulu                      h  QNaale
Flural oads to be rRhhbilitRted and nlortWinod under theproject                                                                              l                                                                                        QanaIe
Rolatesd,,doserge agr cioole *nonageor etento"nr  tirtmdo pmptf
*       Pnioity roads                             -     -    Interational Boundaria\
Rores pnoritairo                                     FrortIerts inferradonois
__________     National roads                                                                                                                                                                                 t,0  Sakania       '
Rwtes nationoef                                                                                                                                       ,ERdRqRO6RRRG0RROG/r R-
Pr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lf "m,,v el r,IFoeds,V \*__-  _  
______         Prrmotyrorr9ioonI road                                                                                                                               Co,rrOtatc 775 tAR de *RIO,.i
Routo g,orioo1iprioritlre                                                                               o                50              100
KlLtiMETEit,RSrSedha                                                                       j 
_ouScoars re,ionalo roadWr
RalRoards
Voies Fer_o
240                                                                     260                                                                     280             T   uaa*"d                                  '3
AUGUST 1980



/X  K NG !"  RE  - /   .                   240                                        .L                                                :                    *'2. -
OUSBA A GRICUL              ATIONAL    -y
~~r,zc-Y,         ---- ~1..                                                                                       ukm
12                                                                                                     Z    4                 1-~~~'t                                /     LUBUMBASHI                .!,,L BUMBASH
*  ~~~~~~~~~~.  trOt                                                                                                                                              .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~" 
/  F    cuonrn ~~~~    '   0                                     .,-'~~~0  'D
Zr/es Adnninistnatives                                     W        t'rOrM sIDLW Zoe                                                                                                                     Kas007;
Kam~~~~~~~~~~~~Ksna
Arees ofOpenatin ot AgrculLump ndetn   Runa Credit\q Un-ons
Aires d7nterventirsn des Orgtnisations ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     KaSmtno
P,~~~~~~~~~ M
Z AI R E
SOUTH SHABA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECMumenaMO
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENITAGRICOLE DE L'HINTrERLAND MINIER SUD SHABAO 
120                                                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LUBUMBASHI
12o                                                                                        A         M ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\                  t120-
P,ruIeCt Aree                                                      Luludi Projet                                                                                          
-   Aim do Projt                                           C Z          ro jet Lubudi                                                                                                              SADD I
Administratin  Zones                                                XtMi. Agrcol1orol Areas                                                                                                    SAKANIA B
Zones AdrOiniotretipeo                            P~~~~~~~~aipaI  Zasres Agarioles                                                                                                                             .
Zo79   Anes Admiitteice sdndnOgootoaA~
Areas of Oporatios of Agricultural                                  Existing Rural Credit Unionsoub                                                                                                                                             
support Ornaiotion                                        A         Caioae Popofeires Rurafen xstn/tkarnbo
dAppui aux Agriculteurn                                    *        loral Credit Unions under consideration                                                                                                '
CEPC Zone                                                          Ca/oes Pppularie, Rurales/en clae                                                                                                         )
zone CEpc                                                           Northern Lrnimtf Acne Senvraly Affetnd                                                                                                  \tVakania
CEPC Comrunity Cavelope  Cntens                        --               theCasavamealyb.\
0        Centnre de Oeloppament Comunauctaie CPC                             Ptag Nerd dco aezone d eum an een   ffrccte
per Id eec/sen/ge do man/cso                                                                       s--
International Bound5rins                                                                             100                   __Afin WU
'   Franverfstntercat,onale,                                                   ICILOMETERSo_.!
240                                                                        260                                                                        280                                                                        301
IAUGUST iBtg



