OFFICIAL
CREDIT NUMBER 1790 ZR
Development Credit Agreement
(South Shaba Agricultural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                 , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1790 ZR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated              --4--     CC', 1987, between
the REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower has also applied to the International
Fund for Agricutural Development (hereinafter called the Fund)
for a loan (hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount
equivalent to six million fifty thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 6,050,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the
Fund Loan Agreement) between the Borrower and the Fund;
(C) the Fund intends to appoint the Association as
Cooperating Institution to administer the Fund Loan, and the
Association is prepared to accept such appointment; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral );mt of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Department" means the Borrower's ministry responsible
for agriculture;


﻿- 2 -
(b) "Froject Unit" means the unit to be maintained within
the Department pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(c) "Special Account" means the account to be maintained
pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(d) "Project Area" means that part of Southwestern Shaba
comprising the urban sub-regions of Lubumbashi, Kolwezi and
Likasi, and the administrative zones of Sakania, Kipushi,
Kambove, Lubudi and Mutshasha;
(e) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement entered
into between the Borrower and the Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB)
pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time; and
(f)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration, advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated March 10, 1987 and April
15, 1987 between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to three million five hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 3,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a Special Account in a bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to Itself the amount required to repay the
prLncLpal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the CredLt Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
servLce charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annun on L'ie principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each
year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account in semiannual
installments payable on each February 15 and August 15,
commencing August 15, 1997, and ending Feburary 15, 2037. Each
installment  to   and  including   the  installment   payable  on
February 15, 2007, shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%)


﻿-4-
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth io Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
the Department with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate financial, economic, administrative,
environmental, agricultural and technical practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without LbmLtation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall maintain within the Department a Project Unit
located in Lubumbashi, headed by a qualified and experienced
Project Administrator acc -able to the Association, and com-
prising such staff and working under such terms of reference as
shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(d) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
allocated to and withdrawn under Category 2 in the table set
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to the
Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB) under a Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment between the Borrower and ACB containing terms and condi-
tions which shall have been approved by the Association,
including: (i) a term of twenty years including six years' grace;
(ii) variable interest rates adjusted annually on July 1 to six
percentage points below the rate charged by ACB on new loans as
of the previous January 1; (iii) the exchange risk borne by the
Borrower; and (iv) the requirement that ACB relend such proceeds
only to borrowers with a majority of their activities located


﻿-5-
in the Project Area and only for use in the Project Area, at
a rate of interest of thirty percent (30%) per annum until
December 31, 1987, and thereafter at such rates as shall be
determined periodically by ACB and the Borrower, following
exchanges of views with the Association, with the objective of
obtaining positive rates in real terms.
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and those of the Association, and to
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The selection of training programs and of
candidaLes for training for the staff of the Project Unit and for
personnel carrying out the Project shall be subject to the prior
approval of the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) Arrangements for the granting and adminis-
tration of credits under Part D of the Project shall be subject
to the prior approval of the Association.
(b)   The procurement of goods and services to be financed
under this Agreement shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) In order to ensure coordination in the
planning and implementation of development activities in the
Project Area, the Borrower shall maintain a Consultative
Committee composed of representatives of the organizations and
agencies participating in such activities and chaired, unless the
Association otherwise agrees, by the Regional President of the
Popular Movement for the Revolution and Governor of the Region;
such Committee shall meet at least once every three months, and
the Borrower shall furnish promptly to the Association copies of
the minutes of each such meeting.
(b)  The composition and terms of reference of the Consul-
tative Committee shall be as set forth in Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.05. In the carrying out of the extension work
included in Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall promote the


﻿-6-
participation of women and facilitece their access to the credits
to be made available under the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause the Project Unit to
prepare annual work plans for each year according to the time
schedule set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; such plans
shall be furnished to the Association in draft form prior to
July 15 and in final form for approval by the end of October in
each year, and shall include: (i) an evaluation of the previous
year's performance and a discussion of how the new program builds
on that experience; (ii) a statement of specific quantified
objectives to be pursued during the year and a description of the
activities to be undertaken in order to achieve those objectives;
(iii) detailed investment and operating budgets by component,
showing the human, financial, and physical resources required to
carry out the proposed annual program; (iv) staffing and training
plans; (v) a financing plan which indicates the source of funds
for items in the investment and operating budgets; and (vi) a
procurement plan for purchases and works scheduled 4n the annual
work program, including type of bidding and timetables.
Section 3.07. Amonag the information to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to Section 9.06 of the General Conditions,
the Borrower shall cause the Project Unit to furnish to the
Association: (i) by March 31 and September 30, semiannual
progress reports on the carrying out of the Project; and (ii) by
September 30, 1990, in preparation for a mid-term reiiew of the
progress of the Project, a report evaluating the first two years'
results as compared to the appraised estimates and including the
opinion of the Project Unit as to the appropriate orientation of
the Project for the remaining period of implementation.
Section 3.08. Non-governmental organizations a d farmers'
associations to be enlisted to assist in carrying out Part B of
the Project shall be selected by the Project Unit with the advice
of the Consultative Committee, subject, however, to acceptance by
the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and


﻿-7-
expenditures in respect of the Project of the Agricultural Credit
Bank and the Federation of Credit Unions for Development and the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that:
(i) the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section, including those for the
Special Account, be audited for each fiscal year
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) there be furnished to the Association, as soon
as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, certi-
fied copies of the reports of such audits by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) there shall be furnished to the Aseociation such
other   information   concerning   said   records,
accounts and the audits thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account or payments out of the Special Account
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower
shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain or cause to be retained, until at least one
year after the completion of the audits for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account or payment out of the Special
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and


﻿-8-
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audits referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the reports of s'"ch
audits contain separate opinions by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure sub-
mitted during the period under audit, together
with the procedures and internal controls in-
volved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall ensure the continued
application of its policy of free choice of crops in the Project
Area, as well as the continued free movement of agricultural
commodities between regions, and free market pricing; the
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association from time to
time on the condition of the maize market and on the Borrower,'s
policies related thereto.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) The Fund Loan Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by July 1, 1988, or such later date as the Association
may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this para-
graph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
faction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall  have  been  suspended, cancelled   or


﻿-9-
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) .of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
faction of the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obliga-
tions under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in subparagraph (b) (i) (B) of Sec-
t4on 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(b) the Agricultural Credit Bank shall have failed to carry
out any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a)  the Project Unit referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of
this Agreement has been established;
(b)  contracts satisfactory to the Association have been
signed between the Borrower, and the Center for the Execution of


﻿- 10 -
Community Programs and Shalamo, defining their respective roles
in carrying out Part B of the Project;
(c) the advisor to the Project Unit for finance and
administration has been selected;
(d) the Agricultural Credit Bank has established a branch
in Shaba with adequate management, staff and facilities;
(e) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and
the Agricultural Credit Bank has been signed;
(f) a contract satisfactory to the Association has been
signed between the Borrower and the Office des Routes for the
carrying out of Part E of the Project; and
(g) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Fund Loan Agreement have been fulfilled.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the legal opinion to be furnished
to the Association by the Borrower, namely, that the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the
Borrower and by the Agricultural Credit Bank, and is legally
binding upon such parties in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Sec-
tion 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Arti-
cles IV and V of this Agreement and the provisions of Sec-
tion 6.02 of this Agreement shall cease on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date
twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Commissioner of State of the Borrower
responsible for finance is designated as representative of


﻿- 11 -
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
D6partement des Finances
Botte Postale No. 12997
Kinshasa 1
Republic of Zaire
Cable address:                       Telex:
DENFIN                             21161 KIN GOMBE
Kinshasa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI)
89650 (WUT) or
197677 (TRT)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
By                                C     ta%
Authized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By              IS/      eI1*'         1t     e
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) (a) Building con-          30,000           100%
struction and
repairs
(b) Road rehabili-       500,000           100% of foreign
tation and                            expenditures and
maintenance                           50% of local
expenditures
(2) Credits by ACB           1,390,000          100% of amounts
disbursed by ACB
on sub-loans
(3) Vehicles and              580,000           100%
equipment
(4) Consultants' ser-         100,000           100%
vices; research
and studies; train-
ing, including radio-
broadcast; audits
(5) (a) Operating costs       160,000           100%
of Project Unit
(b) Operating costs      160,000           100%
of NGO's


﻿-14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(6) Repayment of              120,000           Amount due
Project Prepara-                           under Sec-
tion Advance                               tion 2.02 (c)
of this
Agreement
(7) Unallocated               460p000
TOTAL             3,500,000
2.   To the extent that the amount allocated to Category (6)
above is in excess of the amount due, the balance will be
reallocated to Category (7).
3.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means the expenditures
in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower
for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b) any expenditure not included in an annual work program
approved by the Association pursuant to Section 3.06 of this
Agreement; or
(c) expenditures for extension services rendered by any
non-governmental organization or farmers' association other than
the Center for the Execution of Community Programs and Shalamo,
except pursuant to contracts between such organizations and the
Project Unit approved by the Association.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (1) contribute to the
increase in food-crops production at least to overcome regional
deficits, especially in corn; (2) reestablish the production of
cassava and encourage diversification of crops (beans, soy beans
and others); and (3) increase the income level and standard of
living of small-scale farmers while reducing the workload of
women through appropriate technology. To reach these goals, the
Project includes the improvement and expansion of the supply of
inputs and of extension services as well as the provision of
agricultural  credits  to  small   farmers'  associations, other
producers and economic enterprises in the agricultural sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Carrying out a program of production and sales of improved
seeds, and sales of inputs and labor-saving equipment, and the
construction of village storage facilities.
Part B:
The reinforcement and expansion of agricultural extension
services by the Borrower or under contracts with non-governmental
organizations (NGO's) with a view to improving and diversifying
agricultural production; training of producers, small-scale
farmers' associations and NGO staff; the promotion of animal
traction and tree planting; strengthening of local smallholder
associations with a view to their taking over their own agri-
cultural development, particularly in the fields of distribution
of inputs, crops processing and marketing.
Part C:
Carrying out adaptive research to improve and increase
agricultural production, especially of maize and cassava through
the introduction of improved seeds and cuttings, and biological
pest control; and to improve cropping systems and encourage the
use of animal traction.


﻿- 16 -
Part D:
Strengthening the institutional capabilities of the Agri-
cultural Credit Bank and the Federation of Credit Unions for
Development, and provision by these institutions of credits to:
(1) smallholder and associations of smallholders for the purchase
of draft animals and equipment for animal traction and minor
agricultural and processing equipment; and (2) other agricultural
producers, non-governmental organizations and economic enter-
prises active in the agricultural sector, for the purchase of
equipment and trucks for marketing.
Part E:
Rehabilitation and maintenance of about 815 km of rural
roads.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals or in
such minimum amounts as the Association shall specify. On the
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amounts
as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits


﻿- 18 -
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account
under the respective eligible Categoriea, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior
to or at the time of any request for replenishment or upon any
request of the Association, such documents and other evidence
as the Association shall reasonably request, showing that such
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should b-, made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pu-suant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that
all amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of
the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2


﻿- 19 -
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the "ssociation such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.   Organization and Administration
1.   The Borrower will carry out the administrative supervision
of the implementation of the Project through the Directorate of
General Administration of Projects (DAGP) of the Department.
Direct responsibility for overall project management, coordi-
nation, monitoring and evaluation, and financial control shall
rest with a Project Unit headed by a Project Administrator and
established at Lubumbashi. The unit will comprise three sub-
units;   finance/administration,   technical,   and   monitoring/
evaluation.
2.   Responsibility for the implementation of project components
will be attributed under contractual arrangements with parti-
cipating agencies as follows: (a) the Center for Execution of
Community Programs (qEPC), Shalamo, and other Non-Governmental
Organizations (NGO's) and farmers' association acceptahle to the
Association not yet committed, for input supply and extension;
(b) the National Seeds Bureau (BUNASEM) under contract with
farmers for seeds production; (c) the Program for Applied
Agricultural Research and Extension (RAV) for research; (d) the
Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB) and the Federation of Credit
Unions for Development (UCPD) for credit; and (e) Office des
Routes for road rehabilitation and maintenance.
3.   The Project Unit will be directly responsible for the bulk
procurement of inputs, training, overall project management,
coordination, monitoring and evaluation, and financial control.
B.   Annual Work Programs and Budgets
1.   Annual work programs and budgets will be prepared by each
participating organization, then synthesized and prioritized by
the Project Administrator and presented to the Association for
approval.
2.   Preparation of the annual work program will follow the
Government's budget cycle and respect the following schedule:
(i) the first draft work program will be prepared by each parti-
cipating agency during June and be submitted to the Project
Unit; (ii) a consolidated draft will be transmitted to the


﻿- 21 -
Directorate of Project Administration in the Department and to
the Association at the beginning of July for preliminary review
and comments then returned to the Project Unit for putting into
final form; and (iii) the revised annual program will be submit-
ted by the Project Unit to such Directorate and the Association
at the beginning of October to permit the concerned departments
of the Borrower to incorporate in their budgets the stated re-
quirements for the Project prior to the final review and consid-
eration for approval by the Borrower.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 5
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods to be financed
under Parts B, C and E of the Project shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   For the purpose of inviting bids and offers, similar or
related items will be grouped in the largest practical lots to
attract advantageous prices.
Part B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods estimated after grouping to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or less, as well as all contracts for road
maintenance and rehabilitation, may be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding (adjudications publiques) advertised locally
in accordance with the Borrower's procedures.
2.   Contracts for goods which cannot be grouped into lots of
more than $25,000 equivalent may be negotiated with the lowest
priced of at least three suppliers.
Part C.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to all contracts for the purchase of
trucks estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, and
for roads maintenance or rehabilitation, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to subparagraph (d) of said


﻿- 23 -
paragraph 2 shall be furnished to the Association prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect
of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragaph (a), the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract, together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a)
and (b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account or
payments out of the Special Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in accordance with
Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of fifteen percent (15%) is hereby specified for
purposes of paragrapy 4 of Appenxis 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ a financial management consultant, a
training specialist and other consultants, whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such persons shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 6
Consultative Committee
Overall guidance to the Project Administrator will be
provided by a Consultative Committee.
The Committee will be composed of representatives of each
of the participating agencies referred to in Schedule 4 and,
unless the Association otherwise agrees, chaired by the Regional
President of the Popular Movement for the Revolution, Governor of
the Region; the Regional Inspector for Agriculture will act as
Vice Chairman (and preside in the absence of the Chairman), and
the secretariat will be provided by the Project Unit.
The terms of reference of the Committee are to:
(a) help plan, coordinate and monitor developmental
activities in the Project Area;
(b) review the annual work program and budget prepared
by the Project Unit in collaboration with each
participating agency;
(c) review options and problems, and set priorities
for actions to be taken by the Project Unit.
The Committee will hold quarterly meetings to review projecL
implementation progress and Issues relating to implementation.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


