Docwnent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
kA/. 39g5o- F1-
Report No. 8592-PNG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PUBLIC SECTOR TRAINING PROJECT
DECEMBER 5, 1990
Country Department V
Asia Regional Office
This document bas a restricted distribulion and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Papua New Guinea Kina (K)
US$1.00 = KO.967
(November 1990)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
January - December
ABBREVIATIONS
Adcol    -    Administrative College
CHE      -    Commission for Higher Education
CIDA     -    Canadian International Development Agency
DFP      -    Department of Finance and Plai.iing
DLE      -    Department of Labor and Employiient
DoW      -    Department of Works
DPM      -    Department of Personnel Management
ETD      -    Employment and Training Division
FAS      -    First Assistant Secretary
ICB      -    International Competitive Bidding
IT       -    Information Technology
LCB      -    Local Competitive Bidding
MDTRD    -    Manpower Development, Training and Resource
Division
NTP      -    National Training Policy
PETT     -    Pre-employment Technical Training
PCC      -    Project Coordinating Committee
PCR      -    Project Completion Report
PIP      -    Public Investment Program
PPAR     -    Project Performance Audit Report
PNG      -    Papua New Guinea
RMS      -    Resource Management System
RTC      -    Regional Training Center
SDU      -    Staff Development Unit
SOE      -    Statements of Expenditure
TTU      -    Transitional Training Unit
TLP      -    Training and Localization Plan
UNDP     -    United Nations Development Program
UPNG     -    University of Papua New Guinea
WPS      -    Work Permit Scheme



FOR OFICAL USE ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PUBLIC SECTOR TRAINING PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SIMMARY ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  iii
I.  INSTITUTIONAL REFORM IN PAPUA NEW GUINEA . . . . . . . . . .1
A. Introduction  .1...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .
B. Reform Program  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  2
I.   ISSUES AND POLICIES IN THE TRAINING SECTOR . . . . . . . . .        6
A. Introduction .... . . . . . ..                                  6
B. Issues  ....  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  6
C. Policies  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  9
D. Bank's Experience in Education, Training and
Institutional Develcpment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      12
III. THE PROJECT .15
A. Origin of the Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       15
B. Project Rationale, Objectives and Scope . . . . . . . . .      15
C. Project Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        16
IV.   PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION  . . . . . . . .      25
A.  Costs   .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  25
B. Financing ....  .  .  .  .  .  .    .......  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  27
C. Project Management and Implementation . . . . . . . . . .      28
D. Environmental Impact .33
E. Impact or Women .33
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS    ..33
A. Benefits .33
B. Risks  ..33
This report is based on the findings of a preappraisal mission which visited
Papua New Guinea (PNG) during October 1989 and an appraisal mission consisting
of Messrs. W.E. Rees (task manager), M. Bray and M. Turner (consultants), and
Ms. Mieko Masuda (project cost analyst) which visited PNG during February-
March 1990. Peer reviewers were Mr. T. Schmidt (institutional issues) and
Ms. R. Hees (educational issues).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . .      34
TABLES IN TEXT
4.1   Summary of Project Costs by Component . . . . . . . . . .      25
4.2   Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure . . .      26
4.3   Financing Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      27
4.4   Project Expenditure by Procurement Category . . . . . . .      31
ANNEXES
1.  Enrollments and Staffing in Training Institutions
2. Planning and Coordination of Training
3. Organization Chart - Department of Personnel Management
4.  Summary of Technical Assistance and Fellowships
5. Organization Chart - Department of Labor and Employment
6. Organization Chart - Administrative College
7.  Summary Account by Project Component
8. Summary Account by Year
9. Implementation Schedule
10. Organization Chart - Project Management and Coordination
11 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
12. Selected Documents Available in the Project File
MAP: IBRD No. 22739



- iii -
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PUBL-C SECTOR TRAINING PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower:         Independent State of Papua New Guinea
Amount:           US$20.8 million equivalent
Terms:            Repayable in 20 years including 5 years of grace at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate
Project           The basic objectives of the project are to strengthen in-
Description:       service training in the public and private sectors and
increase the supply of specialized high-level persannel to
staff the Government's policy and planning agencies and meet
personnel shortages in te-hnical fields. Specific_lly the
project would: (a) support the implementation of the
National Training Policy (NTP) through strengthening the
capacity of the Department of Personnel Management (DPM) to
promote, coordinate, monitor and evaluate training in the
public sector and strengthen the capacity of the Department
of Labor and Employment (DLE) to play a similar role in the
private sector; (b) upgrade and reorient the Administrative
College (Adcol) towards its new role as defined under the
NTP namely to focus on short, intensive skill development
courses and executive development programs and place greater
emphasis on research, curriculum development and the
training of trainers; and (c) finance an overseas fellowship
program for training in policy and planning fields and in
specific technical fields which is not presently available
in PNG. The project would finance civil works, equipment,
teaching and consumable materials, fellowships and experts.
Benefits and      The project would assist in improving the quality of in-
Ricks:             service training in the public sector and improve its
relevance to clients' needs. The project would also
increase the supply of key high-level policy, planning and
technical personnel thus strengthening public sector
agencies. It would lead to more effective training in the
private sector. The major risk concerns the ability of the
relatively inexperienced project institutions to implement
the project efficiently. The risk will be reduced through
the establishment of a high-level Project Coordinating
Committee and the appointment of an experienced project
manager.



-iv-
Proiect Costs:                                  Local    Foreian   Total
-----US$ million---
Implementation of the National Training
Policy                                            1.0       4.0       5.0
Strengthening of the Administrative
College                                           2.9       5.2       8.1
Overseas Fellowship Program                      0.3        5.8       6.1
Baseline Cost                               4.2       15.0     19.2
Contingencies
Physical                                    0.3        1.0      1.3
Price Increase                              0.7        1.9      2.6
Subtotal                                    1.0        2.9      3.9
Total Project Cost /a                       5.2       17.9     23.1
/a Project expenditures are exempt from duties and taxes.
Financing Plan                                  Local    Foreign   Total
------USS million------
Government                                       2.3        -         2.3
IBRD                                             2.9       17.9      20.8
Total                                       5.2       17.9     23.1
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                    1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998
------------- US$ million ------------__
Annual                      1.6   2.8   4.0   4.0   3.8   3.0   1.6
Cumulative                  1.6   4.4   8.4  12.4  16.2  19.2  20.8
Economic Rate of
Return:                      Not applicable
MAP: IBRD No. 22739



- 1 -
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PUBLIC SECTOR TRAINING PROJECT
I. INSTITUTIONAL REFORM IN PAPUA NEW GUINEA
A. Introduction
1.1       Papua New Guinea's overall economic performance improved during the
latter half of the 1980s. The decline in public investment was halted and
some recovery was made in the growth of per capiLa income. Sound
macroeconomic management was achieved and this was reflected in solid
improvements in the economy's fiscal, balance *. payments, external debt and
inflation indicators. However, growth was based mainly on increased activity
in the mining sector and less progress was made in the structural adjustment
and institutional development needed to promote growth in the non-mining
sector.  The absence of broad-based growth has increased regional in"ome
disparities and this trend has been exacerbated by the fall in agricultural
commodity prices. The situation has deteriorated further following the
closure of the Bougainville copper and gold mine in May 1989. The mine
contributed about 35 percent of export earnings. 15 percent of government
revenues and 8 percent of GDP in recent years and its closure has clearly
had a major economic and financial impact. The Government has responded
vigorously with stabilization measures which include reductions in government
spending and public external commercial borrowing, slower growth in domestic
credit and higher interest rates, and wage moderation. However, the
importance of the stabilization measures should not detract from the longer-
term need for higher levels of investment, growth and income generation in the
non-mining sector.
1.2       In pursuit of accelerated and more broad-based development, two
basic constraints must be addressed -- the country's relatively weak institu-
tional capacity and the low level of human resource development. In general,
PNG lacks strong institutional capabilities in the form of organizational
structures, administrative policies and procedures and management systems to
plan, design, implement and sustain effective development programs. Funda-
mental to this problem is the weak human resource base. In the post-
independence period, the education and training system 1/ has in general
1/   The school system in PNG comprises a six-year primary cycle (grades 1-6),
followed by a lower secondary cycle of four years (grades 7-10) and two
years of upper secondary education (grades 11-12). In 1988 enrollments
at these levels were 395,000; 51,300; and 1,890 respectively. Provincial
governments are responsible for the provision of primary and lower
secondary education and the national government is responsible for
curriculum development, teacher training and all aspects of upper
secondary education. Higher education and training (post-grade 10) is
carried out in 55 institutions with a total full-time equivalent enroll-
ment of 9,800 (para. 2.1).



- 2 -
been quite well-financed but even so has fallen short of delivering the
skilled and educated personnel necessary to manage a rapidly changing economy.
The result is seen in the modern-sector workforce in which little more than
half the workers have completed primary or some lower secondary education and
miniscule numbers have completed upper seconda-y or higher education.
Consequently, there is still heavy (although declining) reliance on
expatriates to fill technical, professional and managerial positions.
B. Reform Program
1.3       Institutional weaknesses in PNG's administrative system have been
reviewed regularly since independence and included a major contribution by the
Bank.2/ However it was not until late 1983 that a concerted reform effort
began to address the institutional deficiencies which by then were well-
documented. The more important deficiencies were: insufficient clarity and
lack of prioritization in defining national development strategies;
insufficient linkage between central agencies which formulated projects and
the provincial authorities responsible for implementing them; a budgetary
process which was effective in controlling expenditure but which paid
inadequate attention to ensuring that products and services were delivered
efficiently; a highly centralized persotsnel system which lacked the
flexibility and incentives to allow sectoral and provincial departments to
manage scarce manpower resources efficiently; and a planning and budgetary
system which gave little guidance to predicting future human resource needs
and developing the education and training programs to meet them.
1.4       The reform program, currently under implementation, is a comprehen-
sive effort to address a broad range of issues which would lead ultimately to
strengthening the entire administrative system.3/ A central element of the
program is the Resource Management System (RMS) which aims to link the objec-
tives of development to the programs and projects necessary to achieve them.
The RMS calls for the definition of national and provincial objectives through
a consultative process involving political and community groups and government
departments. Each objective is allocated to a 'lead agency' which develops a
program to meet the objective in conjunction with other relevant agencies.
Actual investments are defined in a series of projects relevant to each
objective. The aim of the RMS is to provide clear and meaningful performance
2/   Public Sector Management in Papua New Guinea.  An Administrative Overvi-
ew, World Bank Report, No. 4396-PNG, June 1983.
3/   For a detailed discussion of the program, see Papua New Guinea,  Policies
and Prospects for Sustained and Broad-Based Growth, World Bank Report,
No. 7121-PNG, Chap. VI., April 1988.



- 3 -
indicators for each program/project and thereby permit an assessment to be
made of the degree to which outcomes have been achieved in relation to inputs
utilized.4/
1.5       Major projects are combined in the Public Investment Program (PIP)
which is the primary means by which the Government implements its development
strategy. It contains a detailed and comprehensive set of projects covering a
rolling five-year period and these are prioritized to reflect overall develop-
ment priorities as defined by the RMS.  New project cycle procedures have been
introduced which aim at improving interdepartmental and central-provincial
coordination in project planning while at the same time establishing a
consistent process for project preparation, implementation and monitoring.
This process will be reinforced by new procurement procedures, currently being
implemented, which aim to reduce time lags for tendering and procurement by
half. A proposed Technical Assistance Management Facility will direct short-
term technical assistance and training to improving the preparation and
processing of PIP projects. To complement these improvements in investment
planning and consistent with the RMS's emphasis on measuring outputs, the
Government is in the process of introducing a new budgeting system--program
budgeting--to shift the focus of expenditures from identify ing and
controlling inputs to specifying the outputs of goods and services to be
produced by specific organizational units. Program budgeting will lead to a
clearer statement of institutional objectives and allocate resources more
effectively to achieve them.
1.6       The impact of improved planning mechanisms and administrasive
processes will be greatly reduced unless appropriate attention is given to
ensuring that competent personnel are available to carry through the improve-
ments. Thus the Government has also turned its attention to refoLms in
personnel and training p-actices in recognition that human resource issues lie
at the heart of the admi.aistrative reform program. At the center of personnel
reforms is the Departmer.t of Personnel Management (DPM) which has replaced the
colonial era regulatory-style Public Service Commission. In recognition of
the great diversity of activities undertaken by public service departments and
the need for flexibility in meeting their staffing needs, the Government has
opted for the gradual decentralization of personnel functions. The role of
the DPM, when fully operational, will therefore focus mainly on policy
development, technical support to departments and monitoring their performance
in relation to delegated personnel functions. Decentralization has started
with the delegation of authority to departments for the recruitment of staff
below the senior management level. The decentralization process will proceed
at a pace consistent with the capacity of departments to perform the delegated
functions.
4/   The RMS is being implemented by 10 provincial governments and implementa-
tion is under consideration in the remainder. The introduction of RMS in
the central government departments is currently under review with a view
to simplifying its structure so that it can be implemented more
effectively in the face of substantial public service personnel reduc-
tions.



- 4 -
1.7       The Government has long recognized the value of in-service training
in improving the productivity and effectiveness of personnel. It has
recognized also that while large investments have been made in training
programs, there is much scope for improving their relevance to job performance
and the efficiency with which training is delivered. In response to these
problems, the National Training Policy (NTP) has been approved and is
currently being implemented. This calls for the strengthening of the Depart-
ment of Personnel Management to promote, coordinate. monitor and evaluate in-
service training in the public sector and strengthening of the Department of
Labor and Employment (DLE) to perform similar functions for training in the
public sector. The NTP would also establish a National Training Council (NTC)
which would be responsible for advising the Government on training policies,
priorities and resource requirements. This advice would be based on analyses
by DPM and DLE of the Three-Year Training Plans which are required to be sub-
mitted by all public sector agencies and major private firms under the NTP.
1.8       The NTP also calls for the strengthening of the Administrative
College (Adcol) to play a pivotal role in in-service training. Adcol was
established in 1963 to train public servants in basic administrative skills.
The focus was originally on practical training but also on general education
courses to make up for the lack of formal education of many public officials
in the 1960s. Early training reflected the colonial status of PNG and empha-
sized district administration and the maintenance of law and order. With
independence, the focus changed to training for economic and social develop-
ment as health, education, infrastructure, small business, e__., expanded.
Adcol has made a major contribution to PNG's development and has many dist4n-
guished alumni. However, in recent years, Adcol has suffered from weak
management associated with a rapid turnover among its directors. It has
become increasingly out of touch with the skill development needs of its
public service clients and has focused too much of its resources on long,
academically-oriented courses more suited to the neighboring University of
Papua New Guinea (UPNG). A new director has recently been appointed and he is
charged with moving Adcol in the directions mandated by the NTP. Adcol will
reorient its activities towards short intensive skills development courses
aimed at rtising the performance levels of working public servants. Particu-
lar emphasis will be placed on short executive development courses for
managers who find themselves working increasingly in a rapidly changing And
more complex operational environment. But Adcol will also extend its activi-
ties beyond the delivery of training programs. It will develop the capacity
to become a training resource center for public service departments respon-
sible for research and consultancy on training issues, curriculum development,
training of trainers, etc.
1.9       The high priority being given to improving management training is
underscored by the work of the Transitional Training Unit. The TTU which
ope:ated during 1987-90, was set up as an interim arrangement to improve the
delivery and quality of management training while Adcol underwent its program
of strengthening and reorientation. The TTU designed and tested management
training materials through courses given to central and provincial depart-
ments. It also institutionalized management training in the departments
through the training of trainers, promoting training technologies and
establishing working relationships between TTU, Adcol, DPM and the



- 5 -
departmrents. The staff of the TTU were recently transferred to the Program
Management Unit of the Department of the Prime Minister where they are now
workirg mainly in support of the development of the RMS.



II.  ISSUES AND POLICIES IN TdE TRAINING SECTOR
A. Introduction
2.1       The success of Papua New Guiniea's ambitious plans to create more
effective administrative processes and a better managed public sector will
depend crucially on the ability of the training system to produce skilled and
motivated personnel who are not merely able to perform their designated tasks
effectively but also are amenable to change and improvement in tthe administra-
tive system. Tiius training is an integral part of PNG's program of
administrative reform. It is carried out in a great variety of institutions.
At the post-secondary level, training is undertaken in 55 institutions offer-
ing about 350 courses with a full-time equivalent enrollment of about 9,800.
Apart from the two universities, the post-secondary system has a strong
sectoral orientation with heavy concentration in teacher training, health and
agriculture/forestry.  MIddle level skill training .s carried out in 8
technical colleges (enrollment 1900) and the apprenticeship scheme (900). In
addition to formal institutional training, in-service training courses are
widespread in the public sector and among the larger private firms but to a
much lesser extent in smaller firms in the private sector. Annex 1 provides
enrollment and staffing data on the major training institutions.
2.2       The above data characterize a training system which is highly
fragmented, with a large number of institutions enrolling a relatively small
number of students. Student/staff ratios are low and unit costs high.
Moreover, the system is heavily subsidized with most students receiving
generous allowances. The system is almost totally government-financed and
there are few incentives for the private sector to finance training. However,
the major constraint to the system's expansion is not lack of budgetary
resources, which in general have been adequate, but rather the lack of
graduates from the secondary schools with sufficient levels of achievement to
qualify for entry to training courses. These issues are described in more
detail belcw.
B. Issues
2.3       Inadequate Capacity.  Nearly 15 years after independence, Papua New
Guinea's low level of human resource deve.opment stands out as one of the
major constraints to the country's development. In the post-independence
period, the training (and education) system has fallen short of delivering the
skilled and educated personnel necessary to manage a rapidly changing economy.
Consequently, the modern sector workforce is still heavily dependent on
expatriates who occupy about half the administrative and managerial positions
and about 17 percent of the professional and technical positions.
2.4       A major constraint which has restricted the capacity of the training
system to meet the denmand for skilled personnel has been the inability of the
secondary schools to provide adequate numbers of graduates qualified to enter
training courses. This has been especially true for higher level courses.
The expansion of upper secondary schooling has been restricted by the desire
to avoid educated unemployment. This cautious approach to expanding



enrollments wh3n combined with the high dropout rates within the system and
the demand by employers for the direct employment of upper secondary gradu-
ates, has greatly reduced the flow of qualified graduates to the training
system. At the middle level of skill training, enrollments in the technical
colleges and the apprenticeship scheme have been constrained by the supply of
quality inputs but also by a lack of demand by employers for the outputs of
thase institutions whose training is perceived to lack quality and relevance.
The result has been declining enrollments in pre-employment technical training
(PETT) courses and apprenticeships and in static enrollments in technician
courses.
2.5       Efficiency.  The training system, especially at the higher levels,
is highly fragmented into a multiplicity of institutions and courses
(para. 2.1). As a result, the system has failed to achieve economies of
scale, which has led to the costly underutilization of physical and teaching
resources. The situation is further exacerbated by high dropout rates and the
result is high unit costs per graduate throughout the system. In contrast,
the training system enjoys high levels of external efficiency at the higher
levels. This is to be expected to some extent, since many training institu-
tions are run by government departments and the majority of their graduates
are targeted for departmental employment. Furthermore, high employment levels
would also be expected given the general scarcity of citizens with higher
training. This is borne out by a recent tracer study of 1987 UPNG graduates
which showed that about 80 percent were in employment immediately after
graduation or were intending to pursue further education. Over 90 percent of
the employed were in jobs relevant to their training. However, at the middle
levels of skill training, a recent study showed that only 52 percent of PETT
trainees were employed in occupations relevant to their training. Although
the information is too limited to draw firm conclusions, the study should be
taken as a warning sign about the relevance of middle-level skill training to
the needs of the labor market.
2.6       Quality and Relevance.  At the middle level, the skill training
system suffers from the usual problems--poorly trained instructors,
inadequately equipped workshops and curricula which may not be relevant to the
skill needs of the labor market. The appropriate mode of training also
emerges as an issue. It is likely that too much training is taking place in
expensive formal institutions which lack the flexibility to respor.d quickly to
rapidly changing skill needs. This suggests that more training should be
shifted to the workplace while the formal training institutions concentrate on
providing short modular courses in basic skills and in skill upgrading.
Training in the workplace ensures a high degree of relevance to employers'
needs while at the same time having the flexibility to respond quickly as
skill needs change.
2.7       At the higher levels of training, courses are in general well-
financed and studant/staff ratios are low. However, the structure of enroll-
ments does not seem to be particularly relevant to the needs of PNG's develop-
ing economy which would seem to require a strong concentration on science/
technology based courses. Within the university system as a whole, the
University of Technology acc.,Ants for only 27 percent of total enrollments.
Within UPNG, enrollments in the science faculty account for only 15 percent of



- 3 -
total enrollments compared to 40 percen; for the faculty of arts. The key
institutions serving primary industries (agriculture, forestry and fisheries)
account for only about 6 percent of total enrollments in higher education.
2.8       Enrollment Disparities.  Enrollments in training courses reflect the
fact that female enrollment rates decline at each subsequent level of
schooling. Girls comprise 44 percent of total enrollments at the primary
level, 38 percent at lower secondary and 27 percent at upper secondary.
Consequently enrollments in training institutions are only about 33 percent
female. Moreover, this proportion is inflated by enrollments in traditionally
strong female fields such as nursing and teacher training where females
account for 69 percent and 46 percent of enrollments respectively. In the
universities, female enrollment is only 14 percent in bachelors' degree
courses, concentrated mainly in the arts and education faculties. This situa-
tion reflects traditional attitudes which have devalued the need for female
education. Although these attitudes appear to be changing as evidenced by the
high access rate to grade 1 (95 percent), girls are still leaving school at
disproportional rates as they progress through the system.
2.9       In-service Training.  Within the public sector, in-service training
activities are widespread but are hampered by poor planning, coordination and
delivery. The core of the system, the Administrative College, is not perform-
ing effectively in providing an appropriate range of skills upgrading courses,
especially intensive management courses for middle-level and senior managers
(para. 1.8). The latter are of particular importance to public sector
managers as they contend with increasingly complex management decisions and a
rapidly changing policy environment. The recently established Department of
Personnel Management has been given the mandate, under the NTP, for the
planning, coordination, monitoring and evaluation of training within the
public sector. When fully operational, the DPM is expected to achieve
substantial improvements in in-service training in the sector. Information on
in-service training in the private sector is limited. Large enterprises have
a strong commitment to in-service training but smaller enterprises less so.
The Department of Labor and Employment has a similar mandate for promoting
training in the private sector as the DPM does in the public sector. However,
implementation of this function is impeded by lack of trained staff within
DLE.
2.10      Financing of Training.  The inability of the training system to meet
the country's requirements for skilled citizens has been not so much a matter
of inadequate allocation of budgetary resources as a lack of qualified inputs
to training courses. This is borne out by the high unit costs of enrollments
and graduates which are due, in large part, to small enrollments (and high
dropout rates) in many courses. Thus although overall resource allocations
seem to have been adequate in terms of the size of the training system, the
quality of training has not been consistent with this level of support.
Within training institutions, salaries are the major category of exper.diture
reflecting the high salary levels in general in the public sector and,
especially in higher level courses, the employment of expensive expatriates.
Salaries together with other overheads (especially boarding), leave only
limited funding for the investments necessary to improve quality such as
learning materials, up-to-date equipment, consumable materials, etc.



2.11      Cost sharing in the training system is almost non-existent and
subsidies for students increase with the level of training. In vocational
centers, fees account for about 5 percent of unit costs; in the technical and
teacher training colleges there are no fees and students receive a stipend.
In the -niversities fees are paid by the Government and a higher stipend is
paid to students. Cost sharing with the private sector (apart from the
apprenticeship scheme) is also almost non-existent. Although the private
sector has access to the graduates of the public sector training institutions
and tax rebates are available to encourage training, there is at present
inadequate incentive, in the face of high occupational mobility and doubts
about the quality and relevance of training, for private employers to share
the cost of training beyond the few students now sponsored directly by them.
2.12      Planning, Management and Coordination.  The public sector pre-
service training system comprises the autonomous universities and clusters of
other training institutions under the direct control of line departments
(Education, Public Health, Agriculture, etc.). This fragmentation in the
management and delivery of training has precluded the development of overall
planning for the system. It is difficult to specify overall objectives for
training, allocate resources and monitor progress in achieving the objectives.
It is not possible, under present conditions, to specify a 'higher education'
budget. Moreover, although the training system is supposed to serve the human
resource needs of the economy, there is no effective mechanism for measuring
these needs and relating them to the outputs of the training system. This
situation has resulted in many proposals for the rationalization of the
training system but little progress has been made to date. Nevertheless, a
first step was taken in 1983 with the establishment of the Commission for
Higher Education. The CHE has an advisory role which includes advice to the
Government on the allocation of budgetary resources to the training institu-
tions and policies regarding the award of scholarships within PNG and
overseas. It also administers the National Tertiary Scholarship Scheme.
However, CHE has no direct responsibility for the operations of the training
institutions and thus cannot compel institutions to conform to its recommenda-
tions. The influence of CHE, in its present form, is thus potential rather
than real. A second step towards reform and rationalization is at present
underway in the form of the preparation of a higher education plan, a first
draft of which was recently completed. The plan will recommend a
substantially more powerful role for CHE in the planning and coordination of
higher-level training. UNDP is expected to provide expert assistance to CHE
in developing its new role.
C. Policies
2.13      The Government has reversed recent trends towards a lower priority
for the social sectors and has called for a massive increase in budgetary
allocations for education and training--almost doubling the allocations in the



- 10 -
1989-93 PIP compared with the previous one.5/ Also indicative of the new
priority for human resource development in the PIP is the large number of
projects in economic and infrastructure sectors with training components.
2.14      The Government's strategy calls inter alia for:  (a) the rapid
expansion of upper secondary enrollments to break the bottleneck caused by the
shortage of graduates qualified to enter higher education and training;
(b) expansion of training capacity to absorb all available grade 10 outputs;
and (c) a doubling of university enrollments. The Government has also
established several medium-term objectives relevant to the training sector
namely: (i) to strengthen the links between enrollment targets and curricula
and priority needs for higher-level skill training; (ii) rationalize higher
education and training to focus on high priority subjects, improve internal
efficiency and reduce unit costs; (iii) provide incentives for private
employers to undertake employment-specific training for school leavers; and
(iv) restructure student financial support to ensure that the beneficiaries of
higher-level training contribute to its cost.
2.15      While addressing a priority need, the target of an eight-fold
increase in upper secondary enrollments and a doubling of university enroll-
ments over the next 10 years seems unachievable in the face of current
constraints. At the upper secondary level, the major constraint is likely to
be lack of qualified teachers especially in math, science and English. These
are in short supply everywhere and it is unlikely under existing employment
conditions, that PNG would be able to attract sufficient numbers to support
the planned expansion. The long-term solution is to staff the national high
schools with citizen teachers but the scarcity of teacher trainees means that
there will continue to be heavy dependence on expatriate teachers in the
foreseeable future. The constraint on the target for doubling university
enrollments is likely to be the shortage of grade 12 entrants rather than lack
of teachers. Although university teachers will continue to be largely
expatriate, requirements are relatively few and the recruitment market fairly
extensive. On the other hand, the pool of grade 12 graduates has remained
static at about 800 p.a. in recent years and the demand from other higher
level institutions and from employers for direct employment, restricts the
pool of potential university entrants even further. This situation will
improve over time as the expansion of upper secondary enrollments takes
effect.
2.16      The proposal to permit all grade 10 leavers to proceed to some form
of training does not seem to be a viable one at this stage. At present only
about 35 percent of grade 10 graduates proceed to further education and
training. Thus under the proposed policy over 6,000 additional school leavers
would have to be trained each year. However the formal sector workforce,
where the ma;ority of trained workers would seek employment, would be unable
to absorb the annual increase in the face of cutbacks in public sector employ-
ment and poor investment prospects in the non-mining private sector. While
5/   The 1990-94 PIP showed a further increase of 15 percent over the
preceding PIP in resources to be allocated to education and training.



- 11 -
widespread skill shortages exist in PNG, the problem cannot be solved through
a mass training effort. The shortages will be most effectively overcome
through a steady expansion of training efforts in line with identified demand
in the labor market and with due regard to maintaining quality and relevance.
If greatly expanded training opportunities for grade 10 leavers are to be
considered, they should focus on preparation for self-employment in the non-
formal sector and combine training with access to such complementary inputs as
start-up credit and technical assistance.
2.17      The Government's medium-term objectives are sound and are directed
towards making bigher education and training more relevant to labor market
needs, improving the efficiency and cost effectiveness of higher education and
training and getting private employers and students to make a greater contri-
bution to the costs of education and training. Progress is being made in
meeting these objectives. A Human Resource Planning Branch is to be
established in the Department of Finance and Planning (DFP) which would be
responsible for human resource planning at the macro level utilizing data
provided by such key agencies as CHE, DPM, DLE, etc. Its work would provide
the analytical basis for strengthening the linkage between enrollments and
skill needs. Such linkage would be further strengthened with data from the
Three Year Training Plans now being implemented under the NTP (para. 1.7).
Progress is also being made in rationalizing higher education. The recently-
completed draft of a higher education plan makes recommendations for a more
cost-effective .tilization of training institutions and for strengthening the
role of CHE in planning and coordinating higher education and training. As an
incentive to the private sector to undertake training, a two percent payroll
levy has been introduced from which would be deducted the costs of training
actually undertaken by firms. A start has also been made on the restructuring
of student financial support. Regarding the latter, the continued award of
scholarships will depend in future upon student performance with failing
students losing their scholarships and marginal students being required to pay
a penalty.
2.18      Inadequate planning, coordination and delivery of in-service
training programs is being addressed in the National Training Policy which is
an ambitious attempt to solve these problems and create a rigorous framework
for the delivery of quality training. The NTP defines priorities, objectives
and guidelines for the organization and management of training. Its implemen-
tation will be largely the responsibility of DPM, DLE and Adcol. Considerable
strengthening of these bodies will be necessary before they have the capacity
to effectively implement the NTP. When the latter is achieved it will permit
the National Training Council, being set up under the NTP, to become a
powerful mechanism for contributing to the achievement of the Government's
medium-term objectives in the education and tr,4ning sector.
2.19      Policies currently in place, or being formulated, will result in a
much more rational mechanism for planning and coordinating both pre-service
and in-service training. A strengthened CHE (para. 2.12) will be responsible
for planning and coordinating a restructured and more efficient system of
higher-level pre-service training institutions. Although operational
responsibility for the individual institutions will not be transferred to CHE,
the latter's role as adviser to the Government is expected to be greatly



- 12 -
strengthened in dealing with the size, structure and content of the higher
education and training system and with the level of resources necessary for
its cost-effective operation. The planning and coordination of in-service
training will likewise be strengthened under the National Training Council.
Its terms of reference and associated regulations have been formulated and it
has met already as an interim body. The NTC will appoint a director, who will
act as chief adviser to the Government on in-service training issues and
policies. Under the NTC, DPH will handle in-service training matters for the
public sector and in parallel, DLE will carry out a similar function in rela-
tion to the private sector. Thus there will be clear lines of authority for
planning, policy and coordination of pre-service training running from the
institutions/departments to the Government through the CHE. For in-service
training, the line will run from public sector departments through DPM and the
NTC to the Government and from private firms through DLE via the NTC to
Government. This is represented diagrammatically in Annex 2.
D. Bank's Experience in Education, Training and Institutional
Development
2.20      The Bank's lending strategy in the education and training sector has
been consistent with the Government's priorities and has been supported by
three lending operations. The first (Credit 661-PNG in 1976) focussed on
strengthening training for middle and higher level personnel in agriculture,
health, teacher training and technician training for industry. The project
performance audit report (PPAR-No. 5126 of June 15, 1984) concluded that while
project implementation was satisfactory, enrollment and employment targets
were not reached due primarily to changing skill requirements and the lack of
qualified secondary school entrants to the training courses. These outcomes
indicate that project design should have paid greater attention to estimates
of human resource requirements and the likely level of outputs from the
secondary school system. In the case of technician training, inadequate
attention was given to the relative lack of incentives for employers to
release and pay trainees and to the opportunity cost of training to the self-
sponsored trainees. Nevertheless some success was achieved in the teacher
training component. Although output targets were not achieved, the actual
outputs did lead to a significant replacement of expatriate teachers in the
provincial high schools with a concomitant reduction in recurrent costs.
2.21      The second project (Credit 1087-PNG/Loan 1934-PNG in 1981) assisted
in strengthening management of the education system, improving quality in
primary education through curriculum development and expanding textbook
supply, strengthening student assessment and teacher training and expanding
primary schooling in underserved provinces. The PCR for the project indicates
that enrollment targets were exceeded and substantial progress was made in
reducing enrollment disparities among provinces. However, the project was not
successful in improving retention rates. Localization of staff in the teacher
training colleges was improved and substantial numbers of personnel were
trained in various fields of educational development. Textbooks were produced
in record volumes but there were problems in distributing the materials. The
PCR concludes that institution building related to the strengthening of
curriculum, examinations and project monitoring and evaluation was successful
and sustainable. The project's contribution to institutionalizing planning



- 13 -
procedures represented a first step in what must be a long-term process.
Project management was highly satisfactory. The third project (Loan 2395-PNG
in 1984), which is currently being implemented successfully, responds to the
need to expand secondary education and improve its quality while containing
costs. The project will ease the bottleneck in the supply of adequately
prepared secondary school graduates which has retarded the expansion of higher
education and failed to meet the demand of employers for recruits with a sound
general education. The project will provide about 5,000 new secondary school
places, strengthen curriculum development and teacher training and improve
educational planning, cost control and the linkage between secondary education
and labor market needs.
2.22      The two completed projects offer two major lessons of relevance to
the design of the proposed project. First, careful attention needs to be
given to assessing training requirements and ensuring that training is
flexible enough to respond to changing demand for different types of training.
In the proposed project, the prime responsibility for defining the major
training needs and the identification of the majority of candidates for
fellowships will lie with the individual departments thus ensuring that the
immediate employer determines training needs and priorities and is well-placed
to adjust the fellowship program to changing needs as necessary. Second, the
two completed projects were implemented satisfactorily largely because special
attention was given to developing sound project management units staffed with
experienced personnel. In the design of the proposed project, special
emphasis has been given to project management and coordination including
careful attention to appropriate mechanisms and procedures and to the employ-
ment of outside experts.
2.23      Although only three projects have been processed in the education
sector in PNG, the Bank's lending has probably had more influence on educa-
tional development that the small number of operations might imply. The last
two projects have had some sector-wide impact on improving management,
planning and the quality and relevance of education and are contributing to
the development of a more efficient and cost-effective education system. This
impact has been reinforced by recent sector work on the financing of education
(Report No. 6767-PNG, June 1987) which the Ministry of Education has indicated
is a valuable input to policy formulation. A similar contribution was made by
the extensive treatment of human resources issues ir the 1988 Economic Report
(Report No. 7121-PNG. April 1988). Additional sector work has also been
completed recently on issues and policies in training.
2.24      The Bank has been asked by the Government to take the lead role
among donors in the education and training sector. The implications of this
request are not clear at this stage and consequently a sector strategy paper
is under preparation to provide guidance on future activities. Nevertheless,
the Bank sees a possible substantial role in two major areas--the
restructuring of the higher education system into a smaller, better managed,
more relevant and cost-effective system and the expansion and quality improve-
ment of upper secondary education to provide better quality inputs to higher
level training courses and for direct entry to employment. Support in both
these areas would assist in alleviating PNG's severe shortage of high-level
personnel, accelerate localization and strengthen PNG's ability to handle the



- 14 -
development challenges of the future. Such assistance would reinforce the
country's ongoing efforts in institu-ional reform and also reinforce support
for strengthening public sector training under the proposed project.
2.25      The tank has supported the Government's administrative reform
program through an ongoing dialogue and sector work aimed at improving public
sector management (para. 1.3) and through recent sector work on absorptive
capacity problems. The latter report reviewed the institutional constraints
to the implementation of PNG's development program. It reviewed issues
relating to: the shortage of skilled personnel; procedural and regulatory
constraints in inter-agency coordination, project preparation, funding and
monitoring; and bottlenecks which retarded actions in land acquisition,
project audit and evaluation, management of technical assistance, etc. The
Bank's report made a number of recommendations aimed at alleviating many of
the above problems. These are now being implemented or are under
consideration by the Government.



- 15 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Origin of the Proiect
3.1       Possible Bank assistance for public sector training was a topic in
discussions between the Bank and the Government in April 1988. This was
followed by an official request for assistance in September 1988. The
proposal was further refined during management discussions with Government in
November 1988 and a mission identified and started preparation of the project
in February 1989. The project was pre-appraised in October 1989 and appraised
in February-March 1990.
B. Proiect Rationale, Objectives and Scope
3.2       The Bank has previously assisted institutional improvement and
personnel training in PNG. It is therefore well-placed to continue support in
these areas. The Government's ongoing administrative reform program includes
more effective training as a major ingredient to be achieved through
implementation of the NTP. The key to the successful implementation of the
NTP is the effective performance of DPM, DLE and Adcol. The proposed project
would strengthen the capacity of these agencies to carry out their roles under
the NTP. In the longer term, this would result in a better managed, more cost
effective and relevant training system. The project would also assist in
filling important skill gaps by providing overseas training opportunities in
fields which are not available in local institutions. The project is consist-
ent with previous Bank assistance to agricultural, health, teacher and
technical training (1976) and to the expansion of secondary education to
increase the supply of qualified secondary graduates for entry to the training
institutions (1984). The basic objectives of the project are to strengthen
in-service training in the public and private sectors and increase the supply
of specialized high-level personnel to staff the Government's policy and
planning agencies and to help meet shortages of technical skills. The overall
impact of the project would be to assist in strengthening the management,
planning and technical capacities of the public sector and improve the
effectiveness of training in the private sector.
3.3       Specifically the project would:
(a) support the implementation of the National Training Policy through
strengthening DPM's capacity to promote, coordinate, monitor and
evaluate training in the public sector. Strengthen DLE's capacity
to play a similar role in the private sector;
(b) upgrade and reorient the Administrative College towards its new role
as defined under the NTP namely to focus on short, intensive skill
development courses and executive development prngrams and place
greater emphasis on research, curriculum development and the
training of trainers; and



- 16 -
(c) finance an overseas fellowship program for training in policy and
planning fields and specific technical fields which is presently
unavailable in PNG.
The project would finance civil works, equipment, teaching and consumable
materials, fellowships and experts.
C. Project Description
Implementation of the NTP (Estimated baseline cost, US$5.0 million)
3.4       Department of Personnel Management (US$3.3 million).  While DPM is
responsible for a range of personnel functions--policy and planning,
industrial relations, personnel placement, organization and methods--it is the
training function which will be assisted under the proposed project. The
organizational structure of DPM is shown in Annex 3. The NTP gives DPM the
mandate for promoting, coordinating, monitoring and evaluating training in the
public sector and the unit responsible for training in DPM is the Manpower
Development, Training and Resource Division (MDTRD). This division is
responsible for handling the Three Year Training Plans being produced under
the NTP. Thirty-six of the scheduled 44 such plans have been prepared to date
and are currently being implemented. Apart from extracting and analyzing bids
for donor-financed training, the MDTRD will take responsibility for overall
analysis of the plans and for making appropriate recommendations on opera-
tional and policy issues to the Government through the National Training
Council. The implications of these activities are not yet clear especially in
terms of data-base requirements and appropriate mechanisms for utilizing data.
To assist in clarifying these issues the project would finance 11 months of
consultant services for a training analyst to advise nPM on how best to
utilize the Training Plans to meet long term training needs and to develop a
mechanism to link data analysis to policy development to ensure that training
is planned and executed in a rational and cost-effective manner. The project
would also finance 15 months of consultant services for an information
technologist to develop a computerized data base to serve as the basis for the
analytical work to be done on the training plans. The consultant would also
be responsible for training staff of the MDTRD in operating the data base and
for advising on computer software and hardware requirements. During negotia-
tions, the Government gave assurances that the training a2alyst and the infor-
mation technologist would be appointed by July 31, 1991.
3.5       The Training Plans produced to date are of variable quality and will
need further development and refinement. ;. model plan needs to be developed
which would provide common stiucture and content and provide the standard from
which agencies would work in producing plans. Although there would be some
flexibility in the standardized approach in recognition of the different
structures and objectives of the various agencies, enough commonality would
exist to provide consistent sets of data and clear statements of institutional
objectives relating to training. The MDTRD would take the lead role in the
further development of the Training Plans, working through the departmental
Staff Development Units (SDUs). The project would finance 40 months of
consultant services for a staff development and training advisor to assist in
further improvement of the Three Year Training Plans and in training staff of



- 17 -
the SDUs in training needs analysis and plan preparation. Similar training
would also be provided for staff of the MDTRD. The consultant would also
assist MDTRD in strengthening the linkage between training and career progres-
sion. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that the staff
development and training advisor would be appointed by July 31, 1991.
3.6       The project would also assist in establishing and making operational
the National Training Council. An interim NTC has already been convened but
much work needs to be done in setting it up on a permanent basis, developing
its policy role and establishing its operational procedures. DPM is
coordinating this activity. When fully established, thL NTC will be
responsible for the oversight of the NTP and its review and revision as
necessary. The NTC will advise the Government on training priorities and
policies in relation to in-service training in the public and private sectors.
The NTC will have a secretariat which will analyze information made available
to it by DPM and DLE and provide appropriate advice to the NTC. The
secretariat's director has been identified and staff profiles are currently
being drafted for the secretariat's supporting staff. Recruitment of staff is
expected to be completed by the end of December 1990. The project would
assist the NTC to become fully operational by providing 14 months of
consultant services for an information technologist to assist in the develop-
ment of a data base, training of staff of the secretariat and provision of
advice on appropriate software and hardware. Because the NTC is a new body
which must develop its own operational procedures, and in view of the likely
initial inexperience of its staff, the project would finance 27 months of
consultant services for a management advisor to assist in putting the NTC on a
sound management basis and to support the establishment of appropriate
mechanisms for policy development and advice. A staff development and
training advisor would be financed under the project for six months to assist
in drawing up a staff development plan for the NTC secretariat together with
appropriate training materials. Terms of reference for the consultants to
assist DPM and NTC have been agreed with the Bank. During negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that the management advisor and the information
technologist would be appointed by July 31, 1991 and the staff development and
training advisor by January 31, 1992.
3.7       Department of Labor and Employment (US$1.7 million).  The DLE has
multiple functions covering the private sector relating to industrial rela-
tions, policy and research, labor administration, employment, training, etc.
(Annex 5). At present, the training function, which is the responsibility of
the Employment and Training Division (ETD) is largely concerned with the
implementation of the work permit scheme (WPS) and apprenticeship training.
In addition to this training responsibility, the NTP calls for DLE to carry
out a role in the private sector similar to DPN's in the public sector,
namely, to promote, coordinate, monitor and evaluate training. Thus, EDT will
be required to ensure that private firms produce the Three Year Training Plans
as required under the NTP, analyze data from the Plans and advise the NTC on
needs and priorities for training in the private sector. These requirements
considerably enlarge the training role of DLE and to be able to implement it,
significant institutional strengthening will be required. The computerized
data-base needs to be expanded and upgraded. The current system cannot cope
with the present work permit scheme and its training and localization



- 18 -
implications and so will be inadequate to meet the extra data demands of the
NTP, especially for processing data from the Training Plans. Therefore the
proposed project would finance 18 months of consultant services for a labor
economist to define the nature of the data to be collected, the method of
collection and the type of analysis required to meet the needs of ETD (and
other divisions of DLE which might need training data such as the Policy and
Research Division ard the National Employment Service). The result would be a
system which would permit expanded data analysis, wider accessibility to
departmental staff and promote the use of information as an input to the
policy process. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that the
labor economist would be appointed by July 31, 1991.
3.8       The core of the data system would be the information extracted from
the Training Plans. But the opportunity would also be taken under the project
to include other relevant data related to employment, skill structure, labor
mobility etc. These data, which have been identified within DLE, would be
used by other divisions of DLE and also by the national planning authorities.
Much data are stored in conventional files in a haphazard manner and data
retrieval is difficult. To address these issues the project would finance the
establishment of an integrated microfiche system for ETD which contains
facilities for photography, storing, displaying and photocopying. Since there
is no central location for the collection, classification and storage of
printed material, the project would also establish an information unit for DLE
to collect, and provide easy access to, a wide variety of relevant publica-
tions. The project would finance library furniture, a cataloging system, a
microcomputer, training materials and equipment and book purchases. The
project would also finance the services of a consultant information specialist
for two years to set up the unit and provide in-service training. During
negotiations, the Government gave assurances that the information specialist
would be appointed by October 31, 1951.
3.9       To handle information-related issues on a continuous basis, DLE has
an established position for a systems analyst. However it has not been able
to fill the position with a qualified citizen. The post is an important one
if DLE is to maintain over the long term, the improvements to its information
base proposed under the project. The project would therefore finance two
staff years of consultant services to fill the post with a qualified systems
analyst. Working in close consultation with the labor economist, the systems
analyst would evaluate present data base capabilities and make recommendations
for expansion and improvement in relation to DLE's overall information
requirements regarding training and related activities. A suitable citizen
would be recruited and sent overseas for training as a systems analyst under
the project. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that the
consultant systems analyst would be appointed by October 31, 1991 and that the
timing of recruitment of the trainee systems analyst would permit an
appropriate period of overlap with the expert. The consultant systems analyst
would also identify all the hardware and software requirements to be financed
under the project to service DLE's data processing needs and also provide in-
house training as necessary.
3.10      The expanded and improved data base would support several major
functions within DLE including training, localization planning, expatriate



- 19 -
employment, etc. However, in order to ensure that these functions are
carried out effectively, DLE needs to strengthen its administrative capacity,
upgrade management skills and clarify its operational objectives and the
organizational structure needed to achieve them. Strengthening DLE in these
areas would provide a sound administrative context for the improvements being
sought under the proposed project. The project would therefore include three
years of consultant services for an organizational development/management
training specialist to review organizational structure and management
procedures, make appropriate recommendations and provide the necessary in-
service training. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that
the organizational development/management training specialist would be
appointed by July 31, 1991. Draft terms of reference for all the consultants
to assist DLE under the project have been agreed with the Bank.
Strengthening of the Administrative College (Estimated baseline cost,
US$8.1 million)
3.11      Adcol is the key institution responsible for in-service training in
the public sector in PNG. Its overall aim is to raise the productivity of
public employees through training in practical skills and management. It
comprises a main campus in Waigani and three regional training centers (RTCs)
in Waigani, Madang and Rabaul. Adcol is headed by a director who is
responsible to the Secretary, DPM. Following a series of acting directors. a
permanent director has recently been appointed and this will give firm direc-
tion to Adcol's management. The director will be supported by a governing
Board which is currently being set up as required under the NTP. The Board
would oversee Adcol's long-term development which under the NTP calls for
increasing autonomy and revenue-earnizj capacity.  Each RTC has a Regional
Training Advisory Committee to guide its operation. Adcol's main campus has
three main branches which focus on research and development, development
studies, and management and accounting, plus administrative support facilities
(Annex 6). Adcol currently has 90 courses in its calendar ranging from 40
week courses in accounting and auditing to 2 day introductory computer
courses.6/ A recently completed training needs analysis has reviewed all
course offerings and will make recommendations on future course development in
line with the NTP's emphasis on short practical courses and executive develop-
ment programs. Currently, 16 short courses and 5 long courses are being
offered with enrollments of 240 and 98 respectively.
3.12      Adcol has an academic establishment of 52 posts on the main campus
of which 33 are currently filled, 11 by expatriates. The recently completed
training needs analysis which will define future course offerings will clearly
have important implications for future staffing. Changes which will be
required in staffing structure will be greatly facilitated by the 37 percent
vacancy rate among academic posts by permitting new recruitment to be closely
6/   The RTCs focus entirely on short (1-6 week) courses which have a strong
practical skills orientation related to local needs. Examples are report
writing (1 week), basic bookkeeping (2 weeks), cash accounting procedures
(3 weeks), training skills for extension officers (6 weeks), etc.



- 20 -
related to new training needs.7/ Further flexibility is provided by the 11
expatriates who are on short-term contracts which provides fairly rapid
turnover and therefore further opportunity to change the skill-mix of the
academic staff. The present situation in which 58 percent of academic posts
are either vacant or filled by short-term expatriates will also assist Adcol
in recruiting staff for the increased emphasis to be given to research and
development, training of trainers, curriculum development and consultancy
services as mandated under the NTP. The RTCs are staffed by a full establish-
ment of 26 personnel of which 11 are expatriates. The administrative
establishment of the main campus is 94 posts of which 63 are currently filled.
3.13      Staff development is given high priority in Adcol to ensure that
teaching staff have appropriate academic qualifications and the skills
necessary to teach practical courses. Staff development is provided through
release of staff to study at UPNG, overseas fellowships funded bilaterally to
pursue graduate programs and through attendance at short skill-oriented
courses within Aecol and overseas. At present, three academic staff are
studying at UPNG and four are in Canada studying for masters' degrees in
public administration financed by CIDA. The proposed project would support an
overseas graduate fellowship program of about 25 staff years. This would
extend the CIDA program, which terminates in 1990, and broaden its base to
include masters programs in business administration, communications, social
work. etc.. The project would also support the development of practical
skills to permit academic staff to respond to Adcol's increased future
emphasis on short, skill-intensive courses. Although there are 80 short
courses of 12 weeks or less in Adcol's calender, only 16 are currently being
run. Teaching staff who are well-qualified academically need to strengthen
their capacity to teach specific skills and also broaden the range of courses
they can handle. The project would finance 25 staff years of overseas and
local training and also include attachments to relevant institutions for
practical learning experience. To reinforce the staff development program,
the project would finance 15 months of consultant services for a training-of-
trainers adviser to train faculty in instructional methodology, student
assessment, etc. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that the
training-of-trainers' adviser would be appointed by October 31, 1991. Details
of fellowship and training programs are in Annex 4.
3.14      The project would also assist in the physical upgrading of Adcol's
main campus and the RTCs. Adcol's main campus has deteriorated in recent
years reflecting its decline in status and the concomitant squeeze on
budgetary resources. If Adcol is to achieve the expanded role and enhanced
status proposed for it under the NT!, a good deal of physical renovation and
7/   The relatively high vacancy rate does not reflect particular difficulties
in recruitment but rather is part of an explicit policy not to fill posts
until future needs, related to institutional reorientation, are
clarified.



- 21 -
some new construction would be needed.8/ On the main campus, general
maintenance (carpentry, plumbing, painting) would be financed under the
project. In addition, the library would be upgraded through the provision of
furniture, audio-visual equipment, air conditioning plant and printing equip-
ment. Additional equipment would be provi.dJ for the kitchen/dining hall and
storage space extended.  Dormitories woulc be renovated including two to be
brought up to sufficient standard to house the senior officials who will be
resident for the executive development program. Six additional staff houses
would be provided to ease the existing housing shortage and solar heaters
would be installed in all existing houses as an energy saving measure.
Computer capacity, mainly for teaching, but also for administrative purposes
would be enlarged. At present Adcol has very limited computer facilities,
mainly a few donated PCs ani additional terminals. Computer training is seen
as a priority area under the NTP and Adcol plans to greatly expand its
capacity in this field. It is also important to extend computer training to
the RTCs. The project would finance 131 PCs with associated peripherals and
software and a mini computer for use by Adcol's management. The project would
also finance a consultant in information technology for 27 months to assist in
developing appropriate programs relevant to clients' needs and also to advise
Adcol's management on relevant systems for internal administration. During
negotiations, the Government gave assurances that the consultant information
technologist would be appointed by July 31, 1991.
3.15      The project would support the upgrading of the RTCs and the re-
establishment of the Highlands RTC. The RTCs were established in the early
1970s to bring training closer to clients in a more cost effective way. They
were abolished in 1982 as an economy measure but three of them were reopened
in 1985. The re-establishment of the Highlands RTC in an existing facility is
called for under the NTP. It is proposed to do this by sharing the facilities
of the Education Resource Center in Mount Hagen. These include existing
offices, classrooms, library, dormitory, kitchen and dining facilities.
Additional facilities to be provided under the project would include four
staff houses, furniture and equipment, toilet and sewerage facilities, library
books, audio-visual equipment and improvements to dormitory and kitchen
facilities. The Northern RTC at Madang has a well-equipped campus. The major
problem is staff housing and it is proposed to construct three new houses
under the project. One classroom will also be converted and air conditioned
as a computer teaching facility to handle the planned increase in computer
training courses. For the Islands RTC at Rabaul, the project would finance
renovation of housing, classrooms and dormitories, provide furniture and
equipment for the administrative building and kitchen/dining room facilities.
The Southern RTC is adjacent to the main campus at Waigani and shares its
facilities. The project would provide only limited assistance, namely the
8/   Adcol's requirements for physical renovation. new construction and
related equipment were prepared and costed in conjunction with the
Department of Works (DoW). Standard designs are available for new
construction, including staff housing. Additional land acquisition will
not be required.



- 22 -
conversion of the old mess building into an executive development center to
serve the strong demand for management training.
3.16      Adcol's move towards autonomy and an increasing revenue-earning
capacity will require new approaches to management. This will be supported by
4 months of consultant services to develop a plan for institutional autonomy
and 23 months of consultant services for a management advisor to develop
appropriate internal management systems to govern the main campus and the
RTCs. The latter would be assisted by the information technology expert to be
financed under the project (para. 3.14). Increasing emphasis on curriculum
development, course selection, monitoring and evaluation will require the
development of new systems and this will be supported through the provision of
47 months of consultant services comprising a course development adviser (27
months) and various short-term advisers (20 months). During negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that the consultant on institutional autonomy, the
management advisor and the course development advisor would be appointed by
July 31, 1991. The technical assistance program, totalling 116 staff-months,
would help to equip Adcol with the sound management and professional capacity
to achieve the role defined for it under the NTP. Terms of reference for the
above consultants have been prepared and are acceptable to the Bank.
Overseas Fellowship Program (Estimated baseline cost, US$6.1 million)
3.17      Papua New Guinea's universities have not been able to meet the
demand for high-level personnel in the post-independence period. Although a
wide range of degree and diploma programs is offered, expansion has been
constrained by the shortage of qualified graduates from the high schools and
to some degree by budgetary constraints, especially in recent years. Problems
of declining quality also exist in the universities. Although the supply of
trained personnel has been deficient in most major skill areas, the problem is
especially acute in the fields of policy and planning. There is a widespread
perception that citizens with superior qualifications relevant to policy and
planning activities--economists, financial analysts, planners, managers,
etc.--are in short supply in the key departments. In addition, there are
shortages of graduates in specialized technical fields such as petroleum
engineering, geology etc. for which training is not available in PNG. The
long term solution to these problems is to be found in expanding the universi-
ties and improving the quality of their programs. However, in the shorter
term, the problem can be addressed through overseas training in programs
relevant tc skill shortages and in fields not catered for at present in the
local universities. High level training is being assisted by several donors
and focusses particularly on graduate programs. This fills a gap in local
university education which remains largely undergraduate.
3.18      The proposed project would expand the opportunities available for
high-level training overseas. Procedures for identifying and processing over-
seas fellowships are firmly established in PNG due to the extensive donor-
sponsored training programs which finance around 100 overseas university
fellowships annually. Overall responsibility for the process lies with DPM.
However, the actual identification of training needs lies with the individual
departments which are also responsible for nominating individuals to receive
fellowships. This ensures that the training priorities of the employing



- 23 -
departments are met and that suitably qualified individuals are nominated for
fellowships. This process will be reinforced with the introduction of the
Three-Year Training Plans under the NTP which will require clear statements of
departmental priorities and associated training needs. Departmental training
bids are sent to DPM which reviews them in terms of the country's overall
development priorities. DPM also reviews individual nominations for fellow-
ships to confirm eligibility for entry to overseas programs. DPM then draws
up a prioritized list of fellowships and negotiates with donors to procure
appropriate financing. When the list of fellowships is finalized, donors
liaise with client departments regarding the administrative processing of
individual fellows. Sim.ilar procedures, suitably adjusted to the needs of the
proposed project, will be followed for the fellowship component.
3.19      Fellowships amounting to a total of 240 study years would be
financed under the project and are summarized in Annex 4. Fellowships would
be awarded in two general areas - policy and planning (140 study-years) and
specialized technical fields (100 study-years). In policy and planning,
fellowships would be awarded in two fields:
(a) economic policy including macro-economics, finance, labor, human
resources, trade and industry. This part of the program will cover
the Departments of Finance and Planning, Labor and Employment,
Personnel Management, Trade and Industry, Education, and Health; and
(b)  policy relating to natural resources management, environment and
conservation covering the Departments of Agriculture and Livestock,
Environment and Conservation, Minerals and Energy, Fisheries and
Marine Resources, Lands and Physical Planning, and Forests.
Fellowships would be awarded mainly for graduate study for masters' degrees
and graduate diplomas but short courses for developing specific skills and job
attachments to provide practical experience would also be included. Require-
ments for policy and planning fellowships have been identified by DPM, in
conjunction with participating departments. The fellowship program defines
the general areas of priority for training and relevant fields of study. The
fellowship program would be updated annually and reviewed by the Bank.
Fellowships to be financed during the first year of the program have been
reviewed and are acceptable to the Bank. Fellowships would be awarded to
serving officials in the participating departments. Recipients of fellowships
would be occupying positions dealing with policy andlor planning issues or
more junior officials who show the potential to move into such positions. The
assessment of such potential would be made by the individual departments.
Special attention would be paid to maximizing the participation of women in
the fellowship program to reflect the fact that female representation declines
at each higher level of education, thereby reducing the pool of qualified
applicants. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that age and
position levels would not be applied rigidly to women candidates so as to
ensure that younger, more junior women, with high potential, would be
considered as applicants.
3.20      Fellowships to be awarded for training in specialized technical
fields would be mainly at the undergraduate level but some provision would



- 24 -
also be made for shorter, skill intensive courses of up to one year's dura-
tion. Skill needs would be identified during the preparation and annual
updating of the Three-year Training Plans. This information would be passed
to DPM which would coordinate the matching of skill needs with training
opportunities and the identification of candidates. This would result in an
annual fellowship program for each year of the project which would be reviewed
by the Bank. Since most of the training would be at the undergraduate level,
some of the candidates would be school leavers. Information on this category
would be provided to DPM by the Commission for Higher Education which is
responsible for the award of national scholarships to school leavers. Women
are poorly represented in technical fields in PNG which is partly due to the
low proportion of women entering higher education and also to their preference
for nontechnical courses. In recruiting candidates for fellowships in
technical fields, the Government gave assurances, during negotiations, that
special attention would be given to identifying female candidates.
3.21      There is no formal "bonding" system for returning fellows in PNG to
ensure that returnees enter jobs for which they have been trained. However,
since fellows must be recommended by their departments and remain on the
departmei t's establishment while studying, return to the parent department
would seem to pose no problem. For the most part it appears that fellows
return to their previous positions or to positions relevant to their training.
No data are available on the placement of returnees but there is anecdotal
evidence that some fellows return to their departments to find that their
positions have been filled or in some cases abolished. In view of this
uncertainty, the Government agreed during negotiations, to obtain a written
undertaking from sponsoring departments, that fellows being financed under the
project would return to their previous positions or to positions within the
departments which were relevant to the training programs undertaken by the
fellows. In the case of fellows who have not been previously employed, such
as school leavers, no written undertaking would be required and returnees
would be free to seek employment in the public or private sectors.



- 25 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Costs
4.1       The cost of the project is estimated at US$23.1 million equivalent
net of duties and taxes. The estimated cost by project component is
summarized in Table 4.1 and by category of expenditure in Table 4.2. Detailed
costs by component and category are given in Annex 7 and project expenditure
by year and category in Annex 8.
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
Foreign
Component                   Kina Million             US$ Million         as 2 of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   total
Implementation of NTP:
DPM                        0.8    2.4      3.2       0.8     2.5      3.3     75
DLE                        0.2    1.4      1.6       0.2     1.5      1.7     89
Subtotal                1.0    3.8      4.8      1.0      4.0     5.0      79
Strengthening of Adcol       2.8    5.0      7.8       2.9     5.2      8.1     65
Overseas Fellowship          0.3    5.7      6.0       0.3     5.8      6.1     95
Program
Baseline Cost           4.1   14.5    18.6       4.2    15.0    19.2       78
Contingencies:
Physical                0.2    1.0      1.2      0.3      1.0     1.3      80
Price Increase          0.7    1.8      2.5      0.7      1.9     2.6      71
Subtotal                0.9    2.8      3.7      1.0      2.9     3.9      74
Total Project Cost           5.0   17.3    22.3        5.2    17.9    23.1      78
Note:  Equipment and materials imported under the project would be exempt from
duties and taxes.



- 26 -
Table 4.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Foreign
Item                        Kina Million            US$ Million        as Z of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   total
Civil works                 2.0     0.8      2.8     2.0       0.9     2.9     30
Furniture                   0.2     0.1      0.3     0.2       0.1     0.3     30
Equipment                   0.2     2.0      2.2     0.2       2.1     2.3     90
Teaching materials          0.1     0.4      0.5     0.1       0.4     0.5     80
Technical Assistance:
Project implementation    0.1      0.5      0.6     0.1       0.5     0.6     90
Organization improvement  0.4      3.5      3.9     0.4       3.6     4.0     90
Fellowships and training  0.9      6.6      7.5     1.0       6.8     7.8     88
Consumables and supplies   0.2      0.2      0.4     0.2       0.2     0.4     50
Allowance overseas          0.0     0.4      0.4     0.0       0.4     0.4      95
Baseline Cost          4.1    14.5    18.6      4.2     1 .0    19.2      78
Contingencies:
Physical               0.2     1.0     1.2      0.3      1.0      1.3     80
Price Increase         0.7     1.8     2.5      0.7      1.9      2.6     71
Subtotal               0.9     2.8     3.7      1.0      2.9      3.9     74
Total Project Cost          '      17.3    22.3      5.2     17.9    23.1      78
4.2       Base costs are estimated at November 1990 prices.  The estimated
cost of the overseas fellowship program is based on the current tuition
charges and other costs and allowances of the overseas training programs being
implemented in PNG (US$24,000 per study year). In Papua New Guinea,
participants in long-term overseas training programs (nine months or longer)
are allowed to have their families accompany them during the period of their
studies, subject to prior approval by their own department and DPM.
Therefore, family allowances, based on the standard rate of allowance, are
included in the project costs and would be financed by the Government. These
are estimated to cover about 30 percent of the participating fellows. Civil
works costs for renovation and upgrading of the buildings and expansion of
housing of the Adcol main campus and the four RTCs are based on standard cost
estimates from the Department of Works. Equipment and furniture costs are
estimated on the basis of agreed lists of equipment and furniture and recent
catalogue prices. Equipment and materials imported under the project would be
exempt from duties and taxes. Import duties or taxes on construction
materials have not been identified separately in project costs since such
taxes are negligible. The estimated costs of expert services are based on
unit costs of similar services and activities in programs currently being
implemented in Papua New Guinea.



- 27 -
4.3       The contingency allowances of US$3.9 million (about 202 of base
costs) include contingencies for unforeseen physical conditions and for
estimated price increases. Physical contingencies were estimated at 51 for
civil works, furniture, fellowships, equipment and materials, and 102 for
expert services. Price increase contingencies were calculated for both local
and foreign costs in accordance with the following expected annual average
price increase percentages; local cost 7.OZ in FY91 and 5.5Z thereafter and
foreign cost 3.6Z throughout. Accordingly, aggregated price contingencies are
estimated at about 13 percent of base costs plus physical contingencies.
4.4       The foreign exchange cost of US$17.9 million, (about 78 percent of
total estimated project costs) has been calculated on the basis of the
following foreign exchange percentages: civil works - 302; furniture - 302;
equipment - 902; teaching materials - 802; fellowships - 95Z; experts - 902;
and consumables - 502.
B. Financing
4.5       The proposed loan of US$20.8 million would finance 902 of total
project cost. This level of cost sharing is based on the increasing need of
PNG for external assistance which is partly due to the recent oil price
increase as PNG is an oil importing country. The Government would be
responsible for the remaining 102 or US$2.3 million. Retroactive financing
amounting to US$0.7 million would be provided under the loan for expenditures
incurred after December 1, 1990 for civil works, equipment, fellowships and
consultant services.
Table 4.3: FINANCING PLAN
Category of expenditure                Government      Bank        Total
---------- US$ million ----------
Civil works                                0.7          2.6           3.3
Furniture, equipment and
teaching materials                       0.5          3.1          3.6
Fellowships and training                   -            9.5           9.5
Consultants                                -            5.6           5.6
Consumables and supplies                   0.6          -             0.6
Overseas family allowances                 0.5          -             0.5
Total                                  2.3        20.8          23.1



- 28 -
Recurrent Expenditures
4.6       The project would not generate any significant additional recurrent
expenditures. The only incremental recurrent expenditure generated when the
project is fully operational would be consumable materials and supplies for
Adcol. These would amount to about US$0.1 million per year which is equiva-
lent to about 3 percent of Adcol's recurrent budget for 1990. This additional
expenditure could be accommodated by Adcol without difficulty.
C. Project Management and Implementation
4.7       The implementation schedule is shown in Annex 9.  The project
components would be managed by the respective agencies which have functional
responsibilities in the fields concerned: DPM, DLE and Adcol. A Project
Coordinating Committee (PCC), with suitable terms of reference, has been
established by the Department of Personnel Management (DPM). It is chaired by
the Secretary of DPM, and its members include the Secretaries of DLE and the
Department of Finance and Planning (or their nominees), the Director of Adcol,
the Director, Office of International Development Assistance, and the First
Assistant Secretary (FAS) of the Manpower Development, Training and Resource
Division of DPM. The PCC would be responsible for the overall coordination of
project implementation, provide directives on policy issues and resolve major
problems which might arise during project implementation. The PCC would
periodically review progress in the implementation of all the components.
During negotiations. the Government gave an assurance that the PCC would
remain operational throughout the project implementation period. The
organizational structure for project coordination and management is shown in
Annex 10.
4.8       The Project Manager, who would be responsible to the Secretary of
DPM (the Chairman of the PCC) for the overall coordination and management of
the project, has been appointed and would be retained throughout the project
period. The manager, whose terms of reference have been agreed to by the
Bank, would be responsible for coordinating, monitoring, reviewing and
evaluating project activities, loan administration, including disbursements,
preparing consolidated semiannual progress reports and Part II of the project
completion project, arranging for annual audits of project accounts, routine
correspondence and reporting to the Bank, and for ensuring that all the
project activities are implemented in accordance with the plans agreed to.
The manager would assist in the preparation of annual work plans and budgets,
procurement of works, goods and services and coordination and supervision of
consultant services. The manager would be provided with necessary administra-
tive support by DPM and her salary would be financed under the project.
4.9       The First Assistant Secretary of MDTRD would be responsible for
implementing the DPM component (strengthening the capacity of DPM to
effectively implement the NTP for the public sector) and for the overseas
fellowship program. In the context of implementing the overseas fellowship
program, the FAS would cooperate with the departments participating in the
fellowship program. Management of the DLE component, which would strengthen
the capacity of DLE to implement the NTP for the private sector, would be the
responsibility of the Employment and Training Division of DLE. ETD would be



- 29 -
responsible for planning, budgeting, procurement of services and monitoring of
the component's activities. It would also be responsible for staff develop-
ment and tra!aing of DLE staff. The Management Services Division of DLE would
be responsible for financial administration of the component and accounting
staff of the division would be assigned to assume this responsibility. The
Assistant Secretary of ETD has been designated project manager for the DLE
component with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
4.10      The Director of Adcol would be responsible for management and
implementation of the Adcol component including the four RTCs. The Director
would be supported by an implementation committee, headed by a project
manager, appointed from existing staff, and consisting of representatives from
the Administration Branch, and the Research and Development Braich of Adcol,
the Department of Works and the RTCs. The committee would be responsible for
the preparation of annual plans and budget, financial administration, procure-
ment of works and services, coordination and supervision of expert services,
monitoring and evaluation of the component's activities and for coordination
with DoW for civil works. Civil works would be managed by DoW. DoW is at
present successfully managing all civil works included under the secondary
education project (Ln. 2395-PNG) and has the capacity to manage the works
included under the proposed project. The existing staffing of Adcol would be
adequate to implement this component. The implementation committee with suit-
able terms of reference has been established and the project manager
appointed.
4.11      The proposed implementation period is six years (Annex 9).  To allow
sufficient time for submission of final withdrawal applications following the
scheduled completion date of March 31, 1997, the Closing Date would be
March 31, 1998. Due to the relative inexperience of project institutions and
the complexity of project design, above-average supervision coefficients of
about 15 staff-weeks per year would be required in the first 3 - 4 years of
project implementption. The Bank would supervise the project around March and
September in each year, which would coincide as far as possible with the
preparation of the semi-annual progress reports (para. 4.20). A third mission
would be scheduled as necessary. Overall implementation would be the
responsibility of the task manager who would be assisted by a project
architect to handle civil works procurement and an operations officer to
oversee the procurement of expert services and fellowships.
Status of Project Preparation
4.12      Physical inputs required for the upgrading of the main campus of
Adcol and the four RTCs have been identified. Equipment needs, including
computer hardware and software, have also been identified together with
consultant services necessary for reorienting course structure and for
strengthening the management of Adcol. Equipment specifications and standard
designs and bidding documents for civil works are available. Overall
fellowship requirements have been identified and the detailed first-year
program has been prepared. Consultant services for the institutional
strengthening of DPM and DLE have been identified. Project management
procedures and staffing have also been agreed upon. Draft terms of reference
for consultant services have been prepared and are acceptable to the Bank.



- 30 -
Procurement
4.13      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.4 and procedures
would be as followss
(a)  Civil works (estimated value US$3.3 million) would comprise renova-
tion and upgrading of buildings and expansion of housing of ,.he main
campus of Adcol and the RTCs in four provinces. Individual
contracts for specific locations ranging from less than US$100,000
equivalent to US$l million would not attract foreign bidders. Local
construction contractors are available in PNG. Contracts for civil
works would thus be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding (LCB) procedures accept&ble to the Bank.
(b)  Equipment, furniture, teaching materials and consumables.  Equip-
ment, would be grouped, to the extent practicable, to facilitate
bulk procurement, and bid packages exceeding US$100,000 equivalent
(estimated value US$2.0 million) would be awarded in accordance with
Bank guidelines for international competitive bidding (ICB).
Equipment in packages not exceeding US$100,000 equivalent and
furniture (estimated value US$0.8 million) would be procured in
accordance with local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Items of less than $25,000, up to an
aggregate of US$0.2 million, may be purchased by shopping on the
basis of at least three competitive price quotations from suppliers
eligible under Bank guidelines. Books and teaching materials
(estimated value US$0.6 million) would be procured in accordance
with Government regulations which are acceptable to the Bank.
Consumables (estimated value US$0.6 million) would be procured in
accordance with government procurement procedures which are
acceptable to the Bank.
(c)  -The major expenditure for fellowships would comprise actual costs
for tuition, international travel and authorized allowances in
accordance with the agreed unit costs. Fellowship placements would
be made in accordance with standard Government procedures which are
acceptable to the Bank.
(d) ConsultancZ services financed under the Bank loan would be procured
in accordance with Bank guidelines.



- 31 -
Table 4.4: PROJECT EXPENDITURE BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY
Total
Category of expenditure         ICB       LCB        Other /a    N.A.    cost
---------------- US$ million ---------------
Civil works                     -         3.3         -           _        3.3
(2.6)                           (2.6)
Furniture, equipment and
teaching materials           2.0        0.8         0.8         -        3.6
(2.0)     (0.5)       (0.6)                (3.1)
Fellowships and training        -         -           -            9.5     9.5
(9.5)   (9.5)
Consultants                     -         -           5.6          -       5.6
(5.6)                (5.6)
Consumables and supplies       -          -           0.6         -        0.6
(0.0)                (0.0)
overseas family allowances    -           -           -           0.5      0.5
(0.0)   (0.0)
Total                      2.0        4.1        7.0         10.0    23.1
(2.0)     (3.1)       (6.2)       (9.5)  (20.8)
/a Other procurement procedures include: (a) international and local
shopping; (b) direct purchase after negotiations for best discounts for
books and teaching materials; and (c) consultant services.
NOTE: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by the
Bank.
4.14      Prior Bank review would be required for all technical assistance
contracts and annual fellowship programs financed under the Bank loan, and for
procurement documentation and contracts for procurement of equipment awarded
on the basis of ICB. This would represent about 80 percent of the total loan
amount. Analyses of bids and recommendations for awards for all civil works
contracts awarded under LCB would be subject to post-review by the Bank.
Disbursements
4.15      The proposed loan would be disbursed over a period of seven years
which is in line with the standard disbursement profile of 7.5 years for Bank
projects in Papua New Guinea. Disbursements (Annex 11) are expected to be
completed by the Closing Date of March 31, 1998. Disbursements would be made



- 32 -
on the basis of: (a) 802 of civil works expenditures; (b) 1002 of foreign
expenditures for directly imported equipment, furniture and teaching
materials, 1002 of the ex-factory costs of locally manufactured goods, and 75?
of the costs of other items procured locally; (c) 1002 of the cost of
consultant services; and (d) 1002 of the costs of fellowships, and training.
4.16      Disbursements for civil works, equipment, furniture, books and
materials costing less than US$100,000 equivalent would be made against state-
ments of expenditure (SOEs). Documentation supporting these SOEs would be
retained by DPM and DLE for all project institutions and made available for
review, as requested, by visiting Bank missions. All other expenditures would
be fully documented. DPM and DLE would be responsible for preparing
withdrawal applications which, following review and processing by DFP would be
submitted to the Bank.
4.17      In order to expedite disbursements, the Government would establish a
Special Account at the Bank of Papua New Guinea.  It would be maintained in
kina with an authorized allocation of the kina equivalent of US$1.0 million,
the estimated average of four months' expenditures, and the account would
cover all categories of expenditures financed by the Bank and be used for both
foreign and local expenditures.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.18      Implementation of project activities would be monitored closely
through semi-annual progress reports to the Project Coordinating Committee and
to the Bank around March and September in each year. Specific monitoring
indicators would be included to cover the implementation of the overseas
fellowship program for each year of the project. These would include numbers
of fellowships awarded and completed, participation of women, type of program,
field of study and re-entry plans. Long-term evaluation of the on-the-job
performance of returned fellows would be carried out through the staff perfor-
mance appraisal procedures that DPM currently uses as part of its staff
development procedures.
Accounts, Audits and Reporting
4.19      Separate project accounts would be maintained by the implementing
units in DPM, DLE and Adcol. During negotiations, the Government gave
assurances that: (a) each unit would maintain accounts in accordance with
sound accounting practices and that project accounts and separate accounts of
statements of expenditure would be prepared annually by the implementing units
and cousolidated by DPM for audit by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; and (b) certified copies of the audited accounts and financial state-
ments for each financial year, together with the auditors' reports would be
submitted to the Bank as soon as they are available but not later than nine
months after the end of each financial year. The Government would submit
semi-annual progress reports to the Bank around March and September in each
year, provide status reports to visiting missions, and within six months of
the Closing Date, submit Part II of the project completion report.



- 33 -
D. Environmental Impact
4.20      The project will not have any negative impact on the environment.
The fellowship component will place strong emphasis on natural resources
management, environmental policy and conservation. Fellowships will be
awarded to policy and planning personnel in key departments in these areas
such as Agriculture, Forestry, Minerals and Energy, Environment and Conserva-
tion, etc. The project would strengthen the ability of these departments to
contribute to the development of the country's natural resources in an
efficient, environmentally sound manner.
E. ImPact on Women
4.21      Overall, women account for only 33 percent of enrollments in higher-
level training courses and this has led to their under-representation in
higher-level jobs. The project would benefit women through the award of
fellowships and special attention will be given to maximizing their participa-
tion in the fellowship pr_gram. This will ultimately enhance their qualifica-
tions and promotional opportunities and expand the employment of women in
technical fields. The project, through assistance in implementing the NTP,
especially the development of the Three-Year Training Plans, will enable the
training needs of women to be more clearly identified and permit a more effec-
tive matching of needs with training opportunities.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.1       The project would assist in the effective implementation of the NTP.
This would lead to higher quality in-service training in the public sector,
which would be of greater relevance to clients' needs and more efficiently
delivered. The project would also increase the supply of trained high-level
personnel which, in turn, would improve the management, planning and technical
capacities of key agencies thereby enhancing their performance as agents of
development. The project would lead "o more effective training in the private
sector. In the longer term, the projet.t would accelerate the localization
process.
B. Risks
5.2       The major risk associated within the project concerns the capacity
of the relatively inexperienced project institutions to implement the project.
The risk will be reduced through the establishment of a high-level Project
Coordinating Committee and the appointment of an experienced project manager.



- 34 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1       The Government has agreed to the followings
(a)  consultants to assist DPH would be appointed as follows:  training
analyst and information technologist by Ju.j 31, 1991 (para. 3.4);
staff development and training advisor by July 31, 1991 (para. 3.5);
the NTC's management advisor and information technologist by
July 31, 1991 and the staff development and training advisor by
January 31, 1992 (para. 3.6);
(b) the timing of recruitment of the trainee systems analyst for DLE
would permit an appropriate period of overlap with the expert
systems analyst (para. 3.9);
(c) consultants to assist DLE would be appointed as follows: labor
economist by July 31, 1991 (para. 3.7); information specialist by
October 31, 1991 (para. 3.8); systems analyst by October 31, 1991
(para. 3.9); and organizational development/management training
specialist by July 31, 1991 (para. 3.10);
(d) consultants to assist Adcol would be appointed as follows:
training-of-trainers' advisor by October 31, 1991 (para. 3.13);
information technologist by July 31, 1991 (para. 3.14); expert on
institutional autonomy, management advisor and course development
advisor by July 31, 1991 (para. 3.16);
(e) age and position levels would not be applied rigidly to women
candidates for policy and planning fellowships so as to ensure that
younger, more junior vomen with high potential would be considered
as applicants (para. 3.19);
(f) special attention would be given to identifying women candidates for
fellowships in technical fields. (para. 3.20);
(g) for students being sponsored by a department, a written undertaking
would be given by sponsoring departments that fellows being financed
under the project would return to their previous positions or to
positions within the departments which were relevant to the training
programs undertaken by the fellows (para. 3.21);
(h) the PCC would remain operational throughout the project implementa-
tion period (para. 4.7);
Mi) annual accounts would be maintained by each project unit and
consolidated for audit by DPM (para. 4.19); and
(j) audit reports would be submitted to the Bank within nine months of
the end of the financial year (para. 4.19).



- 35 -
6.2       Subject to tihe above conditions, the project constitutes a sultable
basis for the Bank loan of US$20.8 million equivalent to Papua New Guinea for
a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.



- 36 -
ANNEX= 1
Page 1 of 3
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PUBLIC SECTOR TRAINING PROJECT
Enrollments and Staffing in Training Institutions
(1987)
Student/
Enrollmenmts  Teaching      Teacher
Training Institutions                      /a        Staff /b       Ratio
UNIVERSITIES
PNG University of Technology               979.5        136.0           7.2
University of PNG - Waigani              2,049.4        144.0          14.2
University of PNG - Taurama                155.8         35.0           4.5
University of PNG - Goroka TC              395.0         52.0           7.6
Sub-total                          3,579.7         367.0           9.8
TECHNICAL COLLEGES
Arawa Technical Collerge                   198.5         22.0           9.0
Goroka Technical College                   206.0         24.0           8.6
Lae Technical College                      400.7         40.0          10.0
Madang Technical College                   126.0         18.0           7.0
Mt.Hagen Technical College                 269.2         31.0           8.7
Port Moresby Sec.College/                  201.0         15.0          13.4
Business School
Port Moresby Technical College             337.5          na            na
Rabau. Secretarial/Technical                60.0          4.6          13.0
College
Sub-total                          1,798.9         154.6           9.5
TEACHERS COLLEGES
Balob Teachers College                     310.0         20.0          15.5
Dauli Teachers College                     149.0         10.2          14.6
Gaulim Teachers College                    202.0         13.0          15.5
Holy Trinity Teachers College              230.0         16.9          13.6
Madang Teachers College                    363.0         26.0          14.0
OLSH Teachers College                      149.0         15.2           9.8
St.Benedict's Teachers College             230.0         12.2          18.9
St.Paul's Teachers College                 149.0         11.0          13.5
Port Moresby Inservice Teachers            152.0         20.0           7.6
College
Sub-total                          1,934.0         144.5          13.4
/a  Equivalent full-time students.
/b  Equivalent full-time teaching staff.
Note: Enrollment data for 1987 are incomplete. Using data in previous
years as a guide, total EFTS enrollment is about 9,800.
Source: Commission for Higher Education



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3
Enrollments and Staffing in Training Institutions
(1987)
Student/
Enrollmenmts  Teaching      Teacher
Training Institutions                      /a        Staff /b       Ratio
SCHOOLS OF NURSING
Arawa School of Nursing                     35.0           5.0          7.0
APCM School of Nursing                      65.0           3.0         21.7
Highlands Regional School of                78.0         11.0           7.1
Nursing
Lae School of Nursing                       55.0          7.0           7.9
Lutheran School of Nursing                  95.0         10.0           9.5
Mendi School of Nursing                     69.0           6.0         11.5
Nazarene College of Nursing                 77.0           5.0         15.4
Rabaul School of Nursing                    60.0           5.0         12.0
Sacred Heart School of Nursing              48.5          9.0           5.4
Sopas College of Nursing                    45.0          5.0           9.0
St.Barnabas' School of Nursing              37.0          5.0           7.4
St.Gerard's School of Nursing               26.0          3.0           8.7
St.Mary's School of Nursing                164.8         17.3           9.5
Tinsley School of Nursing                   31.4          4.1           7.7
Wewak School of Nursing                     20.0          4.4           4.5
Sub-total                            906.7          99.8           9.1
PARA-MEDICAL COLLEGES
CASH (Madang)                              125.0         33.1           3.8
CASH (Port Moresby)                        181.0         34.5           5.2
Sub-total                            306.0          67.6           4.5
PRIMARY INDUSTRY COLLEGES
Highlands Agricultural College              53.8         11.0           4.9
Popondetta Agricultural College             51.0         14.0           3.6
Sepik Agricultural College                 110.0          na            na
Vudal Agricultural College                   na           na            na
National Fisheries College                  53.0          8.0           6.6
PNG Forestry College                        96.0         10.0           9.6
Timber Industry Training College            32,0          na            na
Sub-total                            395.8          43.0           5.9
/a Equivalent full-time students.
/b Equivalent full-time teaching staff.
Note: Enrollment data for 1987 are incomplete. Using data in previous
years as a guide, total EFTS enrollment is about 9,800.
Source: Commission for Higher Education



- 38 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
Enrollments and Staffing in Training Institutions
(1987)
Student/
Enrollmenmts  Teaching      Teacher
Training Institutions                     a/         Staff b/      Ratio
OTHER GOVERNMENT INSTITUTIONS
Administrative College of PNG             318.4          53.0          6.0
Civil Aviation Training College             na           17.0          na
CIS Staff Training College                  1.2          10.0          -
Customs Training Center                     na            3.0          na
Defence Force Training                      na            na           na
Elcom Training College                      na            na           na
Fire Services Training Center               na            na           na
Legal Training Institute                   38.0           2.0         19.0
National Arts School                       97.0          11.0          8.8
National Postal & Telec.                   85.0          64.0          1.3
Training
PNG Maritime College                        na            na           na
Police College Bomana                       na            na           na
Sub-total                            539.6        160.0           4.1
TOTAL                              9,460.7      1,036.5           8.8 Lc
La  Equivalent full-time students.
/b Equivalent full-time teaching staff.
,L Does not include Other Government Institutions.
Note: Enrollment data for 1987 are incomplete. Using data in previous
years as a guide, total EFTS enrollment is about 9,800.
Source: Commission for Higher Education



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PUBUC SECTOR TRAINING PROJECT
PLANNING AND COORDINATION OF TRAINING
<30VERN
(NATIONAL EXECUTIVE
PAE48ERVICE                                  IN-SERVICE
C8SIONrFOR                                    mNATONALTRAINING
MOMMMMAMM                             ~~~~~~~~~COUJNCIL
| TRARINING   |                       OF PERONEm         OF LBR  AND|
|INSY1TUTIONSMANAGlEMENT                                  EMP LOYMENT
PUBLIC ECTOf L      PFtVATE 
jDEPATENT8           SECTOR
FIFAM ~ ~ ~ ~ ~



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PUBLIC SECTOR TRAINING PROJECT
Organization Chart
DEPARTMENT OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT
SECRETARY
DEPARTMENT OF
PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT
EXECUTIVE       EXECUTIYE
SECRETARY        OFFICER
EXECUTIVE
OFFICER
FAS1FS
WPOVGER                                                       FAS         _   MANPOWER
PLANNING &                                                              I       EVELOPMENT,
ORGANISATION                                                   IREC               TRAINING
DEVELOPMENT                                               _____C& RESOIRCE
SER                   ASS               PRINC. ADVISER        ASSISTANT
PRING. ADVISER        REGONAL             ASSISTANT   I      PRINO. A            SECRETARY
MiPOWER POUCY         MANAGER             SECRETARY   I       PAY POLICY      MWPOWER DEVELOP,
DEVELOPMENT &     PERSONNEL (SOUTH)     POICY COORD. & I      DEVELOPT &          TRAINING &
CONTROL _CENTRALISATION                                     CONTROL             RESOURCE
ASS. REGOA.SITN                                      ASSISTANTPICPAMTF
SECRI  ARSECRETARY R                                        SECRETARY          DEVELOPMENT
ORGANISATIONMAAGERFINANCE &   I                         INDUSTRIALOFIE
DEEANAOMENT      PEFSONNEL (NORTH)       PERSONNEL           RELATIONS
ASSISTANT
PRINC. ADVIISER       REGIONAL            INTERNAL           SECRETARY         PRINC. MANPOWER
MANAGEMENT           MANAGER                            - (YSEAS STAFFING        PLACEMENT
EFFICIENCY        PERSONNEL NGO    ~     AUDTOR             & CONTROL            OFFICER
____________             ___________          ~~ ~~~ADMINISTRATION  _ _ _ _ _ _
REGIONAL   1
MANAGER    I
PERSNL (H.LANDS) |
FAS - FbIst Assita Soety
IREC - hiduss Relanions and Enyoye Conion                                               EIQSadSW469SS



- 41 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PUBLIC SECTOR TRAINING PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
Summarv of Consultant Services - bv Comoonent and Year
(staff-months)
---------------------------------------------------------__------------------__-----------------------------
Component                            1991      1992     1993     1994     1995     1996    Total
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------__-----------------------------
I. Imolementation of National
Training Policy
Deot. of Personnel Management
For DPM Capacity Building:
-Information technologist                      6        6      1.5      1.5                 -        15
-Training analyst advisor                      6        3        1        1        -        -        11
-Staff dev. & training advisor                6        12       12        6        4        -        40
-Project manager                             12        12       12       12       12       12        72
For National Training Council:
-Information technologist                      6        6        1        1        -        -        14
-Staff dev. & trainLng plan consultant                  4        1        1        -        -         6
-Management advlsor to NTC Secretariat         6       12        6      1.5      1.5        -        27
Subtotal                                       42       55     34.5       24     17.5        12      185
Deot. of Labor and Emnloyment
-Labor economist                                 6       12        -        -        -         -       18
-System analyst/trainer                          -       12        6        3        3         -       24
-Organization development/management trainer    6        12       10        4        4        -        36
-Information specialLst/librarian                -       12       12        -        -        -        24
Subtotal                                       12       48       28        7        7        0       102
II. Strenathenina of the Administrative
College
-Course Development Unit advisor                 6       12        6      1.5      1.5         -       27
-Training of Trainers advisor                    -       12      1.5      1.5        -         -       15
-Autonomy plan consultant                        4        -        -        -        -        -         4
-Management advisor to administration            6       12        2      1.5      1.5        -        23
-Information technologist                        6       12        6      1.5      1.5        -        27
-Short-term advisors                             -        5        5        5        5         -       20
Subtotal                                      22        53     20.5       11      9.5        0       116
TOTAL                                          76      156       83       42       34        12      403
________________________________________________________________________________________---_---------------



- 42 -
ANNEXK 4
Page 2 of 2
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PUBLIC SECTOR TRAINING PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
Summarv of Overseas Fellovships by Year and Level
(study-year)
Total
No. of    Study
ComponentlLevel              Courses   Years    ic 1    1992       1993     1994     1995     1996
OVERSEAS FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM (OFP)
Strenathen Poliey and
Plannunm Canacity:
- Masters degrees (2-yrs)            40       80        8       16       16       16       16        8
- Graduate diplomas (1-yr)           30       30        5        5        5        5        5        5
- Short courses/job attachments      NA       30        5        5        5        5        3        5
Subtotal                                   140       18       26       26       26       26       18
InDrove Soecialised Skills
- BA degrees (4-yrs)                 20       80        8       16       20       20       12        4
- Short-term courses (1-yr)          20       20        4        4        4        4        4        0
Subtotal                                   100       12       20       24       24       16        4
Subtotal (OFP)                              240       30       46       50       50       42       22
DEPARTMgT OF LABOR & EMPLOYMNT
- System analyst (2-yrs)                1        2        -        1        1        -        -        _
ADMINISTRATIVE COLLEGE
- Masters degrees (2-yrs)              13       26        3        6        6        6        4        1
- Short courses/job attacbments        NA       25        -        5        5        5        5        5
Subtotal                                      S1        3       11       11       11        9        6
TOTAL                                       293       33       58       62       61       51       28
----------------------------------------------------..-------------------__--__-------------------------------



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PUBUC SECTOR TRAINING PROJECT
Organizatlon Chart
DEPARTIENT OF LABOR AND EMPLOYMENT
SECETARY
r________ -FOR __________
I          IOUR AND IOCHIEF                               I
L  u                      .      ,                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COMMISSIONER
:   CONCIU^                    O~~~~~~EPUTY    l             OFFIENUlOF
T1L1]A                              SECRETARY                        CIP
ASISrDMT       IS811ANT A
I                      ECREAI                ER                ET          O      
II  LIC F-EEA-C         LABOUR ADIITAlNAND TANN
AS8TANT                AS     T TANT           ASlMAT
EI WTARY               SECRETARY           SECRETARY  ATKL    _ pj PE"T
l  DUSTRAL (ELA B            AE  SERVICS        ELLOYMENTSERV1CE          SCHEME
L ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~(9 _RV40A                      ML (Ml E RW8 ALT.     SCHEME
SERICE
EKMNo3D
I9



- 44 -
ANNEX 6
IL
Z CC
It    N                             i      'I          g
3it!4~~~~~~~~4
2   &                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~I  II
i                                        i
ILtWW



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PUBLIC SECTOR TRAINING PROJECT
Summaty Account by Project Component
Kina
DEPT.LAB                                        Physical           PrLce
DEPT.PER    OR &    STRENGTH  OVERSEAS                  ContLngencies      Cont ngencles
SONNEL   EMPLOYME  ENING OF  FELLOWSH                ---------------------------------
hANACT.     NT       ADCOL   IP PROC.      Total         X    Amount       X  Amount
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                            0         0      2769          0      2769         5        138      12       329
B. FURNITURE                              0        38       233          0       270         5         14      15        Al
C. EQUIPMENT                            53S       294      1370          0      2200         5        110       9       201
D. TEACHING MATERIALS                   100         0       413          0       S15         5         26      12        63
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION              617         0         0          0       617        10        62       13        78
2. ORGANIZATION IMPROVEMENT           1232      1244      1413          0      3888        10        389       9       355
3. FELLOWSHIPS  TRAINING              750        43      1135       5570      7498         6       471       17      1255
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------                   Vl
Sub-total                              2599      1286      2548       5570     12003         8        922      14      1688
TotaL INVESTMENT COSTS                 3234      1618      7335       5570     17757          7      1209      13      2322
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. CONSUMULLES I SUPPLIES                 0         0       440          0       440         5         22      24       106
B. FAMILY ALLOWANCE OVERSEAS              0         0         0        376       376         5         19      18        66
----------_------------------------------------------------------------__----__-------------
Total RECURRENT COSTS                     0         0       440        376       816         5         41      21       172
Total BASELINE COSTS                   3234      1618      7775       5946     18572         7       1250      13      2494
Physlcal Contingencles                292       145       516        297      1250
Price Contingencies                   378       145       974        996      2494         6        152
Total PROJECT COSTS                    3903      1909      9265       7239     22316         6      1402       11      2494
Taxes                                   0         0         0          0         0         0         0
Forelgn Exchange                    2841       1684      5931       6840     17296         6      1103
Values Scaled by 1000.0



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PUBLIC SECTOR TRAINING PROJECT
Rima
Suumary Accounts by Year
Base Costs                                          Foreian Eebnange
1990191   1991192   1992193   1"93194   1994195   1995196   1996197    Total         I   Amount
I. INVESTMa3f COSTS
A.  CIVIL WORKS                       520       937      1141       171         0         0         0      2769          30    831
D. PURJLITURB                           a        30       223        10         0         0         0       270          30     81
C.  EQUIPMENT                         252       794       866       167        So        40        30      2200          90   1978
0.  TEACHING KATERIALS                  0       169       169       132        25        20         0       515         80    412
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. PROJECT INPLW4ENTATION           46       149       149       149       103        1O        10       617          90    555
2. ORGANIZATION IMPROVEMENT        415      1757     1llS        367       235         0         0      3888          90   3499
3. FELLOWSHIPS & TRAINING          1S5       946      1469      1511      1490      1258       669      7498         8S   6598
Sub-total                             616      2852      2734      2027      1827      1268       679    12003          89  10653
Total INVESTMENT COSTS               1396      4791      5134      2506      1902      1328       709    17757           79  13954
II. RECURRENT COSTS
F. CONSUMABLES & SUPPLIES               0        40        80        80        80        80        80       440          50    220
0.  PAMILY ALLOWANCE OVERSEAS           0        52        61        61        61        61        80       376          95    357
Total RECURRENT COSTS                   0        92       141       141       141       141       160       816          71    577
Total BASELINE COSTS                 1396      4873      5274      2647      2043      1469       869    18572           78  14531
Physlcal Continsencies             101       356       347       176       136        88        A7      1250          80    995
Price ContLngencies                 39       355       646       421       411       368       254      2494         71   1770
Total PROJECT COSTS                  1536      5585      6267      3243      2590      1925      1171    22316          78  17296
Taxes                                         o         0         o         0         0         0         0          0       0
Foreign Exchange                   920      4222      4508      2696      2259      1645      1046    17296          100  17296
Val_____________________e________________Sc________________le___________________________y___________1000.0____________________________
Values Scaled by 1000.0 
00



* 47 -
PAPUA  miw GUINEA                                         Paea  1 of 3
PUILIC SECSOl TRAINING PROJECT
Imolemmntetlon schdubL
|                  aBank FY              I    1991  |    1992   |    1993   |    1994   |    1995   |    1996   |    1997   | 1998
|           Calendar/PHG Fiscal Yosr  119901    1991   |    1992   1    1993   |    1994   |    1996   |    1996   |    1997   1981
| EPLfMlESnATION OP T28  WAT L TRAXUZNG POLICY   <05191-gstlmsted Effecrivensss                       Cmpletjon Dtte-03/97)   I            I
I  ----------------------------              --      i -                       I                         |            |  Closing   Date-03198>l
|Department of Pareann LMen^e.z  nt  |               I            I            I            I            I            I                      |
|  Project Manaser  ppointed              c | *                                I            I            I            I            I         I
I  Project Coordinating Comittee **-I   *------------------------------------------                                                          I
r ablishad   vill be  mintained  I                   I            I           .1            I            I            I            I         I
|  Dwelop & *stab. database system                     - n-1                   I            I            I            I            I         I
|   Implement the database system                              *----------------------------------------------------------------------
Set up & m       oe apration.l the      I           1RC------------------    I             I            I            I            I 
| mplemntatiLon                                               I *----------------------------------------------------------I-------
Staff deovlopmnet-train SDO staff                1--------------------------------
|     to nalyso trainingnedssnd    |
|     improve trainingplans              I |         |            |            |                           |
Implesentation                                   i        ------------------------------------------------------------------------
I                            ~      ~    ~      ~~I  I  i            I            I            I            I            II
|   Consultsnt servicee 
|For DF                                              I
I Information techmolog1st               I           1-------------                           *
T Yraining. inlyt advisor                |           1--------  I              _            _
|     Staff dv. & training  dvisor                   j*----------------------------- ----                                            
|     Project manager                        *--------------------------------------------------------------------I-----------I-I-|
F Por National Trainlng Council:
I 1nformation tebhnolgoist                           1------------            - 
|     Staff dovw.trng plan consultant |              I       *---I II                      -s                         I            I         I
sngt advisor to NTC Secretariat                1-------------------------                         --                         i
|Departmnt of Lobor nd Employment  I                 I            I            I            I            I            I            I         I
|  Mnag.r for DLE componnt deLs. 4                   I            I 
|   Develop & astab. database  ystem                  -----------                                                      
L|opiemntation                                             ------------------------------------------------------------------------
|  Dev.&*st^b.iateg.microfichs  ytem                  ------------             I            I            I            I            I
Implementstion                                                *-------------------------------------------------------------------
|   D-elop  & estabish  an info. unitt                                           ------------                        I            I
Imnplementation                                                    ----------------------------------------------------------------
| Staff trainins (mangemnt)                            - 1--- - - - - - ------------
I                           I         ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~~I  I  i  I   I            I            I        I
|   Consultant services:                 |
|     Labor econaomst                                  - -a---------- - -
system sniyst/trainsr                          i       ---------------- 
Orgn d.vlmnasemet trainer                        - I   -------------- ----------- - I  -            --          I            I 
Infoaiation upcialistllibrarti                                                    ------------------------                            I
-  -   -    -   -   -    -   -    -   -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -    -   -    -    -  -   -    -   -   -    - I    -  -  -  -  -  -



. 48 -
Page 2 of 3
PAPUA NI GUnMA
PUBLIC SECSOR TAIHING PROJECT
Tmple0entatton Schedule
Bank FY               |  1991   |  1992    |   1993    |  1994    |  1995    |   1996    |  1997    |  1998
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------
CslendarIPNG Fiscal Year  119901   1991    1  1992    |   1993    1  1994    1  1995    1  1996    1  1997    1981
3TRENGiHENxNG OF TSE ADMINISTRATXVE CoLLEGE  <05191-Estlmated Effectiveness                       C Cocpletion Date-03197>   I        t
-------------------------------------------__    I            I           I                         I           I  Closina    Date-03/98>1
Establish petm. GavrnLag Council |       -------                                                  I             
Appoint Adcol projectmanagar          a                     I i  t      |                                       |  |t
EstablLsh Adcol impl. coamLttee   I *          I            I           1                         1     I            I          I
|Eamine & prepare plan on autonomy|  *----- - a*            I                        I                        i
Implementation of utonomy plan  I              I  *______________________----- -                  --                    ------------
Dev.establish internal mnSt system             1--------a1              I            I            I           I            I
Implementation of management plan                          --------------------------------------------------------------------
Strengthen Course Design Unit (CDU):           I            I           I            |            I           I            I        I
TMNcapaoitY building                          -----------)                                                                       i
Curriculum dvelopment                         -----------a)                                                 
Course selection                             *-----------* )    on-going thereafter -----------------------------------------
Information network                          -----------* )                                                              
|   onitortng   evluation                     - 1*                   I            I            I           I            I 
Staff developsent units          1           *--- -      C)                       I                        t     I          I
Staff Dvelopment Planngng           I          I            i           I            I            I           I            i        I
Career paths for Adcol staff                   *----------                                                               
In-hous etraining for st-ff                                                                                I---------- 
Strengthening Research & Pub. Unitl            *---------     -       * -            I            t           I            I        t
Consultant servicesI
CDU advisor                                   -----------------------                            
Training of trainers' advisor  I               a---- -                                               I       t 
Autonomy plan consultant         I          i*---        I           I            t            I           I            I        t
Management advtsor to admln.                i------------------                               -      I  
Information technologist                     -----------------------                                                     
Short-term advisors              I          t      *----t            i            I      --II-
|TE oVERSEAs ELLOWsEIPPROGRAmf          I          I            I           I            I           I            I            I 
Selection of candtdatea             I _             -       I    - _                ----          I    ---    i            I        t
Placement & program implementationj             a---------------------------------------------------------------------------I
Monitoring, eval.& re-entry plans                   ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
I  -  -   -  -   -   -  -  -   -  -    -  -  -   -  -  -    -  -  -   -  -    -    --   -  -  -   -   -  -   --I  t  I  I  I  -   -  -  I



- 49
am
Page 3 of 3
PAPUA NEW GUITEA
PUBLIC SECTOR TRAINUIr PROJECT
Imol.mentat-on Schedule
Bank pn                  1991   |  1992    |  1993    |  1994    |  1995            1996    i  1997    |  1998
CalendarlPNG Fiscal Year  |19901   1991    |  1992    1  1993    1  1994    |  1995    j  1996    |  1997   1981
I l     <05191-Eattmted Effectiveness          |         Co*letn Date-03/97>   I
| PHYSICAL FACILITIES                                                                                        I I  I  I  I  |  | Closing Date-031986>1
-  |CLtil vorks (Adcol)                     I          I           I           I           I           I           I           I |
m'ain campusIIIIIIII                                                                                                            I
I    Design & drawings t                         II^
|    Bidding doc preparation          I*__*
|    Bidding & bid "aluation               -- *_______
I    Contract wa rds a*n  signing                I h   *__*
Construction                                     - - *__________________
|  Regional Tra ln-a Centers
Design & drawtngs                         a                             I---I
|    Bidding docs preparation         |        *            |            |           |           |           |
|    Bidding I bid evluation          I                 a *_____*
|    Contract awards and sIgning M               |       a--a
Construction                                            - - a----------
I                                     I          I           I           I           I           I           I           i       I
|Equipmentt                                                        
E Bquipment ILsts,  specifications  |       -------I
I BIdding documents preparation       |         *-           |           |           |
|  Bidding & bid evaluation                           - I  *-_____*                                          |
I  Contract avards  ndLAns   g        |          I                       I*-ng
Delivery & installtton                                           - - |  *--- ------
-------                                                           -        -     -       -    -      -    -        -
l~~ I I I I I I I I



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PUBLIC SECTOR TRAINING PROJECT
Organization Chart
PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND CORDINATION
| SECRETARY                                     SECRETARY
PROJECT COORDINATING COMMITTEE
CHAIRED BY: SECRETARY, OPM.
SEC'YS (OR NOMINEES) F ORLE, DFP
AOCOL lIRECTOR, DIRECTOR,OIDA,
FASIMOTRD
I                     r~__    __I
DEPT. OF LABOR             DEPT. OF PERSONNEL              AMNSRTEOP.O
MANAGEMENT                      COLLEGE                    WORKS
rTHE OVERSEASir|
FELLOWSHIP                       RTCs
PROGRAM
EKIW47668               o



- 51 -
ANNEX 11
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PUBLIC SECTOR TRAINING PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Standard
Amount       Cumulative       Disbursement
IBRD Fiscal Year           per    ------------------  Profile for   Semester
and Semester          Semester      Amount      %    PNG Projects
----(US$ million)----             ( % )
1992
lst (Jul 91-Dec 91)        1.0         1.0       5              1           1
2nd (Jan 92-Jun 92)        0.6         1.6       8             4           2
1993
1st (Jul 92-Dec 92)        1.4         3.0      14              8           3
2nd (Jan 93-Jun 93)        1.4         4.4      21             14           4
1994
1st (Jul 93-Dec 93)        2.0         6.4      31            23            5
2nd (Jan 94-Jun 94)        2.0         8.4      41             33           6
1995
1st (Jul 94-Dec 94)        2.0        10.4      50            41            7
2nd (Jan 95-Jun 95)        2.0       12.4       60            50            8
1996
1st (Jul 95-Dec 95)        1.9        14.3      69            58            9
2nd (Jan 96-Jun 96)        1.9        16.2      78            69          10
1997
1st (Jul 96-Dec 96)        1.5        17.7      85            77          11
2nd (Jan 97-Jun 97)        1.5        19.2      92             84         12
1998
1st (Jul 97-Dec 97)        0.8        20.0      96            92          13
2nd (Jan 98-Jun 98)        0.8        20.8     100             98         14
100          15
Closing Date: March 31, 1998



52-                            ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 2
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PUBLIC SECTOR TRAINING PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
A.   Reports and Studies Related to the Sector/Subsector
A-1  National Training Policy, DPM, January 1989
A-2  Government Administrative Reform and Improvement Program, Department of
the Prime Minister, undated
A-3  A Strategy for Employment Promotion and Manpower Development in Papua New
Guinea, ILO/ARTEP, September, 1989
A-4  Review of Manpower, Employment Demand and Training Needs in the
Agricultural Sector, Papua New Guinea, UNDP/FAO, 1989
A-5 Advisory Technical Assistance Study on Higher Education in Papua New
Guinea, ADB/CHE, April 1987
A-6  Papua New Guinea Manpower and Training Review, Dennis and Townsend,
January 1984
A-7 Papua New Guinea Policies and Proepects for Sustained and Broad-Based
Growth, Vol 2, IBRD, April 19, 1988
A-8  Public Sector Management in Papua New Guinea: An Administrative
Overview, IBRD, June 27, 1983
A-9  Management and Training for Development:  The Hombe Thesis, Reilly,
Public Administration and Development, Vol. 7, pp. 25-42, 1987
A-10 'Trainingismg Revisited in Papua New Guinea, Turner, Public
Administration and Development, Vol. 9, pp. 17-28, 1989
B.   Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B-i  Efficiency and Effectiveness in Public Service Training:  The Case of the
Administrative College of Papua New Guinea, Turner, Administration and
Development, No. 25, July 1985.
B-2  The Administrative College of Papua New Guinea:  A Project for Upgrading
and Development, Bray, July 26, 1989
B-3  Report of Mission to Papua New Guinea:  Proposed Public Sector Training
Project, Bray, February 9, 1990
B-4  Proposed Public Sector Training Project for Papua New Guinea:  Department
of Labor and Employment, Turner, October 1989



- 53 -                              ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2
B-5 Ditto, Turner, February 1990
B-6 Selection Criteria for Training Programs, DPM, October 1989
B-7 Working Paper on the Upgrading and Improvement of the Administrative
College of Papua New Guinea, Dobunaba, January 1990
B-8 Adcol Reference Group: Report, Billings, January 1990
B-9 Upgrading the Administrative College of Papua New Guinea, Romer and
Zoubi, UNDTCD, February 1990
C.   Selected Working Papers
C-1 IBRD Working Paper - Civil Works and Equipment



IBRD 2273
141                144                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~147                                                                                            4
M  A N  US                                                  I                                                                PAPUA  NEW   G  U I N EA
iANS                                           T                                           ---  3 jPUBLIC SECTOR TRAINING PROJECT
!  I                     {                      MANUS                          |                    N  E W    / ,, f     A N  DN*A  Regionol Training Centers
I                                                                                                    N E   5     | ~~~_  fR                            i  $ /z1 a t  1    5  J:/ <W  I RELDAND  U  College
im4anno                MI IneRoa-
Il   S F P                                           I r--~J                                   -;7_____1______________tv                                    <                        .-Z  Ports
If    1 Z           tp              t                                              SAs s  arc  k   /  S a                                                                          t -International Airport
i                        I-------1  .                                                                                      w ILANO /                        CapitarlN E W    B     I r A  I N    \    Iat
__                                                                        _-                                                                       IRELAND                       Towns
5 F p ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Mountoinous Areas
ASTISLANDS REGIONAL
Ij    ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ I--~.ITRAINING CENT, EIR                                                                                                                 Rivers
------I       -S  ---  ---K  --- ---                                                                                            - ---   --- -- District Boundaries
I            /                                                Robcsvt    I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~neatoa Boundaries
I'                                                                                      /sIt/OS 11 1 E A  S   N E   W d  R I     A    N
-'                                     /'W ST            NEWARINAI
-NORTHERN REGIONAL ---- ---L               
TPAINING CENTER O BI                                                                                                          f
I  E     ng                                              I                                                                                      isohanQ
HIGH`L`ANS IR'eG/ONA                                                                                                                                                                     VV         
TRAINING CENT                                                                                                     NEWdB /ITAI N  o   -  I                     I N N
il-                  I SOUTHERN                                                 ItA                         I9                    NEW   ,   M IA                                   BOUGAINVILLE
OI E 5,, PAPAS SETV RUINEA  '                                                                    I       A          NEW NR I  r                N I N
NEA .N                                      t                                           t                                               0  20  4        e,o *oo i         __,___B.olo
COI        ISS
Moretreod                                         Bereis~~~      ;": NK kor,              RN
W F 5 F E R N                                                                                                                                                       041%~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ADMINISTRATIVE CLLEGE ~ ~ I                                   
SOUTHER  REGIONAL8 A 
TRAINING CENTER                                                                                                     1                   
Oi   PAPUA NEWGUINEA              /IC N R                                                      LSnuso
NEW                                                                                                                                                      45I
b..nwr,. ~ ~   ~    12ms..I
NOVEMBER 199



