Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20240-PG
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(LOAN 32900)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20.8 MILLION
TO THE
INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FOR THE PUBLIC SECTOR TRAINING rPROJECT
March 31, 2000
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 2000 K3.1746 = US$ 1)
Currency Unit = Papua New Guinea Kina (K)
November 1990 KO.967 = US$ I
March 1995 KI .17 = US$1
December 1998 K2.15 = US$1
September 1999 K2.963 = US$1
US$ I = K3.1746
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         Asian Development Bank
AdCol       Administrative College (later PNGIPA)
AIDAB       Australian International Development Assistance (later AusAID)
AusAID      Australian Agency for International Development
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA        Canadian International Development Agency
DEY         Department of Employment and Youth
DFP         Department of Finance and (Economic) Planning
DLE         Department of Labor, Employment, Culture and Tourism (formerly DEY)
DoTP        Department of Treasury and Planning (formerly DFP)
DPM         Department of Personnel Management
FWPA        Foreign Work Permit Application
FWPAS       Foreign Work Permits Applications System
GRA         Gazelle Restoration Authority (for Rabaul/Gazelle Peninsula Reconstruction Loan)
HRD         Human Resource Development
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IT         Information Technology
LCB         Local (later National) Competitive Bidding
NTB or NTC National Training Board or National Training Council
NTCS        National Training Council Secretariat
NTP         National Training Policy
PCC         Project Coordinating Committee (later PMC)
PMC         Project Management Committee
PMU         Project Management Unit (later PSU)
PNG         Independent State of Papua New Guinea
PNGIPA    Papua New Guinea Institute of Public Administration
PPAR        Project Performance Audit Report
PSU         Project Support Unit
RTC         Regional Training Center
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SDU         Staff Development Unit
SOE         Statement of Expenditure
UPNG        University of Papua New Guinea
WPS         Work Permit Scheme
Vice President:  Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director:   Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager/Director:   Alan Ruby
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   David Klaus



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 9
6. Sustainability                                                                    12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   15
9. Partner Comments                                                                  16
10. Additional Information                                                           19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                32
Annex 8 Status of Legal Covenants                                                    33
Annex 9 Loan Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual                            37
Annex 10 Consultants: Proposed and Actual                                            38
Annex 11 Overseas Fellowships: Proposed and Actual                                   39
Annex 12 Local Fellowship Training 1997-1998                                         42
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P004387                                       Project Name: PG-PUBLIC SECTOR TRAINING
Team Leader: David A. Klaus                               TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: March 29, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: PG-PUBLIC SECTOR TRAINING                         L/C Number: 32900
Country/Department: PAPUA NEW GUTNEA                                     Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: BI - Institutional Development
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  02/13/89                                Effective: 06/03/91            07/03/91
Appraisal:  01/16/90                                  MTR:
Approval:  01/29/91                                Closing: 03/31/98            09/30/99
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA/DEPARTMENT OF
PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                       A. Karaosmanoglu
Country Manager:     Klaus Rohland                              R. Cheetham
Sector Manager:      Alan Ruby                                  C. Gilpin
Team Leader at ICR:   David Klaus                               W. Rees
ICR Primary Author:   Bernard Masters (Consultant)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development SU
Impact:
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance. S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3. 1 Original Objective:
The basic objectives of the Project were to: (i) strengthen in-service training in the public
and private sectors; and (ii) increase the supply of specialized high-level personnel to staff the



Government's policy and planning agencies and to help meet shortages of technical skills. The
overall impact of the Project was intended to assist in strengthening the management, planning
and technical capabilities of the public sector, and to improve and monitor the effectiveness of
training in the private sector.
Above all, the Project was meant to be a strategic planning intervention. It was widely
recognized that training was critical for achieving several basic government objectives, including
(a) economic and social development (training nationals in skills needed for the developing
economy and society), (b) localization (training nationals to replace skilled expatriates), (c)
devolution (training civil servants at the provincial and district levels in order to transfer
responsibilities for providing basic government services from the national level to the provincial
and district levels), (d) enhancement of gender equity (increasing training opportunities for
women), and (e) civil service reform (training civil servants in order to increase the productivity
of the civil service). It was also recognized that strategic planning was required to ensure that
the scarce resources available for training (both national and donor-funded) be used as efficiently
and effectively as possible. To achieve this end, the National Training Act was passed in 1989,
and the Project was designed to support the National Training Act as follows:
*  Assist all government Departments (national and provincial) to prepare training plans for their
staff (i.e., civil servants).
e  Require private firms to prepare training plans for their employees.
*  Assist the Department of Personnel Management (DPM) to amalgamate and computerize the
training plans of Government Departments and analyze the results so as to identify the
highest-priority training needs in the public sector.
3  Assist the Department of Labor and Employment (DLE) to amalgamate and computerize the
training plans of private firms and analyze the results, together with newly generated
information on employment and the labor force, so as to identify the highest-priority training
needs in the private sector.
*  Assist the National Training Council Secretariat (NTCS) to use DPM's and DLE's results to
prepare an annual National Training Plan (NTP) setting forth the highest-priority training
needs, both qualitative and quantitative, for the country as a whole.
*  Assist government planners to determine how to make best use of national resources available
for training, including training both locally and overseas, to meet the highest-priority needs.
*  Assist government planners to determine how to make best use of donor resources available
for training, particularly technical assistance and overseas fellowships.
*  Assist the National Training Council Secretariat to evaluate and accredit the country's
training institutions, both public and private.
- 2 -



* Assist the Administrative College (AdCol) (later the Papua New Guinea Institute of Public
Administration-PNGIPA) to provide the training courses required to meet some of the
highest-priority needs.
*  Provide overseas fellowships, particularly at the mid-career level, in areas (policy and
planning; higher-level technical skills) unlikely to be offered by the traditional fellowship
donors:
Project indicators were not identified until 1996 but focused on: (a) the existence of
reliable databases on the civil service, and on the labor force and employment; (b) increased
percentages of civil servants and private-sector employees receiving in-service training; (c)
increased percentage of national staff in policy and planning positions having graduate degrees;
and (d) decreased percentage of expatriates in (i) high-level positions in Government policy and
planning agencies, (ii) technical positions in key Government line agencies, and (iii) technical
positions in private sector firms (Annex 1).
These objectives more clearly focused earlier Bank support in institutional improvement
and personnel training. They are in line with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of
improving governance for sustainable development. Although the qualitative objectives were not
modified, Bank funding for the Public Sector Training Project (PSTP) was drastically reduced in
March 1995 with the transfer of US$12.5 million into the Gazelle Restoration Authority (GRA)
project which resulted in only US$8.3 million remaining for the PSTP (Annex 2), and physical
targets (civil works, technical assistance and number of overseas fellowships) were reduced
accordingly.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The basic objectives of the Project were not changed despite a major reduction in funds
(with $12.5 million going to GRA) and in physical scope (civil works, TA and fellowships) to
allow for this transfer of funds.
3.3 Original Components:
The Project included the following components in support of the National Training Policy:
(a)   Strengthening DPM's capacity to promote, coordinate, monitor and evaluate public sector
training. DPM was charged with: (i) designing and delivering management training
workshops; (ii) developing a computerized database of the training plans of all
government Departments; and, later, (iii) computerizing a Human Resource System (HRS)
database, and combining this with the Payroll System in order to increase the
cost-efficiency of Public Service postings. The first of these has been successfully
implemented, with positive feedback from provincial participants, while greatly assisting in
restructuring the public service. The foundations for computerizing the training plans of
all government Departments and the HRS/Payroll system are in place, but data remain to
be entered into a modernized system.
- 3 -



(b)   Strengthening DLE's capacity to identify, record, monitor and evaluate the training plans
of private employers. This required (i) the development of a computerized database of all
Foreign Work Permit Applications (FWPA), to track the extent to which localization of
positions was occurring, (i.e., the extent to which training was being provided to allow
nationals to replace non-nationals); (ii) the development of a computerized database of
three-year training plans of all private enterprises grossing more than Kina 100,000
annually or hiring at least one expatriate, and subject to a 2% training levy; and (iii) the
development of capacity within DLE to gather, produce, and disseminate labor statistics
(see 4.2 below). These first two items have only been partially successful, with work
remaining to be done to operationalise the databases. The development of the Labor
Statistics Unit was more successful.
(c)   Assisting NTCS to implement the National Training Act and Policy. NTCS was intended
to direct planning, policy, monitoring and evaluation of training in both the public and
private sectors. To achieve this: (i) an annual National Training Plan was to be prepared
combining information from DPM and DLE; and (ii) a register of all training providers
was to be computerized as each provider applied for recognition. These elements have
been put in place, but much data collection is still required, and maintaining their
effectiveness is a continuing activity.
(d)   Revitalizing PNGIPA through (i) revising and upgrading syllabi at PNGIPA so that short
courses of greater relevance to both the public and private sectors could be offered
through intensive skill development and executive management development programs;
(ii) funding civil works, furniture and equipment in the main campus and four Regional
Training Centers (RTCs); and (iii) emphasizing research, curriculum development and the
training of trainers. All of these elements have been substantially achieved. In 1999, b
udget stringency caused the Department of Finance and Planning to eliminate the
operating budget of PNGIPA, which was therefore forced to begin generating its own
revenues immediately by charging for the delivery of courses to public servants.
(e)   Providing about one hundred overseas fellowships in management, planning and technical
skills for which training was not available in PNG. This component was reduced in 1995
from an allocation of $9.1 million to only $1.5 million. This contradicted one of the
original project's key objectives of providing many overseas fellowships. The Government
(Department of Planning) decided to stop the overseas fellowships of the PSTP in 1995,
since Australia and New Zealand offered about 450 grant fellowships annually for which
only about 200 qualified candidates could be found. As a result, only 51 fellows went
abroad under the PSTP, achieving moderate success, with many now occupying senior
government positions (Annex 11). In 1997, remaining funds from the PSTP were used to
start a local fellowship program at PNGIPA. This two-year initiative (Annex 12)
responded directly to the enormous demand at the provincial and district levels generated
by the devolution of responsibilities from the central government.
-4-



3.4 Revised Components:
The following costs include Government contributions:
Rating           Component                   Sector                Cost
S      DEPT. OF PERSONNEL       Public                            1,900,000
MANAGEMENT
U      DEPT. OF EMPLOYMENT &   Private                              900,000
YOUTH
S      INSTITUTE OF PUBLIC       Training                         4,600,000
ADMINISTRATION
S      FELLOWSHIPS PROGRAM    Training                             1,500,000
HS     VOLCANO/RURAL RDS.        Reconstruction                    13,400,000
RECONSTRUCTION
S      NAT. TRAINING COUNCIL   Training                             800,000
SECRETARIAT
Total                                                   23,100,000
3.5 Quality at Entry:
While the objectives were clear and consistent with CAS general objectives, and the
project design was relatively straightforward, insufficient attention was given by the Bank to
assessing the capacity of the culture and society to adopt a strenuous work ethic. The
Government was over-ambitious in seeking fellowships without adequately gauging the pool of
potential candidates, especially the availability of qualified women to go overseas (Annex 1). The
institutions involved in the project, and particularly the Project Support Unit (PSU) established to
manage it, did not have the qualified or experienced manpower or the authority to be assigned to
such an undertaking. In retrospect, therefore, the Project's quality at entry can be judged to have
been only barely satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall assessment is that the objectives were achieved satisfactorily. However,
during the first two years, little was accomplished due to innumerable changes in government and
senior personnel adversely effecting decision-making for initial implementation, lack of
understanding of Bank procedures, use of a centrally controlled disbursement process, failure to
appoint international consultants, insufficiently qualified key national personnel appointed from
the outset, and in the fourth year, a natural disaster forcing re-allocation of 60% of the Loan into
reconstruction relief. Only in 1995 was project implementation significantly turned around by a
new Bank Task Manager instituting stricter supervision, disbursement through the Project itself,
appointment of international consultants, establishing an implementation plan and project
indicators, and almost daily interaction with the Project Director.
Qualitatively, the objectives have largely been satisfactorily achieved. The four major
-5-



institutions (DPM, DLE, NTCS, and PNGIPA) have been revitalized, and the managers and staff
involved in the Project in each agency have become multi-skilled. However, it must be
recognized that specialized skills in such areas as accounting, procurement, and computer
programming were not readily available within these institutions and appropriate staff were not
employed. This has adversely affected project management. Training received greater public and
political recognition as the PSTP was implemented. Private sector training providers are
beginning to be registered (about 75 by August 1999), and enterprises submit training plans to
prepare nationals to replace foreigners. There is some evidence that public and private training
are better coordinated. On the negative side, DPM, DLE, and NTCS still have only limited
trained manpower to analyze or monitor training plans. NTCS can not do any more than cursorily
register private training providers, and it registers all public providers automatically, irrespective
of quality. NTCS staff have neither the time nor the competence to evaluate actual training or its
relevance to the workplace. Each of these qualitative activities needs further attention.
Quantitatively, the Project was borderline unsatisfactory. Project financing was
drastically reduced in March 1995, following the volcanic eruptions in September 1994. Despite
this reduced funding, the PSTP failed to disburse eleven percent of its reduced Loan amount ($8.3
million, as compared to the appraisal figure of $20.8 million) (Annex 2), only half of the overseas
fellowships were awarded (but were adequately replaced by in-country training) (Annexes 11 and
12), and in comparison to appraisal estimates, only limited technical assistance, civil works and
goods were provided. The four databases (the URS/Payroll system and the Civil Service Training
Plans database in DPM and the FWPA system and the Company Three-Year Training Plans
database in DLE), intended to be major outputs from the Project, are not yet fully operational. A
Household Labor Force Survey was designed, but lack of funding forced it to be postponed past
the PSTP's Closing Date.
A major omission from project design was the lack of any criteria or performance
indicators by which to judge the progress or achievements of the project. Only through the
efforts of the latest World Bank Task Manager were general performance indicators discussed
with PSU in 1996. These indicators were labeled as Input, Output and Management indicators
and each component agency was asked to evaluate its performance so that the PSU could make
an annual assessment of progress toward the targets (Annex 1). Insufficient understanding of the
manner in which such indicators could be assessed, as well as their value in guiding future plans
and actions, has diluted their impact. More importantly, insufficient emphasis and effort have
been placed on completing the databases which in turn has restricted the analysis and use of the
indicators.
4.2 Outputs by components:
In concept, the Project design was appropriate for assisting the Government to implement
its new National Training Policy, but it did not prescribe adequate daily management, personnel or
financial procedures. The Project's macroeconomic policies have been in line with broad
Government priorities and with the sector policies of upgrading training and improving the skills
and understanding of senior officials. The institutional strengthening of key Departments has been
achieved. Indeed, the revitalization of these Departments and the improved understanding of
personnel management in the Provinces is evidence that the Project has contributed significantly
-6 -



to the longer-term ability of the Government to train and effectively deploy its human resources.
At the same time, the minimum physical inputs of the Project were disappointing both to the
component agencies and to the Bank. This, and the poor financial management of the Project,
can be attributed to insufficient and constant non-availability of Government counterpart funding,
to political interference in the administration of the Project, and to project management which was
not sufficiently proactive and forceful.
The Department of Personnel Management (DPM) was responsible under the Project for
developing four major actions: (i) A framework, strategy and guidelines for human resource
development within the public service. Public Sector Training Manuals have been produced to
explain these initiatives, but only one of three volumes has been distributed and training on its
content conducted. A core group of trainers has been trained who will continue to train
personnel, provided local budget provision is made. DPM needs to give priority to the
distribution of, and training on, the remaining two volumes. Training was given to over 100
departmental, provincial and local officers, especially in how to identify the skills mix appropriate
for each entity, which greatly assisted in the rationalization exercise in late 1998 in which every
Department of government was reduced, amalgamated or abolished. The output from the PSTP
can be seen as the successful application of effective training which resulted in a more
cost-effective and downsized civil service. These actions were stimulated through the work of an
effective and greatly appreciated consultant assigned to DPM as part of the Project technical
assistance. (ii) The coordination and management of overseas and local fellowship training.
A high success rate was achieved in overseas fellowships, and most fellows were assigned to
posts of significance (Annex 11). It is unfortunate that at the time when the number of fellowship
applications was increasing sharply, due to greater awareness and acceptance of the program,
funding was curtailed and overseas fellowships stopped. (iii) The Civil Service Training Plans
database. This database, intended to identify types of training most needed, still is not
operational. All national departments and the provinces prepared annual training plans for 1999,
and some of the data were entered into the database, but then the plans could not be implemented,
once rationalization (the reduction in the civil service) began to take effect. (iv) The combined
HRS/Payroll database. This database is intended as a monitoring and decision-making tool for
the whole civil service. The groundwork has been done, but the system cannot be made
operational without new hardware and software. These outputs from the PSTP have therefore
been only partially realized.
The Department of Labor and Employment (DLE) was intended to provide at least three
outputs under the Project. The outputs were designed to enable DLE to fulfill its role of defining
where skills are needed in the private sector which, in turn, will contribute to a more effective role
for NTCS in planning, registering and monitoring training directed at such skill gaps. (i) A
computerized Labor Statistics Unit. The Unit has been established and, through the work of the
PSTP-funded Labor Economist consultant, a comprehensive basis now exists for collecting and
updating labor statistics. Annual reports are produced by a widely representative Labor Statistics
Advisory Group which also intends to obtain annual employment returns. Such data would also
have been enhanced from the carrying out of a Household Labor Force Survey, which the
consultant had prepared but whose implementation was delayed through lack of funding. (ii)
Computerization of a Foreign Work Permits Application System (FWPAS). While basic
-7 -



technical work and a manual were prepared by the international consultant, DLE management has
been unwilling to operationalize it because some national systems analysts oppose its introduction.
Hence, the system is not operational despite efforts to hire a local computer firm to ensure that it
can, over the next three years, take over the existing manually operated system as current work
permits expire. (iii) A Company Three-Year Training Plans database, which is not fully
operational since less than 20 percent of the data received from the training plans submitted by the
3,200 private-sector firms in the country have been inputted. Once again, local technical expertise
is needed to integrate this system with other systems. The work could have been completed
before the Closing Date, but was not. DLE must now find funds to complete both database
systems or much of the work of the PSTP in DLE will be lost, and DLE's plans to develop
ftirther databases will be jeopardized.
The National Training Council Secretariat (NTCS) was established in 1994 to implement
the NTP, and, under the PSTP, to lay the foundation for four major outputs: (i) Annual
Training Plans. Such plans were prepared for 1998 and 1999, as required under the National
Training Act, but have not been approved yet by the National Executive Council (NEC). Such
plans reflect the data collected from both DLE and DPM but at this stage do not sufficiently
quantify key skills in each occupational group, the skills gaps in the current workforce, and hence
the priorities or direction for training in both the private and public domains. (ii) A Register of
Training Providers. This Register has been established and requires an assessment of both
public and private training institutions--syllabi, physical conditions, and staffing. To date, about
73 private institutions (of the 107 which applied for accreditation) have been visited by officers
from NTCS. Of these, 5 are being recommended for de-registration. The assessment needs to be
more comprehensive, but NTCS staff also should be more appropriately trained in accreditation
measures. Public institutions are automatically registered as training institutions, but this practice
needs to be brought into line with the standards required for private accreditation. (iii)
Dissemination of information about training. This activity has been limited by lack of funds.
The NTCS produced a brochure but has been unable to reprint or update it. A Newsletter is
circulated to all Departments and Provinces, to registered private training institutions, Chambers
of Commerce, and other parties, but does not seem to be known among employers and the
general public. Hence the impact of NTCS is restricted, although its potential for guiding,
regulating, monitoring and accrediting training is great. (iv) An assessment of Institutions
Qualifying for the Tax Levy Exemption. This activity has been only partially implemented.
NTC has approved some 46 tertiary training institutions, but only four non-tertiary-level
commercial programs have been submitted by the Internal Revenue Commission for assessment
by NTCS. A major review of NTC was completed in 1997, but since the review has not been
submitted to NEC, no action has been taken on its findings. Although monitoring of the National
Training Policy was a major function intended for NTCS, this has not been possible because (a) it
is understaffed and under-skilled; and (b) the quantitative databases do not yet exist. Present
thinking within key core government agencies is that the National Training Policy is outdated and
needs to be replaced by a broader, yet stronger, policy on human resource development.
The PNG Institute of Public Administration (PNGIPA) was funded under the Project to
provide three key outputs: (i) A revitalization of PNGIPA. Under the PSTP, and with
PSTP-provided technical assistance, PNGIPA underwent a major reorganization and
-8 -



revitalization, with a new mission statement, a new structure, and new procedures. The agency is
far more efficient and effective than it was at project inception. (ii) Increased physical capacity
to receive students. With capacity for about 300 students on the main campus and an annual
turnover of about 1,500 students through the short courses, student demand is increasing,
especially in the RTCs, whose current capacity and limited staffing preclude private students even
though the demand from the private sector is large. Staffing at the main campus, on the other
hand, is generous, increasing from 33 in 1990 to 98 in 1999, and could benefit from a proposed
retrenchment which may force PNGIPA to contract for services and become more
income-generating and cost-effective. PNGIPA was the only PSTP-assisted agency to receive
funding for civil works and furniture, and the new buildings provide a positive contrast with
earlier buildings. Yet more works and goods could have improved further the quality and
effectiveness of the institution, but these could not be procured because of limited cash flow and
the reticence of the Project Director to commit additional funds. (iii) An increase in the
number, range and quality of short courses. PNGIPA publishes an annual Course Directory
which demonstrates the accomplishment of this objective. In 1999, only 14 long-term courses
were offered in comparison to 30 short-term core courses and 18 short courses in specialized
competencies for management and administration. Manuals for all courses have been compiled,
with assistance from the PSTP-provided international consultant.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Four major institutional developments have resulted from the Project: (i) The provincial
administrations, through the training provided by DPM, have become much more responsive to
training for their officers. This is having a positive effect on the way in which government
business is being conducted at the local level. (ii) The establishment of the new entity, the
National Training Council Secretariat (NTCS), is having a marked effect on the manner in
which training policy is being implemented. (iii) The PNGIPA has become revitalized both in its
course offerings and in its movement toward being more income-generating and cost-effective.
(iv) Overall, the impact of the overseas and local fellows and their high retention rate in
government posts have improved the functioning of both managerial and technical officers. In
retrospect, many more officers in each of the components of the Project could have benefited
from such training.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Although the objectives of the Project were not changed by the following external factors,
the achievements were. The most significant was the volcanic eruption at Rabaul in late 1994,
-9-



with the subsequent re-allocation from the PSTP of 60% of the Loan to the GRA in March 1995.
Given the dismal record of the PSTP project to that point, such a reduction was both opportune
and understandable. Secondly, the decline in the price of copper and other minerals in the
early years adversely affected the Project because the Government had continuing difficulty
finding counterpart funds to cover Project expenses.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Project strongly supported Government and sector policies for improving human
resource capacity. But the protracted Government procedures for selection and contracting of
international consultants, identification of suitable fellowship candidates, for approving
procurement actions, and for appointing qualified staff or consultants adversely affected the speed
with which the Project could be implemented. There was a serious delay (of over three years) in
appointing international consultants under the Project. Despite the initial estimate of 16
international consultants needed to assist the Project, by the end of protracted negotiations and in
view of the reduction in Loan amount, only 6 consultants were ultimately appointed in 1995.
Initially, too, the Government had suggested that most of these posts could be filled by national
consultants, indicating a strong opposition in certain Departments to the use of foreign expertise.
But the impact of such a long delay was irreparable. Not only had computer hardware been
procured prior to the arrival of the consultants to which some objections were then made, but the
sequencing of fellowships and use of counterparts was adversely affected. Furthermore, in
PNGIPA and DPM, in particular, where course revisions and management training were timed
earlier to assist in the general overhaul of human resources and to increase at an earlier stage an
expanded pool of skilled personnel, the development of new courses and the provision of manuals
and training to the Departments and Provinces did not take place until 1997.
It proved equally difficult to identify persons sufficiently qualified to meet the criteria both
for fellowships and for appointment to administer aspects of the Project. No qualified
procurement officer was ever appointed. Despite the covenant that a qualified accountant was
required in the PSU, one was not appointed during the first two years of the Project when
essential accounting procedures and formats had to be established. The accountant remained with
the Project for less than half its life, so that during the crucial last 18 months, the Project was
without an accountant. This hiatus at both the end and the beginning of the Project not only
placed the Project in legal default, but meant that daily financial records were not maintained and
essential payments and transfers of funds were not carried out in a timely manner.
The third major restriction on Project implementation subject to government control was
the manner in which the Government handled project financing. This was evident on two levels.
The first was that the Government had established only one Special Account for all projects
financed with funds from the World Bank. This was controlled centrally by the Treasury. Only
after concerted donor pressure in 1996 were individual Special Accounts established for each
project. Until that time, the PSTP had disbursed less than $1.5 million out of the Loan of $20.8
million. Once direct authority was vested in the PSU, funds flowed more consistently (Annex 9).
However, the second handicap to effective disbursement was the Government policy of requiring
all payment on a "reimbursement" basis. This meant that the Government paid the bills in local
currency out of its own account before drawing funds from the Loan Account. In practice this
- 1 0 -



required the Treasury to allocate funds and issue warrants for all expenditures in times when cash
flow was difficult to maintain. This practice applied to all procurement (except direct payment to
the international consulting firm), even that which was financed at 100% out of the Loan.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Loan Agreement (Section 3.01(a)) required the Borrower to carry out the Project
through its "Department of Personnel Management, Department of Labor and Employment, and
Administrative College" and by maintaining a "Project Coordinating Committee" (PCC). DPM
established, as proposed in the Staff Appraisal Report, a management unit (later the PSU) and
each of the components in the Project designated a component coordinator responsible for liaising
with the PSU and for implementing the Project within its component. It took time for the various
roles and responsibilities to be recognized, but most procedures worked satisfactorily. It was
fortunate that one of the key persons involved in project preparation was appointed as Project
Director (PSIJ) as a national consultant. This not only assured continuity of action, but gave her
the authority and standing to work with the component coordinators. Some uncertainties arose
during implementation regarding specific powers in procurement and in dealing with the
international consultants who were each assigned to different components, but in general, the
administration of the Project proceeded smoothly, if slowly. Unfortunately, little attention had
been given during preparation to the monitoring and evaluation aspects of the Project, and this
was not attended to during implementation, even after a range of project indicators was agreed in
1996. The PCC performed the essential function of guiding project implementation policy, but
unfortunately, it met too seldom to identify weaknesses early enough, authorize the Project
Director to take independent actions within specified frameworks, or establish a firm image of the
Project within Government. In part the weakness of the PCC (later the Project Management
Committee--PMC) can be blamed on frequent changes among senior personnel, but as a policy
and public relations body it did not appreciate the Project's potential impact and hence did not
exercise its authority in a sufficiently timely and comprehensive manner.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
In addition to the points made above regarding financing, it should be noted that the costs
for international consultants estimated at appraisal (of $12,500 per person month in 1990) were
so far below the actual bid submitted by the lowest evaluated bidder in 1994 that the Bank
rejected the bid. Eventually, following protracted re-submission of bids, and drastic alteration to
the composition of the consulting team, a negotiated contract was agreed, but the average cost
per consultant was over $15,000 per person per month.
A final point to be made about costs and financing is that despite continual reminders from
the Bank, the Government's delays in approving contracts and preparing and submitting
withdrawal applications resulted in the cancellation of nearly US$930,000 of undisbursed Loan
funds.
- 11 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The Project's impact is likely to be sustainable. The purposes of the Project were: (a) to
strengthen the institutional capacity of key Departments responsible for planning and monitoring
both public and private sector training; (b) to raise the awareness of the importance of training in
both sectors; (c) to increase opportunities for training; and (d) to improve the higher-level skills of
management and the workforce. This strategic emphasis on training has become accepted by both
Government and industry. Training plans are submitted, regular surveys are conducted to match
key job tasks against the skills needed by the workforce, the training levy is paid, fees are being
charged for courses in some public training institutions, localization of positions is proceeding,
and local and provincial officers continue to receive training from the cadre of trained trainers.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
For the impact and benefits of the Project to be sustained, the Government should commit
itself to:
(a)    maintaining a National Training Budget, supplemented from the training levy, to
fuirther improve syllabi and trainers and to increase the number and range of courses
offered by both public and private providers;
(b)   revising the National Training Act of 1989 through the creation of a National Planning
and Training Authority with broader responsibilities, greater accountability and stronger
powers of monitoring, evaluation and accreditation;
(c)   coordinating public and private sector training through completing entries in current
databases and regularly updating them, eliminating duplications in training, and reporting
results and setting priorities through annual National Training Plans;
(d)   providing incentives to private training providers and employers both to improve the
standard of training and to increase its relevance while encouraging a wider acceptance of
fees for service; and
(e)   improving the mechanisms for monitoring and evaluation, for accreditation and
registration, and for broad-based and more widely applicable training suitable for
personnel at local, provincial and national levels working in both public and private
enterprises.
A Japanese Grant was approved to assist with the preparation of a possible future Public
Sector Reform Project which would expand and reinforce many initiatives begun under the PSTP,
as well as going well beyond training to many other aspects of an improved civil service.
Technical assistance will be provided and the Government should instigate specific measures so
that meaningful reforms within the public service can take effect. In order not to loose the
- 12 -



momentum of the PSTP, it would be desirable if the Grant could be instituted immediately and the
next project commence late in 2000, ahead of the CAS timetable.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Overall, Bank performance was satisfactory. Various alternatives and Government
proposals to support the Government's new National Training Policy were considered during
preparation and appraisal. However, insufficient attention was given to detail, especially in the
identification of key project personnel, financing procedures, initial training of national
implementation staff, and the profiles of staff needed to supervise the project throughout its life.
The Bank's preparation and appraisal teams were well balanced and experienced in management,
institution building and training. Both the Bank and the Government had unrealistic expectations
for other donor-assisted financing of fellowships for mid-career people, and hence the initial scope
of fellowships was curtailed at negotiation. The Bank pursued its own timetable for processing
the Project without sufficient regard for cumbersome Government approval procedures or the
capacity of the key personnel to begin implementation. These contributed to the slowness with
which the Project was implemented during the first four years. Only the Project Director was
considered for appointment as a consultant and no other incentives were available to
implementation staff. The Bank faced up to the major quantifiable risks for the project, but failed
to appreciate sufficiently the tremendous importance of cultural and social influences on the pace
at which work proceeds in PNG due to family, village and tribal commitmnents, which take
precedence. In retrospect, this may mean that more and better trained staff were needed to handle
the volume of work, that more persistent and forceful management could have maintained stricter
adherence to a project timetable (which was quickly outflanked), and that more precise
procedures (especially in accounting and procurement) and project indicators could have been
developed earlier by more alert Bank and project personnel.
7.2 Supervision:
Before 1995, supervision was maintained on an irregular basis, with many gaps of seven to
ten months, which adversely effected smooth relationships (Annex 4). Supervision of the PSTP
was nearly always carried out in conjunction with supervision of other Bank-assisted projects,
especially in the education sector. Partly because of this duality, the composition of the
supervision teams remained relatively constant, thus providing continuity, which the Borrower
appreciated. Bank guidance and supervision during the early years of the Project was not
sufficiently strong, experienced or authoritative to give firm direction to project management,
which was largely unaware of Bank policies and procedures. Although continuity was maintained
in Bank Task Managers, with only three persons having that responsibility over the eight years of
the Project, improved project performance was not evident until 1995. Bank management
severely limited the number of persons (and therefore the skills) sent on supervision, claiming
budgetary constraints. Despite requests from Bank task managers, no specialists in information
technology or in training ever supervised the Project. Hence, database methodology and training
policies, perspectives and priorities were not examined sufficiently. Implementation problems
were identified, but little persistent follow-up action was taken until 1995. Until 1995, the ratings
- 13 -



in supervision reports tended to gloss over the potential problems, and failure to conform with
covenants was insufficiently addressed. On the other hand, the Bank did impose restrictions
during 1993 and 1994 on the availability and use of funds for all of its projects in PNG, but the
Government was unable to rectify conditions until early 1996.
7.3 Overall Bank performance.
While the overall performance by the Bank was satisfactory, in a training project it is
surprising that the Bank did not provide training to the nationals who were implementing the
Project. Although Bank Task Managers provided considerable assistance to the PSU and
Component Managers, this was not seen by the recipients as a substitute for formal training.
Project technical assistance was not intended to advise on how to manage or implement the
Project, but on how to develop specific manuals, training syllabi and computerized operations for
each component. Bank procurement and disbursement staff visited the country and gave one- or
two-day workshops only twice toward the end of the Project.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's preparation can be considered as only barely satisfactory. During
preparation, only a few people in DPM foresaw the potential for the project in trying to develop a
more strategic plan rather than limited provision of individual fellowships. In view of the
considerable bilateral technical assistance already present in the country, it is not surprising that
the Government resisted further international expertise.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
In light of the considerable difficulties deriving from central control over disbursements,
general lack of interest in the PSTP among senior government officials (who seldom remained
long in any post) and complicated procedures for approving contracts, the efforts of PSU and
component managers have to be considered commendable. This emphasizes the importance of
establishing a more appropriate level at which implementation decisions should be made, and of
recognizing the importance of the PMC in both policy and public relations.
The Borrower experienced generic problems associated with financing. The Project was
conceived during boom periods for the mining industry and hence for the country. Even so, the
central control of financing, the system of issuing monthly warrants (many of which were
immediately rescinded through lack of cash in the Treasury) for Project expenditures, and the
reimbursement policy of the Government in paying bills all adversely affected the Borrower's
ability to use Loan funds directly for their intended purposes. Even when the Trust Funds for
each project were established in 1996, the predominant method of payment was through
reimbursement of Kina paid out of the Government Trust Fund rather than either from the Special
Account or directly (using Procedure 3) from the Loan Account. This illustrates confusion over
who had the fundamental control and responsibility for project implementation. The fact that the
Treasury received all communications from the Bank on financial matters but that the PSU
corresponded directly with the Task Manager on all other aspects of the Project allowed
- 14 -



irritations to develop between Treasury and implementation staff.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The dynamism and persistence of the Project Director saved the Project. Administrative
records were maintained adequately, communications were frequent among the component
managers and PSU, and efforts were made by all managers to promote the image of the Project.
The biggest fault was in tardy recruitment of a trained accountant until two years after the Project
became effective, and then subsequently in not replacing the accountant, even by part-time
consultant expertise, after she resigned 15 months prior to the Closing Date. Similarly, no trained
procurement officer w.as ever available to the Project Support Unit, and counterpart staff with
appropriate technical skills were not assigned to the international experts. The financial records
were inadequately and inaccurately maintained. Every audit report was late in being submitted to
the Bank. Procurement was not pursued by the component coordinators with sufficient vigor,
and hence the potential for purchasing more equipment for each component was not fully
exploited.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
A rating of barely satisfactory for overall Borrower performance masks the efforts of the
Director and staff in the implementation agencies to manage the Project as smoothly as possible.
It also minimizes the considerable achievements. But it reflects the reality of social and family
pressures on the work ethic, the need for financial and human resources planning and efficient
mechanisms for their implementation, and the significance of accountability and monitoring to
promote the effectiveness of Project goals and outcomes.
8. Lessons Learned
The major problems encountered by the Project and the detailed lessons drawn from them
are listed in the Aide Memoire of the Completion Mission of August 1999. In summary, the
lessons from the Project include:
*  Responsible and accountable Project management could be delegated to a lower operational
level, provided: (a) sufficiently trained personnel are available and committed to the Project,
without relying on politically appointed decision-makers; (b) a strong PMC directs policy and
promotes the image of the Project to Government and the, general public; and (c) appropriate
financial management is available and practiced;
*  Much greater attention to cultural and social factors could assist management to plan and
implement in a more timely manner, provided adequate provision is made for appropriate
staffing and counterpart funding from the outset;
* Project performance indicators, a mid-term review, stricter adherence to more detailed
scheduling of events, and greater attention to monitoring and evaluation throughout the life of
the Project could reduce the delays during implementation;
*  Clearer definition and understanding of Borrower and Bank procedures for financial
- 15 -



management, together with trained personnel to implement them from the outset of the
Project, could allow more effective disbursement, more appropriate use of the Special
Account for quicker payments, easier and more comprehensive procurement, and more timely
adherence to scheduled actions;
*  More detailed planning of Bank supervision needs, including specialist personnel and the
related budget, could have been incorporated into Project design, and amended from time to
time, as needs changed;
*  Cumbersome national procedures in procurement, contracting and obtaining approvals
generally could have been better understood by the Bank, and simplified by Government, with
more responsible delegation of authority to fewer people, preferably within one Department or
agency;
*  Government Departments could plan and budget for sustaining Project activities both during
implementation and after its completion, especially with regard to on-going training;
*  Clearer definition of tasks and accountability for any generic "Training Authority" could have
resulted in more and better trained personnel and more appropriate funding for NTCS.
Strategic planning of the training function and its operation -- the purpose of this Project --
could allow easier identification and more complete computerization of skill and managerial
needs in both public and private sectors, resulting in more efficient planning of training
provisions coordinated across both sectors. This should be seen as the essential function of a
National Planning and Training Authority which should be allocated the manpower and
financial resources to fulfill such a mission;
*  Disruption to the original Project design has more than financial implications for a project.
The initially careful identification of needed technical assistance was disregarded when
financing of this component was drastically reduced. However, identifying clearer lines of
responsibility and reporting and closer monitoring of actual outputs at specific intervals in the
Project could have improved the impact and reduced the tensions which appeared in carrying
out the technical assistance provisions of the Project; and
*  Flexibility is essential throughout the life of any project. The PSTP demonstrated great
flexibility, especially in providing local fellowships and modifying the technical assistance.
This showed understanding on the part of both the Bank and the Borrower to respond quickly
to identifiable changing needs during implementation.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
On the whole, and against the original and revised project objectives and components, we
would like to say that much has been achieved under the circumstances in which the Project was
implemented. Much that the components achieved during the life of the Project, especially the
- 16 -



support to the Department of Personnel Management and the PNG'Institute of Public
Administration, has in some way formed the basis for a major public sector reform.
We have the following specific comments:
The Public Sector Training Project was designed to assist the four implementing agencies
(Department of Personnel Management, Department of Labor and Employment, National
Training Council Secretariat, and Papua New Guinea Institute of Public Administration) develop
and put systems in place to assist them perform their respective roles and responsibilities, and
above all, to develop their institutional capacity. This was clearly a capacity-building project, and
such projects are extremely difficult to implement. However, the achievement rate of this project
must be given some merit, considering the constraints and problems that have gone with it.
The Borrower is very grateful and extends its gratitude and appreciation to the Lender for
being very flexible in allowing a substantial portion of the Loan funds to assist in the funding of
emergency and rehabilitation projects in East New Britain following the volcanic eruption in
1994. The Borrower would like to confirm to the World Bank that this portion of the Loan has
been put to good use in terms of restoring essential services in the Gazelle Peninsula that were'
destroyed by the eruption.
Some very useful lessons can be drawn from the experience with the implementation of
the PSTP, which will be of interest to the World Bank as well as the Government.
For the Government, the two pertinent issues pertaining to the implementation of the
Project have been: (1) management design relating to project implementation, and (2) financial
management. These are discussed in detail below.
(1)   Management Issues
At the design of the Project, the project design team failed to put in place an
effective management plan that would oversee the overall management of the
Project. However, if it did, (like the Project Steering Committee), then it failed to
emphasize the importance of an over-arching Committee like the PSC, which had
the capacity to effectively and successfully oversee the implementation of the
Project.
Ensuring that the full responsibility for a project be vested in the Government
(through a PSC with wide representation) gives the Borrower some sense of
ownership. It seemed more to the Borrower that this particular project was
managed more by the Lender and that things moved quickly only when review
missions were due to come or were in-country.
The project design therefore did not put in place an effective management
structure to oversee and ensure that the Project would progress at an acceptable
pace.
- 17 -



It was assumed that the many varying issues and problems would be attended to by
the Project Manager, whose time was thinly spread between attending to
administrative/management problems and dealing with project-specific issues.
(2)   Financial Management Issues
At project design stage, the Borrower and the Lender both appreciated the fact
that financial managers and accountants were very hard to attract in the public
sector. It is common knowledge in Papua New Guinea that persons with such
qualifications prefer to work in the private sector, where the terms and conditions
are much better. The fact that getting key project personnel was problematic
throughout the Project was an issue that should have been addressed prior to
project implementation, i.e., by agreeing to pay for the key personnel from the
Loan funds.
During the period of implementation, the Borrower was instituting changes and
improvements with its financial management structures in an effort to improve the
financial management of donor-funded projects, including concessional loans. The
use of one "Parent Account" for a donor with sub-ledgers for the different loan
projects was the first attempt by the Government to look at different financial
mechanisms to improve the financial management of aid-funded projects.
With the major cash crisis in 1994, the Borrower moved from this arrangement to
the use of "Special/Imprest" account arrangements, whereby the donor disbursed
a portion of its funding into a Special or Imprest Account and the Borrower put its
contribution into a Trust Account. Project managers then drew funds from these
accounts for project implementation purposes.
Prior to the use of the above financial arrangement, the Borrower, in all past
arrangements, had always used the "reimbursable" disbursement arrangement,
except for direct disbursements. The new arrangements above were options not in
place for use by the Borrower at the beginning of the Project. These were new
financial arrangement developed in an attempt to further improve financial
management of loan-funded projects.
Considering that this project was implemented during a period in which the
Government was implementing new financial management arrangements, it was
obvious that many project personnel needed to be trained to understand the use of
these new arrangements.
The Borrower organized a number of training sessions prior to introducing the
new financial arrangements. In consultations with other lenders (especially the
Asian Development Bank), we have piggybacked financial management training
onto the World Bank's procurement training, conducted annually.
- 18 -



It would take time for any new financial arrangement as such to be
institutionalized, and in time, capacity in departments will be developed. It is
common that turnover of staff, particularly with financial qualifications, is very
high. This is a problem we must live with and try to make the best effort out of
what is available.
Finally, it is obvious to the Borrower that a few activities in the project components were
incomplete during the duration of the project life. The Borrower assumes that the activities will
continue to be pursued and completed under the recurrent activities of the implementing agency.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
- 19 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Note: No performance indicators were prepared at Appraisal. The first indicators were developed by a
Supervision Mission in 1996 in conjunction with the PSU and each Component Manager. These were
consolidated into the following list:
Outcome/Impact Indicators
Target
Objective               Indicator           Projected          Actual/latest Estimate
in 1996
1) Strengthen in-service   a)existence of a reliable    By 1998  HRS/Payroll system designed,
training in the public sector database on the civil              manuals prepared but system
service;                                incomplete. Needs TA and
hardware.
(b) percentage of civil  80% by 1998,    HRS/Payroll system will retrieve
servants having undergone 100% by 2002    this data, but the best guess is only
substantive training in the              about 20%.
last 3 years;
2) Strengthen in-service   c) existence of a reliable   By 1998  DLE database designed but data not
training in the private  database on labor                       entered. TA required to complete
sector                 force/employment;                         systemn.
d) percentage of employees 80% by 1998,    NTCS received data from about 150
from reporting firms    100% by 2002    firms. Of these, all seem to comply.
having had sub-stantive
training in the last 3 years;
3) Increase the supply of   e)percentage of high-level  50% by 1998,    Data incomplete on total higher
specialized high-level staff national staff in target  75% by 2002  level staff. In 1997, 20 staff in
for GOPNG policy and    departments/agencies                     Grade 13 and above held
planning agencies       having a graduate degree;                Masters/PhD.
f) percentage of high-level 15% by 1998,    FWPAS designed and on-line but
staff in target departments/ 10% by 2002  some data incomplete.
agencies who are
expatriates;
-20 -



Annex 1: Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix (Cont'd)
Objectives              Indicator                   Target       Actual/Latest Estimate
Projected
in 1996
4) Help meet shortages of  g) percentage of technical   30% by 1998,    Data incomplete on number of
technical skills        specialists in key government 20% by 2002  technical staff. In 1997, there
departments who are                       were 136 expatriates.
expatriates; and
h) percentage of technical   30% by 1998,    FWPAS designed and on-line but
specialists in reporting firms 20% by 2002  some data incomplete.
who are expatriates;
Output Indicators
Objectives             Indicator                      Target     Actual/Latest Estimate
Projected
==__________________         in   1996
1) Strengthen in-service   a) Percentage of Government 90% by 1998  TNA completed for all
training in the public sector departments/provinces  100% by 2002    departments, workshops held,
having prepared and                      trainers trained, DPM prepared
implemented a staff training             annual training plan.
plan in the past year;
b) Preparation of annual  100% by 1998    NTC updates DPM national
training plan for public                 training plan annually.
sector;
c) PNGIPA reorganization   By 1998       Completed, with reduction in staff.
finished;                                Fee generating.
d) Percentage of public  100% by 1998    NTC has accredited all public
training agencies evaluated              training agencies.
and accredited;
-21 -



2) Strengthen in-service   e) Percentage of reporting    90% by 1998  All firms are submitting three year
training in the private  firms having prepared and   100% by 2002   training plans to NTC.
sector                 implemented a satisfactory
staff training plan in the past
year;
f) Preparation of an annual  By 1998     NTC will use Three Year Training
training plan for the private            Plan database to prepare annual
sector;                                  training plan.
g) Percentage of private  100% by 1998    By 1999, only 75% of private
training agencies evaluated              training agencies evaluated.
and accredited;
3) Increase the supply of   h) Number of PSTP-financed About 50 by 1998 35 persons completed overseas
specialized high-level staff overseas graduate programs          programs, even though it was
in policy and planning    in policy/planning areas               curtailed in 1995.
successfully completed;
i) Ratio of women fellows to  50% by 1998  11% were women. Since only 7%
total fellows in                         of public servants are women, and
policy/planning area;                    very few applied, the target cannot
be met.
4) Help meet shortages of  j) Number of PSTP-financed About 50 by 1998 16 persons completed overseas
technical skills        overseas graduate programs               programs, even though it was
in technical fields                      curtailed in 1995.
successfully completed; and
k) Ratio of women fellows to 50% by 1998  13% were women
total fellows in technical
fields.
- 22 -



Annex 1: Key Performance Indicaton/Log Frame Matrix (Cont'd)
Outputs for Project Management
Target           Actual/Latest Estimate
Objectives                     Indicator           Projected
in 1996
Carry out the project with  a) Actual disbursement as  100% by 1998    Only 90% disbursed by Closing Date
due diligence and       share of total revised Loan;
efficiency
b) Civil works completed at 100% by 1998    Completed
PNGIPA;
c) Data processing       By 1998        About 20% of items are still needed
hardware and software                   to make the system workable
provided under the project;
d) Quarterly provision of  Every quarter    Regularly late, deposited into
counterpart funds;                      Government Trust Fund Account
e) Replenishment of funds Initial $1 million Replenishments made in 1997-1999.
in Special Account; and    deposit by   All Special Account dollar funds
December 1997  spent by July 1999.
f) Regular reports      Semi-annual     Usually submitted, PMC meetings
submitted and Action Plans progress reports  irregular during last 18 months
prepared.               to PMC
Sources: Supervision Report, May 26, 1996; ICR Mission discussions
Original Indicators proposed in October 1996 PSR
- 23 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
;  J   _,,,_          ,    :  i X      ~~~Appraisl    ASSa/at~ In         enta
DPM                                                        3.30             1.90         57.6
DLE                                                        1.70            0.90          52.9
PNGIPA                                                     8.10            4.60          56.8
FELLOWSHIPS                                                6.10             1.50         24.6
NTCS                                                       0.00             0.80            0
GRA                                                        0.00            13.40            0
CONTINGENCIES                                              3.90             0.00            0
Total Baseline Cost                                       23.10           23.10
Total Project Costs                 23.10            23.10
Total Financing Required                  23.10           23.10
Appraisal Estimate: Total project costs including government financing
Sources: SAR Table 4.1, and data provided by PSU.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                       0.00           3.30          0.00          0.00          3.30
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                       2.00          0.80          0.80          0.00           3.60
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                    0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00           0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Fellowships                 0.00          0.00          9.50          0.00           9.50
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Consultants                 0.00          0.00          5.60          0.00           5.60
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00           1.10         0.00           1.10
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                       2.00           4.10         17.00          0.00          23.10
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Sources: SAR Table 4.4, and data from PSU
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 24 -



Original and Revised Loan Amounts by Category
No./Revised No.       Category         Original Loan       Revised Loan        Percentage
Amount             Amount             Financed
(1)        (1)     Civil Works             2,500,000           2,100,000     80%
(2)        (2)     Equipment, furniture,   3,000,000           1,000,000     100% foreign &
teaching materials                                       Exfactory local, 75%
other local
(3)       (3)      Overseas fellowships    9,100,000           1,500,000     100%
& local training
(4)       (4)      Consultants' services   5,000,000           3,200,000     100%
(5)     Incremental salaries            0             164,000     100% 1993
for PSU
78%   1994
50% 1995
25% 1996
(6)      Civil Works - under            0           2,600,000      90%
Part D. 1- GRA
(7)      Civil Works - under            0           7,900,000      90%
Part D.2 - GRA
(8)      Goods - under Part             0            1,000,000     100% Foreign &
D.2 - GRA                                                 local exfactory, 85%
'other local
(9)      Consultants' services          0            1,000,000     100%
- Part D.3
(5)                Unallocated, except      1,200,000            136,000
Part D
._________________ TOTAL                 20,800,000         20,800,000
Sources: Loan Agreement, March 18,1991, Schedule 1 and Amendments dated December 3, 1992; March
23, 1995; September 20, 1995; September 10, 1996; and May 27, 1997.
- 25 -



Revised Loan and Actual Disbursements by Category
No./Revised No.       Category         Revised Loan      Total Disbursed      Percentage
Amount                               Disbursed
(1)        (1)    Civil Works              2,100,000          1,383,451            66%
(2)         (2)    Equipment, furniture,   1,000,000           594,863             59%
teaching materials
(3)         (3)    Overseas fellowships    1,500,000          1,163,630            78%
& local training
(4)         (4)    Consultants' services   3,200,000          3,313,113            104%
(5)    Incremental salaries      164,000            122,637            75%
for PSU
Special Account                             792,926
(5)       (10)    Unallocated, except        136,000                 0
Part D
Sub-Total PSTP          8,300,000          7,370,620            89%
(6)    Civil Works - under     2,600,000           2,576,825            99%
Part D. l - GRA
(7)     Civil Works - under     7,900,000          8,135,247            103%
Part D.2 - GRA
(8)     Goods - under Part      1,000,000            545,245             55%
D.2 - GRA
(9)     Consultants' services   1,000,000          1,242,684            124%
- Part D.3
.________________ Sub-Total GRA         12,500,000         12,500,001           100%
TOTAL                  20,800,000         19,870,621            96%
Source: World Bank, Disbursements Division, 2 March 2000
- 26 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable.
-27 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
StgefPrctCycle                       No. of Personsand S aly                   Pexformance Rtng
_=e g. 2Economiss, i FSetc.)        implementaion       Developmient
Month/Year   "Count        Secilty_ Progress                                  Obetive
Identification/Preparation         I   Economist (EC)
3/89
6/89                     2   Economist, Management
Specialist (MS)
10/89                   3   EC, MS, Training Specialist
(TS)
Appraisal/Negotiation
1-2/90                  4   EC, MS, TS, Operations
Assistant (OA)
12/90                   4   EC, Legal Officer, Disbursement
Officer, OA
6/90 (Post              2   EC, OA
appraisal)
Supervision
11/91                    2   OA, Operations Officer (00)           S                HS
3/92                     1  00                                     S                 HS
7/92                     1  00                                     U                 HS
2/93                     1  00                                     S                 HS
9/93                     1  00                                    U                  S
4/94                     1  00                                     S                 S
2/95                     2  Human Resources Specialist             S                 U
Consultant (HR/C)
11/95                    2  HR/C                                   S                 S
3/96                     1  HR                                     S                 U
6/96                     1  HR                                     S                 U
9/96                     1  HR                                     S                 U
3/97                     2  HR/A (Architect)                       S                 S
10/97                    2  HRJA                                  S                  S
3/98                     2  HR/A                                   S                 S
11/98                    2  HR/A                                   S                 S
3/99                     2  HRJA                                   S                 S
9/99                     2  HR/A                                   S                 S
ICR
8/99                     1   Consultant
- 28 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   ActualLatest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation             41.60                        104.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                   16.90                        53.2
Supervision                            64.47                       268.0
ICR__                                                      _  _ _  _  _  _  _   _
Total                                 293.27                      425.20
*ICR is included in Supervision.
- 29 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                           O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Sector Policies                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
I Physical.                               O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Z Financial                               O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
 Institutional Development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
F Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Gender                           O H OSUOM * N O NA
Z Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
cultural and social influences understood
I Private sector development              0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
 Public sector management                * H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)
- 30 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
X Lending                                            OHS *S OU OHU
X Supervision                                        OHS OS   O  U  O HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
2 Preparation                                        OHS *OS  O  U  O HU
Z Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
X Implementation agency performance                  O HS 0 s  0  U  0 HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
- 31 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Public Sector Training Project (PSTP), Implementation Completion Mission, Aide Memoire,
8/23/99
Public Sector Training Project (PSTP), Implementation Completion Report, Comments by the
Borrower,
National Training Council, Ministry of Employment and Youth, Public Sector Training Project,
Project Completion Report, 17th August 1999.
National Training Council, Ministry of Industrial Relations, Report and Recommendations on the
Operations of the National Training Council, June 1997.
National Training Council, Ministry of Employment and Youth, A Brief Report to the World
Bank on the Progress of the National Training Council, 6th November, 1998
Papua New Guinea Institute of Public Adrninistration, Year 1999 and Beyond, Course Directory.
Port Moresby Business Training Institute, Prospectus.
Papua New Guinea Institute of Banking & Business Management, 1999 Directory of Programs.
Papua New Guinea Institute of Banking & Business Management, Annual Report 1998.
- 32 -



Annex 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Agree      Section     Cove-    Pre-     Origi-    Revised
nant    sent       nal       fulfill-
ment     .             type    Status    fulfill-    ment      Description of covenant   Comments
ment       date
date
L3290   2.02 (b)         3       CP                            Open and maintain a      S/A funds
Art. II                                                        Special Account on terms   difficult to
and conditions satisfactory  access
to the Bank
Art.    3.01 (a) (i)     s       CD                            Carry out the Project with   TA
III                                                            due diligence and        Contract
efficiency and in        delayed
conformity with
appropriate practices
3.01 (a) (ii)   4       CD                            Provide promptly the     Funds not
resources required for the   provided
project                  fro7m July
1994 until
January
1995
3.01 (b)        10      CD                            Carry out the project in  See
accordance with the      Schedule 5
agreed implementation    comments
program in Schedule 5 of   below
the Loan Agreement
3.02            10       C                            Procure Goods, Works,
and Services in
accordance with Schedule
4 of the Loan Agreement
Art.    4.01 (a)         1        C                            Maintain adequate records  Incomplete
IV                                                             and accounts             and
unreliable
4.01 (b) (i)    1       CD                            Have accounts audited    Often late
4.01 (b) (ii)   9       CD                            Furnish the Bank certified   Late
copies of Audit
4.01 (b) (iii)  9        C                            Furnish the Bank other
related information, as
requested
4.01 1 (i)       1       C                            Maintain adequate records
and accounts on SOEs
- 33 -



4.01 I (ii)      I       C                            Retain such records and
accounts at least one year
after Bank has received
Audit report
4.01 I (iii)     1       C                            Enable Bank's
representatives to examine
records
4.01 1 (iv)      I       C                            Include such records and
accounts in annual audit
Sched   Sch 5, para I    10      PC                            Take measures to         Limited
ule 5                                                          maximize the             availability
participation of women in   of
the overseas fellowship  candidates
program (Policy and
planning fields)
Sch 5, para 2   10       C                            Obtain from participating
Departments that staff
benefiting from overseas
fellowships will be able to
return to their previous
positions or to positions
relevant to the training
received
Sch 5, para 3   10      PC                            Take all measures        Few
necessary to ensure      available;
identification of women  many more
candidates (Specialized  nominated
technical fields)        for local
training
after 1996
Sch 5, para 4   10      CD      07/31/91              Employ a Training        Information
(a)                                                   Analyst, an Information  Technolo-
technologist and a Staff    gist was to
Development & Training    be shared
Adviser to assist the    with
Department of Personnel    PNGIPA
Management
Sch 5, para 4   10      CD      07/31/91              Employ a Management      Information
(b) (i)                                               Advisor and an           Technolo-
Information technologist    gist spent
to assist the National   little time
Training Council         working
Secretariat              with the
NTC
-34 -



Sch 5, para 4   10      CD      01/31/92              Employ a Staff           Incorpo-
(b) (ii)                                              Development & Training    rated into
Adviser to assist the    Manage-
National Training Council  ment
Advisor's
post
Sch 5, para 5   10      CD      07/31/91              Employ a Labor           Labor
(i)                                                   Economist & an           Economist
Organization             only
Development/Managemen
t Training Specialist to
assist the department of
Labor and Employment
Sch 5, para 5   10      CD      10/31/91              Employ and Information    Information
(ii)                                                  Specialist and a Systems    Specialist
Analyst to assist the    only
Department of Labor and
Employment
Sch 5, para 6   10      CD      07/31/91              Employ an Expert on      Only
(i)                                                  Institutional Autonomy, a   Information
Management Adviser, an    Techno-
Information Technologist,  logist and
and a Course             Course
Development Adviser to   Develop-
assist the Papua New     ment
Guinea Institute of Public   Adviser
Administration           employed
Sch 5, para 6   10       .      10/31/91   06/30/95   Employ a                 Post not
(ii)                                                  Training-of-Trainers     required -
Adviser to assist the    included in
Papua New Guinea         Course
Institute of Public      Adviser's
Administration           TOR
Sch 5, para 7   5        C                            Maintain within DPM a    Mrs. Felicia
Project Support Unit with   Dobunaba,
qualified staff in adequate   Project
numbers, including:      Director
Sch 5, para 7   5        C                            Special Project Officer  Mr. Jimmy
(i)                                                  (Contracts)               Ipata
Sch 5, para 7   5        C                            Special Project Officer  Ms. Lydia
(ii)                                                 (Fellowships)             Mulina
Sch 5, para 7   5        C                            Accountant               Mrs. Rei
(iii)                                                                          Gamoga
Melepia
- 35 -



Sch 5, para 7   5        C                            Administrative Officer   Ms. Rita
(iv)                                                                           Ake
Sch 5, para 7   5        C                            Keyboard Operator        Mr. Gemma
Lasu
Covenant Class                                                      Status:
1 = Accounts/audits                    8 =Indigenous people       C=covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue      9 =Monitoring, review and reporting
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds    10 =Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
4 = Counterpart funding                11 =Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other
5 = Management aspects of the project or  resources allocation
executing agency                   12 =Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/
6 = Environmental covenants                 institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement          13 =Other
- 36 -



Annex 9: Loan Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual (US$ million)
FY91        FY92       FY93         FY94        FY95        FY96       FY97       FY98        FY99      FY2000
Appraisal estimate     0.00        1.60       4.40        8.40         12.40       16.20       19.20    20.80        20.80       20.80
Actual                 0.00        1.00        1.00        1.47        3.94        6.70        11.99     19.52       19.89       19.87
Actual as%of                      62.5        22.7         17.5        31.8        41.4        62.4      93.8        95.6        95.6
Appraisal estimate
Date of
Final disbursement -
February 3, 2000
Sources: SAR Annex 11 and Supervision Report, March 1999
- 37 -



Annex 10: Consultants: Proposed and Actual (Staff-months)
Post/Year      1991       1992        1993        1994        1995        1996       1997        1998        1999    TOTAL
DPM:            P/A        P/A         P/A         P/A        P/A         P/A         P/A         P/A         P/A        P/A
Information     6/0        610        1.5/0       1.510        0/6        0/12        0/6                                15/24
Technologist  -
Training        6/0        3/0         1/0         1/0                                                                   11/0
Analyst                                                       ___
Staff           6/0        12/0       12/0         6/0        4/4         0/12       0/12         0/8                   40/36
Development I_I
Project        12/9       12/12       12/12       12/12       12112      12/12        0/12       0/12         0/9       72/102
Manager
NTC_.
Information     6/0        6/0         1/0         1/0                                                                   14/0
Technologist                                .
Staff                      4/0         1/0         1/0                                                                    6/0
Development                                                ___
Management    6/0          12/0        610        1.510       1.5/6       0/12                                           27118
Advisor                                                                    _
DLE                     _______
Labor           6/0        12/0                                0/4        0/6         0/9                                18/19
Economist
System                     12/0        6/0         3/0        3/6         0/12        0/12        0/5                    24/35
Analyst                                                                                                 _             _
Organization    6/0        12/0       10/0         4/0        4/0                                                        36/0
Development                                                _
Information                12/0       12/0                                                                               24/0
Librarian
PNGIPA
Course          6/0        12/0        6/0        1.5/0       1.5/4       0112        0/8                                27/24
Development
Training of                12/0       1.5/0       1.5/0                                                                  15/0
Trainers
Autonomy        4/0                                                                                                       4/0
Planner     I                                 I                                                                      I
Management    6/0          12/0        2/0        1.510       1.5/0                                                      23/0
Advisor        ______                                                 _
Information     6/0        12/0        6/0        1.510       1.5/0                                                      27/0
Technologist
Short-term                 5/0         510         510        510                                                        20/0
Advisors     ____
TOTAL          76/9      156/12       83/12      42/12       34/42       12/78        0/59       0/25         0/9      403/258
Sources: SAR, Annex 4 and Table from PSU
P=Proposed; A-Actual
- 38-



Annex 11: Overseas Fellowships
Proposed and Actual Overseas Fellowships (in Study-years)
Post/Year                1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    TOTAL
study
years
Policy/Planning          P/A     P/A      P/A      P/A     P/A       P/A     P/A     P/A      P/A        P/A
Masters 2 yrs            8/0     16/0    16/8      16/3    16/0      8/1                                80/12
Grad. Diploma            5/0     5/0      5/4      5/0      5/0      5/0                                 5/4
Short courses            5/0     5/0      5/9      5/10    5/0       5/0                                30/19
Specialized Skills
Bachelor 4 yrs           8/0      16/0    20/3    20/1    12/0       4/0                                 80/4
Short-term courses*      4/0     4/0      4/0      4/0     4/0                                          20/0*
DLE
System Analyst 2 yrs             1/0      1/0      0/1                                                   2/1
Short courses                                                        0/1                                01
2 months
PNGIPA
Masters 2 yrs            3/0     6/0      6/0      6/1      4/0      1/0                                 26/1
Grad. Diploma                    0/1      0/1                                                            0/2
Short courses                    5/1      5/3      5/2      510      5/0                                 25/6
TOTAL                    33/0    58/2    62/28    61/18   51/0       28/2                              293/50*
*Actual attendees at short courses not disaggregated between Policy and Specialized Skills in data provided.
** Because of portions of years in some courses, actual total was 44 study years.
Sources: SAR Annex 4, and Table provided by PSU
- 39 -



Number of Persons on Overseas Fellowships, 1991-1996
Level of Study                            Planned                   Actual
Masters - Policy                                 56                        13
Graduate Diploma - Policy                        20                        3
Short courses - Policy                           20                        3
Bachelors - Skills                               64                        5
Short courses - Skills                            12                       27
TOTAL                                            172                       51
Source: Supervision Report, February 1995
Overseas Felowships by Specialist Area and Success Rate
Specialist Area          Successful           Unsuccessful        Withdrew            TOTAL
Management                      30                    1                   4                35
Technical                        12                   1                   3                16
TOTAL                            42                   2                   7                51
Fellowships by Specialist Area and Qualifications Obtained
Specialist Area      Short          Diploma      Post           Bachelors     Masters      TOTAL
Course                      Graduate      Degree         Degree
Certificate                 Diploma
Management                22             1            2              3            7            35
Technical                 5             2             1              2            6            16
27            3             3              5            13          51
-40 -



Fellowships by Specialist Area and Study Country
Specialist Area    Australia    New         Papua         United       United       Others    TOTAL
..                 Zealand      New           Kingdom       States of
Guinea                     America
Management            18           2            0             8            4            3         35
Technical             4            0            2             9             1           0          16
Fellowships by Qualifications Obtained and Gender
Sex        Short                          Long Courses                       Total            Withdrew/
Courses       Masters    PGDip       Bachelor    Diploma                            Recalled
Female           2        2             1           0             0             5                    0
Male            25       11             2           5             3            46                    8
Source: PSU, September 1999
- 41 -



Annex 12: Local Fellowship Training, 1997-1998
Summary of Courses and Applications/Participants (if different)
.                                    1997           1997            1998           1998
Courses     No. of Courses   Total Weeks     National       Provinces      National       Provinces       TOTAL
App/Par       App/Part        App/Par        App/Par         App/Par
Mgt. Health Care     5              10             15             41              1              22             79
Delivery
Certificate in       2              20             1/0           41/37                                         42/37
Devit.. Project
Intro. Mgt.           1             2              18             23                                            41
Planning &
Control
Cert. Local Govt.     1             10                           24/21                                         24/21
Cert. Land            I             10             1/0             13                                          14/13
Admin.
Managing People      2              4             36/26          34/32                                         70/58
Motivating           2              2             13/8           14/16                                         27/24
Performance
Mgt. Accounting      3               6             8/3           21/17            10             9             48/39
Spreadsheet           I              1              7            12/10                                         19/17
Decisions
Ethics &              1             0.6           11/8            6/4                                          17/12
Corruption
Cert. Middle         2              20            11/7           20/17            8/9           37/36          76/69
Mgt.
Organizing Data      2              2              2/1           16/10            1              13            32/25
Intemal Auditing     2              4              5/3           23/21                                         28/24
Land Dispute          1              I              1             8/7                                           9/8
Settlement
Computer Skills       1              1              7                                                            7
for Trainers
Cert. Prov.          I              10                                                           11             11
Admin.
Business              1              1              1                                                            1
Forecasting
Strategic            1              2             22/19           11/8                                         33/27
Planning
Report Writing        1              2                                            8              11             19
Budget Prep. &        1              2            11/10            13                                          24/23
Monitoring
Managing People       1              2                                            9              20             29
*
Field &               1              2                                            2              11             13
Community
Devlt. Skills *
TOTAL                35            114.6         170/134        320/280         39/40          135/133        664/587
* These two courses were delayed until 1999
Source: PSU, September 1999
-42 -



Analyses:
Field                 1997            1997             1997            1998
National        Province         National        Province
Applications                    170             320              39               135
Of whom women                  48              69
Percent. Women                 28%             22%               ?                9
Attendees                       134             280              40               133
Of whom women                  42               64              11               35
Percent. women                 31%             23%              28%             26%
Percent. Of women              88%              93%              ?%               ?%
attendees to applicants
*? No data available
-43 -



