                                         Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                           Report No: ICR00002724




              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                (TF-56808)



                                            ON A

                                  TRUST FUND GRANT


                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$8.0 MILLION


                                           TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF IRAQ

                                            FOR A

                     EMERGENCY SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT



                                       December 13, 2013




Human Development
Middle East and North Africa Region
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective September 2013)

                         Currency Unit = Iraqi Dinar
                           IQD 1,000 = US$0.84
                           US$1.00 = IQD 1,163

                              FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 to December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CPS     Country Assistance Strategy
ESSP    Emergency Social Protection Project
FM      Financial Management
FMA     Fiduciary Monitoring Agent
FMR     Financial Monitoring Report
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
IDA     International Development Association
IQD     Iraqi Dinar
ISN     Interim Strategy Note
ISR     Implementation Status and Results Report
ITF     Iraq Trust Fund
KRG     Kurdish Regional Government
M&E     Monitoring and evaluation
MIS     Management Information System
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MOLSA   Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs
NBP     National Board of Pensions
NDS     National Development Strategy
OPR     Operational Procurement Review
PDO     Project Development Objective
PDS     Public Distribution System
PMO     Project Management Office
SLA     Service Level Agreement
SSN     Social Safety Nets
SSNIS   Social Safety Net Information System
TGFA    Trust Fund Grant Agreement
USAID   United States Agency for International Development


                       Vice President: Inger Andersen
                     Country Director: Ferid Belhaj
                      Sector Manager: Yasser El-Gammal
                 Project Team Leader: Ghassan Alkhoja
                    ICR Team Leader: Ghassan AlKhoja
                                                              Iraq
                                                Emergency Social Protection Project
                                                          CONTENTS

Data Sheet
       A. Basic Information
       B. Key Dates
       C. Ratings Summary
       D. Sector and Theme Codes
       E. Bank Staff
       F. Results Framework Analysis
       G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
       H. Restructuring
       I. Disbursement Graph

1. PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN ........................................ 1
2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES ...................................... 6
3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES ......................................................................................................... 13
4. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME.......................................................... 18
5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE .................................................. 18
6. LESSONS LEARNED............................................................................................................................ 20
7. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY GRANTEE/IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES/DONORS 21
    ANNEX 1. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ............................................................................................. 22
    ANNEX 2. OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT ........................................................................................................ 23
    ANNEX 3. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .................................................................................... 27
    ANNEX 4. GRANT PREPARATION AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION PROCESSES ................. 28
    ANNEX 5. BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS .............................................................................................. 30
    ANNEX 6. STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP REPORT AND RESULTS .................................................................. 31
    ANNEX 7. SUMMARY OF GRANTEE'S ICR AND/OR COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR ........................................ 32
    ANNEX 8. COMMENTS OF COFINANCIERS AND OTHER PARTNERS/STAKEHOLDERS.................................. 41
    ANNEX 9. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS ........................................................................................... 42
    ANNEX 10. CONTEXT AT APPRAISAL ........................................................................................................ 43
    MAP ........................................................................................................................................................ 44 
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Emergency Social
Country:               Iraq                    Project Name:
                                                                         Protection Project
Project ID:            P099295                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-56808
ICR Date:              12/13/2013              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                         MINISTRY OF
Lending Instrument:    ERL                     Grantee:                  LABOR AND SOCIAL
                                                                         AFFAIRS
Original Total
                       USD 8.00M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 8.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 8.00M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 The United States Agency for International Development (USAID)

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process             Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        01/26/2006   Effectiveness:                               06/02/2006
                                                                                 07/12/2009
                                                                                 01/27/2010
Appraisal:             05/19/2006   Restructuring(s):
                                                                                 01/06/2011
                                                                                 06/28/2012
Approval:              07/25/2006   Mid-term Review:                             10/27/2008
                                    Closing:                09/30/2007           04/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                         Overall Borrower
                           Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                         Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           No                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance                           50                  50
Other social services                                                   50                  50


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Social risk mitigation                                                  33                  33
Social safety nets                                                      33                  33
Vulnerability assessment and monitoring                                 34                  34

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:              Inger Andersen                       Christiaan J. Poortman
Country Director:            Ferid Belhaj                         Joseph P. Saba
                             Yasser Aabdel-Aleem Awny El-         David J. Steel (Acting Sector
Sector Manager:
                             Gammal                               Manager)
Project Team Leader:         Ghassan N. Alkhoja                   David J. Steel
ICR Team Leader:             Ghassan N. AlKhoja
ICR Primary Author:          Manal Bakur N Quota


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The overall objective of the project is to strengthen the policy, management and
administrative capacity in MOLSA and MOF to develop, manage and monitor pension
and social safety net reforms. Since this is a small Technical Assistance project, which
will be implemented over a short period of time, it will be difficult to measure final
outcomes. One intermediate measure of success will be that both MOLSA and MOF are
able to use information generated by the new systems for social safety net and pension
decision making.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

N/A.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                               Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target        Completion or
                                                documents)         Values         Target Years
                  Safety Net: MIS in place, operational and providing useful data for MOLSA.
Indicator 1 :     Policymakers in the areas of Baghdad, Erbil, Basrah and Najaf use newly
                  generated system reports
Value
                                                                            MIS completed for
quantitative or   No MIS in place
                                                                            all Iraq
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/06/2006                                                03/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Target achieved
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Safety Net: Targeting strategies introduced by MOLSA
                                                                            Targeting in place
Value
                                                                            using categorical
quantitative or No targeting strategies
                                                                            targeting as well as
Qualitative)
                                                                            geographical
Date achieved 06/06/2006                                                    03/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %      Target achieved
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Safety Net: Effective M&E system operational
                                                                            System in place by
                                                                            MOLSA to monitor
                                                                            SSN programs,
Value                                                                       based
quantitative or No M&E system in place                                      on beneficiary
Qualitative)                                                                assessment
                                                                            conducted during
                                                                            project
                                                                            implementation
Date achieved 06/06/2006                                                    03/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %      Target achieved
achievement)
                Pensions: Data Base completed. Policymakers use newly generated system
Indicator 4 :
                reports
Value                                                                        Database developed
quantitative or No database available                                        as part of pension
Qualitative)                                                                 survey activity
Date achieved 06/06/2013                                                     03/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Target achieved with additional support from the companion PRISTA program
achievement)
                Pensions: Related activities funded by project completed with evaluations where
Indicator 5 :
                appropriate
Value
quantitative or No baseline value                                            Completed
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/06/2006                                                     03/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Target achieved
achievement)
Indicator 6 : Pensions: MOLSA/MOF complete draft pension reform strategy
                                                                             Completed with
Value
                No pension reform                                            support from
quantitative or
                strategy                                                     companion
Qualitative)
                                                                             PRISTA program.
Date achieved 06/06/2006                                                     04/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Target achieved
achievement)
Indicator 7 : Project management: MOLSA is capable of managing and monitoring the project
                                                                             Project
                                                                             management is
Value           New project management
                                                                             fully in place and
quantitative or office before project
                                                                             capable of future
Qualitative)    preparation
                                                                             program
                                                                             management
Date achieved 06/06/2006                                                     03/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Target achieved
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                  Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                              Values (from                     Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                approval                      Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                               documents)                     Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Beneficiaries of safety nets programs
Value
                60000                                                        520000
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/06/2006                                                    04/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Target achieved
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Beneficiaries of safety nets programs female
Value
(quantitative     0.00                                                          0.00
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
                  Ministry of Labor & Social Affairs does not provide assistance to female headed
(incl. %
                  households (this is done in another ministry)
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Beneficiaries of safety nets programs - unconditional cash transfers
Value
(quantitative     No households covered                                         518375
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/06/2006                                                    04/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Target achieved
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                                DO                           IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
                              Moderately
  1     12/15/2006                                       Unsatisfactory                      0.00
                            Unsatisfactory
  2     06/26/2007       Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                  0.11
                              Moderately                 Moderately
  3     12/21/2007                                                                           0.21
                            Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory
                              Moderately                 Moderately
  4     06/18/2008                                                                           0.45
                            Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory
                              Moderately                 Moderately
  5     08/29/2008                                                                           0.85
                            Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory
  6     03/04/2009       Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                  1.80
                              Moderately                 Moderately
  7     12/15/2009                                                                           3.61
                            Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory
                              Moderately
  8     06/29/2010                                  Moderately Satisfactory                  4.47
                            Unsatisfactory
  9     12/18/2010       Moderately Satisfactory          Satisfactory                       4.78
 10     07/13/2011       Moderately Satisfactory          Satisfactory                       5.04
 11     02/08/2012           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                       5.22
 12     08/21/2012           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                       5.97
 13     03/13/2013           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                       6.44
 14     04/25/2013           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                       6.67
H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     The changes made were (i)
                                                     reallocation of Grant proceeds
                                                     and (ii) amendment of
                                                     implementation of Component
                                                     Two of the project to account
                                                     for the implementation of Law
                                                     27/2006. The reasons for
                                                     restructuring are two-fold:
                                                     firstly, the Unified Pension Law
                                                     (27/2006 and related
                                                     amendments) was enacted post
                                                     project appraisal and resulted in
                                                     a change in the coordinating
 07/12/2009       N       MS     MS           2.73
                                                     body for ESPP Component 2
                                                     activities. The National Board
                                                     of Pensions (NBP) was created
                                                     and PSRC ceased to exist.
                                                     Under NBP a Pension Reform
                                                     Management Office was
                                                     established and took over tasks
                                                     that were initially performed by
                                                     the Project Implementation
                                                     Team (PIT). Secondly, MOLSA
                                                     requested additional training
                                                     and capacity building for their
                                                     staff.
                                                     Changes made were (i)
                                                     extension of grant closing date
                                                     from February 28, 2010 to
                                                     February 28, 2011; (ii)
                                                     reallocation of the grant
 01/27/2010       N       MU    MU            3.63
                                                     proceeds between disbursement
                                                     categories. Reason for
                                                     restructuring was to give the
                                                     implementers more time to
                                                     achieve PDO.
                                                     A Level Two Restructuring
                                                     took place on January 6, 2011 to
 01/06/2011               MS      S           4.82   (i) reallocate grant proceeds, (ii)
                                                     extend the project closing date);
                                                     and; (iii) reallocate the grant
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     proceeds. This Restructuring
                                                     was necessary to ensure that
                                                     appropriate training was
                                                     provided to MOLSA staff for
                                                     the functioning SSN
                                                     information system, and to
                                                     provide sufficient operating
                                                     costs for MOLSA to manage the
                                                     project until closing. The
                                                     extension of the closing date
                                                     was necessary to make up for
                                                     time lost during the enactment
                                                     and subsequent receding of Law
                                                     18/2010, which separated
                                                     MOLSA into two separate
                                                     Ministries.
                                                     The restructuring was necessary
                                                     because: (i) the project needed
                                                     more time to complete the PDO;
                                                     (ii) requirements for equipment
                                                     arose that were needed for the
                                                     hardware to be compliant with
 06/28/2012               S       S           5.62   the purchased software, and this
                                                     added equipment required more
                                                     training; (iii) to help streamline
                                                     and simplify procurement
                                                     processes, allowing for
                                                     increased reliance on the
                                                     MOLSA's capacity.
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country background

1.1.0 Following years of conflict that include the 1980-1988 Iraq-Iran War, the 1990-1991 Gulf War,
the 2003-2011 Iraq war, and years of sanctions and isolation, Iraq faced serious economic and social
development challenges. While precise figures were lacking during project preparation, it was estimated
that nearly 10 percent of the population lived on less than US$1 per day, with another 30 percent
vulnerable to falling into this category. Up to a quarter of the Iraqi population depended on monthly food
rations through the Public Distribution System (PDS), the nation’s primary social safety net providing
universal in-kind food transfers. Unemployment and underemployment were anywhere between 25 and
60 percent, depending on the estimate and definition, all indicating that those affected the most were
youth. Two decades of intermittent conflict produced large numbers of disadvantaged and vulnerable
groups. Providing adequate social protection mechanisms for the poor and vulnerable, including social
safety nets and affordable pensions, was important in its own right and critical to the implementation of
broader economic reforms.

1.1.1 In July 2005, the Iraqi Transitional Government prepared a National Development Strategy
(NDS) aimed at placing Iraq on a course toward a diversified market-based economy. The strategy
focused on good governance, private sector-led growth, and strong social safety nets. The four pillars of
the NDS were: (i) strengthening the foundations of economic growth; (ii) revitalizing the private sector;
(iii) improving the quality of life through, among other things, investing in the social sectors; and (iv)
strengthening good governance and improving security. The NDS gave priority in the short term to
restoring basic services and creating employment.

Social protection sector

1.1.2 Beginning in late August 2005, the Iraqi Transitional Government adopted ambitious reforms
focused on fiscal strategy, including, inter alia, reducing certain commodity subsidies, particularly those
relating to petroleum products and strengthening the social safety net in order to offset the impact of
future price increases on the poor. In part to counter the effects of higher prices on the poor, the
Government allocated IQD 500 billion (US$330 million equivalent) in 2006 to strengthen the existing
targeted cash-based safety net program administered by the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs
(MOLSA). Resources for the program were to come from a reduction in the PDS budget. Savings were
expected primarily through improved administrative control over procurement. The reduction also
signaled a long term shift away from in-kind subsidies toward targeted cash transfer assistance
mechanisms.

1.1.3 The then-existing information base was insufficient to support social protection policy reforms
because: the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs (MOLSA) had been marginalized for years under
Saddam Hussein’s regime and had no active role in society; MOLSA’s policies and laws were out of date
and failed to address the growing socio-economic conditions in Iraq; and MOLSA had not stayed abreast
of the latest policy developments and research happening regionally or internationally in terms of social
services. Designing safety nets and pension systems that met basic norms in terms of efficiency, equity
and financial sustainability required detailed information on program costs and beneficiaries. With a weak
grasp of the realities on the ground, inadequate equipment (such as computers) to ease working processes,



                                                    1
and a workforce that had an outdated vision of policymaking in the field of social affairs, addressing the
demands of the growing poor was very difficult. At its most basic level, information systems in Iraq were
severely underdeveloped. There was no comprehensive database of safety net program recipients or of
contributors to and beneficiaries of the pension system.

1.1.4 Cash-based safety nets up to that point had been small and not well-targeted to the poorest. The
dominant safety net in Iraq was the PDS, accounting for more than 14 percent of GDP in 2005. Other
safety nets, including the cash transfer based mechanisms administered by MOLSA, were small in
comparison, roughly 2 percent of GDP. In the context of scaling up the social safety net (SSN) program,
MOLSA revised the payment structure of the program with technical assistance from the United States
Agency for International Development, (USAID), with an expectation that over 1 million families would
receive benefits by the end of 2006. Good progress was made soliciting applications, with about 429,000
applications received by the beginning of April 2006. However, targeting criteria had not fundamentally
changed from the older program and there was no assessment of how MOLSA would cope with the
enlarged administrative burden. Scaling up the SSN program effectively remained a huge challenge.

1.1.5     The pension system was wrought with problems: it was financially unsustainable, benefit
formulas and eligibility conditions did not respect basic norms in terms of design, and coverage was
limited. Iraq had two earnings-related pension systems, one for civil servants and one for private sector
workers, covering approximately 15 percent of the labor force. Beginning in April 2003, the Coalition
Provisional Authority replaced regular pensions with emergency “flat” payments to cope with the
depreciation of the Iraqi Dinar and resolve problems related to individual records that emerged following
the armed conflict. Flat payments were estimated to cost around 5 percent of GDP, among the highest
level in the region, and were financed from the general budget. The Government found itself under
pressure to implement the new civil service pension law passed in December 2005 (Law 27/2005), that
would shift expenditures on pensions from about 5 percent to between 4.5- 7 percent of GDP. However,
implementing the more generous pension formulas was not a feasible option in the long run, as the system
design compromised financial sustainability, damaged incentives, and opened the door to adverse
distributional transfers.

1.1.6 There was concern from both the Government and international donors, led by the International
Monitoring Fund (IMF) and the World Bank, that the mandatory pension system was accumulating large
and unsustainable pension liabilities. The new pension law (Law 27/2006) placed more pressure on the
Government and hence its strong interest in designing and implementing a new pension system that
reduced current expenditures and improved coverage and long term sustainability.

Rational for Bank assistance

1.1.7 The World Bank Second Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for Iraq was presented to the World Bank’s
Board of Executive Directors in September 2005. The strategy built on the achievements of the first ISN
(dated December 15, 2006), and was aligned with the Iraqi Transitional Government’s NDS. The Bank’s
overarching objective was to help Iraq build efficient, inclusive, transparent and accountable institutions
needed for stability, good governance, and sustainable economic prosperity, with the idea that better
institutional frameworks, policies and systems would improve the efficiency and effectiveness of both
national expenditures and international aid. Two components of the project under review addressed three
of the second ISN’s four pillars, namely: (i) restoring basic services delivery (Pillar 1); (ii) strengthening
the social safety nets (Pillar 3); and (iii) public sector governance (Pillar 4).

1.1.8 The ISN relied on the World Bank Iraq Trust Fund (ITF) and IDA to finance projects, and on the
Bank budget for the economic and sector work and policy advice that was needed. The ITF financed ten
projects for US$385 million, nine of which were still under implementation at the inception of ESPP.


                                                      2
The World Bank was one of the few donors that financed recipient-executed projects. The vast majority
of donor-financed projects in Iraq have been implemented by donor agencies, consulting firms or NGOs
on behalf of the Government.

1.1.9 The World Bank was responding to a direct request from the Minister of Labor and Social Affairs
in October 2005, followed up by an official letter in January 2006, for support in social safety net and
pension reform design and implementation processes within the context of the Government’s NDS. The
MOLSA, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the World Bank saw the proposed project as the first phase
of a longer term Bank engagement to tackle the key issues outlined above, and to help the government
move towards the implementation of a fiscally sustainable social protection system. The ultimate goal
was to provide vulnerable populations with the support they needed to sustain themselves and to
springboard back into economic activity where possible, and to reform the pension system using benefit
formulas and eligibility conditions that respected basic norms in terms of design, expansion of coverage
and fiscal sustainability. More information on the rationale for bank assistance can be found in Annex 10.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

1.2.1 According to the World Bank Iraq Trust Fund Grant Agreement (TFGA) for the projected dated
June 2, 2006, the overall project development objective (PDO) of the Emergency Social Protection
Project (ESPP) was to strengthen the policy, management and administrative capacity in MOLSA and
MOF to develop, manage and monitor pension and social safety net reforms. The World Bank would
support the government by: (i) establishing a basic information system within MOLSA to record and
process information on safety nets; (ii) consolidating and expanding the information base for the SSN
program managed by MOLSA to permit development of targeting strategies; (iii) designing and
implementing a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system for the expanded SSN program; (iv)
developing an updated digitized database on beneficiaries, contributors and employers in the pension
system; (v) building technical capacity within MOLSA and MOF for policy analysis and design in the
area of safety net and pensions; (vi) developing a draft pension reform strategy. The annex Results
Framework and Monitoring of the Technical Annex dated June 2, 2006 specifies basic indicators. The
Results Framework indicators and outcomes were then adjusted during the mid-term review as a stock-
taking of progress was conducted and it was decided that monitoring would intensify. These can be
reviewed in the mid-term review aide memoire mission dated October 2008.

1.2.2 Originally, as described in the Technical Annex 1 dated June 2, 2006, it was anticipated that
because this was a small technical assistance emergency project, implementation would occur over a
period of about 3 years, hence making it difficult to measure final outcomes. Assessing the outcomes of
the management information system (MIS) and planned reports would only be possible after a period of
time once implementation had been completed. Monitoring and evaluation would focus on short term
outcomes and an intermediate measure of success was identified as the ability of both MOLSA and MOF
to use information generated by the new systems for social safety net and pension decision making.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

1.3.1 The project development objectives did not change during the life of the project. The project was
restructured four times. The first restructuring, approved on July 12, 2009, was needed to alter the
implementation arrangements for Component 2. The alteration occurred because of new Government


1
    A Technical Annex and not a Project Appraisal Document (PAD) was developed for this project.




                                                                                3
policies that included: adoption of Law 27/2006 where the National Board of Pensions (NBP) and the
Pension Reform Management Office were created and assumed project management responsibilities,
thereby replacing the Pension Reform Steering Committee and the Project Implementation Team. Details
about these restructurings are presented in 1.7 below.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

1.4.1 The Technical Annex clearly identifies MOLSA and the MOF as the main beneficiaries. Through
its support the Bank aimed to help move the government towards stronger implementation of fiscally
sustainable social protection systems. With better information, provided through an MIS and digitized
databases, the government would make policy choices and decisions that were anticipated to be better
targeted to the poor and that were evidence-based. Government officials and employees from MOLSA
and MOF were to benefit through capacity building carried out in training sessions, study tours, in the
introduction of technologies that make work more efficient, and in an increase in operating costs that
would lead to better coordination and project oversight. Ministry staff would also benefit from the
introduction of new equipment that improved their work efficiency. Other ministries would benefit from
this project by learning by example and witnessing the improvement in performance, management and
policymaking when it was based on evidence and organized through an information system.

1.4.2 By supporting the Government in its quest to improve social protection policies, consistent with
the NDS, the World Bank would support the government’s efforts at improving living conditions for the
most vulnerable and at risk citizens in Iraq. Finally, the general population would benefit from the project
through the savings accrued by government as it was better able to manage and track its finances.

1.5 Original Components

1.5.1. There was no Project Appraisal Document (PAD) but a Technical Annex for the original project.
According to the Technical Annex, the project had three main components:

Component 1: Safety Nets (estimated total cost US$6.36 million at appraisal). This component had
two subcomponents:
     Subcomponent A: Information Systems Development. This subcomponent of the project
       supported: (i) supply and installation of IT systems and equipment to assist in scaling up the SSN
       Program; (ii) established a basic information infrastructure within MOLSA, including the
       development of an integrated database of safety net applicants and beneficiaries; and (iii)
       developed a monitoring and evaluation system for the program based on a central MIS.
     Subcomponent B: Institutional Capacity Building for Safety Nets Policy Development. This
       subcomponent focused on three areas of safety nets policy: (i) capacity building in data analysis
       and program monitoring; (ii) development of sustainable safety net program designs that replace
       generalized subsidies; and (iii) targeting and eligibility options. Activities included technical
       assistance and training for MOLSA staff inside Iraq as well as in other countries within and
       beyond the region to acquire needed skills.

Component 2: Pensions (estimated total cost US$0.81 million at appraisal). This component would
finance the preparation of baseline information and IT support for record-keeping and policy analysis. It
was to include: (i) conducting a representative survey of beneficiaries and contributors to the SPS; (ii)
providing IT technologies to support digitization of pension records, record-keeping, and pension policy
analysis; (iii) training on data entry, database management (record-keeping), and data analysis for pension
policy making.




                                                     4
Component 3: Project Management (estimated total cost US$0.83 million). This component was to
finance goods, technical assistance, training and operating expenditures necessary to manage project
activities and ensure compliance with the grant’s fiduciary requirements.

1.6 Revised Components

1.6.1 None of the components were significantly changed.

1.7 Other significant changes

1.7.1 Restructuring: The project underwent four restructurings: July 12, 2009; January 27, 2010;
January 6, 2011; and June 28, 2012.

1.7.2 The July 12, 2009 was a second order restructuring to: (i) reallocate Grant proceeds; and (ii)
amend implementation arrangements of Component 2 of the project to account for the implementation of
Law 27/2006. These changes were necessary for two reasons, firstly, the Unified Pension Law (27/2006
and related amendments) was enacted after project appraisal and resulted in a change in the coordinating
body for Component 2 activities. As explained in section 1.3.1. Secondly, MOLSA requested additional
training and capacity-building for their staff.

1.7.3 The January 27, 2010 restructuring (i) extended the grant closing date from February 28, 2010 to
February 28, 2011; (ii) reallocated the grant proceeds between disbursement categories. A Level Two
Restructuring took place on January 6, 2011 to (i) reallocate grant proceeds, and (ii) extend the project
closing date). This Restructuring was necessary to ensure that appropriate training was provided to
MOLSA staff for the functioning SSN information system, and to provide sufficient operating costs for
MOLSA to manage the project until closing. The extension of the closing date was necessary to make up
for time lost during the enactment and subsequent receding of Law 18/2010, which separated MOLSA
into two separate Ministries.

1.7.4     A Level Two restructuring was approved on June 28, 2012 to (i) extend the project closing date;
(ii) reallocate Grant proceeds; and (iii) amend procurement processes in the TFGA so that Schedule 2,
Section III D, paragraph I of the TFGA could be revised to read: “The Procurement Plan shall set forth
those contracts which shall be subject to the World Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be
subject to Post Review by the World Bank.” These changes were necessary because: (a) the project
needed more time to achieve the PDO; (b) requirements for equipment arose that were needed for the
hardware to be compliant with the purchased software, and this added equipment required more training;
(c) to help streamline and simplify procurement processes, allowing for increased reliance on the
MOLSA’s capacity.

1.7.5 Extension of closing date of the original project: The closing date was extended four times: (i)
from September 30, 2007 to February 28, 2010; (ii) to February 28, 2011; (iii) to June 30, 2012, (iii) and
finally to April 30, 2013. In all cases, the extension was given to allow sufficient time to complete all
project activities.

1.7.6 Reallocation of grant proceeds: There were two reallocations of grant proceeds of the original
project estimates. These were:




                                                    5
                                             June 2, 2006    July 12, 2009 June 28, 2012
                                               (original     Second order   Level Two
                                              allocation)    Restructuring Restructuring
 1. Goods                                      4,745,000       4,600,000     5,400,000
 2. Consultant services                        1,330,000       1,200,000      750,000
 3. Training, workshops and study tours        1,075,000       1,600,000     1,050,000
 4. Operating costs                             320,000         600,000       800,000
 5. Unallocated                                 530,000            -             -
TOTAL                                          8,000,000       8,000,000     8,000,000

1.7.7 The first reallocation moved funds from the unallocated and consultants’ services categories into
the Goods; Training, workshops and study tours; and the Operating costs categories (which represented
more than 5% of the original grant amount). The final reallocation depicts shifting of funds into the
Goods and Training, workshops and study tours categories as was approved as part of the Level Two
restructuring on June 8, 2012.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

2.1.1 Soundness of the background analysis: Recognizing the increase in the number of people living
below the poverty line, the Government decided to increase the number of SSN beneficiaries to 1 million.
This represented a significant jump (beneficiaries at that time were about 57,000) that put a strain on
MOLSA’s limited capacities that were not designed to handle these figures. The need for the project was
evident, and the Task Team rightly identified and rated the risks associated with implementing this project.
Considering this was an emergency project, it is appropriate to rank this as an acceptable level of effort.
The project however, could have greatly benefited from a deeper analysis of the level of internal
capacities at the Ministry to better anticipate the time needed to build up local capacity. Examples of how
this could have been done include conducting a comparison of local context and country history with
other country experiences or technical discussions with the Iraqi counterparts at various levels at the
Ministry.

2.1.2 Assessment of project design: The Project was prepared in accordance with Emergency Recovery
Assistance Procedures (Operational Policy 8.50, later replaced by OP 8.00 in 2007) and was consistent
with the World Bank’s second ISN. The Quality Assurance Group’s (QAG) assessment of this project,
completed in 2008, rated the project design as satisfactory because of (i) the precautionary measures taken
under financial management and procurement; (ii) the ownership from the government and involvement
of stakeholders; and (iii) and alignment with Bank strategies. The QAG report also recognizes the project
as a building block towards institutional capacity for future development of appropriate policies, which
should be aided by the ongoing household income and expenditure survey.

2.1.3 According to the Technical Annex, the project design built on past World Bank experience in
both Iraq and conflict-affected regions by recognizing the difficulty of implementing technical assistance
projects and needing to deliver quick and visible results. While this project, as an emergency project, had
a straightforward and simple design, the design could have been strengthened had the following been
taken into consideration: (i) the scope of the project was very ambitious and covered a total of 21 sites for
just Component One; (ii) the three year project length was too short; and (iii) there were no visible quick
wins for the first year of implementation built into the design.




                                                     6
2.1.4 At the design phase the project implementation time was considered too short to measure final
outcomes and so no short-term outcomes were identified and indicators were not quantified in the
designed results Framework. The only intermediate measure identified was the ability of MOLSA and
MOF to use information generated by the new systems for social safety net and pension decision-making.
Considering the nature of the emergency project this is assessed as acceptable.

2.1.5 As noted in QAG Assessment, the project design provided opportunities for promoting social
inclusion of the poorest and most vulnerable, as well as gender equity. The project also had strong
stakeholder ownership and participation during design. Finally, the project was demand-driven, recipient-
executed, and established parameters for wider stakeholder consultation through the social safety net
beneficiary assessment and pension survey. The QAG assessment did recommend that the project’s focus
could have been sharpened by addressing cultural and social barriers to the participation of women, and
specific social development indicators could have helped measure social development outcomes.

2.1.6 Government Commitment. Though there were only three changes to the Minister in office, there
were visible fluctuations in the commitment from MOLSA that depended on the commitment set by the
Minister in office. During the design, preparation and negotiation of the project commitment was high.
The 2005 NDS includes as one of its commitments: “improving the quality of life through, among other
things, investing in the social sectors,” and in 2006 MOLSA placed priority on expanding and
implementing programs targeted to the poor with specific attention to social safety nets. This was also
confirmed in the QAG assessment, which recognized the commitment as good during negotiations.

2.1.7 In 2006, a new minister came into power and shifts in priorities occurred. Under his leadership
project implementation continued at a slower pace and with some challenges. Specifically, training was
postponed or had low participation. For example, the SSN study tours and the World Bank Fiduciary
Training of January 2008 were not attended by any MOLSA staff. In addition, as noted in the Aide
Memoire dated April 5-10, 2008, he was very reluctant to allow missions to occur outside of Iraq, which
was and still is the norm for all Iraq projects given the security situation. According to the October 27 to
November 1, 2007 Aide Memoire, the Project Management Office (PMO), on behalf of the Minister,
informed the Bank of the need to decrease the number of missions and limit attendance from MOLSA --
all of which were against Bank recommendations.

2.1.8 These issues were resolved once the latest minister came to power in 2011. As noted in Annex 2
of this ICR, the Minister has been fully committed to the project and recognizes its value on all
beneficiaries, his staff and the ministry in general.

2.1.9 Risk assessment. The overall risk assessment rating was high, reflecting serious concerns with the
ability to operate on the ground, procurement, financial management and corruption as explained below.
This was mitigated by designating a Fiduciary Monitoring Agent (FMA) that was to monitor and keep
track of all financial activities. In addition, a project accountant, a financial officer, an M&E Officer, an
internal auditor, and an external auditing firm were hired. The Task Team also worked with MOLSA to
set up a project Designated Account; however, this was never established because of local restrictions set
by the MOF.

2.1.10 Increased volatility and instability made it difficult to have World Bank presence on the ground
leading to dependence on local consultants and the FMA to provide updates and monitor progress. Direct
security threats to Ministry staff members, (e.g., as listed in ISR dated December 15, 2006 where the
procurement officer received death threats) caused retention problems and decreased the efforts aimed at
maintaining internal capacity.




                                                     7
2.1.11 It was accurately predicted, and given a high rating, that the lack of procurement experience and
poor internal practices in Iraq would result in implementation delays. Initial mitigating measures as noted
in the Technical Annex were appropriate, such as close Bank supervision and training in basic
procurement. However, other unexpected risks, such as poor staff retention in the ministries, decreased
the effectiveness of the mitigation measures.

2.1.12 It is important to note that the ESPP project was successful at mitigating the FM and procurement
risks, which is a unique achievement for projects being implemented in Iraq during the same timeframe.
Despite difficult security circumstances and high turn-over of staff (another commonality happening in
Iraq at implementation time) the Task Team was able to ensure the financial integrity of the project.

2.2 Implementation

2.2.1 Project implementation faced significant challenges as overall implementation was first rated as
“unsatisfactory” in September 2006 and then again in December 2007, which was maintained until June
2010. A mix of endogenous and exogenous factors resulted in the initial low implementation rating.
During project appraisal it was assessed that procurement and financial management would be the
greatest threats in post-war Iraq. However, the deteriorating security situation and increased volatility
proved to be equally challenging and together all contributed to delays in project implementation.

2.2.2 Improved performance occurred in June 2010 and the rating was upgraded to “moderately
satisfactory.” Following that point all overall implementation progress ratings were listed as “satisfactory”
until project closing. Implementation improved because of better security and improvement in
government capacity and commitment to project completion. By 2010, internal strife and sectarian
violence in Iraq had decreased, allowing for smoother access and mobility across the country. This made
it easier to follow up on project progress and to address any issues with installation and operation of
equipment at project sites. Entering into 2011, a new Minister came into office and changed the PMO
team and internal attitudes towards the project (as discussed in section 2.1.6-2.1.8 and in Annex 2 of this
ICR). With the new leadership and renewed recognition of the importance of this project, more efforts
were placed on building internal capacity and implementation of the project.

2.2.3 The main factors beyond the Government’s or implementing agency’s control that influenced
project implementation and project outcomes were:
        i. The deteriorating security situation across the country, which made it difficult to deliver goods
           on time, resulted in loss of data (cited in the Aide Memoire of February 22-26, 2010), and made
           it difficult to hire and maintain staff within MOLSA;
       ii. The inability of the Bank Task Team to visit Iraq and work on the ground;
     iii. The weak implementation capacity within the country in general, resulting from years of
           isolation, wars and internal conflict;
      iv. The lack of familiarity of the ministry staff with modern technology and systems;
       v. The disbursement and payment delays that occurred because a designated account could not be
           opened;
      vi. Appreciation of the Iraqi Dinar (IQD) against the US dollar leading to shortages in cash flow;
     vii. The unstable political environment, enactment and rescinding of the Disengagement Law (Law
           18), which halted project activities for 10 months.
    viii. For the first year, changes in leadership (for example, the 2006 Iraqi elections and new
           government formation that brought a new MOF team) caused a lack of continuity, less
           engagement as top leadership and some original team members were reassigned;

2.2.4   The main factors under Government control that influenced project implementation were:



                                                     8
       i. Coordination efforts within the PMO were very weak initially, making working relationships
          difficult, creating poor consistency and miscommunication;
      ii. Inefficient use of the project account (initially set up as a project “restricted” account) and
          lengthy payment processes, including setting up of a project bank account late and utilizing
          lengthy withdrawal/approval processes;
     iii. Implementation of Law 27/2006, resulting in changes to the management office as mentioned
          in section 1.3.1;
     iv. Government staff not participating in all missions and requesting a decrease in the number of
          missions per year;
      v. Delays by top leadership for all training and study tours in the initial years of project
          implementation, thus slowing the pace of capacity development; and
     vi. Protracted evaluation procedures for procurement documents and ineffective compositions for
          the Final Acceptance Committee, which were responsible for delays in installation and
          acceptance of equipment.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1 Design. According to the Technical Annex the project was initially assessed as a small Technical
Assistance project that would be implemented over a short period of time, making it difficult to measure
final outcomes. The PMO was given responsibility for monitoring, evaluation and reporting and an M&E
Officer was assigned but left the post in March 2011 and the role was left unfilled until project closing.

2.3.2 During the Mid-Term Review in October 2008, it was agreed that results monitoring would
intensify. During that mission a stock-taking of the Results Framework and updated outcomes and
indicators was undertaken resulting in a revised Results Framework. The revised Results Framework
included the past indicators, actual results thus far and the revised indicators for success.

2.3.3 Seeing as the length of the project was extended it is reasonable to expect that the Results
Framework would be improved upon as the urgency that existed during project design was no longer
there. With this consideration, further effort could have been placed into designing a more robust
framework.

2.3.4 Implementation and utilization. In the first few months of project implementation the M&E rating
given by the Task Team was ”moderately unsatisfactory,” which was changed in the second supervision
mission (February 23- March 1, 2007) to ”satisfactory” and remained so after the Mid-Term Review and
until project closing. Limited information is presented on M&E beyond the ratings in the ISRs suggesting
little utilization of M&E. The security situation on the ground left the task team heavily dependent on
anecdotal measures of implementation progress, which partially explains the less dependence on M&E. It
is difficult to assess the effect stronger M&E measures would have had on implementation, but it is
important to note that during the mid-term review more effort could have been placed into designing a
more detailed results framework for improved implementation and progress towards PDO.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1 Fiduciary monitoring agent. The ITF required that the Bank work with an FMA to help the Bank
monitor physical delivery/progress and the recipients’ compliance with financial management and
procurement procedures. Within this role the FMA visited all 21 sites for this project to verify the
delivery, installation and use of all purchased hardware, and provided reports, verified with photographs,
on the status and conditions of all 21 sites. The FMA attended all 13 implementation support missions
where they were requested to share their reports with the teams through a presentation. The FMA
provided on-the-job training to the PMO staff and Ministry teams. The FMA’s on-the-ground presence


                                                    9
and direct access to MOLSA kept the project on track, reduced fiduciary risks and ensured funds were
spent according to their proper allocations.

2.4.2 Financial management and disbursement. The project financial resources were extended through
the ITF and were managed within the framework of the MOLSA systems, regulations and controls. Iraq
was defined by the Bank as a “high risk - weak control environment country,” and so a financial
management assessment was undertaken, remotely, through meetings with MOLSA representatives to
assess its financial management system. The rating was high, based on this assessment and the following
factors: (i) the security conditions; (ii) the weak banking system in Iraq; (iii) the fiduciary risk of the
Grant not being used for the intended purposes, with due regard to economy, efficiency and the
sustainable achievement of the project’s development. The financial management risk as an element of
the fiduciary risk was also high.

2.4.3 Though the financial risk was rated as high, the project did not have any major financial risks
relating to corruption or mismanagement, which is often a risk associated with operating in post-conflict
environments. This was an especially grave problem with projects operating in Iraq during the time of
project implementation; hence, the inexistence of any financial mismanagement is unique and an example
of project success. The Task Team took the appropriate measures to mitigate the risk and established a
relationship of transparency and honesty with the PMO making it difficult for any monetary allocations to
be spent inappropriately. The measures undertaken by the Task team to manage the financial management
risk included: (i) reinforcing the controls as applied by the MOLSA; (ii) the engagement of a dedicated
financial officer and an accountant to manage the project financial activities; (iii) assigning an FMA; (iv)
the timely engagement of an independent auditor, with international experience acceptable to the Bank, to
perform the project audit and issue an independent auditor’s opinion; and, finally (v) documenting FM
arrangements in a chapter of the Project Implementation Manual.

2.4.4 Overall the financial reporting went very smoothly, with the PMO financial management team
providing financial management reports on time that were found to be satisfactory. The PMO financial
team, including the financial officer, the accountant and internal controller, participated in the majority of
missions. An external auditor was hired by November 2007 and minor auditing issues were identified
when the first audit report for 2007 was submitted and rectified in a timely fashion. When needed,
additional training and the hiring of a financial management consultant was conducted provide support to
the financial management team when shortages or changes in staff occurred (as stated in Aide Memoires
dated October 12-16, 2009 and February 22-26, 2010).

2.4.5 The main issues that arose during the initial phases of the project were (i) the delay in setting up
of a project account due to cash flow shortages within the MOF and MOLSA; (ii) the depreciation of the
IQD against the US dollar; and (iii) slow fund disbursement and payments to employees because of
delays with setting up the project bank account. Both issues were rectified by the establishment of a
project account (in IQD not US dollars as this was never approved) and the Bank reimbursing the Iraqi
government for the losses incurred during currency exchange rate fluctuations following the delivery of
appropriate documentation by the PMO (as noted in Aide Memoire October 27-November 1, 2007).

2.4.6 Procurement. According to the Technical Annex, procurement for the project would be carried
out in accordance with the World Bank’s “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits”
dated May 2004; and “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers”
dated May 2004, and the provisions stipulated in the TFGA. For International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
the Bank’s Standard Bidding Documents for the procurement of Goods and the Procurement of IT (with
appropriate modifications) would be used. For procurement of Goods under National Competitive
Bidding, Master Implementation manual standard bidding documents in Arabic or English were to be
used.


                                                     10
2.4.7 In 2005, the World Bank conducted an Operational Procurement Review (OPR) of the public
procurement system in Iraq to help enhance the Bank’s knowledge of the overall procurement system in
Iraq. The OPR revealed that the procurement environment that prevailed in Iraq during the last two
decades was different from the norms of acceptable international practice. The major issues facing public
procurement in Iraq was the uncertainty of public procurement laws and regulations that caused high risk
within a weak control environment. The risk was rooted in the lack of good laws and regulations, modern
standard documentation, lack of trained concerned staff in procurement using World Bank guidelines and
international procurement practices, and in the lack of law enforcement which would increase the risk
management. The overall procurement risk assessment was judged to be high, thus requiring a qualified
procurement officer to be dedicated to the project as well as intensive formal and on-the-job training to
the PMO on procurement and project management.

2.4.8 The ICB process did not prove to be successful in Iraq. In the first information technology bid,
according to the Aide Memoire dated February 23-March 1, 2007, 22 companies purchased the bidding
documents but only one company presented a bid by the deadline, and two presented bids after the
deadline and were thus rejected. The Iraqi bid opening committee delayed bid opening for a month
(seeing as opening just one bid was against procurement guidelines in Iraq). The bid was eventually
rejected because it was significantly higher than the estimated cost of US$829,000.

2.4.9 The Bank rightly expected to encounter challenges with procurement and when the ICB method
failed, the procurement team quickly mobilized and proposed a new approach. The use of the Shopping
Method for procurement of IT equipment instead of ICB was proposed, and once used proved to be
successful. The Shopping Method consists of re-packaging the contracts into smaller sizes using shopping
procedures in response to the capacity of the local private sector enterprises. Using the Shopping Method
from local markets resulted in 20 percent savings compared to the use of ICB, equaling US$1,397,191, as
it proved to be more efficient, economical and responded to conditions of local markets. With the savings
incurred, the Project was able to purchase additional equipment and build a Simulation Training Center.

2.4.10 Some of the means by which the new approach to procurement adapted to local market
conditions, and thus made it more successful, include: (i) changing the procurement packages to
numerous smaller-value contracts; (ii) removing constraints such as bid guarantee requirements and high
financial capacity for firms; (ii) publicizing the procurement opportunities broadly even for lower value
contracts; (iv) allowing alternative guarantees for security requirements; (v) streamlining and simplifying
procurement and related administrative procedures; (vi) and ensuring timely payments to the contractors.

2.4.11 As the project progressed, other delays to procurement were encountered. Frequent changes with
the PMO Procurement Officer caused delays as the new officers had to be trained and become familiar
with World Bank practices. There was also the more significant delay of the enactment and subsequent
rescinding of Law 18/2010, the Disengagement of the Social Affairs Directorates from the Ministry of
Labor and Social Affairs, which green lighted the creation of two separate Ministries and functioning
units under each Ministry. When the law was enacted all procurement activities were put on hold, as it
was unclear how the project was going to move forward with the change. Some of the effects of the law
resulting in a halt of implementation include, causing a change in the grant recipient (requiring an
amendment to the Grant Agreement) and changes in the national strategies relating to poverty targeting.
Within six months the law was rescinded, along with the changes, and project activities were re-instated.

2.4.12 Other factors that caused delays to procurement included: (i) sites not ready to accept equipment
largely as a result of poor coordination with MOLSA; (ii) coordination difficulties between the PMO,
SSN Department and implementing partners; and (iii) low capacity in the PMO and SSN Department for
timely completion of technical specifications, bidding documents and evaluation. The project also


                                                    11
witnessed significant delays from the Acceptance and Evaluation Committees who feared taking
decisions because of the ongoing practice of blaming individuals (PMO staff, or evaluation teams) for any
perceived mistakes and punishing them with high fines and penalties. The Committees caused delays in:
(i) preparation and submission of bidding and proposal documents; (ii) evaluation reports and
recommendation to award; and (iii) approval and payment of invoices. The delays in making decisions led
to over-reliance of PMTs on World Bank’s project and procurement staff with respect to procurement and
management issues, and trying to involve World Bank staff in their decisions.

2.4.13 The World Bank worked in collaboration with the Government to adopt mitigating measures to
ensure timelier implementation of project activities, including: (i) setting an evaluation deadline of 2-3
weeks; (ii) limiting committees to 3-5 qualified staff who had clarified roles as set by the Project
Operations Manual; (iii) undertaking a readiness analysis of all remaining installation sites; (iv) ensuring
that the SSN Project Coordination Office (PCO) would be activated to address coordination issues; and
(v) recruiting an IT specialist to help with capacity.

2.4.14 Lessons learned from using the ICB and switching to Shopping Method included: (i) cost
escalations were occurring due to high inflation, implementation delays, and the country’s security
situation causing differences in bid prices and estimated costs. The Ministry should have obtained
estimated market prices and revised cost estimates for each item listed in the appraisal cost tables; (ii)
local markets should be tested where the PMO tests the market by shopping procedures for limited items
on the IT equipment list; (iii) lack of capacity within the local private sectors required the simplification
of bidding documents and pre-bid meetings held for each tender; (iv) lack of familiarity with World Bank
guidelines and procedures presented a major challenge for PMO trained Procurement Officers, thus,
requiring a local consultant to work with the PMO.

2.4.15 Disbursement. Disbursement was slow in the initial years of project implementation (as displayed
in Figure 1) because of the slow project implementation and delays explained in section 2.2.




2.4.16 Safeguards. No environmental and social safeguards were triggered by this project.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

2.5.1 Project sustainability has been assured as MOLSA has put into their annual budget sufficient
resources to maintain the inputs provided through ESPP, including budgets for software and hardware
maintenance, and funding for connectivity costs. The project closed before MOLSA was able to contract
a Service Level Agreement (SLA) for the SSN Information System. The SLA is an agreement with a third
party that would fix any maintenance issues with the SSN. MOLSA indicated their staff have gained
sufficient capacity (through knowledge transfer and official training) to minimize the risks associated
with the period of time that an SLA is not in place. It is not yet clear when an SLA will be signed.

2.5.2 The work carried out under Component 2 led to securing technical assistance to support
implementation of Law 27/2006. The Pension Reform Implementation Support Technical Assistance


                                                     12
Project, PRISTA, was developed three years into implementation of ESPP for a total amount of US$6
million from the ITF.

2.5.3 In August 2013, an Iraqi delegation which included the MOLSA senior deputy minister, and the
assistant director general of SSN, met with the World Bank team in Lebanon to formally request the
World Bank’s support and discuss future cooperation and technical assistance opportunities. The Iraqi
delegation clearly articulated the ministry’s strategy in the medium-term, and agreed with the Task Team
on the broad areas of support to MOSLA, consistent also with the recommendations arising from the Iraq
Social Protection Forum held in November 2012.

2.5.4 A Concept Note has been drafted for a project with the objective of supporting the Government of
Iraq’s efforts to design and implement a resilient, effective and efficient SSN program. The project will
focus on Technical Assistance and will support MOLSA’s goal of providing better and more efficient
service delivery in the area of SSN. The work will focus on supporting MOLSA improve its SSN
through: improved targeting, using an MIS, improving social safety programs’ efficiency, as well as
improving SSN’s linkages to labor market programs with the aim to develop beneficiary graduation
mechanisms. The project will have five main components:
     Targeting: assessing and improving program targeting, coverage and adequacy through reducing
        leakage and supporting, revisiting benefit level and developing new targeting policies.
     Conditional Cash Transfer: with the aim to contribute to improving human development
        outcomes of Iraqis, design a pilot CCT or incentive-based program.
     Support the GoI Effort’s to Integrate and Harmonize Social Welfare Programs and Services:
        Facilitate the development of linkages between different government and non-governmental
        bodies responsible for delivering SSN programs and services
     Support Governance and Institutional Development in line with Social Welfare and SSN
        Legislation
     Develop Project Management and Capacity Building among Staff of Social Protection Programs

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: High

3.1.1 The objectives, design and implementation of the ESPP were and remain highly relevant to Iraq’s
priorities. The PDO was aligned with the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for the Period FY13- FY16,
where one of the CPS pillars is to “improve social inclusion and reduce poverty” by improving the
targeting and efficiency of social safety nets, where the outcome of this would be to strengthen capacity to
develop, manage and monitor social protection reforms. All of these are key elements of the ESPP.

3.1.2 Project design and implementation were highly relevant for a number of reasons: (i) it proposed to
build the technological foundation needed to push MOLSA away from paper-based work and into
computerized and systematized means of conducting business; (ii) it addressed the challenging element of
policymaking that governments across the Middle East have been facing, namely, lack of evidence-based
policy making. Establishing a management information system that is integrated, timely, and accurate
makes the Iraqi government more capable of targeting its policies and resources towards those most in
need; (iii) it is a step towards moving Iraq away from universal subsidies and towards rebalancing the
finances and priorities of its safety net system (a key recommendation in the World Bank’s Report,
Inclusion and Resilience: The way forward for Social Safety Nets in the Middle East and North Africa,
2013), where international experience suggests that having a select number of comprehensive programs
can help increase coverage and benefits to those most in need. This in turn will improve the impact of



                                                    13
SSN programs and enhance the targeting toward the poor and vulnerable; (iv) the project design promoted
a second aspect recommended in the World Bank Report, that of creating unified registries of
beneficiaries that can be used to target multiple programs, thus reducing costs, facilitating coherence and
coverage because all agents work with the same database. This is especially relevant for the Iraqi security
context, which is constantly changing, and is therefore in need of a SSN infrastructure that can be used in
stable and volatile situations; (v) the project design anticipated some of the critical financial management
issues, specifically that of corruption, which have generally plagued the Iraqi government. Through the
design of a comprehensive financial management system, and the hiring of a financial management
officer, a project accountant, and auditor; (vi) the project was also designed in a manner that emphasized
capacity building and local ownership by allocating, and reallocating even more, sums of money towards
the development of Iraqi officials throughout the life of the project. This is especially relevant to the
future development of the country as years of isolation, resulting from economic and political reasons,
have led to low internal capacity and an inability to operate at international standards.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

3.2.1 The Project Development Objectives (PDO) were moderately achieved despite the security and
political challenges that caused a four year delay in project closing, thus meriting a rating of moderately
satisfactory. Where there originally was no information system , this project was able to successfully
establish a national Social Safety Net Information System (SSNIS) with the capability of recording
beneficiary information, identify ineligible citizens, generate data and evidence that the government can
use to target the poor and vulnerable more accurately.

Project achievements

3.2.2 As of October 2013, the GOI has saved US 25 million dollars because of the SSNIS. The system
now has over 400,000 households registered and about 50,000 household placed on hold while another
100,000 applicants were deemed ineligible. The expectation is to reach over half a million registered
beneficiaries by the end of the year.

3.2.3 The SSNIS improved the process of delivering cash transfers to the most poor by making it faster
and easier for them to access the cash. This became possible because beneficiaries could now withdraw
their cash from multiple ATM locations using SmartCard technology across the nation versus their
previous limitation to post offices and post officers. The speed and ease are two factors that undoubtedly
help improve their livelihoods and mitigate the risks of vulnerability. New applicants can also learn the
results of their eligibility in a a matter of days versus past application processes that required weeks of
processing. This therefore ensures that those who fall into the poverty line can quickly receive
governmental support.

3.2.4 The SSNIS development was supported by the completion of a Beneficiary Assessment, which
surveyed 1,200 beneficiaries from three categories (the unemployed, widows and elderly) across 18
governorates including the KRG. This assessment served as a baseline for the government to understand
the conditions of the most poor and vulnerable and help guide policy choices. The report was translated
into Arabic and Kurdish.

3.2.5 The current SSNIS allows the Iraqis to input and manage information efficiently, generating
information more effectively, accurately, and rapidly (compared to when this process was conducted
manually via paper and pen). Finally it will allow for stronger categorical and geographic targeting in the
future as the data will now all be housed in one central database.



                                                    14
3.2.6 This national system (covering 21 sites including KRG) is fully operated and managed by an
internal technical team at MOLSA. The Ministry dedicated a portion of its budget to the management of
the SSNIS to ensure sustainability. In addition, demonstrating MOLSA’s confidence in the capacity of its
internal technical team to address any technical difficulties, the ministry opted not to sign a SLA with a
third part (private sector firm) for support.

3.2.7 Capacity has been built in the MOLSA Core IT team with enough technical knowledge transfer to
allow for the successful takeover of the SSN Information System and the development of a TOT
methodology (Training-of-trainer). This was achieved in two ways: through (i) the transfer of knowledge
MOLSA team; (ii) training on four packages: Software programming (31 trainees); SQL Server (15
Trainees); Microsoft training (10 trainees); Cisco networking (10 trainees). A total of 217 out of 338 end-
users, data entry and technician staff have been trained.

3.2.8 Furthermore, the technical understanding of MOLSA and the team within the NBP has
successfully evolved over the years leading to heightened understandings of SSN and pension MIS and
policy design. This is visible in the requests for more technical assistance support to further develop
policy and analysis skills. The development of a draft SSN Law and the recognition of the urgency behind
this is another strong indication of the increased capacity within Iraq.

3.2.9 Finally, MOLSA is also actively communicating with other ministries to explain to them the
benefits of establishing an MIS and targeting strategies for alleviating poverty. MOLSA is also keen to
expand the system’s capabilities further by expanding and consolidating information with other Ministries
to permit development of more robust targeting strategies.

Project shortcomings

3.2.10 Data generated from the MIS is being used at a basic level for decision making, though studies
and reports have not yet been created with the data and used in policy making. MOLSA is just now
starting to use the data generated for policymaking and admits its lack of capacity, at this stage, for
designing evidence-based policies despite the fact that capacity was built in terms of knowledge and
understanding of SSN.

3.2.11 First, the development of an updated database of pension beneficiaries, contributors and
employers was not fully achieved directly within this project. Even though an inception report of the
Pension Survey was delivered, along with commencement of the first phase of data collection the pension
system was not updated during the span of this project. This was not completed because the PMO, with
World Bank support, decided to terminate the contract with Datamation (as agreed during the supervision
mission of March 2011), the internationally hired agency. Datamation were not delivering their services
to the standard or quality needed. Even with the termination of the contract, MOLSA continued its
attempts at collecting data but facilities that housed the collected information were repeatedly targeted by
bombings that destroyed the data. The Project Team note that the objectives designated for this survey
were achieved through the PRISTA project that was requested in 2009 by the Ministry of Finance (as
listed in the Aide Memoire of July 2011).

3.2.12 Second, a draft reform pension strategy was not created because the pension survey was never
completed and this component evolved into a standalone project (PRISTA). This demonstrates the
importance of the pension strategy to the Government and this helped decrease the strain on the project
and dedicated efforts towards the other demanding aspects of the project.




                                                    15
3.3 Efficiency
Rating: High

3.3.1 No economic evaluation of the Project was carried out during appraisal as this was an emergency
response and prepared as part of the World Bank’s interim strategy to address the immediate needs of the
Iraqi social protection sector. The primary economic justifications given in the Technical Annex were that
institutional capacity building and the enhancement of governance in the GOI’s social safety net and
pensions program would expand, the public welfare gains to the economy would be “significant,” and the
project would enable a reduction in the PDS program overtime. The public welfare gains were indeed
significant, as the GOI, through the SSNIS, was able to identify about 50,000 households whose accounts
had to be placed on hold for various reasons from duplication, ineligibility and so on, which resulted in a
total savings of $US 25 million. Based on this information and the savings generated from procurement
the project efficiency is rated as high.

3.3.2 Basic project efficiencies include: (i) cooperating with USAID to build the SSN Information
System where efforts and expertise were divided to maximize the use of resources; (ii) utilizing
alternative procure methods (Shopping Method) instead of the ICB, resulting in a 20 percent savings; (iii)
installing fiber-optics for SSN Information System connectivity; and (iv) grant funds were fully disbursed.

3.3.3 The Task Team initially estimated ICB procurement of goods would cost $ 5,162,000. With the
change in approach and use of the Shopping Method (reasons mentioned in sections 2.4.6 – 2.4.14) the
project came under budget and disbursed only $USD 4,050,280. Resulting in a saving of US$ 1,397,151,
which were directly towards capacity building activities. With these savings the following other resources
were purchased with the funds:

                                 Description of goods                                  Cost (USD)
 Line Printers for Governorates                                                          110,241
 Disaster Recovery                                                                       145,000
 Monitoring & Equipment Software                                                          98,800
 Help Desk Equipment                                                                      48,250
 Servers, PCs, UPSs                                                                       69,750
 PC All in one, Photocopier                                                              135,600
 Monitoring Cameras                                                                      178,000
 Servers , Printers , Photocopier , PCs All in one , LCD TV Display Panel                 173,000
  Internet Equipment - Connection/PMO & SPS                                               25,460
  IT Equipment and Software                                                               41,900
 SUPPLY OF IT EQUIPMENT-SERVERS,UPS,AND PERIPHERALS FOR
                                                                                           171,150
 PENSION(BAGHDAD)
 Equipment for KRG Connection with HQ ( to be implemented through additional
 Shopping packages ESPP.G.SH-36/2013 and ESPP.G.SH-37/2013 or amending                     200,000
 ongoing packages)
 Total package savings                                                                    1,397,151

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

3.4.1 It is important to note that while there were shortcomings in achieving some project outcomes,
the largest allocation of project finances (about 80 percent) was assigned to Component 1, which was the
development of an SSN Information System, and this was successfully achieved. This reflects that though
the Project was affected by acute exogenous challenges, the most significant objectives associated with


                                                    16
the most important component of the Project were successfully achieved. Other important aspects of the
project, specifically the pension strategy, become a separate project demonstrating the importance of each
issue and the need to dedicate a project for the achievement to an SSNIS and a pension strategy.

3.4.2 High relevance, moderately satisfactory achievement of outcomes and a high efficiency rating
culminates into an overall rating of moderately satisfactory. This emergency project took seven years to
implement and original ISR ratings were consistently listed as “moderately unsatisfactory” for the first
three years of implementation. A clear change could be seen in 2009 when the ratings were increased to
“moderately satisfactory” and then in 2010 to “satisfactory,” but this does not detract from the fact that an
emergency project took seven years to implement (which in fact is a feature of other projects in Iraq).

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
3.5.1 The project provided the government with a management information system that has begun to
and will continue to enhance its policymaking in both social safety nets and pensions. With accurate data
and a better understanding of the characteristics and demographics of the most poor and vulnerable, the
government is better able to target those groups and provide tailored services that can help break the cycle
of poverty.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
3.5.2 Institutional strengthening through capacity building and the introduction of new technology was
significant and largely attributed to the World Bank’s efforts. An integral element of the project was
capacity building and knowledge transfer, which was achieved by: (i) embedding project management
into the MOLSA whereby ministry staff were inducted into the processes of managing a donor-financed
project through on-the-job learning; (ii) utilizing World Bank procedures and procurement methods that
meet international standards; (iii) building financial management capacity including accounting,
disbursement, budgeting, internal controls and flow of funds; (iv) continuous interactions with the Bank
project team through missions and other modes of communication and supervision; (v) participation in
study tours and international trainings for capacity building.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
3.5.3 A number of unintended outcomes were realized through the implementation of this project for
the Iraqi government, as follows: (i) the Iraqi team consciously acknowledge a change in working culture
where values such as transparency and knowledge sharing have naturally flowed to all other aspects of
their work, even that that is not related to the Project; (ii) the creation of the Simulation Training Center,
which was created with project savings, is a training center that offers real-time simulated training
experiences that mimic the SSN Information System. This center was a key training site for MOLSA
staff that is now being utilized for trainings of other ministry staff interested in developing a management
information system.

3.5.4 Unintended outcomes that were created for the Bank include: (i) developing a better
understanding of the local market in Iraq (following challenges with procurement); (ii) improved brand
and image of the World Bank as ESPP is recognized as a success across Iraq (high public visibility
because of the direct impact on the process of collecting cash transfers); and (iii) improved relations with
USAID culminating from a successful partnership.




                                                     17
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/A.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low

4.1.1 The sustainability of this project’s development outcome will depend on a number of factors. On
the technical front, all the equipment has been newly purchased and installed into all 21 sites. An SLA
agreement was not signed, which could pose some future challenges; however, the Iraqi team is confident
in the ability of its core IT team to address any maintenance issues and has allocated extra finances to hire
external consultants should they face any problems that cannot be fix internally. On the financial side, a
budget for this project is available and has been allocated to the maintenance of the of SSNIS;
furthermore, the Bank ITF has been extended for an additional year to allow for a project focused on SSN
targeting that will take implementation of project outcomes to another level. From a social perspective,
overall support for this project from all stakeholders is very positive. Improvements in services are
obvious as now beneficiaries can use a systematized process to apply for subsidies and are able to access
their funds from various locations. Unlike past dependencies on post offices and postal workers that
requested a “tax” fee from the beneficiary in return for their financial subsidy. Other Ministries in Iraq are
interested in the experience of MOLSA and the benefits of installing computerized processes. The media
and partner donors (USAID) have covered the success of this project via media and have shared the story
across various channels. The Minister is very proud of what the project has achieved and is using the
opportunity to push for the enactment of a SSN Law (currently Iraq operates under the law established in
1980), and for the creation of a Higher Council for Social Protection.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.1.1 As described in section 2.5.2, the project was highly relevant in terms of both its objectives and
design. And, as demonstrated in Section 2.1, the anticipated shortcomings of the design were addressed
through mitigating measures that were also found within the design. However, the World Bank’s
shortcomings were, first, assigning three years for the completion of this project and not accounting for
the unpredictability and complexity of operating in post-conflict situations by setting a later closing date;
The team also repeatedly requested short extension dates that did not give them sufficient time to
complete implementation. It was understood that much of the delays that occurred were a result of
unforeseen challenges, but precautionary measures dictate that some leeway should have been calculated
into the extension requests. Second, an analysis of the local market, or markets arising from similar
contexts, should have been conducted to anticipate local capacities for procurement. Implementation
lagged significantly at project entry, and the Bank should have taken more effective measures for
decreasing delays. These could have included: emphasizing understanding among all stakeholders about
project components and implementation arrangements, and working with MOLSA and MOF from project
design to clarify the roles of each unit, and the overall setting of a tighter operational timeline that all
members abide by.

5.1.2 The World Bank did satisfactorily set a clear guideline for financial management, based on a
thorough understanding of the fiduciary challenges in Iraq. A Financial Management Agency was put in


                                                     18
place and assigned with the task of monitoring fiduciary compliance. A project designated account was
established, not in the ideal format but one was available, and an appropriate number of FM Officers were
hired internally and externally to insure minimum levels of financial mismanagement. Relevant
safeguards were properly assessed and addressed in the project design. Institutional aspects were taken
into consideration and a high level of training and a number of study tours were built into the project to
help increase local capacity levels. Implementation was left in the hands of MOLSA and MOF thereby
building a high level of ownership and sense of accountability towards the completion of the project.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.3 The Bank conducted missions on a frequent and regular basis to ensure project implementation
and compliance with Bank procedures. Missions were conducted in Amman, Beirut, or Istanbul to avoid
security risks. The supervision was heavily focused on developing capacities and addressing any
challenges that arose during implementation. Aide memoires and internal reporting focused on the
development outcomes and were straightforward about issues raised regarding delays or weaknesses in
implementation. Any such delays were tackled based on their impact on achieving development outcomes.
The Bank was candid and rigorous in assessing and addressing project management coordination issues
and maintained its optimism towards the completion of this project.

5.1.4 The supervisions also covered matters relating to fiduciary issues where focus was given to the
improvement of financial management capacity and procurement processes. Realizing the ineffectiveness
of the ICB procurement method, the Project team quickly changed approaches and adopted the Shopping
Method. The team also mitigated low capacity levels with the financial management team by providing
training and guidance on the roles of team members. Both financial management and procurement began
with ratings of moderately unsatisfactory in the ISRs and eventually improved to a satisfactory level of
performance.

5.1.5 The Iraqi counterparts and USAID praised the composition of the World Bank team and the
various levels of expertise that each member contributed. The fact that the World Bank team could
function completely in Arabic was also noted as an important factor that eased anxieties and
apprehensiveness in cooperating with the Iraqi counterparts.

5.1.6 Extensions for this project were conservative and extension requests should have been longer
than a year, hence reducing the need for multiple extensions of the closing date.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
5.1.7 The World Bank’s performance at entry qualifies for a moderately satisfactory rating and during
supervision as satisfactory, warranting an overall performance rating of moderately satisfactory. The
World Bank took the appropriate measures within its control to design and supervise the mission to its
best capability.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
5.2.1 During project negotiations the government’s attitude and drive was highly satisfactory towards
the implementation of the project. During implementation there were some challenges faced.
Uncertainties with the enactment and rescinding of laws during the period of implementation, the


                                                   19
government still maintained its commitment to implementing the program. Other issues included the
changes in leadership at the MOLSA, and a shift in priority, causing efforts towards implementation of
the project to lag and resulted in serious delays that almost crippled the completion of this project. Some
of the initial delays and changes in priorities were beyond the government’s control (as listed in segments
2.2.3 and 2.2.4). Performance improved once leadership at the Ministry changed again in 2011, leading to
an increase in the sense of ownership and significant improvements in the performance and capacity
levels of the Iraqi counterparts.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory
5.2.2 MOLSA and the core PMO team were highly dedicated to the project and remained optimistic
about its completion even when faced with serious security challenges, initial internal miss-coordination,
team change and ambiguity in the structure of the ministry (Law 18 on Disengagement of the Ministry).
The team was frank and realistic about their internal capacity seeking guidance and training where they
thought their skills could be improved. Mission participation improved with the change in leadership and
this resulted in strong engagement from the PMO and an acute dedication to achieving project outcomes
as effectively and efficiently as possible. The improvement in performance is exemplified in the last three
weeks of the project where the PMO managed to purchase, install and operate all equipment for the KRG
in record time. This demonstrates the level of capacity that was developed in terms of knowledge of
procurement, management and implementation. It also highlights how performance by the government
overall could have improved early on and execution of the project could have occurred at a much faster
pace.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
5.2.3 The overall rating of the borrower’s performance is based on the fact that it overcame serious
challenges to project completion, persevered and improved performance levels in enough time as to allow
for sustainable outcomes by the revised project closing date.

6. Lessons Learned
6.1.1 Building and instilling a sense of ownership within the government will increase likelihood of
project success. This can be achieved by bestowing the responsibility for implementation on the
government hence building better chances of sustainability, allowing project staff to build their skills and
gain more respect and access within their institution. It is essential to identify and provide support to a
champion within the counterpart team who can lead efforts and push forward with implementation. A key
aspect of this for ESPP is that the PMO staffs are all ministry staff, and thus are well aware of challenges
of working in the ministry, and are able to deal with other parts of the ministry. This is also essential in
terms of sustainability, as clearly shown for ESPP.

6.1.2 Building capacity of the counterparts is essential to satisfactory levels of implementation. This
can be achieved by incorporating knowledge transfer and trainings in the project design, using the
preparation process to build client capacity, and engage with the client beyond just supervision missions
where the Bank team members act as advisors and technical assistant provider. Learning visits in this
project proved to be a successful tool for expanding understanding of SSN issues as they were linked to
project objectives and created a tangible opportunity for learning (The Policy Forum for Social Protection
in Iraq held in Istanbul, Turkey, November, 2012).




                                                    20
6.1.3 Flexibility in implementation and the ability to adapt to local market conditions is essential to
overcoming unexpected implementation challenges. This project witnessed serious challenges in the
readiness of installation sites and with the initial strategy for procurement but was able to mitigate the
effects by quickly changing approaches and adopting new strategies. The speed of decision making and
flexibility of the team resulted in lower negative impacts. Furthermore, having flexibility in
implementation (with parameters of the guidelines) proved successful when it came to procurement issues.

6.1.4 Intensifying implementation oversight through collaboration is essential when working in post-
conflict environments. Collaboration involving the country management unit within the World Bank,
financial management, procurement and the hiring of an FMA proved to be a successful and necessary
mix for the implementation and monitoring of this project, particularly in this difficult context. In addition,
having proximity to the client (ie. TTL in the region) is important to be able to have interactions in the
same time zone. Likewise, having language skills of the client proved essential to keep communications
lines ongoing.

6.1.5 Partnership with other organizations operating on the ground is a key success factor, particularly
working in conflict affected environment. While coordination could be a bottleneck when working with
other partners, in the case of Iraq working with an organization that had on-the-ground presence and
ability (selectively) to be with the client proved essential to successful implementation of the SSN IS.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors
(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies
N/A.

(b) Cofinanciers/Donors
USAID worked in partnership with the Bank on this project. Overall, USAID reflect positively on this
project and believe it was successful in achieving its outcomes. Their impression is that the World Bank
team performed well considering the conditions they faced. USAID believes designing the project length
as three years was a significant mistake that did not take into consideration the difficulty of operating in a
post-conflict state. The main criticism presented by USAID was the lack of on-the-ground presence of a
World Bank team in Iraq, which they believe: (i) made the World Bank reactively instead of proactively
address new challenges; and (ii) slow at responding to challenges. USAID commends the World Bank
team’s composition and felt that the team had great dynamics, relations with the client and most
importantly maintained institutional leanings by not having frequent team member changes.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A.




                                                     21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                             Actual/Latest
                                      Appraisal Estimate                           Percentage of
           Components                                        Estimate (USD
                                       (USD millions)                               Appraisal
                                                               millions)*
Goods                                      4,745,000             5,072,000             107%
Consultants’ Services                      1,330,000               558,000              42%
Training                                   1,075,000             1,019,000              94%
Operating Costs                              320,000               627,000             118%
Unallocated                                  530,000                0.00                 0%

                Total Baseline Cost        8,000,000             7,276,000             91%
Physical Contingencies
                                              0.00                  0.00                0.00
Price Contingencies
                                              0.00                  0.00                0.00
                Total Project Costs           0.00                  0.00
Project Preparation Costs                     0.00                  0.00                .00
                                              0.00                  0.00                .00
        Total Financing Required           8,000,000             7,276,000



(b) Financing
                                                           Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                            Type of                                    Percentage of
           Source of Funds                                 Estimate       Estimate
                                          Cofinancing                                    Appraisal
                                                        (USD millions) (USD millions)
Trust Funds                                             8,000,00       7,276,000      91%
Special Financing                                       0.00           0.00           .00

*As of February 24, 2013.




                                                 22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Output 1: Establishment of a basic information system in MOLSA to record and process information on
safety nets as a foundation for policy design.

Thought it took seven years, not three as originally anticipated, to successfully establish a SSN
Information System with the capability of recording beneficiary information, this output was fully
achieved. Where initially there was no system, and capacity at MOLSA was low, today there is a
functioning information system that spans across the country and that is run and managed by the Iraqis.
Sufficient training was conducted in order to hand the system fully to MOLSA, despite numerous delays
in the training plan. The current SSN Information System allows the Iraqis to input and manage
information efficiently, generating information more effectively, accurately, and rapidly. Data generated
from the MIS is being used at a basic level for decision making, though studies and reports have not yet
been created with the data and used in policy making. MOLSA is unsure of how to use the data generated
for policymaking and admits its lack of capacity, at this stage, for designing evidence-based policies.

Project outputs: The SSN Information system is fully operational in all 21 sites and data entry is
completed with an estimated total of 380,000 household beneficiary records. The expectation is to reach
half a million households within the year. An electronic database of beneficiaries was populated and
eligibility checks were run on new applicants, which revealed the ineligibility of approximately 100,000
applicants. The Network Connectivity technology chosen was wireless/point-to-point connections in
Baghdad and fiber-optics in the remaining sites. Capacity has been built in the MOLSA Core IT team
with enough technical knowledge transfer to allow for the successful takeover of the SSN Information
System and the development of a TOT methodology (Training-of-trainer). This was achieved in two
ways: through (i) the transfer of knowledge MOLSA team; (ii) training on four packages: Software
programming (31 trainees); SQL Server (15 Trainees); Microsoft training (10 trainees); Cisco networking
(10 trainees). A total of 217 out of 338 end-users, data entry and technician staff have been trained.

Project inputs: Through a partnership it was agreed that BearingPoint (BE), a contractor under USAID-
Funded Economic Governance II Project, would provide the software for the SSN System while the
World Bank Grant would finance the hardware to allow the system to scale to the national level. Staff at
MOLSA increased their capacity through knowledge transfer (by working with the Bank and attending
Study Tours such as the one to the Turkish Social Safety Net Agency in Ankara, Turkey as noted in Aide
Memoire march 21-25, 2011) and formal training in areas such as data entry, database administration,
application development, and other related training activities. Training for a total of 217 out of 338 end-
users, data entry and technician staff was conducted. A Site Readiness Plan was prepared in collaboration
with MOLSA’s technical team and an IT consultant from USAID, which included formation of a
qualified technical team who will conduct site visits to observe and define the operational status of each
site using a checklist designed for this purpose.

Other donor support: USAID/BearingPoint (and later when funding ended and was transferred to
USAID/MIS) was working with MOLSA to develop the first phase of the Social Security Network
Information System (SSNIS) and deployed pilot programs in two sites where preliminary software testing
was underway. USAID funded the national roll-out of SSNIS to all SSN center in Iraq (software, database
and application requirements) leaving the Bank to focus on connectivity and equipment for the SSN
Centers.




                                                    23
Outcome 2: Consolidation and expansion of the information base for the social safety net program
managed by MOLSA to permit development of targeting strategies

A Beneficiary Assessment focusing on the targeting efficiency and poverty impact of Iraq’s social safety
net program was successfully achieved. Targeting capabilities are in place through the SSN Information
System, which is consolidated and has an expanded database, thus, allowing for categorical and
geographic targeting. There is still room for further expansion and consolidation of information with other
Ministries to permit development of more robust targeting strategies. It is important to note the
Assessment still has not been utilized to its fullest potential as the MOLSA team lacks the capacity and
expertise to fully analyze the results and determine best strategies.

Project outputs: A Beneficiary Assessment was undertaken, completed and translated into Arabic,
English and Kurdish in order to make the best use of the report. Initially the assessment was to be
conducted by three separate consultants: a local survey firm to conduct the assessment surveys and
process interviews, an international consultant to design the study and conduct the analysis, a local
consultant to support the international consultant and work closely with the survey firm and Ministry
counterparts. The international consultant proved to be less effective and all the work was given to the
local consultant, Kafa’at Al Rafidain. A total of 1,200 beneficiaries from the three categories of
beneficiaries (the unemployed, widows and elderly), were surveyed from 18 governorates, along with
KRG, were included for the baseline survey.

Project inputs: The local consultancy firm, Kafa’at Al Rafidain conducted a workshop on the beneficiary
assessment as part of knowledge sharing activities, along with training on the background, analysis and
status of the beneficiary assessment. A select number of the Iraqi delegation accompanied the Bank to the
Turkish Social safety Net agency in Anakara, Turkey, and prior to the visit the Bank shared a presentation
on conditional cash transfers and how they operate in various parts of the world. The Bank also made a
presentation on targeting of social protection programs in Iraq where a study was proposed to assess the
targeting efficiency and poverty impact of Iraq’s social safety net program.

Outcome 3: Design and implementation of an M&E system for the expanded MOLSA social safety net
program.

This outcome was not achieved as it was difficult to design and implement an M&E system in the local
context and with the limited capacity of the Iraqi team. The Project Team decided not to establish a full-
fledged M&E system and to focus efforts on other parts of the project, specifically that of the Beneficiary
Assessment. Considering the difficult environment the team was operating in, it would have been
beneficial to establish a more robust M&E system as a possible tool to improving performance.

Project outputs: MOLSA is able to monitor the SSN programs based on the Beneficiary Assessment
conducted during project implementation.

Project inputs: The Beneficiary Assessment was completed. The MOLSA team is able to provide targeted
information based on limited categorizations and geographic regions.

Outcome 4: Development of an updated database on beneficiaries, contributors and employers in the
pension system

Hardware was delivered and installed within the NBP successfully; however, the beneficiary survey was
never completed because PMO decided to terminate the contract with Datamation (as agreed on the
Supervision mission of March 21-15, 2011), the internationally hired agency, who were not delivering



                                                    24
their services as needed. The Project Team note that the objectives designated for this survey were
achieved through the PRISTA project (as listed in the Aide Memoire of July 17-21, 2011).

Project outputs: An inception report for the Pension Survey was produced along with draft survey
questionnaires. Training of eight Iraqi participants at the premises of Datamation, the international firm,
in India took place. Participants noted the poor quality of the training and inadequate facilities, which they
believe decreased the value of this learning experience.

Project inputs: These included: purchasing of hardware, at a total cost of $810,000, for the development
of an information system based on SLQ software; development of a pension survey to construct an
accurate baseline of the current system and allow for financial projections of pension policies. A pension
request for proposal (RFP) was developed and sent out to 16 prospective firms to put in proposals for the
Pension Survey resulting in the selection of one firm. Over 50,000 were distributed to collect pensions-
related information on contributors from the public sector through several ministries. The survey also
covers information on pensions which was collected and is available including 50,000 from the Social
Security covering pensioners from the private sector and 50,000 from the National Board of Pensions
(NBP) covering pensioners from the public sector.

Outcome 5: Building of technical capacity within MOLSA and MOF for safety net and pension policy
design and analysis.
This outcome was fully achieved as the technical understanding of MOLSA and the team within the NBP
has successfully evolved over the years leading to heightened understandings of SSN and pension MIS
and policy design. This is visible in the requests for more technical assistance support to further develop
policy and analysis skills. The development of a draft SSN Law and the recognition of the urgency behind
this is another strong indication of the increased capacity within Iraq. MOLSA is also actively
communicating with other ministries to explain to them the benefits of establishing an MIS and targeting
strategies for alleviating poverty. Through their internal capabilities MOLSA is willing to extend its
lessons learned and knowledge to other Ministries in a manner that is not yet quantifiable. In addition,
establishing a PMO within the MOLSA resulted in project ownership by the Iraqis and increased
accountability to see this project through to the end. Finally, the Core IT team at MOLSA is confident of
its capability at running and managing its own SSNIS.

Project outputs: Training of MOLSA staff across the governorates (select number of Ministry employees
in the governorates were selected to participate in the Study Tour to Turkey) and within the Ministry
headquarters in Baghdad. MOLSA dedicating a portion of its own budget to the maintenance of the
SSNIS system, whereby minor maintenance issues will be managed internally through the trained Core IT
team.

Project inputs: One-week Pension Reform Implementation Workshop for policy makers and technical
staff working on pension issues in Iraq covering the following topics: (i) basic design principles for
Defined Benefit pension systems and; (ii) good practices on investment of reserves of mandatory public
pensions systems. The trainings highlighted international and regional experiences on these topics. A
Program Management office (PMO) at the National Board of Pension (NBP) was established with the
following responsibilities: (i) facilitate project implementation; (ii) coordinate donor and partner inputs to
the reform process, and; (iii) ensure communication and coordination within the directorate and between
the directorate and external stakeholders connected to the pension reform program. In addition, all Bank
missions served as a key learning opportunity where teams worked side-by-side to complete tasks and
presentations and trainings occurred. Other description of trainings can be seen in section 3.2.3 and IT
technical trainings as discussed in section 3.2.2.




                                                     25
Outcome 6: Development of a draft pension reform strategy.

This outcome was not achieved because the pension survey was never completed and this component
evolved into a standalone project (PRISTA), which demonstrates the importance of the pension strategy
to the Government. In turn, the pension reform strategy was never developed; this helped decrease the
strain on the project and dedicated efforts towards the other demanding aspects of the project.

Outcome 7: MOLSA is capable of managing and monitoring the project.

3.2.1 The likelihood of project sustainability is high because MOLSA has the capability and know-how
to manage and monitor the progression and development of the project. As mentioned in earlier parts of
the ICR, financial and technical capacities have been instilled to ensure project continuation.

Project outputs: the MOLSA PMO team, and other staff across the governorates, is trained and capable of
planning for future expansions and developments with the system. Core IT team trained and able to
manage technical difficulties (as described in section 3.2.2).

Project inputs: Training of MOLSA staff in various aspects including procurement, financial management
(as described in section 3.5.2) and developing their understanding of social protection through knowledge
sharing and other experiences such as the Policy Forum for Social Protection in Turkey November 17-19,
2012. The forum included (i) a presentation by the Iraqi counterparts on the current situation of social
protection programs along with a discussion led by World Bank experts; (ii) international best practices
on social protection were showcased; (iii) linking international best practices to the Iraqi context through
group work; (iv) a development of an action plan to for the Minister’s approval based on the group work.
Other learning visits include a trip to Lebanon, the Republic of Georgia and Indonesia in June 2012.




                                                    26
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

An economic and financial analysis was not conducted.




                                                 27
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


a) Task Team members
                                                                                Responsibility/
            Names                             Title                 Unit
                                                                                  Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
David Steel                 Task Team Leader                      MNSHD
John Blomquist              Lead Economist                        SASSP
David Robalino              Lead Economist                        HDNSP
Anca Nicoleta Mataoanu      Consultant                            MNSHD
Celine Gavach               Senior Operations Officer             MNSHD
Virginia Jackson            Consultant                            MNSHD
Majed El-Bayya              Lead Procurement Specialist           ECS02
Emma Etori                  Program Assistant                     MNSHD

Supervision/ICR
Jeihan Mohd Abu-Tayeh       Voice Secondee                        MNSHD
Haleem Hassan Kashkol Al-
                            Operations Analyst                    MNSSP
Kazali
Nazaneen Ismail Ali         Senior Procurement Specialist         MNAPC
Ghassan N. Alkhoja          Senior Operations Officer             MNSSP
John D. Blomquist           Lead Economist                        SASSP
Andras Bodor                Senior Social Protection Econo        MNSSP
Maya Boulos Boulos          Financial Management Specialist       MNAFM
Janet L. Dooley             Senior Country Officer                MNCA2
Majed El-Bayya              Lead Procurement Specialist           ECSO2
Mona El-Chami               Sr Financial Management Specialist    MNAFM
Celine Gavach               Senior Operations Officer             AFTDE
Maiada Mahmoud Abdel Fatt
                            Finance Officer                       CTRLA
Kassem
Anca Nicoleta Mataoanu      Consultant                            MNSHD
Jad Raji Mazahreh           Sr Financial Management Specialist    MNAFM
Surat F. Nsour              Operations Officer                    MNSSP
Nikolai Soubbotin           Senior Counsel                        LEGAM
Amy Champion                Operations Analyst                    MNSHD

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                             USD Thousands (including
                                         No. of staff weeks
                                                                   travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                           36.69                     253,467.44
  FY07                                            6.45                      17,653.14
                            Total:               43.14                     271,120.58



                                               28
Supervision/ICR
  FY07                      38.25     256,070.21
 FY08                       37.26     176,346
 FY09                       29.84     218,232.02
 FY10                       31.04     206,413.55
 FY11                       21.23     156,085.44
 FY12                       21.25     203,288.49
 FY13                       12.78     180,717.56
                  Total:   191.65   1,397,153.27




                           29
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

A beneficiary survey was not conducted.




                                          30
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

A stakeholder workshop was not conducted.




                                            31
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Emergency Social Protection Project (ESPP)
Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs (MOLSA)
Trust Fund Grant No.: TF056808
Project ID: P099295

The Emergency Social Protection Project (ESPP), which began in 2006, was one of the largest projects
adopted by The Government of Iraq to face the issue of poverty. Following the conflict of 2003, the
Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs (MOLSA) was confronted with a rise in poverty levels and an
inability to manage the increased demand for social protection. Some of these challenges were inherited
as the previous laws failed to cope with the changing requirements of social welfare either at local and
international levels, while others resulted from the military operations that led to dissolving several
institutions and laying-off of staff. Together, these challenges have created further pressures on the
Ministry.

For the purposes of this Project, the inherited challenges can be summarized as follows:

• The Ministry had been marginalized with no active role in the society
• The related legislation failed to cope with the socio-economic developments at the local, regional, and
  international level
• The financial, administrative, and technical allocations were far less that required
• Prior to 2003, the Ministry had not been in touch with the latest socio-economic and technical
  developments in the world.

The Social Welfare Department represented by the Social Safety Net (SSN) aims to support households
with no or low income in order to improve their living standards. Due to the reasons mentioned above, the
public sector had been unable to meet development requirements in all sectors (e.g. social, economic, and
cultural) in the society. Moreover, as poverty rates had been increasing, the needy households below the
poverty line and vulnerable groups (e.g. sick people, the disabled, widows, divorced women, the
unemployed, and low-income people) represented a major segment of the society.

The newly formed national government in 2003 developed a set of priorities such as improving living
standards of the poor and vulnerable groups to meet their increasing needs. The Government of Iraq (GoI)
allocated IQD 500 billion to the Social Assistance Program to help the poor who were marginalized in the
past. Providing the poor with assistance is the first step in conducting further economic reforms.

This was companied with the massive openness to the external world and willingness of several countries
and international organizations to provide help to Iraqi people and rebuild Iraq in all fields, such as public
sector restructuring, in order to overcome the inherited problems. This international assistance took the
form of implementing many projects such as the ESPP, which was funded by the World Bank through a
grant of USD 8 million. The ESPP aimed to develop capacity of state institutions concerned with SSN’s
through building capacity of the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs and Ministry of Finance at the
policy and operational levels, so that they can improve and monitor the SSN and provide support to Iraqi
people by alleviating poverty and creating job opportunities.

Before addressing the ESPP, it is important to highlight the Social Safety Net Program, which was
implemented by the Social Welfare Department/Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs. This program
aimed to provide cash assistances to poor households below the poverty line. After holding the first-ever
democratic elections in Iraq, the formed government issued instructions to cover over one million people
with the SSN assistance.


                                                     32
At the beginning, the groups provided for in the law were included. However, a number of studies and
recommendations led to include new groups such as: senior citizens (65 years old and above), the
disabled (15-64 years old), widows, divorced women, under-age orphans and more.

MOLSA agreement with the World Bank
The agreement between both parties was signed on June 3, 2006, and its implementation was planned to
finish on September 30, 2007. However, due to several implementation challenges and obstacles, the
implementation period was extended more than once, resulting in a project closing date of April 30, 2013.

The said agreement resulted in a strategy which developed a road map for two important issues:

First:
Procure software and hardware equipment to operate the SSN sites in all governorates in order to secure
basic infrastructure requirements.
Second:
Development of an IT system that contains data of all SSN beneficiaries. This task was assigned to the
U.S. firm BearingPoint (under USAID contract) which was a partner with the World Bank in
implementing the project. The IT system was developed based upon the information provided by the
Social Welfare Department (SWD) in accordance with the effective laws and instructions. It is worth
mentioning that the cost of developing the IT system and technical support for deploying it was paid
under the support provided by the USAID-funded projects (i.e. Tatweer and Tarabot), which were
implemented by BearingPoint. Such assistance was not included in the above-mentioned World Bank
grant (i.e. USD 8 million), as the grant included equipment procurement contracts, consultancy contracts,
trainings, and operational budgets for the years 2006-2013. Procurement of servers, software, computers,
printers, scanners, etc. was accompanied with provision of appropriate spaces for them at each site
according to the international standards. In 2008, procurement of hardware and software to the sites
started gradually in 2008, including KRG, MOF, and NBP.

The goods selection process was conducted very carefully by the MOLSA technical team and IT
specialists of the World Bank and USAID, under the World Bank instructions, which are highly
transparent and simple. The procurement process objectives were very clear and based upon the
requirements of the SSN sites, including procurement, installation, and operation of the system. This was
done under the action plan developed by the PMT and World Bank.

As for the most important objective of the project (i.e. establishment of a database of the SSN
beneficiaries), the SWD did not manage to realize it for several reasons, as completion rate was less than
10 percent by 2011. This significantly affected the implementation progress although 60 percent of the
World Bank grant had already been spent, and the PMT had to deal with the related consequences later on.

Once His Excellency Minister of Labor and Social Affairs, Nassar Al Rubaie, assumed his position, he
comprehensively reviewed the project aspects. In November 2011, the Minister made a dramatic change
in the PMT at management and staff level, and a new specialized team took over in order to realize the
project objectives. It is worth mentioning that the logistic and morale support provided by the Minister
represented a new page to complete the pending tasks, mainly establishment of a database of the SSN
beneficiaries.

Later on, the supervision mission conducted in March 2011 has a significant impact on putting work on
the right track with the World Bank on the one hand, and USAID/Tarabot Project on the other. In addition,
the mission served as a real starting point to implement the action plan according to the agreed time frame
and it led to accomplish many of the pending tasks sequentially.


                                                   33
The productive coordination between the PMT and SSN management, represented by the Director-
General and all managers and staff in Baghdad and other governorates such as programmers, engineers,
and administrative staff, had a great impact on the daily work as all stakeholders believed in the project
objectives and results.

Project implementation outcomes:
1- Establish a database containing all information and procedures of the SSN, so that it can be used to
    develop related policies and legislation
2- Create links between the SSN database and those of the MOLSA and even other ministries
3- Improve M&E capacity through using advanced networking systems which link all operating SSN
    sites to the Headquarters in order to develop and expand social protection programs.
4- Build capacity of the MOF and MOLSA staff in order to be able to develop policies, make decisions,
    lead future programs, and transfer knowledge.
5- Thanks to the learning visits organized by the project management to a number of countries (i.e.
    Turkey, Indonesia, Lebanon, and Georgia), the SSN Department had been exposed to international
    experience in methods of targeting low-income and poor households at governorate and district
    levels.
6- The SQL database, which covers all governorates except for KRG, includes around 374,370 ongoing
    benefiting households and 49,929 suspended benefiting households.
7- The SSN Department managed to regain USD 25 million after implementing the system and linking
    all sites to the Headquarters.
8- A survey on SSN beneficiaries was conducted by Kafaat Al Rafidain Company and international
    consultant. In addition, a local consultant was hired to coordinate between the company and
    international consultant. They provided a report on the survey implementation mechanism, and such
    report is considered a major work under the SSN project, which can be used for future references.
9- Since early 2011, payments have been paid on time due to using SQL techniques.
10- Payment for all beneficiaries is made through smart cards, and the percentage of smart card holders
    has reached 100 percent. Currently, we have plans to limit interaction with the provider through
    establishing a joint interface for both databases. By doing so, we will have a unique program at the
    national level.

Challenges and difficulties that faced implementation of the ESPP
The ESPP staff, represented by the World Bank, PMT, and MOLSA/SWD, faced critical challenges at
different phases, which put implementation at risk several times. These challenges can be summarized as
follows:
1. Limited data and information of social protection beneficiaries and underdeveloped IT systems
     which do not provide a comprehensive database on the assistance beneficiaries; pensioners and
     subscribers, and public servants in order to control the assistance programs and avoid fraud
2. Continued political and security instability in Iraq, which negatively affect implementation of
     economic and development projects such as the ESPP. For example, security problems in some
     regions of Iraq created an unsafe environment to implement the ESPP and limited contribution of the
     World Bank experts to implement the project although the Bank has a wide experience in
     implementing similar projects in many conflict-affected countries around the world.
3. Lack of effective and accurate house surveys (i.e. census) in order to find out about real household
     expenditure and assess poverty cases according to the resulting data, in addition to an analytical
     study on social impact of poverty
4. Poor administrative and institutional capacity, especially regarding implementation of the social
     assistance program after 2003. This had a negative impact on implementing the ESPP (e.g. delays in
     implementation for several times) due to poor coordination between the PMO and SWD although
     coordination is a key for the project success.


                                                   34
5.  In 2010, Law No. (18) was issued. Under this Law, social affairs departments were disengaged from
    the Ministry of Labor and linked to local administrations of the governorates unrelated to a region.
    The said law, ratified by the House of Representatives on January 25, 2010, had a negative impact on
    the project implementation for many reasons. For example, the Law led to a change in the grant
    recipient compared with the original agreement and had a direct impact on the national policies,
    especially those related to poverty targeting, which were directly supported by the project. As a
    result, the project activities were suspended until reaching a clear vision about how to implement the
    said law and procedures needed to complete the project, noting that the other project components
    unrelated to the Law (e.g. MOF, NBP, and KRG) were also affected. Although effectiveness of the
    Law No. (18) of 2010 was later suspended, it led to delays in project implementation. Accordingly,
    the project activities were re-programmed under a new time frame in order to achieve the
    development goal of the project.
6. Delays in approving the legislation needed to implement the social assistance programs, especially
    the SSN Law. This resulted in reliance on old-fashioned laws enacted over three decades ago, which
    are incompatible with the recent developments in the socio-economic life of the society. It is worth
    mentioning that the proposed legislation will ensure smooth implementation of the SSN and provide
    a clear legal vision on the implementation process to ensure effective provision of assistance to the
    needy families. Moreover, a number of laws related to protection of poor households have been
    drafted by the parliament without consulting the stakeholders. Examples on these laws include the
    Family and Childhood Protection Law (drafted by the Parliamentary Woman and Family Committee)
    and the Social Security Law (drafted by the Parliamentary Labor and Social Affairs Committee).
    There are also important reasons which stopped implementing the project as planned in 2007. Below
    are the main reasons which led to delay project completion duration from three years as agreed to
    April 30, 2013:
    A- Poor security conditions in Iraq during 2006-2007
    B- Disengagement of the SWD (the project recipient) from the Ministry of Labor and resulting
    linkage to provincial councils, leading to a delay of around one year
    C- Frequent changes in the project staff due to changes in the senior levels at the Ministry
    D- Lack of experience of the staff initially working in the project
    E- Understanding the World Bank mechanisms and procedures took some time, since they are
    different than those adopted by the GOI
    F- Refusal of the MOF to open a USD bank account in spite of the repeated efforts made by the
    Minister, resulting in more delays in implementing the project.
7. High rates of errors, defects, corruption, and fraud in inclusion procedures, especially in the absence
    of an appropriate security system, lack of personal data on the households (e.g. national ID number),
    and underdeveloped institutions which were unable to receive increasing numbers of social
    projection beneficiaries at the different stages such as application processing and payment. For
    example, there was an attempt to disburse cash using post offices.
8. Delayed and incomplete data entry of beneficiary information
9. Technical problems resulting from operating the SSN system and lack of mitigating procedures
10. Acute shortage in specialized staff, especially data entry operators and system operators.

Performance evaluation

Performance evaluation includes the PMT staff (project manager, financial officer, procurement officer,
executive officer, and follow up officer) responsible for project implementation. In addition, the World
Bank team conducted evaluations in coordination and cooperation with the PMT through the supervision
missions conducted three times a year. The missions, which were conducted during the period of 2006-
April 30, 2013, aimed to discuss the activities done during the previous three months and develop an
action plan for the coming three months.



                                                   35
The positive outcomes of the project show the significant and effective role played by the World Bank
Mission, especially Ghassan Alkhoja (Head of Mission), Ms. Nazaanen (Procurement Expert), Jad
Mazahreh (Financial Officer), who effectively supported the project by providing continued follow-up,
finding appropriate solutions through technical support, and exchanging views in line with the work
conditions and the Bank procedures. This created mutual confidence and helped speed up implementation
of the project objectives, so that we managed to conduct more activities than planned in the action plan of
2011-2012. It is also important to highlight the support provided by the FMA in the fields of procurement
and finance. This helped mitigate the absence the World Bank experts in Iraq.

The successful implementation of the project helped develop capacity of the Ministry staff, especially the
executive team, in implementing similar projects in the future according to the World Bank mechanisms.
In this regard, the Ministry staff has gained experience in developing policies for social protection
programs, decision-making, and knowledge transfer through the trainings held for the Ministry staff.

As for the development goals, the project has developed overall objectives related to strengthening the
policy and administrative capacity of both the MOL and MOF. Many of these objectives have been
realized, represented in connecting all sites to the headquarters, including KRG, in order to improve
accuracy and timelessness, and avoid duplication in the SSN beneficiary database. Over 95 percent of the
specific objectives have been achieved.

Capacity of the Ministry staff was developed through meetings with the World Bank team, implementing
the Bank’s procedures, and attending the training courses held in 2010 for MOLSA and NBP staff. In
2013, a set of new technical, engineering, and programming courses were held in Beirut for the SWD
programmers and engineers. The courses were held New Horizon Company, and the results were very
good. These trainings helped achieve many of the project overall goals and. In addition, capacity of many
staff of the SWD was developed through five learning visits made to review international experience in
the field of social protection (e.g. targeting methods and types of assistance). Capacity of the MOL staff
was also developed through transferring knowledge from the USAID-funded Tarabot (Tatweer
previously) Project to the Ministry staff, and training activities are now conducted based upon a
comprehensive training plan.

Examples on grant- funded activities
1-        System deployment
Due to the success achieved at the three sites in Baghdad, it was necessary to deploy the new system
(SQL) at the remaining sites nationwide. However, the deployment was not possible without providing
internet service for connecting such sites to the headquarters. Accordingly, the deployment process was
based upon a mechanism developed by the project management in participation with the SWD and
Tarabot Project. The mechanism focused on bringing in all governorate servers to Baghdad in order to
install the operating system, update them via internet, and install the system on them for testing purposes.
This task required great efforts in terms going to the sites, bringing such sensitive and expensive
equipment to Baghdad, and sending them back after installing the system. Below is a photo which was
taken during the checking process at one of the sites. This process is vital in order to mitigate potential
risks.

1- On the job training
Deployment of the system significantly developed capacity of the SWD engineers and programmers, and
Tarabot Project staff provided technical and training assistance in this respect. At the beginning, Tarabot
Project provided training and transferred knowledge to our staff at one site, so that they can complete the
work at the remaining sites. This represented a good learning opportunity for the local engineers and
programmers. In addition, finalization of any work done by our staff took place under the direct
supervision of Tarabot Project which used to develop the main actions to achieve the objective and


                                                    36
gradually hand over the responsibility to the SWD staff. This represented the outcome of cooperation
between Tarabot Project and the recipient in order to ensure project sustainability.

2- Internet and telecommunication towers
Provision of internet service to all sites in the governorates had been discussed for several months as it
was very difficult to provide such service via satellite, which is very expensive. Accordingly, the best
alternative was using optical fibers which can be connected to all operator centers. It was found that
providing internet service to the SSN sites could be easily done through contracting a local company
specialized in internet tower services. The installation process for all sites took place at three phases,
noting that the last connection process saved a lot of money for the project in order to procure unplanned
equipment. In this respect, the cost of providing internet service to all sites reached USD 39,000
compared with USD 234,000 in case of using satellite service. So the saved amount was USD 195,000.

3- Site operation and internet connection
The project management and recipient have developed a master plan on site operation. Under this plan,
sites have been ready to operate one after another by priority in terms of database and network connection
by the contracted internet provider using optical cables at all sites. Tarabot Project have played a major
role in operating the two sites of Al Najaf and Al Diwaniyah, while the project had a secondary role in the
rest of sites by supervising the work of our staff and linking the sites to the real environment (i.e.
headquarters). Attached is the operation schedule which records the sequence of activities at the sites.
This phase is considered a critical one as it represents the real start of project implementation.

The biggest challenge at that phase was adding new duties (e.g. interaction with the public) to the already
overloaded staff under difficult security and weather conditions. However, this we overcame this through
strong willingness, patience, as well as the continued support of the concerned parties (i.e. the World
Bank and USAID). At each step and phase, an assessment was conducted to speed up implementation and
overcome delays in previous years. In addition, the increasing confidence, experience, and morale support
all had a positive impact on the project progress.

The most successful part of the operation phase was the on the job training (OTJ) which was delivered by
the experienced engineers and programmers to the less juniors. This training helped create a technical
cadre able to manage and sustain the system.

4- Testing environment
After going through major phases in deploying, managing, and operating the IT system at the SSN sites, it
was necessary for the IT staff (e.g. engineers, programmers, and technicians) to continuously develop
their capacity. In this regard, the project management had an important role in such efforts by developing
a detailed study on how to develop capacity of the system staff. Under the study, a site was designed as a
testing environment which promotes self-learning by engineers and programmers. Inside the site, two
rooms were used for this purpose. The first room included the applications used on the system within the
testing environment, so that any necessary modifications or updates on all entries, interfaces, and
procedures can be tested and approved prior to going live, in line with the SWD requirements and related
legislation. As for the second room, it was used as a training center for all technical staff. It is worth
mentioning that the trainers are already qualified SWD staff such as programmers and engineers. The two
rooms were provided by the latest servers, computers, and training equipment. Moreover, a part of this
testing environment was used to control the network connection for all sites using modern hardware and
software of technical control, a communication system between all sites and the headquarters, and the
internet service available at the sites. This helped address the problems faced in the real environment by
the testing environment staff. Below are photos of the testing environment.




                                                    37
KRG database
In 2011, deployment and installation of the SSN system was done at three sites in KRG. However, the
system was not operational due to incomplete database, a problem which is still there up to now. To
address this problem, a team of system administrators and technicians from the project management and
SWD made a visit to KRG in July 2012. During the visit, it was agreed to establish a database using
Access software by the project management and SWD in Kurdish in order to install the system at KRG
sites in January and February 2013, provide the related trainings on system administration. Work is still
underway, and completion rate of KRG databases is currently as follows:
Erbil site: 40 percent
Al Sulaimaniyah site: 95 percent
Dohouk site: 95 percent

5- Establish a headquarters in Erbil and Karmian site
During the supervision mission held in March 2013, the situation in KRG was discussed with the local
directors-general who asked for establishing two additional sites: a headquarters similar to the one in
Baghdad and a fourth site in Karmian. As a result, KRG sites were provided with the latest equipment as
discussed during the mission through allocating a certain amount from the project budget. The
procurement process took place in April 2013 through direct purchasing method as agreed with the World
Bank. Such procurements were delivered to KRG in July 2013 by a team from the SSN Department.

6- Training
Training represents an integral part of the project objectives which should be achieved before the project
closing date on April 30, 2013. After meeting the objectives related to system deployment and operation,
steps were taken to enhance training by contracting a firm specialized in the systems and programs used
by the SSN. The trainees were divided into two groups (i.e. engineers and programmers). As for the first
group, there were two phases of training for the engineering staff, while training for the second group
included two phases for beginners and experts. The trainings for both groups covered all SSN sites,
including KRG. Measures were taken to avoid any duplication. For example, trainings were delivered by
specialization, position, and competency based upon a study developed by the project management in
direct coordination with the recipient. Below is a list of trainings delivered by the project management.

7- Learning visits
Another achievement made was the agreement on a learning visit program in order to review the
international experience in line with the Iraqi context regarding SSN’s. In fact, four learning visits were
made to the following countries:
A- Turkey
B- Georgia
C- Indonesia
D- Lebanon

The total number of participants in each visit was 12, representing different senior management and
technical levels. The visits aimed to review targeting methods in these countries and other fields related to
SSN such as calculation, audit, and outreach activities; and methods of measuring poverty levels and
identifying poor groups and poverty types. The programs implemented in the four countries are close to
those implemented in Iraq in terms of expanding geographical coverage. This was evident in the Turkish,
Lebanese, Georgian, and Indonesian programs which all aim to cover most regions at the national level.

The programs reviewed have pre-tested mechanisms, as documented by the SSN teams who made the
learning visits to those countries. As mentioned earlier, the situation in Iraq led to implement the social
protection programs without going through the testing phases.



                                                     38
• Most social protection programs in the four countries are based upon social partnership. In this regard,
  there is a notable role for CSOs in implementing such programs. On the other hand, social protection
  programs in Iraq rely on the government only.
• Continue the learning visit program to learn more about advanced social programs and try to apply
  them in Iraq, as they address general humanitarian aspects.
• Increase targeting efficiency to reach out to the poorest households according to the international
  standards which depend on transparency and effective social work (currently we started working on
  this in a limited manner).
• Continue cooperation with the World Bank team even beyond the project closing date to provide
  infrastructure support and look for new funding for the project.
• Develop specialized studies on implementation of conditional/proxy cash transfers, especially in the
  fields of health, education, and other household affairs.
• The MOLSA should coordinate with the higher authorities to find new outlets for the Ministry through
  regulating the work of CSOs in Iraq, so that they become able to the assistance needed to implement
  social protection programs.

In addition, it is important to highlight the outcomes of the Social Protection Forum held in Istanbul. The
discussions during the forum shed light on the procedures taken by the MOLSA and means to promote
reforms for more effective and equitable social programs. The main objective of such events is to find out
about ways of avoiding inclusion and exclusion errors, and reducing cases of fraud and corruption.

8- System maintenance
Maintenance of the IT system remains a major challenge as this falls outside the World Bank grant
agreement. However, an amount of the grant was allocated for maintenance of the system developed by
Primus Company under the agreement signed between them and USDID/BearingPoint. After holding
long discussions between us and Primus in order to reach an agreement for system maintenance, the
company requested an amount for maintaining the system in Baghdad only is far higher than the amount
allocated for maintenance. Accordingly, the issue of maintenance agreement was put-off, and measures
were taken to ensure system sustainability and solve problems arising during implementation. In this
regard, we worked at two levels:
First: Rely on the recipient staff to make simple modifications on the system in the light of their
experience and training.
Second: Allocate a certain amount of the operational budget under the SSN budget allocated to ensure
project sustainability beyond the closing date of the World Bank grant. Such amount can be used for
system maintenance through contracting well-qualified consultancy services.

Procurement methods and grant savings
Since early 2008, and due to high prices of international competitive bids to procure the project
equipment, the World Bank recommended using the shopping method instead. This method proved
efficient and effective as it saved a lot of money which was used later to implement many activities of the
project such as establishing the headquarters in Erbil and a fourth site in Karmian, KRG; procuring and
installing surveillance cameras at all sites in Baghdad and other governorates, including KRG; equipping
the testing environment with modern devices; and procuring several IT equipment for project
sustainability. Moreover, the project management contracted scores of data entry operators to key in data
of around 390,000 households in 11 months. This represented the most important achievement of the
project as the database is critical to operate network connection. Again, the main reason for delays in the
project was incomplete database.

Finance and pension component
Under the grant, some equipment were provided to the MOF and NBP headquarters. As for the NBP, it
received a grant from the Bank to improve its operations, develop staff capacity, and establish an IT


                                                    39
system able to meet automation requirements of reserve management and investment activities. In terms
of the MOF, it needs an IT system for its databases, qualified technical staff for system sustainability.

Finally, the most important lesson learnt from this experience is that all people who participated in
implementing the project (i.e. from negotiating and signing the grant agreement, implementing the project
activities on the ground, to operating the system) joined a training center which was able to transfer the
World Bank knowledge (e.g. negotiation and planning skills) and procedures (e.g. procurement, finance,
control, evaluation, and international experience). This proved very effective in terms of gaining
considerable experience in a very short time, as Iraq has not been in touch with international
developments for years.

Currently, the Ministry has multi-discipline and well-qualified staff. In addition, the World Bank team has
been very dedicated to meeting the objectives and finding solutions for all problems under very difficult
situations.

We would like to express our deep appreciation to the Head of Task Team and team members since 2006
up to 2013, learning visit organizers, as well as IT, procurement, finance experts. All these people
represent a role model in terms of their support, dedication, credibility, and competency; and their
contribution is priceless.




                                                    40
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Described in section 7 (b).




                                       41
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   1. Iraq Policy Forum for Social Protection, Forum recommendations November 17-19, Istanbul,
      Turkey
   2. Trust Fund Grant Agreement, 2006
   3. Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio Report, QAG 2008
   4. Lessons learned on Procurement from Implementation of Iraq Portfolio
   5. Iraq Master Implementation Manuel
   6. PRISTA Lessons Learned PPT, 2013
   7. ESPP FMA Financial Presentation April 2013
   8. Financial breakdown of saving due to changing strategy from ICB to SM by Nazaneed Ismail
   9. MENA K&L Note 103: “Innovative Procurement Practices in Iraq’s Social Safety Net Program”
      by Nazaneen Ismail Ali, Andrew Jacobs, Rachel Lipson and Fabio Isoldi
   10. Country Partnership Strategy FY 13-16




                                               42
Annex 10. Context at appraisal

Rationale for Bank assistance

1.1.0 The proposed project builds on Bank engagement with the Government and MOLSA in particular
over the past 18 months in providing technical assistance and capacity building on social protection. This
has included a policy note on social protection, covering safety net, labor market, and pension issues,
together with a series of policy workshops involving major stakeholders within government (MOF,
MOPDC, Ministry of Defense and others) as well as international donors. In addition, the Bank is
supporting the preparation of a social protection strategy under the direction of MOLSA with inputs from
other government stakeholders. The request for more in-depth support in safety nets and pensions is
therefore a natural extension of the ongoing relationship. In addition, strengthening social safety net and
pension reform design and implementation processes will contribute directly to helping the Government
implement its NDS.

1.1.1 The project will also complement the “Strengthening Policy Making for Poverty
Reduction, Employment Generation and Safety Net Development” project (SPM) also under preparation
by the Bank. The primary focus of the SPM project is to conduct a household expenditure survey and a
poverty assessment based on analysis of this data; and a poverty and social impact analysis report. The
SPM project will also involve a multi-agency effort on the GOI side supported by the Bank to produce a
poverty reduction, employment and SSN strategy as an output. In contrast, this project will focus on
building technical capacity within the MOLSA so that MOLSA can contribute to the development of the
overall SSN strategy and to making operational the new programs for which it is responsible. It will also
similarly support the MOF and its State Pension System (SPS) organization on the pension side.

1.1.2 The Bank has a comparative advantage relative to other donor institutions in social protection,
given both the ongoing Iraq involvement and the program experience accrued in a variety of country
settings in and outside of the region. Economic sector work and projects in safety nets have been carried
out in most countries in MENA, including difficult post-conflict settings such as the West Bank and
Gaza. Pension assistance has been provided to these same countries, typically involving design and
assessment of reform options. Experience from outside the region will also inform the capacity building
and advice, customized to the Iraq context and in partnership with the Government.

1.1.3 Lessons Learned from Prior Operations. The World Bank has now had active projects in Iraq for
two years. Together with projects in other conflict-affected regions, including Afghanistan, Bosnia-
Herzegovina and the West Bank and Gaza, a number of important lessons derived from these recent
experiences are reflected in the design of this project, namely:
         Technical assistance projects are difficult to implement successfully. Therefore, the project
            should be limited in scope and have a very simple design that can be quickly and visibly
            implemented;
         The project should be part of a programmatic framework based on a needs assessment and
            close collaboration with other donors;
         In situations where international Bank team members cannot be on the ground directly
            supervising the project, it is essential to rely on local Bank consultants, with adequate
            intensive training in Bank procedures and practices, to carry out the supervision of the project
            activities;
         If many donor organizations are involved in the country’s recovery process, it is important for
            the implementing agency to have an effective coordinating mechanism in place to ensure
            complementarities of donor support. In addition, the Bank should maintain frequent and
            effective collaboration with involved development partners.



                                                    43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 33422R



                                                                                                                            IRAQ
                                                                            SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                   MAIN ROADS

                                                                            GOVERNORATE CAPITALS                                                                        RAILROADS

                                                                            NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                            GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES

                                                                            RIVERS                                                                                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                                            40E                                       42E                                                   44E                                           46E                                      48E


                                       TU R K EY                                                                                             To Urmia


                                                                                                                                                               To Urmia
                                                                                                             - -
                                                                                                            Zakhu                                                                                 0          50           100      150 Kilometers
                                                              To
                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                DAHUK
                                                                              -
                                                          Al Qamishli
                                                                                               Tig                     - 'Aqrah
                                                                                                                    Dahuk                                                                         0                  50               100 Miles
                                                                                                  r R.
                                                                                                   is
                                                                                                                                                                        Haji Ibrahim
                                                                                                                                                             - -
                                                                                                                                                            Rayat        (3,600 m)
                                                                                 -                                          Mosul               -
                                                                             Sinjar                                                          ARBIL
                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                 Arbil
   36N
                   Euphr
                           ates                                                     -                                                                                                                                                                           36N
                                  R.                  To Dayr
                                                      az Zawr
                                                                                  N I N AW Á
                                                                                                                                                                                 As
                                                                                                                                                                                      - -
                                                                                                                                                                                Sulaymaniyah                              ISLA MI C
                                                                                             Al Hadr
                                                                                                                                                                               - -                                        REPUBLI C
                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                         Kirkuk     AS SULAYMANIYAH
    S Y RIAN                                                                                                                             KIRKUK                                                                           O F IRA N
                                           To Dayr
     ARA B                                 az Zawr                                                                          -
                                                                                                                        Bayji          Ja
                                                                                                                                            ba
      RE P.                                                                                                                                      l
                                                                                                                                             -       H
                                                                                         -
                                                                                        'Anah
                                                                                                                       - Tikrit
                                                                                                                    SALAH AD
                                                                                                                                   am
                                                              -                                                         -             ri                                                         -   -
                                                          Al Qa'im                                                     DIN      -  -
                                                                                                                             Samarra'    n                                                To Kermanshah
   34N                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                    Al Hadithah                                                                                                                                                 34N
                                                                                                                                                                                 - -
                                                                                                                                      Tharthar
 To Hims                                                                                                                              Lake                           -
                                              - -
                                           'Akashat                                                                                                              Ba'qubah
                                                                                                                                  - -                            -
                                                                                                                            Ar Ramadi
                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                              DIYALÁ
                                                                                                                                        Al Fallujah
                                                                                                               - -
                                                                                                           Habbaniyah
                                                                                                                                                           BAGHDAD
                                                                                                                                                          BAGHDAD
                                                                      -                                          Lake
                                                                   AL ANBAR
JORDAN




                                                                                                                Razzaza                                                           -
                                                                                                                                                                                 WA S I T
           To
                 Trebil
                          S            y       r      i       a         n                                          Lake                 -
                                                                                                                                  Karbala                 -
                                                                                                                                                         BABIL                             -
                                                                                                                                                                                       Al Kut         Tigr
                                                                                                                                                                                                           is R.
         Amman
                                                                                                                                       -                  Al Hillah
                                                                                                                                 KARBALA'                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To Dezful
                                                     D        e         s     e         r       t                                                                         - - -                   Al Hayy
   32N                                                                                                                                                                Ad Diwaniyah                                                                              32N
                                                                                               Nukhayb                                  An Najaf
                                                                                                                                                               -   -                                            -
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Al 'Amarah
                                                                                                                                                           AL QADISIYAH                                            -
                                                                                                                                                           Eu
                                                                                                                                                             phr                                               MAYSAN
                                                                                                                                                                   ates
                                                                                                                                                                        R   .         -    Ash Shatrah                                                     -
                                                                                                                                                                                As Samawah             Al 'Uzayr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To Ahvaz
                                                                                               S                                 AN NAJAF                                                         - -
                                                                                                   a                                                                                            DHI QAR
                                                                                                       h                                                                                                  - -
                                                                                                                                                                                                      An Nasiriyah
                                                                                                           ra
                                                                                                                '
                                                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                        l                                                                                                       Al Basrah
                                                                                                                             H
                                                                                                                                 ij                                -
                                                                                                                                                            As Salman
                                                                                                                                      ar                                                                            AL Az Zubayr
                                                                                                                                            ah                                                                                            Umm
                                                                                                                                                          AL MUTHANNÁ                                              BASRAH                 Qasr
   30N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          30N



                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To Ad
                                            IRAQ                                                                                                                                                                           Damman

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KUWA IT
                                                                                              S A UDI A RA BIA

                                                                                            This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                            The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                            shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                            Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                            endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
   28N

                              40E                                                 42E                                                       44E                                                 46E                                            48E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          APRIL 2012
