Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 19004-GH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.5 MILLION (US$ 14.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FORA
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT REFORM PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT REFORM PROGRAM
April 6, 1999
Capacity Building Unit
Country Departnent 10
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 1998)
Currency Unit = Cedi
Cedi = US$ 0.00043
US$ 1.00 = 2,340 Cedis
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL            Adaptable Program Lending
BPEMS          Budget and Public Expenditure Management System
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA           Canadian International Development Agency
CMA            Central Management Agencies
CSPIP          Civil Service Performance Improvement Programme
CSRP           Civil Service Reform Program
DANIDA         Danish International Development Association
DFID           Department for International Development (UK)
ERSO           Economic Support Operation
EU             European Union
GoG            Government of Ghana
GTZ            German Technical Cooperation
IPPD           Integrated Personnel and Payroll Database
KfW            Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (Germany)
NMLGRD         Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development
MoF            Ministry of Finance
MTrEF          Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NDPC           National Development Planning Commission
NIRP           National Institutional Renewal Programme
NOC            National Overview Committee
OHCS           Office of the Head of Civil Service
PHRD           Policy and Human Resources Development Fund (Japan)
PMG            Policy Management Group
PPF            Project Preparation Facility
PSC            Public Services Commission
PSM            Public Sector Management
PUFMARP        Public Financial Management Reform Programme
PUSERMOS    Public Sector Re-invention and Modernization Strategy for Ghana
SA             Subvented Agency
TA             Technical Assistance
SOE            State Owned Enterprise
UNDP           United Nations Development Programme
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
Vice President: Jean Louis Sarbib
Country Director: Peter Harrold
Sector Manager: Brian Levy
Task Team Leader: David Steedman
Task Manager: Guenter Heidenhof



Ghana
Public Sector Management Reform Program
CONTENTS
A Program Purpose and Program Development Objective ......................................................3
1. Program  purpose and program  phasing  ................................................................                             3
2. Program   development objective ................................................................3
3. Key performance indicators ................................................................3
B Strategic Context ................................................................3
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the program ....... 3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ...............................................................3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the program   and strategic choices ..............................5
4. Program   description  and performance triggers for subsequent loans .............................5
C   Program   Description  Summary  ...............................................................7
1. Program   components ................................................................7
2. Key policy  and institutional reforms supported by the program  ....................................8
3. Benefits and target population ................................................................8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ............................................................9
D Program Rationale ...............................................................                                                               10
1. Program   alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ........................................... 10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .......... 11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the program   design ................................................... 11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ................................................... 12
5. Value added of Bank  support in this program  ............................................................. 13
E  Summary Program Analysis ...............................................................                                                       13
1. Economic ...............................................................                                                          13
2. Financial ...............................................................                                                          14
3. Technical ...............................................................                                                         14
4. Institutional ...............................................................                                                     14
5. Social ...............................................................                                                            15
6. Environmental assessment ...............................................................                                          15
7. Participatory  approach ...............................................................                                           15
F Sustainability and Risks ...............................................................                                                        16
1. Sustainability ...............................................................                                                    16
2. CriticalRisks ...............................................................                                                     17
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ...............................................................                                    19



G Main Loan Conditions ........................  19
1. Effectiveness Conditions .................                            19
2. Other ................. 19
H Readiness for Implementation .......................                          20
I Compliance with Bank Policies .......................                         20
Annexes
Annex 1. Program Design Summary                                                 21
Annex 2. Detailed Program Description                                           27
Annex 3. Program Phases, Performance Indicators and Exit Strategies             45
Annex 4. Estimated Program Costs                                                48
Annex 5. Financial Summary                                                      50
Annex 6. Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                              53
Table A. Program Costs by Procurement Arrangements                            56
Table B. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review                  57
Table C. Allocation of Loan Proceeds                                          58
Annex 7. Financial Management                                                   59
Annex 8. Program Processing Budget and Schedule                                 61
Annex 9. Documents in Project File                                              62
Annex 10. Statement of Loans and Credits                                        64
Annex 11. Country at a Glance                                                   66
Annex 12. Letter of Development Program from the Govermment of Ghana            68
Annex 13 List of Subvented Agencies                                             73



Ghana
Public Sector Management Reform Program
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Region
Country Departmnent 10
Date: March 29, 1999                                Task Team Leader: David Steedman
Task Manager: Guenter Heidenhof
Country Director: Peter Hafrold                     Sector Manager: Brian Levy
Project ID: GH-PE-50615                             Sector: Public Sector Management
Lending Instrument: APL                             Theme(s): Redefining the Role of State, Rationalizing
Structures and Systems in the Ghana Public Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention:    [ I Yes  [x] No
PSM 1I                35.4        45       43.4        55       78.8           2002           2005
(2002-2005)___  __
PSM III               33.8        45       41.2        55       75.0           2006           2009
(2006-2009)
Total                  83.5       48        89.5       52      173.0           1999           2009
Program Financing Data
[ ] Loan     [x] Credit      [  Grant      [] Guarantee      [] Other
Amount (US$m):
Proposed terms:    [ To be defined      [x] Multicurrency      f] Single currency
[G Standard Variable  [x] Fixed             [] LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):          10
Years to maturity:             40
Commitment fee:                0.5%
Service charge:                0.75%
Govemment of Ghana                                       72.1              17.4             89.5
IDA                                                      66.4              17.1             83.5
Program Costs                                           138.5              33.5            173.0
OCS APL PAD Form: November 4, 1998



Page 2
Borrower: Republic of Ghana
Responsible agency(ies): Office of the Vice President, Ministry of Finance, Accra/Ghana
Annual   5.0      4.7    4.6    8.9       8.8    8.9    8.8       8.5     8.4    8.5      8.1
Cumulative   5.0      9.7   14.3   23.2    32.0   40.9   49.7    58.2    66.6   75.1   83.5
Program implementation period: 1999 - 2010 (11 calendar years)
Expected effectiveness date: 1999                   Expected closing date: 2010
Implementing agency: National Institutional Renewal Programme, National Coordinator, AccralGhana
Contact person: Dr. Appiah Koranteng, National Coordinator
Address: P.O.Box 1618, Accra/Ghana
Tel: +233-21-780295          Fax: +233-21-780294           E-mail: NIRP@IGHMAIL.COM



Page 3
A: Program Purpose and Program Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing: (see Annex 1)
The Public Sector Management Reform Program aims at:
* Redefining the role and functions of the state,
* Designing appropriate institutions and systems to implement this role, and
* Rationalizing the existing structure and systems to meet the new design.
The necessary logical sequencing of activities, which include institutional development, capacity building
and organizational & regulatory changes, can best be addressed with a flexible lending instrument. The
Adaptable Program Lending (APL) is ideally suited for a comprehensive reform program which consists
of sequenced activities to be achieved over a certain period of time. The Public Sector Management
Reform Program has therefore been designed as an eleven-year APL operation with a first phase of three
years, and two subsequent phases of four years each (see Annex 1, 2 for details). Phase I is designed as
the pilot phase for the entire program. It aims at setting the stage for the full-scale implementation of the
reform program. The first phase of the program is relatively short and the financial implications of this
phase are moderate. This phase is a test of the commitment of the government and the (managerial)
capacity to implement a major reform program. The success of phase I would pave the way for the overall
program and considerably reduce risk of the two subsequent phases II & III in which the reforms will be
broadened and further advanced.
2. Program development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective of the program is to improve efficiency, effectiveness and quality of public
services in Ghana. It is expected to improve Ghana's overall fiscal performance in the medium term.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex l,2a)
The key indicators to measure the progress of the program are outlined in Annex 3. Specific performance
expectations which are the triggers for subsequent APL financing include: Number of institutions
targeted in the three phases of the program, publication of progress reports for the reform of public sector
institutions, and Cabinet decisions to be made to support program implementation. Annex 3 also includes
exit strategies for the different components/phases of the program in case performance expectations are
not met.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the program: (see Annex 1)
CAS document number: 17002-GH    Date of latest CAS discussion: September 2, 1997
The program is consistent with the Bank's CAS for Ghana (Report No. 17002-GH, date August 13, 1997,
and discussed by the Board on September 2, 1997) in that it aims to improve overall fiscal performance
through comprehensive reform of structures, organizations, systems and processes in Ghana's public
sector.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
In 1994, the Government of Ghana (GoG) created the National Institutional Renewal Program (NIRP) in
order to focus and give strategic direction to the many reform activities taking place within the public
sector. The program includes efforts to reform financial management, a new remuneration and grading
system, reform of the subvented agencies (implementing agencies which derive their funding from public



Page 4
subsidies), and a proposal to strengthen policy formulation and implementation including the decision
making process within the administration and the Cabinet.
In order to articulate and specify a clear vision for Ghana indicating the long-term directionof
development, in 1995 the GoG published the "Ghana: Vision 2020" document. The major government
objective set out in this strategic document is to systematically reduce poverty through macroeconomic
stability and the promotion of sustained accelerated economic growth. A pre-condition for achieving this
objective is the existence of an efficient public sector which designs and implements consistent policies
and creates an enabling environment for private sector-led development.
In October 1997 the government issued the "Public Sector Re-invention and Modernization Strategy for
Ghana: Transforming Vision into Reality" (PUSERMOS). In this strategic document the govermnent has
committed itself to reform the public sector in general and in particular review and reform public sector
institutions in terms of their mandate, approach and scope of activities. The document provides a
framework for integrating, sequencing and monitoring the reforms which address the key weaknesses of
the puablic sector: lack of qualified staff in critical areas such as economics, finance, policy analysis,
general management and information systems combined with inadequate incentives; confused regulatory
and organizational environment; weaknesses in systems for planning, budgeting, implementation and
monitoring combined with an inefficient management regime.
Although the government has made some efforts to reform the public sector since the early 90s, the
history of public sector reform in Ghana is largely negative: A civil service reform program (CSRP) was
launched in 1987 but the program had few positive results mainly because it lacked ownership by various
groups which had a stake in the outcome. Efforts to control the wage bill at 4.5 percent of GDP, which
were finally achieved in 1990, were undone by the 1992 wage hike in the context of the national elections
that raised the wage bill to 8 percent of GDP. In 1996 the wage bill was 5.6 percent of GDP Efforts to
reduce the size of the public service have not been sustained: The number of central government public
servants fell from 301,000 in 1986 to 260,000 in 1990; but, by the end of 1996 it had grown to 330,000, an
increase of more than 25 percent since 1990.1 With a civil service employment of 1.8 percent of the
population (1996) Ghana remains far above the average in Sub-Saharan Africa.2
The constraints to efficient and effective functioning of Ghana's public sector have been the subject of
numerous studies over the last ten years. The mainproblems which have been identified are related to
human resources, resource allocation and financial management. Existing weaknesses are explained by
deficiencies in
* Critical processes, e.g. policy design, coordination and implementation;
* Core systems, e.g. the rules governing the use of human and financial resources; and
*  Structures, e.g. unclear mandates, responsibilities and operational objectives of public sector
institutions.
The consequence is that performance and motivation of public servants are poor resulting in unsatisfactory
quantity and quality of service delivery. In addition, a "result- and performance-oriented" management
culture in the public sector is lacking.
Several on-going reform initiatives seek to transform the public sector but the overall impact of most
reforms has been relatively low (see Annex 2 for details). It has proven difficult to move from analysis to
action and implementation. The main reasons are:
* Weak co-ordination mechanisms for the implementation process combined with
*  Unclear mandates of the "driving forces" of the change process;
* Fragmentation of change process responsibilities;
I IMF WP/97/179, A Decade of Civil Service Refonn in Sub-Saharan Africa, page 43
2 IMF WP/971179, page 44



Page 5
* Little experience with the implementation of a major reform program; and
* Inadequate capacity (managerial, staff, administrative, technical) to manage and institutionalize the
necessary changes.
Until the end of 1997, the government's response to correct these problems was mixed. While stressing
the need for a comprehensive public sector reform, the government failed to address the implementation
problems, particularly improving the intergovernmental co-ordination and assigning clear responsibilities
for the change process. The National Overview Committee (NOC), which should provide the strategic
focus and coordinate the reform activities, was not able to decisively target the major obstacles for an
effective public sector reform such as diffuse mandates, systems and processes. One reason is that some
NOC-members represent agencies which are themselves part of the problem. NOC consists of
stakeholders (senior officials) who have a vested interest in maintaining the present regulatory and
management set-up. It tolerated an environment where strong and competing interests hamper the
implementation process and the establishment of a comprehensive action plan. Because of the wavering
commitment of the government, and the magnitude of the challenge, the Bank resisted pressures to
develop a comprehensive program earlier. Previous Bank support concentrated on the development of a
consistent government strategy for public sector reform.
With the appointment of the Vice-President as Chainnan of the NOC to oversee all public sector reform
activities, the pace of the reform efforts has significantly changed, and the political support for the reforms
has substantially improved. A blueprint for a comprehensive change agenda was outlined at the end of
1997 in the PUSERMOS document. Since the middle of 1998 the reform agenda has been further
operationalized. With assistance from the Bank, the NIRP Secretariat developed action plans for the
structural reforms in the public sector. These plans were further refined by a number of focus group
discussions. They provide the basis for the proposals presented in this document. These proposals
(including sequencing and timing) were discussed with the GoG and adopted by the NOC in December
1998.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the program and strategic choices:
The main sector issues to be addressed by the program are an analysis and a definition of role and
functions of the state, in particular, the differentiation of responsibilities among the various levels of
government and the private sector. Based on clear mandates and output targets for the Central
Management Agencies (CMAs)3 and other public sector organizations, the necessary institutional
adjustments will be made to improve service delivery, and to reduce overlaps & duplications of authority.
In addition, systemic changes will be introduced to improve efficiency of public sector operations, in
particular the perfornance orientation within the public sector. The inappropriate staff size of the public
sector in Ghana will be specifically targeted as part of the adjustment process.
Special attention will be given to privatization of public services, to support government withdrawal from
areas which can be better handled by the private sector. In this context, the program aims to reduce the
importance of the public sector in the economy. This will particularly affect the large and diverse
Subvented Agency sector, which has a significant potential for privatization. The SA-reform which is the
most important component of the reforms aims at significantly reducing government subsidies and
transfers, and thus improving the cost-effectiveness of public sector operations.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans (see Annex 3):
The program would assist the GoG in its efforts to move from the planning to the implementation stage of
3 Main CMAs include: Public Services Commission (PSC), Ministry of Finance (MoF) including the Controller and Accountant
General, National Development Planning Commission (N1DPC), Office of the Head of Civil Service (OHCS)



Page 6
the reform agenda. It develops a critical path for the public sector reform in Ghana, which integrates the
various activities at the different levels of government, and provides guidelines for the step-by-step
implementation of public sector reforms. The program targets the central government level, which it aims
to restructure in line with the decentralization policy of the GoG. It will be coordinated with sector-
related activities of the Bank (particularly health & education) and other donors (decentralization).
The program would be implemented in three phases, the first covering a period of three years, and the
second and the third covering four years each. Thefirst phase (1999 - 2001) would concentrate on first
implementation steps in priority areas (closing down or restructuring at least 17 pilot Subvented
Agencies, realigning the Central Management Agencies (CMAs), introducing key systems, developing a
public-private partnership program, operationalizing project management system for the implementation
of the reform agenda), and thus set the stage for full scale implementation. This first phase can build on a
number of reform initiatives which are already under way, and which target particularly the systemic
constraints in the public sector (PUFMARP, CSPIP, incomes policy). Though the results of these
activities have been mixed (see Annex 2 for details), the work that has already been done in these
initiatives provides substantial input for the first phase of the proposed program. Of particular importance
is the recent introduction of the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), to improve the budget
system and procedures in Ghana. A well-performing budget system will assist the Government set and
achieve macroeconomic and fiscal targets, allocate resources strategically to political priorities disciplined
by cost, and implement programs and projects efficiently and effectively. The MTEF will make the costs
of existing policies and programs more transparent. It is designed to shift budgeting incentives away from
incrementalism, and encourage strategic choices. The MTEF is therefore an important precondition for a
program which seeks to improve corporate planning, operational efficiency and service delivery in the
public sector.
Assuming that performance expectations have been met during the first phase, the second phase (2002 -
2005) would broaden the reform and expand the focus to all levels of central government (e.g. another 70
Subvented Agencies closed down or restructured, and realignment of a first group of sector ministries (10)
and departments (25). The third phase (2006 - 2009) would further advance the reform, particularly
focusing on the Subvented Agency sector, and on reforming processes and structures in the remaining
ministries (1 1) and departments (25) at the central government level.
Annax 3 provides an overview of the three different phases, and the specific performance indicators for
each component/phase, which are the key triggers for subsequent APL financing. In addition to these
component specific triggers, subsequent APL-funding in phase II of the program will be subject to two
general triggers:
* The existence of an adequate budget planning process based on the MTEF in Ghana's public sector,
and
* The introduction of a comprehensive and systematic stakeholder analysis and consultation process to
assess the impact of the reform program (social assessment).
Bank assistance will mainly focus on two areas:
*  Support for consultancy services for the different program components (30% of total program costs),
and
* Costs for retraining of public servants to enable them to effectively fulfill their new roles and
responsibilities (9% of total program costs).
As a consequence of the reform process, a significant number of public servants must leave the public
sector. While reducing the public sector to an appropriate size is one of the goals of the reform program, it
is essential to avoid social unrest which would endanger the implementation of the reforms. Therefore,
termination and redundancy benefits have been built into the program. Based on a comprehensive social



Page 7
assessment, early in phase I of the reform program, an alternative employment concept will be developed
to carefuUly establish eligibility criteria for severance payments, and identify the public servants who
qualify under these criteria. It is estimated that approximately 10% of the employees of the targeted
institutions will be eligible for termination and redundancy benefits. These payments represent 57% of
total program costs.
Under its current operational policies, IDA is able to support severance pay as part of a technical
assistance operation only for a limited number of subvented agencies. Annex 13 identifies the
institutions which might qualify under the existing policy. It is estimated that approximately 2000 public
servants are eligible for IDA funded severance pay. Consequently, the PAD assigns redundancy
payments which are not eligible for IDA assistance to the Government contribution to the program. This
would include, in addition to the Government's own domestic resources, funding deriving from possible
future adjustment assistance. With respect to phase I of the program, an amount of US$3.5 milion
equivalent was proposed to be included in IDA's forthcoming ERSO II credit to the Government of Ghana
which is scheduled to be negotiated in April 1999.
C: Program Description Summary
1. Program components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 4 for a detailed cost breakdown)
The program will address three different areas which have been identified as the essential elements for the
public sector reform agenda:
*  Reform of Subvented Agencies (SAs)
This component aims at making the sector cost-effective and reducing the financial burden on
government budget, by criticaly reviewing the mandates of thel76 subvented agencies (see Annex
12), closing down those without a clear mandate, and restructuring those with a viable mandate;
*  Adjustment of central government structures and organizations
This component would critically review the mandates, responsibilities and operational objectives of
CMAs, ministries & departments based on a functional analysis. It will remove duplications and
overlaps, develop new roles & missions, and realign functions in line with the decentralization policy
with the staff size adequately curtailed. It aims at improving service delivery and performance
orientation based on clearly defined output targets, and at enhancing skills and capacity for efficient
public sector management;
*  Improvement of systems and processes
This component will specifically target systemic constraints in Ghana's public sector. It wiUl develop
and implement some key elements for effective public sector operations including a human resource
management system, a performance management system, an incentive system, and a management
information system. These elements are required to improve public sector management and to sustain
institutional changes. This component will also develop and introduce a public-private partnership
program. This program aims to increase private sector input (exchange programs, joint activities etc.)
and apply private sector standards (audit, supervision etc.) on government operations. It will enhance
cooperation at all levels of government, and actively involve the private sector in policy design and
decision-making of government (private sector representation on public sector boards etc.);
In addition, the program will support the establishment of a comprehensive project management system
for the change process to ensure effective implementation of the reform agenda.



Page 8
Improvement of systems &             BBA4.2                       2.4       4.1       97.6
processes in Ghana's public sector
Project management for change,       BY               6.7         3.9       6.2       92.5
process                                                        _       
Total     161.0        93.1      72.4       45.0
Unallocated Funds        11.0         6.4      10.1       91.8
Total Program Costs       172.0       99.4       82.5       48.0
PPF-Refinancing         1.0         0.6       1.0
Total Financing Required                            173.0      1 100.0     83.5       48.3
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the program:
The program will criticaly review and realign roles and responsibilities at the centl goverment level
(Centra Management Agencies, sector ministries & departments). The change process can build on
previous analytical work that has been done with Bank support on the role of the state and the areas it
should cover to provide services for its citizens. It wil fiuther refine this analysis andoperationalize
the new roles and responsibilities based on specific targets and outputs assigned to the different
goverment institutions. It wil fiuther refine the expected outputs by developing perfornance targets for
the various operational levels, to ensure greater transparency and accountability. The program also aims
to systematically strengthen the collaboration between the private and the public sector, to secure more
effective decision-making and private sector-led economic development.
Key institutional reforms would include: comprehensive reorganization and restucturing of Ghana's
diverse public sector including decentralization and commercialization of government activities;
institutional development and introduction of performance-based management principles for more
efficient public services, with increased customer-orientation, transparency and accountability, and
capacity building for better public management at the different levels of govermnent.
3. Benefits and target population:
The main benefits of the program would be:
g  An efficient public sector providing more and better services to its customers;
*  Significantly reduced public sector expenditures focusing on core governent functions;
* Improved financial managemnent;
t  Enhanced private and public sector collaboration, with increased private sector input to govemrnent
decision-making and operations;
• Motivated public servants who receive remuneration and incentives according to their performance;
•  Better coordination of the different donor activities targeting the public sector; and
e  Significantly reduced coruption in Ghana's public service by improving the accountability of public
servants.
The program is targeted at the different levels of central government which it intends to reorganize. It will
address the needs and expectations of public sector customers and the society, by improving quantity and
quality of public services. The programo wil substantially affect pubic servants who will either be
integrated into a new performance based govenance framework or redeployed into the private sector.



Page 9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The Government of Ghana - through the Vice President and the Minister of Finance - would be
responsible for ensuring that the program is undertaken as planned. The reform will be implemented
under the umbrella of the National Institutional Renewal Programme (NIRP), which provides the strategic
focus. The governing council of NIRP is the National Overview Committee (NOC). NOC plays the key
role for the implementation of the reform agenda and for monitoring of the reform process. It is chaired
by the Vice President, members are politicians and other senior officials.4 The NOC has several sub-
committees for the different components of the reform agenda, and a Standing Committee which decides
on priority issues.
Project management & coordination
The project coordination would be ensured by the Office of the Vice President (which oversees NIRP)
through a National Coordinator selected by the GoG. The National Coordinator will be responsible for
the NIRP Secretariat which runs the day-to-day operations. He reports to the NOC.
Executing agency, program monitoring & evaluation
The different components of the reform agenda would be managed by the NIRP-Secretariat. The role of
the Secretariat is to catalyze, monitor & evaluate the reform process, and to publish progress reports on a
regular basis. Consequently, it will contract out all consultant assignments. At the level of ministries,
departments and agencies output managers and project implementation teams will participate in the
management of the different components and sub-components of the reform agenda.
Financial Management
A financial assessment was carried out for this project. The finance and administration unit of the NIRP
secretariat will be responsible for disbursement under the project. The project will have a centralized unit
to oversee the implementation of the project's four main components. The secretariat is not currently able
to meet LACI disbursement requirements. To ensure overall effective project implementation, the finance
unit will put in place an adequate financial management system, to achieve effective budgeting and
monitoring of the cost of project activities, efficient internal control measures, recording and maintenance
of up to date accounting records and provision of project financial data for project management.
The NIRP secretariat has agreed with IDA to take two actions in order to put in place an adequate
financial management system. First, a qualified accountant is being recruited with a Terms of Reference
agreed with IDA, and is expected to be at post by credit effectiveness in August. Second, a consultant is
being engaged to develop and implement adequate policies, procedures and systems, to insure that the
financial management of the NIRP Secretariat under the IDA project is in full compliance with IDA
operational guidelines as specified OP/BP 10.02 of August 1997 by credit effectiveness in August 1999.
Specifically, the establishment of an acceptable accounting system is a condition of effectiveness of the
project. The action plan would address the gaps identified during an assessment of the existing financial
management of the NIRP Secretariat.
4 As of December '98 members of NOC include: Vice-President, Minister of Finance, Chief Director (MoF), Minister of Local
Government and Rural Development, Deputy Minister (MLGRD), Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Chief Director (Office
of Parliamentary Affairs), Minister for Communications, First Deputy Speaker of Parliament, Chainnan & Vice-Chairman of
the Public Services Commission, Head of Civil Service, Chairman of the Civil Service Council, Secretary to the Cabinet,
Chainnan of Unilever Ghana Ltd., Director General of NDPC, Director General of Ghana Institute of Management and Public
Administration, Judicial Secretary of the Judicial Services, Director General of the Private Enterprises Foundation, Country
Representative of Crown Agents, Comnuissioner & Deputy Commissioner of the Commission On Human Rights And
Administmtive Justice, Executive Chaiuman of the State Enterprises Commission, NIRP National Coordinator, Deputy
Minister of the Ministry of Employment and Social Welfare, Ag. Executive Secretary of the National Council on Women and
Development (NCWD)



Page 10
While the financial management system to be set up by the project will prepare Project Management
Reports, an assessment has been made that the PMR disbursement procedures will not be appropriate for
the first phase of this project. There is a need to ensure that the systemsput in place are operating
smoothly.
Cofinancing
Several donor activities run parallel to this program and close collaboration will be ensured. DFID is
currently financing the CSPIP program (performance improvement) and intends to provide financial
assistance for upgrading IPPD (Integrated Personnel and Payroll Database). UNDP has approved a
National Governance Programme. Other donor activities include: Financial Management Reform
(Canada, UK, EU), and Decentralization (Germany, Canada, Netherlands). CIDA is preparing an
Economic Governance Project in close collaboration with the Bank which will focus on the improvement
of the national policy management process at the level of Cabinet.
D: Program Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
* Broad vs. focused approach
The key weaknesses of the public sector in Ghana include: lack of qualified staff in critical areas such
as economics, finance, policy analysis, general management and information systems combined with
inadequate incentives; confused regulatory and organizational environment; weaknesses in systems
for planning, budgeting, implementation and monitoring combined with an inefficient management
regime. These regulatory, structural and organizational deficiencies caU for a broad reform program
based on a comprehensive action plan addressing the key weaknesses and sequencing the
implementation of the reform agenda. A targeted project approach would not be able to sufficiently
and effectively address sector-wide systemic weaknesses at the different public sector levels. The
GoG itself through NOC has fostered a more comprehensive reform approach.
i APL vs. non-phased project approach
To be effective the reform program must include a number of regulatory, structural and organizational
changes aimed at improving public sector management at the different levels of government; and at
providing better quality of public services. Many components of the change agenda are linked; to
increase the performance orientation in the public sector the necessary regulatory/legal changes have
to be made before a performance management system is introduced. The reform agenda must
therefore be based on an action plan consisting of phased activities addressing the different
components that need to be changed, and providing guidelines for the step-by-step implementation of
the public sector reform.  The Adaptable Program  Lending (APL) is ideally suited for a
comprehensive reform program which consistsof sequenced activities to be achieved over a period of
time.
* Long-term vs. short-term project
The program has been designed for a period of eleven years. Though a shorter time horizon has been
considered, the complexity of changes that need to be addressed during the implementation of the
reform program, particularly the institutional and mentality changes and the need to build capacity,
call for a long-term program which provides enough time to build ownership and to effectively
institutionalize the reform components. It will also be necessary to redeploy a substantial number of
public servants into the private sector. The transition period should be long enough to avoid social
unrest which might folow outplacement activities, and to ensure that outplaced public servants
will find their way into the private sector.



Page I 1
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
Sector issue                      Project              Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-fnanced projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
u:..........   ...................  .:............ -.---:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ..... ... .... ....      , .:.       .:::..... -.........   . . . .... ......... .........,,,..,.......... ,.-..-
Finance                             Public Fimancial Management          S                S
(45588 GH)
Multisector                         Economic Management Support          S                S
(940 GH)
Public Sector Management            Private Sector Development          U                 U
(960 GH)
Public Sector Management            Public Enterprises Reforn            S                S
(42516 GH)
Public Sector Management            Decentrlization (56379 GH)
Public Sector Management            Private Sector Development
Strategy (59509 GH)
Public Sector Management            Public Services Reform
(50615 GH)
Public Sector Management            Regional Capacity Building
(50621 GH)
Multisector                         Economic Support Operation I
(55989 GH)
Multisector                         Economic Support Operation II
(planned)
O her deveffient.: a:   a             . -gec.e... ..... .........
Civil service                       Civil Service Performance
Improvement Programme                     ongoing
(CSPIP) (DFID)
Civil service                      Integrated Personnel and Payroll
Database (IPPD) (FID)                     planned
Decentralization                    Local Governent
Decentralization Reform                   ongoing
(EU, Germany, CIDA, NGOs)
Policy Management                   Economic Goverance Project                planned
(CIDA)
Govemance                          National Governmace                        ongoing
Programme (UNDP)
GoernmetoGan
Incomes policy                      Public Sector Incomes Policy
and Administration Reform                 ongoing
Programme
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatsfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the program design:
It has been difficult to achieve concrete and measurable results with regard to more efficient and effective
public services in Ghana. A first civil service reform project which was launched in 1987 had few
positive results, because it lacked ownership by major stakeholders and did not sufficiently focus on
systemic constraints. Other public sector reform activities were equally ineffective because they too
narrowly focused on sector issues. The proposed program is different. It will specifically target
underlying systemic constraints by developing and reforming key systems and processes which are
triggers for effective public sector operations. The institutional changes proposed in this program cover
the entire central government level. The program design also reflects the need to involve all major



Page 12
stakeholders in the reform process.
Inportant additional lessons from other projects, particularly from previous public sector reform projects
include:
*  A long-term, strategic approach to technical assistance which is not "donor-driven" is needed to
achieve sustainable results. Previous projects were predominantly focused on achieving
macroeconomic targets. Neither did they provide enough roomnor sufficient time for a complex
reform agenda which is based on institutional development and capacity building. This program
proposes a long-term adjustment process. It particularly addresses underlying systemic constraints
and necessary institutional changes which can only be achieved over a longer period of time.
*  A strong discipline for the implementation process needs to be established to ensure progress towards
long-term objectives and a constant reassessment of all significant program elements. Previous public
sector reform projects failed because of insufficient control mechanisms and a weak project
implementation discipline. A main emphasis of project preparation and the first phase of the program
was/is therefore to establish a comprehensive project managementsystem, that is able to effectively
monitor the implementation process. This also includes more and closer monitoring by the Ghana
Office of the Bank.
*  More attention needs to be paid to monitoring the quality of technical assistance outputs to measure
the overall performance of the program. Performance indicators which focus more on quality,
process and behavior will be developed to sufficiently assess progress.
•  Local "champions" who know what they want and who know how to operate are important success
factors. The first phase of the program will particularly focus on identifying managers who are able to
push the reform process forward.
•  Explicit attention needs to be given to the institutionalenvironment which plays a crucial role during
the implementation of the reform agenda. A significant amount of training and institutional
development has therefore been built into the program.
*  The various donor activities need to be better coordinated to avoid friction and to rationalize activities.
The key elements of the program have been discussed with other major donors. Effective
coordination during program implementation will be ensured.
Previous project experience has shown that project management in Ghana is weak. The success of the
proposed project on the NIRP Secretariat's ability to fulfill its coordinating and leadership role. To
decisively move towards implementation of the public sector reform agenda, the project management
capacity of the NIRP Secretariat will be substantially strengthened (by means of short-term foreign
consultants and new qualified staff). It is also critical to effectively control the project implementation to
ensure that the GoG complies with Bank standards. Comprehensive control mechanisms which
specifically target systemic or structural weaknesses are key success factors for TA-projects. The Ghana
Office of the Bank will therefore closely monitor the program implementation as well as the performance
of the NIRP Secretariat and consultants involved in the program, based on exact timelines and milestones.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Since the Vice-President took over the chainnanship of the NOC, the pace of the reform efforts has
improved significantly. The Vice-President also provides the necessary leadership to effectively contain
vested interests and to push forward an ambitious reform agenda.
In October 1997, the NIRP Secretariat issued the "Public Sector Re-invention and Modernization
Strategy" for Ghana. This strategic document provides a framework for integrating, sequencing and
monitoring the different components of acomprehensive public sector management reform. The changes
proposed in this document are consistent with the reform agenda, which is presented in this document.
GoG's commitment to carry out some preparatory reforms, which fonn the first phase of the proposed



Page 13
program has been formally expressed in the Economic Reform Support Operation (ERSO) of May 18,
1998. In July/August 1998, the NIRP Secretariat developed actionplans to further operationalize the
key elements of the reform agenda. These plans were subject to a number of focus group discussions and
provide the basis for this program document.
All aspects of the proposed program have been discussed in detail with the government. The key reform
elements (including sequencing, timing, scope of necessary retrenchment) were approved by NOC in
December '98. The Bank has received strong and reassuring signals from the government for a
comprehensive public sector reform program. The determination of the GoG to implement the reforms
and its commitment for the change process is directly linked to a long-term commitment of the Bank. It is
the government's understanding that the complex institutional adjustment process can only be effective if
long-term support by the Bank is guaranteed. There is also a broad consensus about the need for public
sector reform, that goes beyond the current government, and will keep successive governments committed
to the objectives ofthe program.
5. Value added of Bank support in this program:
Bank experience with public sector reform projects in other countries will add substantial value to the
reform process in Ghana. This particularly applies to the conceptual design of the different components of
the reform program. The proposed design reflects lessons learnt from other projects, in particular the need
to
*  Take a strategic, integrated approach which is based on a clear vision of the role, mandate and
operational objectives of the reformed public sector;
*  Appropriately time and sequence the different components of the reform agenda;
*  Build strong stakeholder commitment during project preparation; and to
- Effectively integrate ongoing activities of other donors.
In addition, Bank projects in Ghana cover a wide range of reform activities. Because of its far-reaching
Ghana program the Bank has strategic advantages for the support of a comprehensive public sector
reform program because it can build on extensive experience in many other sectors. A number of bilateral
and multilateral donors (incl. UK, Canada, EU, Germany, Denmark, US, Japan, Netherlands, UNDP) are
currently involved or interested in financing public sector reform activities. Leadership by the Bank
expressed by a sector-based program would encourage necessaryreforms to improve the overall
sectoral performance, and would integrate (donor) activities at the different levels of government.
E: Summary Project Analysis: (detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 9)
1. Economic:
The program will decrease the total number of public servants and reduce the public sector to a size
appropriate to Ghana's needs and budgetary resources. It is difficult to forecast the exact amount of staff
reduction in the public service. The program proposal is based on the assumption that approximately
28,000 public servants will be eligible for retrenchment benefits in the course of this program. GoG is
expected to complement severance pay with other activities such as voluntary/early retirement schemes,
so that the overall staff reduction in the public service will be significantly higher.
The reform.of the Subvented Agencies will considerably contribute to the downsizing of the public sector.
The SA-reform will also result in significantly reduced government subsidies for the sector. GoG
estimates that approximately 37 out of the 176 organizations will not receive any further subsidies at the
end of the program. The financial assistance provided by the government to an additional 102



Page 14
organizations which, will be partially commercialized, is expected to decrease by at least 30%, (see Annex
13 which categorizes the SAs based on a preliminary assessment of the GoG).
2. Financial: (see Annex 5)
Fiscal impact:
The program is expected to have a positive medium-term fiscal impact. At an early stage of the program,
considerable outlays have to be made to finance institutional changes and retrenchment of redundant
public servants. These costs will be more than compensated for by savings at later stages of the program.
The major part of these savings will result from reduced govemment subsidies to subvented
organizations, which will be restructured as part of this program. The restructuring of the Central
Management Agencies, sector ministries & departments, and the proposed systemic changes will generate
additional savings of government expenditures for public sector operations. In addition, the number of
staff to be retrenched in the course of the program will reduce government expenditures for personnel.
emoluments.
3. Technical:
The proposed program design, which aims at reforming structures, organizations, systems and processes
of Ghana's public sector, corresponds to public sector management standards developed in similar
projects all over the world. The design also reflects the need of the GoG for a long-term transition
process, particularly in view of the upcoming general elections in the year 2000. It aims at reforming the
core of government concentrating on those issues which are expected to have the biggest impact in terms
of improving efficiency, effectiveness and quality of public service delivery, customer-orientation,
transparency and accountability.
4. Institutional:
The success of the program depends on the capacity to manage a comprehensive reform agenda and the
ability to integrate the reforms into day-to-day operations.
* Project management
The NIRP Secretariat has been coordinating the public sector reform efforts for several years and will
administer the reform program. While the secretariat has produced some good strategy papers, its
project management and monitoring capacities are weak. The secretariat has basically no substantial
experience with the implementation of a major reform program. Project preparation has, therefore
provided assistance to enhance the project management capacity of the secretariat, to enable it to
develop an implementation plan for the different components of the reform agenda (by means of
short-term consultants, new qualified staff). In addition, the activities of the secretariat will be
closely monitored by the Ghana Office of the Bank.
The implementation process will be coordinated with ongoing activities in different public sector
areas, particularly with the PUFMARP Secretariat which oversees the financial management reform,
the Office of the Head of Civil Service (OHCS), which is responsible for the performance
improvement program (CSPIP), and the Public Services Commission (PSC), which concentrates on
the incomes policy reform. Significant leadership is needed to develop and maintain a common
understanding that the different components are (only) parts of an overarching implementation plan,
and therefore need to actively work together. The Vice-President provides the necessary backing and
leadership to coordinate all ongoing activities and to enforce cooperation. There is a broad national
consensus about the need to reform the public sector. It can therefore be expected that successive
governments will continue implementing the reform program.



Page 15
* Integration
Significant manpower and appropriate management capacity are essential for the integration of the
different components into day-to-day operations. Previous project experience (i.e. CSPIP) has
indicated that it might be difficult to identify sufficient qualified staff. It has also turned out that the
management in most public sector agencies and, its perfonnance and motivation with regard to
changes is weak, which would have a negative impact on the implementation of the reforn. It will be
of crucial importance to build up sufficient and adequatemanagement capacity for the reform
process. The implementation will best be carried out by small implementationteams which are
adequately trained. Therefore, significant training and orientation for both implementation teams and
public sector managers are built into the program, to ensure ownership and appropriate/timely
delivery. It is also necessary to give public managers enough leeway for the integration of the reform.
Administrative regulations which might hamper the reform process will therefore be addressed on a
priority basis. It is furithernore expected that the incomes policy reform will improve incentives
for public managers.
5. Social:
The program will result in a significant number of outplaced public servants in the context of the
restructuring of systems, processes and organizations. While curtailing the public sector to an appropriate
size is one of the goals of the reform program, it is essential to avoid social unrest which might arise in
the context of the implementation of the reform. It is therefore important to develop perspectives for
public servants leaving the public sector. Activities will include: orientation, retraining, outplacement and
redeployment programs which will pave the way into the private sector; termination & redundancy
benefits. Specifically targeted voluntary retirement schemes should complement the reform. An
outplacement and alternative employment program will be developed during the first phase of the
program.
Given the failures of previous efforts to reform the public sector in Ghana a broad parficipatory and
systematic stakeholder analysis and consultation process (social assessment) will provide the basis for a
sound assessment of the social impact of the reform program. The social assessment can build on the
results of a number of workshops already held in preparation of this program. It will go beyond the
managerial level, identify the different stakeholders and solicit their views on the change management
process and the retrenchment program. The findings will be used to adjust the reform process.
6. Environmental assessment:       Environmental Category   [] A    [I B   [xl C
Not applicable
7. Participatory approach: (key stakeholders, how involved)
The program design reflects the need to build internal and extemal support for the different components of
the reform agenda. Other donors report substantial delays during the implementation process due to the
fact that these issues were not sufficiently taken into consideration. Lessons learnt from previous IDA
public sector reform projects in Ghana indicate that lacking ownership and a "donor-driven" approach on
technical assistance significantly affect the achievement of sustainable results. It is critical to actively
involve the key stakeholders at every stage of the reform process. Program funds will support a wide
range of stakeholder activities (workshops, focus group discussions etc.). Systematic analysis and a
comprehensive consultation process will assess the impact of the reform program, identify potential
conflict and design strategies to mobilize support. Table 1 provides an overview about the stakeholders
and the level of their involvement. During project preparation, all key elements of the reform program
were discussed in a number of focus group discussions with various stakeholders. The input that was
provided has been built into the program.



Page 16
Table I
COLb: collaboration, CON: Consultation, IS: Information sharing
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Critical factors for the sustainability of program benefits are:
*Degree of government's commitment during the implementation of the reforms
The implementation of the reform program will be ensured by the current and successive
governments. Despite the high risk to implement such complex reform program ongoing government
commitment beyond the general election in the year 2000 is expected because of the broad consensus
about the need to reform comprehensively the public sector in Ghana. During the first phase of the
program an appropriate public information campaign and a comprehensive consultation process will
mobilize support and gain consensus on the pace and scope of the reform efforts.
* Degree of government's commitment beyond implementation of the reform
It will be of crucial importance that future policy design and implementation as well as other public
sector related issues remain consistent with the objectives of the reform process which is to improve
overall fiscal performance as well as efficiency and effectiveness of public services. It will be difficult
to achieve sustainability if the GoG continues to allow "slippages" as it did in the context of the 1992
general elections (e.g. non performance-based wage increases). The national elections 2000 will
therefore be an important milestone to assess the respective commitment of the GoG.



Page 17
* Level of government support after the end of the program
It will also be important to provide ongoing support for the different components of the reform agenda
beyond implementation. This refers to staff, infrastructure and maintenance which is needed to
administer new systems as well as other components. The government must be aware that ongoing
donor support after the implementation of the refonn agenda is unlikely. The necessary costs for
these elements must therefore be taken into consideration and integrated into the government's
budget.
* Building enduring ownership and support
It is of crucial importance to maintain a participatory approach involving all relevant stakeholders
beyond implementation of the reform program. Comprehensive institutional and systemicchanges
which are part of the reform agenda will only be effective if they are widely publicized, accepted and
integrated into day-to-day operations. The government must therefore continue to effectively build
ownership and internal/external support for the different components of the reform agenda after the
completion of the program. The comprehensive social assessment which is part of the program
should pave the way for a broad participatory approach and consultation process. At institution level
mechanisms for internal feedback and opportunities for process innovations (quality circles, focus
groups etc.) need to be established to increase motivation and to provide upward feedback to
management.
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
The program carries high risk (see detailed risk assessment below), in particular because of political
circumstances which might hamper the reform process (national election in 2000), and lack of capacity to
implement a comprehensive reform program. The design of the program reflects this overall risk
assessment: Phase I is the pilot phase for the entire program. It is relatively short and the financial
implications of this phase are moderate compared to the two subsequent phases. Phase I will test the
commitment of the government and its implementation capacity. The success of this phase would pave
the way for the implementation of the comprehensive reform program and considerably reduce later risk.
Risk                       Risk Rating    Risk Minimization Measure
From Obectve to. P--urpose-: :  
*  Political commitment for implementation of the    S       Continued high-level dialogue with
reform agenda is not maintained                           GoG to maintain government
comnitment
*  Government withdrawal from many sectors of the   N        Continued high-level dialogue with
economy is suspended                                      GoG to achieve and maintain
consensus about long-term strategic
goals and objectives
From Outputs to Objective
*  Stakeholders and public sector agencies are not  H        Build internal and external support
responsive to changes, they do not sufficiently          for change process, ensure
collaborate                                              stakeholder participation during
program design and implementation
*  Government does not sufficiently translate into  M        Build internal support for increased
action comprehensive private sector participation         private sector collaboration at key
regarding policy design and implementation               levels of government; support pilots
for enhanced collaboration; provide
best practice examples
RiskRafing - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M ("odest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 1 8
'                                       "''' ''"' ''''   .. RC i - ............... ''R a'6 ' "' '""R' -kMhi i ........ . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . .. .. . . . .:
,is,  .      . ... (continued  -.. .is -                     a  tin         Risk                        M
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mk........ F1::EE ,iE  
-c-           .   ^  =}.-.................................. - ......  - E . . .}........... --- -}? }}i ..:Fa  .   . . . .- .:. ...... . .... : :.: -
*    B y  w u  Fly    Fic w N s       -  f . - - -iR . .iEE.!  E  :E.E .- ................................................................ . . .. . . . .... .... .  . . . .-.. . . . . 
From   upt o  tjci
National elections 2000 substantially harm/delay the                          S             Continued high-level dialogue with
reformprocess                                                                               GoG  about the need for structural!
organizational adjustment in the
public sector, provide financial
____________   support for redeployment program
rom  omnets to Outp ts
rr.. wmpnenS;: ,us  ::::.:  ......................  .. ......  ........................ ::
*    Capacity (managerial, staff, administrative,                             H            Build into the reformnprogram  a
technical) to implement a comprehensive reform                                              substantial amount of trining,
program  is not adequate                                                                    coaching and technical assistance,
provide incentives for staff &
managers who perfonn
appropriately, and who can act as
multipliers for the integration of
new systems and guidelines; set
timelines/ schedules for the
implementation process according
to available capacity
*  The implementation of financial management                                       S            Continued high-level dialogue with
reforms (partcularly MTEF/BPEMS) does not                                                   the GoG to stress the need &
progress as expected                                                                        importance of MTEF/BPEMS for
the reformprocess
*    New  systems and guidelines do not adequately                                  S            Extensive stakeholder participation
address the (administrative) needs of the public                                            during program  component design
sector environent, and are thus not sufficiently                                            and implementation;
used                                                                                        comprehensive training program to
effectively use new systems
*    Introduction of new  incomes policy in the public                             H             Continued high-level dialogue with
sector with consolidated salaries will be delayed                                           the GoG to stress the need &
imporUnce of a uniform salary
structure for the reform process
*    Turover of key personnel substantially                                        H             Provide adequate incentives for key
harms/delays the implementation process                                                     personnel; put key personnel on
performance contracts rewarding
the completion of program
components
.                                             ... ... ... ...   .. .............. E iS Ed i iLE iERgES gEE ifiSiRE X iE E f EPif T .   ..........  .   ....   .   .   ....   .....   .
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.              f  . !  . . . . .   f - fi.-. . . . . . - :  :.E. i EiE . . . . . . . .   . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . ....
Ovral Rs RatingHigh Risk~
R..k R...n    H(Hgh sk S(ubst........tial  sk).M.(Modes..........t Ri., N.. -  .(e..... ....... o. L.  R
Risk Rating - H(High Risk), S(SubstantialRisk), M  ,Modest Risk),NX(Negligible or LowRisk)



Page 19
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Risk                     Type of  Risk Rating  Risk Minimization Measure
Risk
*  Public servants opposing change process and  S          H       Implement comprehensive
public opinion tuming against the reforms                      outplacement program(s) to
because a substantial number of staff will be                  redeploy public servants to the
laid off, part of the political evironment                     private sector; provide
pressuring the GoG to delay the reform                         termination & redundancy
benefits for those leaving the
public sector; build support
through continued information
about reform objectives
*  Managers in the public sector opposing the  G           H       Organize focus group discussions
change process because of its profound                         and provide best practice
influence on current management and high                       examples; provide
management requirements                                        conprehensive training,
coaching; and incentives to those
who perform accordingly,
provide tangible rewards for
champions
Type of Risk - S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Governance), M (Management capacity), 0 (Other)
RiskRating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
To ensure effective program implementation the following components should be in place prior to loan
effectiveness:
* The Borrower has developed and furnished to the Association a policy paper articulating the
principles of a comprehensive public sector remuneration policy;
* The Borrower's cabinet has approved the legal framework for the reform of Subvented Agencies,
satisfactory to the Association;
*  The Borrower has adopted and furnished to the Association the policy setting forth the roles and
responsibilities to be fulfilled by CMAs under the Program;
* The Borrower has appointed at least the core management staff to run the NIRP Secretariat,
comprising (i) the national coordinator, (ii) two technical staff, and (iii) one financial management and
procurement specialist, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
*  The Borrower has adopted the Implementation Manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association; and
* The Borrower has implemented a financial management and accounting system for the Project
satisfactory to the Association.
2. Other:
Other elements that should be guaranteed as part of the credit agreement:
* The Borrower shall maintain, until the completion of the Project, adequate staffing and logistical
support in the NIRP Secretariat;
*  The Borrower shall not later than 12 months after the Effective Date, fumish to the Association, for
review and approval, details on the amount, scope and focus of retraining activities and retrenchment
benefits to be distributed to redundant staff of its public sector.



Page 20
H: Readiness for Implementation
[  1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of program implementation.
[x] 1. b) Not applicable.
[x] 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
program implementation.
[x] 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[  4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1: Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  1. This program complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The program
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
[signature]     X
David Steedman M-
Team Leader
[signature]
Brian Levy
Sector Manager
[signatureQ3. 
Peter Harrold
Country Director



Page 21
Annex 1: Program Design Summary
Ghana
Public Sector Management Reform Program
,,,,..... . ................. -.... . ,     ........... ,               .   .....    . .  -      :                I... -
.......................K.................. ....... .......................  .
.ec .-r. .ated CAST Go.....S.........  .    Sec*or/Cau*    Reposs.                             .fro  .Goal    ... X.k-.-
,.S   .                                         ..... .  ..  .. . ....  .....    :. ::.:  ...... ........ .    .........., : . 
. :: . .   -.   -  -   .  ,   -.  -   -  --. -   .   .   .   .  .  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....   .   
Restoration of macroeconomic stability by      1.  Public sector has      1.  Annual evaluation/    Continued government
improving overall fiscal performance               been curtailed to an       progress reports        withdrawal from many
appropriate size                                   sectors of the economy
2.  Firm budget target     2.  Annual budget
for public sector
expenditures
achieved
3.  Government's public  3.  Annual budget
sector expenditures
are significantly
reduced
''-,, ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .. . . ..'.' -.    ..... .. .'.' .VSS00 iM                     ...........  ....   .........................    ...   '  '  ' ''
1 : :1 i: - ::- ~~~~. .........                                                                        .   ..... . . .
1.  Redefining the role and functions of the    1.  Organizations,        1.  Annual progress         Political comniitment for
State                                         functions, structures       reports                 implementation of the
and processes in the                               reform agenda is
2.  Designing appropriate institutions and        public sector have                                  maintained
systems to implement this role, and           been realigned and
streamlined by the
3.  Rationalizing the existing structure and       end of this program
systems to meet the new design
2.  Quality of public      2.  Annual service
services and quantity      delivery
of services retained       reports/surveys
in the public sector
have been
substantialy
increased
:ro   - rm......eve,         -Ve                       IRo   - Weto
........~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............   ..   ....   ....   .....                       -- ....   ...  P M -.
Improve efficiency, effectiveness, quality of   1.  Efficiency and        1.  Annual evaluation/    I.  Impetus to reform
public service delivery; increase customer-        effectiveness in the       progress reports            the public sector
orientation, transparency and accountability       public sector have                                     along the line of the
by reorganizing structures, systems and            been significantly                                     strategic vision
processes at the different levels of               improved by the end                                     ("Ghana 2020") is
government and in Ghana's complex public           of this program                                        maintained
sector
2.  Service delivery and   2.  Annual evaluation
performance                reports and surveys
orientation have been
strengthened by the
end of this program



Page 22
Aib'- :hjc I                            KyP                                  :Mi                                     t -Anumts           -;:
...  .l   i  E   E  ....... ~ ~~~... .........                                .............. iR
:~~~~~~~~~~ atr                                                                 E  E  *tin
lEE iEF f f iff g ~~~~~~........   .......... .....   ...............  ..   . ........................ ................... ....... .......................... . ................   ... ..E.
i Fi iFFF. . .......................... .............................  j  ..                        .  .....  ...   ... ......
- :- :f:(S: f: ° . ..  .. .. .. .. .. .. .....   * .m¢>~t..............  o............     o..........    .. .. .    ...... .   --:.. ......... . . . . . . . . . . . .   ....     ....... --
... E  i  .  .  i  i  .  .............   Ei EE. ii.. ........ .... .......  .. .. ...... .... .. ...... .... ........ .... ..  --.  -.. .. i.. i. iE-i-e.iiE.....  ...................-.i..
.::::LLAtA   4'S  ::::: :' - :   :   :: : -  .....................:::i'''  ....::-'                                                                   .... .'-::  ,,'.' '- t-:, t  :-
. ERE                                                                             ij   fi SiS IS   iEE, i ,.E,,, iEE lEE -EE. -.- i ...... iE ,, i ......... E...... ...... .....    -   .   :   E   -..    I - -  .. ......
i L.i:t t E~~~~~~~~. .....      -:: -:.:. :...........I........::.   :    --..... :.i:-.::. ................:..i-t,  :ttt 
1. Subvented Agency Sector (176 agencies)                      1.1. Restrcturing of the             1.1. Annual progress                  1.   Stakeholders, public
made cost-effective, performance- and                            Subvented Agency                      reports                              sector agencies and
customer-oriented to reduce the financial                        Sector achieved by                                                         the political level are
burden on the govemment                                          the end of this                                                            responsive to
.   Phase 1: 1999 - 2001                                         program                                                                    changes; they
Setfing the stage for the restructuring of                                                                                            collaborate and
the entire sector (pilot program with                1.2. Maimum budget                    1.2. Annual budget                         encourage the
closing down/restructuring of at least 17                  savings achieved by                                                        implementation of
SAs)                                                       the end of this                                                            the reforms
•    Phase II: 2002 - 2005
Moving into full scale implemnentation of                  program                                                              2    P
the reform program  (closing down/                                                                                              2.   Polltcal comiltment
restructuring of 70 SAs)                                                                                                              to re-design the
*    Phase HI: 2006 - 2009                                                                                                                 national policy
Finalizing the Subvented Agency reform                                                                                                process is maintained
program (closing down/ restructuring of
another 70 SAs)
2. Service delivery and performance                            2.1. Structural                      2.1. Annualprogress                   1.   Political
orientation of all public sector agencies                        realignment                           reports                              environment
improved - roles and mandates critically                         accomplished by the                                                        provides strong
reviewed to build a compact public service                       end of the year 2009                                                       leadership and
and to achieve greater efficiency                                                                                                           continues to actively
*    Phase I: 1999 - 2001                                 2.2. Quantity and quality    2.2. Annual evaluations!                             support the
Realigmnent of the Central Management                      of service delivery at                customer surveys                     implementation
Agencies (e.g. Public Services                             the cental                                                                 process
Commission (PSC), Ministry of Finance                      government level
(MoF) incl. the Controller and                             has increased by                                                     2.   Government is
Accountant General, National                                                  O
Development Planming Commission                                                                                                       willin  toa
(NDPC), Office of the Head of Civil                                                                                                   private sector
Service (OHCS), and other institutions               2.3. Time for delivery of    2.3. Annual evaluation/                             participation
designated as CMAs)                                        general services has                  surveys                              regardingpolicy
*  Phase 11: 2002 - 2005                                         been reduced by                                                           design and
Realignment of 10 ministries and 25                        75% from an                                                                implementation
departments at the central government                      average of one
level                                                      month to a week or                                                   3.  National elections
*    Phase I1: 2006 - 2009                                       less                                                                       2000 and subsequent
Realigment of another 11 ministries and                                                                                               elections do not
25 departments at the central government                                                                                              substantially harm
level                                                                                                                                 the change process



Page 23
, , , , ,,, ,,, . ,, .,~~~~~~~~~~~~:                           IE          :::-.::                  !::  i'''':::'''''''''''''''. i
.                                                                                       ... .... ........................................................... , .......... . ... ...... . . . . .  ,, :b "   -   .,    .,  -~  .....   ..  . .....
,,, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... .. .                            ....^                                                      .........., .,,...   ........... ..
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                 ... . . . . . . .     . .....   . . .....................,,j. ,... ................ ..........................   ..:..'.:.:.-..-:
:.''.-. :-. :   ......   .                                 .. .. ....':.' ...    .................':.:'::::.'::  :::::..
.. :  ::: '' ':' ' :':::: ' -'-' : ''.:.::::.::::...::::.....................:..::.:..............   .........:: .: ......   ....   ..:....   .-..........  .  -.......:.-
3 .Systems and processes introduced which    3.1. New systems and                                              3.1. Annual progress                      see above
improve the effectiveness and efficiency                                 processes in all                         reports
of public sector management, provide                                     public sector
better quality of public services, improve                                organizations in
the performance orientation of public                                    place and
sector employees, create greater                                         operational by the
transparency of public sector activities,                                 end of this program
and improve private sector participation &.
collaboration                                                    3.2. Appropriate                          3.2. Annual evaluation!
*  PhaseI1:1999-2001:                                                   mechanisms inplace                        surveys
Some key systems introduced which                                 and operational for
improve public sector efficiency and                              effective public!
effectiveness                                                     oriv ate               in
*   Phase U1:2002 - 2005                                                piae            i
teplementation of key systems stabilized   3.3  Public sector                                       3.3. Annual suveys
and  additional systems introduced to                             c d ofstis to
improve public sector efficiency                                  pivae stetor
.   Phase m: 2006 - 2009                                                prisms sector
Implementation of systems stabilized and                          substantially
sub-systems integrated into a                                     increased by the end
comprehensive public sector management                            of ftis program
system
4. Project management system operational to    4. Comprehensive                                                   4. Quarterly progress
ensure effective management and                                         coordination,                              reports
implementation of the reform agenda                                     monitoring and
evaluation systems
in place with the
beginniing of phase I
Implementation~~~ ofssessablzdad         susatal



Page 24
.o                                               .:::
Hierarch  obectives                        Ke Fer%rmae             E     oiorn  Mud            Cticia As---to
b-compt               .          i i *      og. .  .                                         p......................
!EEL i ii 4000 ..............   .............    ...  ..............    ....  .....  ...    .... .  ~,
: ~~~~~~~~~~~~... .. ...... .. .... ...     ........ .. ..  
Component 1:                                Overall tentative budget                              1. Capacity to imiplement
Reform of Subvented Agencies                US$ 106.5 million                                       comprehensive
reforms is available
1.1. Program and implementation plan to                                1.1. Program approved    2. Implementation of
reform the whole sector prepared and                                   by Cabinet               MTEF/related reforms
approved                                                                                        progress successfully
1.2. Regulatory/legal framework for the                                1.2. Statute books,       3. The reform of incomes
transformation of Subvented Agencies                                   quarterly progress      policy has improved
operational and effective governance                                  reports, surveys         incentive system
framework in place that rationalizes the                                                       within the public
relationship between these agencies and                                                        sector
the rest of the public sector
1.3. Strategy for outpIacement and                                     1.3. Strategy document    4. Managers have
alternative employment developed and                                   approved by Cabinet    adequate managerial
implemented to re-deploy redundant                                                              experience and are
public servants to the private sector, and                                                      responsive to changes
to improve acceptance of reform process
1.4. Approximately 25 selected Subvented                               1.4. Quarterly progress    5. New systems are
Agencies without clear mandate closed                                  reports, annual          appropriate and used
down to reduce fiscal burden on                                        publication of
government budget                                                       progress reports
1.5. Approximately 132 selected Subvented                              1.5. Quarterlyprogress    6. New guidelines are
Agencies with a viable mandate                                         reports, annual          appropriate and used
restructured or fully/partially                                        publication of
commercialized to ensure more                                          progress reports
cost-effective and customer-oriented
services
Component 2: Adjustment of Structures    Overal tentative budget                                  see ahove
and Organizations                           US$ 35.6 million
2.1. Mandate of the Central Management                                 2.1. Quarterlyprogress
Agencies and the sector ministries and                                 reports, customer
departments re-defined and                                              sureys
functions/structures realigned to reduce
overlap and inconsistencies; and to
ensure greater transparency of core
government activities



Page 25
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   >    _0.. ^ .... ... ..
.. ....................... ..... t. 4 ...... ,,, .......                .... .... ............   ...   ...............................
2.2. Organization and management of each                                2.2. Quarterly             see above
Central Management Agency (5),                                          evaluations/ progress
Ministry (21) & Department (50) made                                    reports, customer
more efficient ensuring greater                                         surveys
operational flexibility, and improving
performance orientation by providing
clear mission and output targets
2.3. Program for outplacement and                                       2.3. Semi-annual
alternative employment developed and                                    evaluation of
implemented to re-deploy redundant                                      efficiency of the
civil servants to the private sector, and to                            program
improve  acceptance  of realig nment . ................ ... .. ... .....
W  .     4  :I..... .................                                                         .      . ...   .. ..  .........
Component 3:                                 Overall tentative budget                              see above
Improvement of Systems and Processes         US$ 4.0 million
3.1. Develop and implement human                                        3.1. Annual progress
resources management system for the                                      reports, annual
entire public service which provides                                     evaluation
coherent guidelines for recruitment,
careerplanning, promotion, staff mix,
training  etc.
3.2. Design and implement performance                                   3.2. Annual evaluation,
standards and guidelines based on a clear                               annual publication of
definition of output targets to improve                                 customer surveys
quantity and quality of public serice
delivery
3.3. Design and implement a coherent                                    3.3. Annual
incentive system  for the  entire public                                 evaluation/progress
sector which is performance oriented and                                 reports
based on a comprehensive public sector
remuneration policy
3.4. Expand the coverage of the existing                                3.4. Annual progress
Integrated Personnel and Payroll                                        reports
Database (IPPD) to the entire public
sector
3.5. Program developed and implemented                                  3.5. Strategy document
which enhances public/private                                           approved by
cooperation, and which actively involves                                Cabinet, semi-annual
the private sector in policy design and                                 progress reports,
decision-mawing of government                                           annual surveys



Page 26
-                                                                             . -   :   .   : - --. : .-. :   :-   .  : .................... -- . I ff h ................. - - ............... :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .... ....
...... .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...EL. EE . . ..  ........... ................... ....... .........  .....   ...
--    :    g  S    C    ii    :E:   i0.$-Z   i   .......................... ffiffi..fi ............... : E . . - -- : .........
.   ...     ..     ............... ....... ....... ......   .. .. .. . - ..E........-...............S...........   . -.   ..   .... .. ... .. ... .. ... .. .. ...  .. . . . . . .
-t.ue,   li:.'. ......s.                                           I                                                     ...... ....................   ........................... ........  ;
Component 4:                                                Overall tentative budget                                                 see above
Effective Project Management System for   US$ 6.3 million
Change Process in Place
4.1. Project management support for the                                                         4.1 . Budget. reports of
coordinating NIRP-Secretariat to                                                                NIRP-Secretariat
manage and monitor the implementation
of the reform
4.2. Accurate schedules and budgets for the                                                      4.2. Schedules, timelines,
different components of the reform                                                              budget plan
program developed and maintained                                                                 approved by
NIRP/NOC
4.3. Monitor and evaluate the progress of the                                                    4.3.. Quarterly review
reform process
4.4. Communication4 strategyband                                                                 4.4. Quarterly
mechanisms to effectively build external                                                         reviews/progress
support for the reform  process                                                                  reports
established and operational
4.5. Process to analyze and discuss the                                                          4.5. Quarterly progress
impact  of  the  reforms (social                                                                 reports, regular
assessment) developed and operational                                                             surveys,
eva}uations,
questionnaires
-4.4. Communicatio-n,,,,,     ategyl,, nd                                                        4.4.,,Q,,.,.,,l-
me. Fchanii  E......   Ri.REEEi .ism  to efcivl  bui    extiW                                        rev.....................i.ews/progress



Page 27
Annex 2
Program Description
by Component
Ghana
Public Sector Management Reform Program
Introduction
1. Ghana's public sector is huge in terms of employment (nearly 600,000 employees in a country of 16
million - an extremely large number by comparative standards):
perfor aner Management civi servieee
~~~ ~~Agencies.. ....
levelneedvics to bedeentire
2effierale on-goinganeform manitativent seek teoutrceansfocain theroughout setor:blesetr
3.The Civlforvic te Perfrmnehpoment bdesytmianmprogrtammntSPP arcniims for buldnga effectveessofth
Thpoed ulcsco reform isgrm unde  wayform has made someaha progress in spcfalytre ed ea areas,(evc
impotably nthe Meinumh Vehicl  Examinationr LFramigepartmn (M Tc., adefnin therfrevence targencies.
In Geea,teoveralln imac ofge terform on9 haendvlperformane baimpoemn at the necfaentra Itoisernmente
effcinc oTF fianiarslt man agmntipoe ugtpann and resource allocationprcs throughoutthpucseor
the public sector. A central problem is that the new financial management system is being introduced
I Public Sector Re-invention and Moderniization Strategy for Ghana, NIRP, page 23, and updates from te Mfinistry of Finlance
and IPPD
2 Main CMAs include: Public Services Commission (PSC), Ministry of Finance (MoF) including Controller and Accountant
Geneal, National Development Planning Commission (NDPC), Office of the Head of Civil Service (OHCS)



Page 28
into the existing structures, processes and an extremely weak internal governance environment.
These issues are to be addressed under the Budget and Public Expenditure Management System
(BPEA'I) which is a component of PUFMARP.
5. The decentralization of government functions and activities intends to promote transparency as well
as an equitable and balanced development;
A number of reform activities by different donors (Germany, Netherlands) are under way. It is
difficult to measure the impact of these activities on public sector performance and service delivery
but reforms which target the district level appear to be effective in terms of a better co-ordination of
local government activities. Apart from some positive results the governance framework at the local
level is weak. In addition, there is little coordination of donor activities on decentralizationissues
which has a negative impact on the efficiency of reform efforts.
6. The Public Sector Incomes Policy and Administration Reform aims at developing a framework and
establishing mechanisms for human resources management that will attract, motivate and retain qualified
staff in the public service;
The reform has made little progress. In 1995, the Cabinet decided to developan uniform salary
structure for the public service. In December 1997, PriceWaterhouse Associates submitted a report
with recommendations for the introduction of an uniform salary and grading structure. In early '98
the GoG gave an interim wage increase. In November 1998, a Central Management Board was
constituted to oversee the introduction of the reform. A re-grading and reclassification has just been
completed to assess the financial implications of the reform. To date the GoG has been unable to
provide an action plan for the introduction of an adequate and coherent remuneration system which
is based on a sound assessment of the financial and policy implications for the public sector as a
whole.
7. The National Policy Process and Cabinet Process Reform is intended to design a framework for policy
formulation and coordination and its linkage to resource allocation;
Government activities have concentrated on recruiting qualified staff to strengthen policy analysis
capacity of the Office of the President. GoG has also established a Policy Management Group
fPMG) which serves as a senior advisory board to the President and whose main function is to
oversee the policy implementation process. The concrete focus of this group and its relationship
particularly to the National Overview Committee (NOC) remain unclear.
8. The Subvented Agencies Refomi aims at developing a compact sector and reducing the financial
burden on government budget;
The diverse sector consists of about 176 agencies which are subsidized by the government. The
government has recently established a preliminary list of candidate agencies to be closed down or
restructured (see Annex 13).
Main cost components
9. The main cost components of the program are:
*  Technical assistance/consultancy services including workshops and focus group discussions;
*  Termination &  redundancy payments which will be necessary as a consequence of the
closure/restructuring of public institutions. For every person an amount of 30 times an average
monthly salary of US$ 100 is calculated.
*  Retraining costs which are estimated at US$ 400/person.
10. The exact amount of tennination & redundancy payments as well as the cost for retraining are subject



Page 29
to further definition and discussion with the GoG during phase I of the program. According to Bank
operational guidelines3, severance payments as part of a technical assistance operation can only be
supported for a limited number of subvented agencies. The institutions which might qualify under
current IDA policies are identified in Annex 13. It is estimated that approximately 2000 public servants
are eligible for IDA funded severance pay. The GoG will provide adequate assistance to civil servants and
public servants of subvented organizations which do not meet the requirements of IDA policy, using its
own domestic resources as well as the proceeds from an adjustment lending during the period.
11. Detailed cost estimates are in the project files.
3 see Operational Memorandum on "Financing Severance Pay in Public Enterprise Reform Operations", OPRDR, March 5, 1996



Page 30
Program Component 1: Reform of the Subvented Agencies
(Cost (excluding contingencies) for all three phases US$ 112.5 million; IDA: 49.3m
technical assistance, retraining, severance pay; GoG: 57.6m severance pay)
I. Overview
12. The reform of Subvented Agencies is the biggest and most challenging part of the program.
Subvented Agencies (SA) are implementing agencies set up by the Government of Ghana (GoG) to
provide wide-ranging discrete public services. The Subvented Agency sector includes the education
service, the universities and polytechnics, numerous smaller agencies, institutes, boards, commissions,
etc., and may soon embrace a national health service. They derive their funding mainly from government
subventions or subsidies explicitly provided for in the national budget.
13. The program aims at making the sector cost-effective and reducing the financial burden on
government budget by critically reviewing the mandates of thesubvented agencies, closing down those
without a clear mandate, and restructuring those with a viable mandate.
14. The program wil not include the Ghana Education Service (GES) which accounts for more than one
third of all public servants in subvented organizations. GES is sufficiently targeted by ongoing projects of
IDA and other donors. Some core government agencies in category II of Annex 12 such as the police &
prison service will also not be included in the reform.
II. Background
15. In all there are roughly 176 such agencies which employ more than two-third of civilian public
servants. Total payments to SAs amounted to over 220 billion cedis in 1997. The current nominal
staffing role is over 400,000 with up to 95% of Government subsidies going into staff salaries (see list of
subvented agencies including staff size and budgets in Annex 12).
16. There is widespread consensus that these agencies wil have to be reformed to meet the objectives
under Ghana Vision 2020 and to make the sector cost-effective and customer oriented. Research and
studies suggest that the performance of the SA in particular and the public sector in general has been
largely unsatisfactory due to:
e Internal managerial deficiencies which include lack of strategic corporate planning, ineffective human
and financial management systems, unclear objectives and absence of systems for setting targets and
measuring performance;
* External regulatory and system-wide deficiencies which include inefficient resource allocation
processes, ineffective governance and legal framework.
17. The current situation can be characterized as followed:
Governance framework
1 8. There is the general need to redefine the role of SA in the pursuit of policy objectives and government
priorities. This must include the development of a clear understanding of the role, responsibilities of the
SA as they contribute substantially to the delivery of public services in Ghana. This refers in particular to
the conceptually unclear role of SAs vis-a-vis the sector ministries & departments, and their relationship
with the Central Management Agencies because of the diffusion of supervisory responsibilities. In this
conitext the (simplistic) distinction between policy design on the level of the sector ministries and policy
implementation at the SA-level needs to be specified by a governance framework which ensures an
efficient working relationship between the sector ministries and the SAs.
Legal and administrative framework
19. Currently, there is no system in place by which sector ministries or designated ministries could exert



Page 31
effective control and direction over the SAs. Restructuring of the SA-environment must therefore
include the establishment of an appropriate legal framework to provide both, necessary supervision and
autonomy.
Corporate planning
20. Most SAs lack effective planning processes which include operationalizing targets and specifying
objectives of the organization. Corporate planning which specifies the operational targets and medium
term objectives on basis of a 3-5 years rolling plan for each SA would provide the most important
mechanism to monitor SA-operations. The recent introduction of a Medium Term Expenditure
Framework could provide basis and guidelines for the development of these corporate plans.
Financial management
21. Most SA suffer from poor financial planning and monitoring practices. A key element of the reform
will therefore be the improvement of planning, budgeting, auditing and accounting within the agencies.
The on-going Public Financial Management Reform Programme (PUFMARP) will provide the basis for-
necessary adjustments.
Performance monitoring and evaluation
22. Currently, the overall perfonnance of most SAs is weak. Consequently, customer-orientation and
service delivery standards are low. To date, no effective mechanisms exist to monitor and evaluate the
performance of the public service and - accordingly - of the SAs. It is the GoG's intention to introduce
such mechanisms which would link performance of SAs to agreed corporate plans. Annual reports
issued by SAs would evaluate corporate performance against agreed objectives and targets.
Recruitment, staffing and personnel management
23. At present, decisions on staffing levels, pay structures and other personnel management issues of SA
are differentiated among the board of directors, management services division, Public Services
Commission, Office of the Head of Civil Service and the Ministry of Finance. There is need for a review
of existing policies and procedures on recruitment; staffing and personnel with the SA-management being
the focal point for these decisions.
III. The change process
24. In order to address these problems, the GoG has initiated the SA reform program to:
*  Improve productivity and accountability of the sector,
*  Contribute to the creation of a public service which is customer-oriented and delivers public services
to citizens and businesses at high quality standards,
* Reduce the role of government in activities that can be handled more efficiently by the private sector,
* Reduce the financial burden on the government and rationalize investment of resources in the sector,
* Enhance the decision making autonomy of managers in exchange for strict accountability for results,
and to
*  Improve mechanisms for monitoring and evaluating performance.
25. Based on a comprehensive analysis and a clear definition of the role of government theSubvented
Agencies will be grouped into four different categories:
*  Agencies which do not have a viable mandate and are not relevant to any identified government
priority - these agencies will be closed down or will not receive further government assistance.
* Agencies which serve strategic government purposes but have no prospects of income generation -
these agencies will remain fully subvented but will be restructured based on performance plans and
output targets.
• Agencies which serve strategic government purposes and have at least some prospects of income
generation - these agencies will also be restructured based on performance plans and output targets.



Page 32
They will continue to receive government subsidies but their operations will be partially
commercialized to optimize income generation.
Agencies which are not relevant with regard to government priorities but serve useful economic
purposes - these agencies will be restructured and fully integrated into the private sector without
receiving any government subsidies in the future.
IV. The phases
26. During project preparation a preliminaryclassification of the 176 SAs has taken place to assess the
scope of the program and the implications of the reform (see Annex 12 for the classification). 33 SAs
have been analyzed out of which at least 17 SAs will be targeted during phase I. The final list of
agencies to be targeted during the pilot phase will shortly be approved by Cabinet. In addition, the
government has developed:
* A generalized action plan of how to close down or restructure a subvented agency;
*  A preliminary analysis of the necessary legal framework for the closure of SAs and the
commercialization of its operations; and
* A draft concept for an outplacement program which aims at redeploying redundant public servants to
the private sector.
27. The three different phases will target 157 out of currently 176 organizations. It is estimated that the
remaining organizations will be reorganized as part of other ongoing projects in particular in the health
and education sector. The restructuring of the targeted agencies will include:
*  An assessment of the potential for commercialization and for income generation based on an adequate
analysis;
•  Development of a mission statement for the SA which specifies role, responsibilities and deliverables;
-  Development of a business re-engineering plan whichoperationalizes the transformation process for
the targeted organization;
-  Inventory of assets, logistics, equipment etc.;
-  An identification of the logistical needs and the preparation of a medium-term financing plan for
modernization;
-  Inventory of existing staff and identification of redundant employees;
• Identification of training needs and development of a training plan for the institution.
Phase I (1999 -2001)
(Estimated total costs for this phase US$ 8.5m; IDA: 6.9m technical assistance, retraining, severance
pay; GoG: 1.6m severance pay)
28. The main objective of phase I is to set the stage for the full scale implementation of the reform
program.
29. At least five (5) subvented agencies which do not have a viable mandate according to GoG
priorities will be closed or taken off subvention. Likely candidates are: Ghana Science Association,
Armed Forces Sports Control Board, National Revenue Secretariat, Confiscated Assets Committee, and
Institute of Chartered Accountants.
30. Phase I would provide funding for the development of specific action plans for the closure as well as
assist GoG to implement these action plans and to close down the selected agencies. IDA funds would be
made available for technical assistance. Complementary funds would be made available for termination
& redundancy payments which will be necessary as consequence of the closure (estimate: 100 public
servants).
31. At least twelve (12) agencies which have a viable mandate will be restructured. Out of these agencies
at least seven (7) agencies should be partially commercialized so that they generate between 30 and 70



Page 33
percent of expenditures. These agencies will be selected from the following list: Forestry Research
Institute of Ghana, Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, National Board for Small-Scale
Industries, Institute of Professional Studies, National Theatre, Kwame Nkrumah Park, School of Mines
(KNUST), Institute of Statistical Social and Economic Research, Christian Health Association of Ghana,
Institution for Education Planning and Administration, Hotel, Catering and Tourism Training Institute,
Land Title Registry, Ghana News Agency, University of Ghana, Legon, School of Engineering
(KNUST), and School of Performing Arts. These agencies employ almost 9,000 public servants. The
total budget in 1998 amounts to more than 58,000m Cedis.
32. At least five (5) agencies will be fully commercialized. Likely candidates are: Ghana University
Press, Intemational Students Hostel, Ghana Broadcasting Corporation, Ghana Institute of Management
and Public Administration, Abibigroma Theatre Company, Ghana Dance Ensemble, Ghana Regional
Appropriate Technology Industrial Service, and Management Development and Productivity Estitute
with atotal staff size of almost 3,000 and a total budget in 1998 of approximately 16,000m Cedis.
33. Phase I would provide funding for the development of specific action plans for the restructuring as
well as assist the subvented agency to restructure its operations. This will also include the development of
a modernization plan for the targeted institution with a medium-term financing plan identifying capital
investment needs to further streamline the operations of the agency. Project funds would be made
available for technical assistance, and retraining costs for approximately 1200 public servants. Technical
assistance which includes modest capital expenditures (US$ 20,000/institution) is estimated to cost on
average US$ 80,000 for each closure and US$ 400,000 for each SA to be restructured. As a result of the
restructuring the staff size of the targeted agencies will be reduced. It is estimated that at least 10% of the
employees (estimate: 1200 public servants) will be eligible for severance payments. Under current IDA
policy, around 300 public servants may qualify for IDA funded severance pay. It is expected that only
half of the tennination & redundancy benefits will be released in phase I.
34. Other elements to be developed during phase I include:
*  A comprehensive program to reform the entire SA-sector including an implementation plan. Such
program would provide the basis for the subsequent phases.
e  The necessary regulatory/legal framework for the transformation of SAs, and for the establishment of
effective monitoring guidelines for the sector ministries which oversee SA-operations. The legal
framework would provide the regulatory basis for the closure and the restructuring of the SAs.
The monitoring guidelines would specifythe relationship between the sector ministries and the
SAs. This will include the development of a governance framework that operationalizes the
relationship between the SAs, ministries and departments.
* A strategy for outplacement and altemative employment. The reform program will result in a
significant reduction of the staff of SAs. To make the reforms socially acceptable it is important that
restructuring activities are embedded in a comprehensive program of how to deal with redundant
employees. Key elements of such program could be termination and redundancy payments as well as
early retirement schemes. The Bank experience with sinilar project in other countries will be taken
into consideration in the final design of the program. The GoG plans to establish an Alternative
Employment Committee which will oversee the effectiveness of the actions taken.
35. Phase I would provide funding for consultancy services to develop these components as well as for
workshops and focus group discussions to discuss and assess its viability.



Page 34
Phase II (2002-2005)
(Costs (excluding contingencies) for this phase US$ 49.9m; IDA: 21.2m technical assistance,
retraining, severance pay; GoG: 28.7m severance pay)
36. This phase is the first part of afull scale implementation of the SA reform. Funding would only be
provide if the triggers for subsequent APL financing as specified in Annex 3 have been met. Phase II will
build on the results of phase I and will start with a review and adjustment of the reform program. Phase II
will then target seventy (70) subvented agencies which will be selected by GoG. It is estimated that
out of the seventy approximately ten (10) will be closed down and sixty (60) will be partially or fully
commercialized. Technical assistance to develop and implement action plans is estimated to cost on
average US$ 80,000 for each closure and US$ 200,000 for each SA to be restructured. These estimates are
based on GoG experience with the privatization of state-owned enterprises. Provision is also made for
modest capital expenditures which might be necessary to modernize the operation as part of the
restructuring (US 20,000/institution).
37. It can be expected that the reform process will significantly reduce the number of staff in the targeted
SAs. For these employees the alternative employment program which is to be developed during phase I
will provide financial support. It is estimated that approximately 10,000 employees will be eligible for
termination and redundancy payments which is about one tenth of the overall staff size. In all, up to US$
30m is estimated for retrenchment costs. Another 1.8m must be calculated to compensate public servants
who must leave the public sector as a consequence of the restructuring of their organizations in phase I. It
is estimated that 900 public servants qualify for IDA funded severance pay under existing Bank policy.
38. In addition, US$ 4m are calculated for retraining of staff along with the restructuring of the seventy
subvented organizations. This retraining will be necessary to fully integrate employees into the newly
developed operational objectives and targets of the organization, as well as to enhance their understanding
about commercial operations. It is estimated that one tenth of staff of these 70subvented organization
need to be retrained. This amounts to 10,000 employees.
Phase III (2006-2009)
(Costs (excluding contingencies) for this phase US$ 48.1m; IDA: 20.8m technical assistance,
retraining, severance pay; GoG: 27.3m severance pay)
39. Funding for this phase will only be provided if the performance targets which are specified in Annex 3
have been met. Phase III will target another seventy (70) subvented organization closing down
approximately 10 organizations (for US$ 80,000 each) and restructuring 60 organizations (for US$
200,000 each + US$ 20,0000 capital expenditures for modernization). Phase III will also include
retrenchment benefits for 10,000 employees as well as retraining for another 10,000 employees. It is
estimated that 900 public servants qualify for IDA funded severance pay under existing Bank policy.



Page 35
Program Component 2: Adjustment of Structures and Organizations at the Central
Govemment Level
(Cost (excluding contingencies) for all three phases US$ 35.6 million; IDA: US$ 12.8m
technical assistance, retraining; GoG: US$ 22.8m severance pay)
1. Overview
40. This program component will target the public sector agencies at the central government level.
Based on a functional analysis it will critically review the mandates and responsibilities of the central
govermnent institutions, remove duplications and overlaps, develop new roles and missions, realign
functions with the staff size adequately curtailed, improve service delivery and performance orientation
based on clearly defined output targets, and enhance skills and capacity for efficient public sector
management.
II. Background
41. Ghana's central government (without SAs) consists of Central Management Agencies (5) and at
present 21 ministries with 50 departments. The institutional framework is heavily concentrated at the
central government level. The size of the local govermment is moderate but isexpected to substantially
increase over time with more and more functions decentralized to the local level in line with the
decentralization policy of the government.
42. The Central Management Agencies (CMAs) form the core of government. They include: Ministry of
Finance (MoF), including the Controller and Accountant General, Public Services Commission (PSC),
Office of the Head of Civil Service (OHCS), the National Development Planning Commission (NDPC)
and other institutions designated as CMAs. The role of the CMAs is to regulate and manage the entire
public sector and to ensure that generic budgetary, personnel and legal policies and practices are carried
out in a coherent and coordinated manner.
43. The regulatory roles and associated structures, systems, processes and administrative procedures of
the CMAs are of crucial importance for an enabling environment in the public service as they determine
management and provision of almost all resources. At present, the CMAs do not effectively fulfill their
regulatory and management role. The current situation in the public sector can be characterized as
follows:
*  Fragmentation of authority because of unclear and often confusing roles and mandates along with
significant duplications of functions and responsibilities;
*  Weak coordination and collaboration mechanisms which result in inconsistent and incoherent policy
design and implementation;
* Lack of standards and guidelines to prioritize government activities, and tooperationalize government
functions based on clearly identified outputs and targets.
*  Poor operational performance with systems in place which constrain managerial performance. In
addition, a monitoring and evaluation system which provides feedback on the effectiveness of
government operations does not exist.
*  Weak management which is unable to provide leadership and give strategic direction to their staff,
*  Inappropriate staff mix at the various levels of government.
III. The change process
44. Rationalizing the existing structures and functions at the central govenunent level to make them more
efficient and to remove structural inconsistencies and institutional deficiencies is one of the key
components of the government's reform.
45. The institutional reform of the central government will be implemented in two steps: The first step
will target the CMAs and aims at realigning their functions. This will pave the way for the second step



Page 36
which is the adjustment of the functions of the remaining ministries and departnents at the central
government level. The second step will be implemented in two phases. As some of these ministries and
departments are currently targeted by various reform projects of the Bank and other donors (health,
education, decentralization) it is difficult to assess exactly how many of these institutions need to be
restructured on basis of this program. This will depend on the scope and on the focus of these other
reform initiatives. To ensure that a comprehensive institutional reform at the central government level can
take place, all existing ministries and department have been included in this program. Any necessary
adjustment will be made in the design of phase II & III to take into account other activities.
46. It will be ensured that review and realignment of central government functions will take into
consideration the ongoing decentralization process which aims at transferring significant authority with
regard to public sector operations and services to the district level. The functional analysis will identify
those elements which should be integrated into the district level and propose action plans for the necessary
institutional changes. The government has started with the preparation for a comprehensive realignment
of the CMAs. An analysis of the role and functions of the state has been completed. A supplementary
analysis focused on options how these functions could best be fulfilled within Ghana's institutional
environment. It also identified mechanisms to improve cooperation and collaboration among the CMAs.
IV. The phases
Phase I (1999 - 2001)
(Costs (excluding contingencies) of this phase: US$ 3.6m; IDA: 1.8m technical assistance,
retraining; GoG: 1.8m severance pay)
47. Phase I will concentrate on the CMAs and will include:
48. A definition/functional analysis ofthe mandates of all CMAs, a re-alignment of their functions and
structures to reduce overlaps and inconsistencies, to improve efficiency and to ensure greater transparency,
and an action plan to transform the existing environment.
49. Based on the action plan for the re-alignment of the CMA-environment which will be approved by
Cabinet, the program will provide funding for the change management process in each CMA. This will
include:
*  Development of a mission statement for each CMA which specifies role, responsibilities, and
deliverables;
* Identification of functions which should be decentralized, abolished and commercialized in light of
the newly defined mandate and mission of the CMA;
*  Organizational design for each CMA;
*  Assignment of responsibilities and perfonnance targets for each organizational level based on the new
organizational design;
*  Identification of logistical needs;
* Modernization plan for each CMA;
* Preparation of a medium-term financing plan for modernization
*  Inventory of assets, logistics, equipment etc.;
*  Identification of staffing needs at the different levels;
*  Inventory of existing staff;
*  Identification of redundant employees;
*  Identification of training needs and development of a training plan for the institution.
50. The reform program will result in a significantreduction of the staff of CMAs. To make the
reforms socially acceptable it is important that restructuring activities are embedded in a comprehensive
outplacement and alternative employment program of how to deal with redundant employees. Key
elements of such program could be tennination and redundancy payments as well as early retirement
schemes. The GoG plans to establish an Alternative Employment Committee which will oversee the



Page 37
effectiveness of the actions taken.
51. It is estimated that up to 600 civil servants will be eligible for tennination and redundancy payments
which is roughly 10% of the overall staff size. In all, up to US$ 1.8m is estimated for retrenchment costs.
In addition, US$ 480,000 are calculated for retraining of staff along with the restructuring of the CMAs.
The retraining will be necessary to fully integrate employees into the new operational objectives of the
organization, as well as to enhance their understanding about the role and mandate. It is estimated that
20% of staff of the CMAs need to be retrained. This amounts to roughly 1,200 employees. Apart from
these costs funding will be provided for consultancy services, workshops and focus group discussions.
Program support will also include assistance for and coaching of senior management during the transition
process. The change process for each CMA is estimated to cost on average US$ 200,000/institution. This
includes modest capital expenditures (US$ 20,000/institution) which may be necessary as part of the
restructuring
Phase 11 (2002 - 2005)
(Cost (excluding contingencies) of this phase: US$ 16.0m; IDA: 5.5m technical assistance, retraining;
GoG: 10.5m severance pay)
52. This phase is the first part of a structural and institutional adjustment at the central government level.
Funding would only be provided if the triggers for subsequent APL financing as specified in Annex 3
have been met. Phase II will build on the results of phase I and will start with a review and adjustment of
the reforn programn.
53. Phase II will then target ten (10) ministries and twenty-five (25) departments which will be selected
by GoG. It will as a first step define the mandates of all institutions based on a functional analysis, re-
align their functions and structures to reduce overlaps and inconsistencies, and develop an action plan to
transform the existing environment. The change process will then focus on the reorganization of each
institution and will build on the experience with the re-alignment of the CMAs. The components of the
change process are similar to those of phase I. Funding will be provided forconsultancy services,
workshops and focus group discussions. Project support will also include assistance for and coaching of
senior management during the transition process. The change process is estimated to cost on average US$
100,000/institution and includes modest capital expenditures (US$ 20,000/institution).
54. The reform process will significantly reduce the number of staff in the targeted institutions. For these
employees the alternative employment program which is to be developed during phase I will provide
financial support. It is estimated that approximately 3,500 employees will be eligible for termination and
redundancy payments which is about one tenth of the overall staff size. In all, up to US$ 10.5m is
estimated for retrenchment costs. In addition, US$ 1.4mare calculated for retraining. It is estimated that
one tenth of staff of these 36 institutions need to be retrained. This amounts to 3,500 employees.
Phase III (2006-2009)
(Cost (excluding contingencies) for this phase US$ 16.0m; IDA: 5.5m technical assistance,
retraining; GoG: 10.5m severance pay)
55. Funding for this phase will only be provided if the performance targets which are specified in Annex 3
have been met. Phase III will start with a review of phase II. It will target another 11 ministries and 25
departments and define their roles and mandates. Retrenchment benefits for another 3,500 civil servants
(10% of overall staff) are estimated to cost another US$ 10.5m and the costs for retraining for additional
3,500 staff (I0% of overall staff) will amount to US$ 1.4m.



Page 38
Program Component 3: Improvement of Systems and Processes in Ghana's Public
Sector
(Cost (excluding contingencies) for all three phases US$ 4.0 million)
I. Overview
56. A central problem of Ghana's public service are major deficiencies in critical processes (such as
resource allocation) and systems (e.g. the rules governing the use of human and financial resources).
There are numerous systemic constraints in Ghana's publicsector which significantly hamper efficient
service delivery and customer orientation. To be effective a public sector reform initiative must address
these systemic constraints which cannot be sufficiently targeted if only institutions are reorganized. An
important part of the program is therefore the reform of systems and processes in Ghana's public sector
aimed at developing and implementing key components for effective public sector operations (human
resource management system, performance management system, coherent salary & incentive system,
management information system).
57. An important objective of GoG's efforts to reform the public sector is to create an enabling
environment for private sector growth. To achieve a sustainable private sector-led economic development
the government has promoted cooperation and collaboration between the public and the private sector at
all levels of government. The program will support the government in its intention to enhance the
cooperation with the private sector.
II. Background
58. This program component can build on a number of ongoing reforms. It aims at complementing these
reforms and target areas which are not or not fully included in ongoing reform initiatives:
I~~~~~~~~bs~ PD                            ista~deii f ,.,e, .~i    a n4pil 
.. ~
i~~~~~~~~~S to oth| 5 o m    pon =itsi                                   .th
g W       , ~Pgtm p UMR)pefrac managmult 
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~agt ndnet~lz hnfrte4fun



Page 39
III. The change process
59. The program will suppoIt the GoG in its efforts to rationalize the existing systems and to introduce
systems which foster the transformation of the Ghana public sector into performance and result-oriented
services. It aims at enhancing the decision making autonomy of managers in exchange for strict
accountability for results. Key systems to be introduced include: a human resource management system
with coherent guidelines for recruitment, promotion and termination of services, a performance
management system which links individual performance to organizational targets, and - in the long run -
an incentive system providing performance related incentives to staff.
60. The program will also support the development of a comprehensivestrategy which wiU define how
the cooperation between the public and the private sector in Ghana can be improved. It aims at increasing
private sector input (exchange programs, joint activities etc.) and applying private sector standards (audit,
supervision etc.) on government operations by enhancing public-private co-operation at all levels of
government, and by actively involving the private sector in policy design and decision-making of
government (private sector representation on public sector boards etc.). Based on this concept an action
plan wil be developed and introduced at the various levels of government.
IV. The phases
61. The different systems wiU be implemented in three different phases. Phase I will concentrate on key
systems. Phase II wil stabilize system implementation and introduce additional systems which are
important for effective public sector operations. Phase III will integrate the different systems into a
comprehensive management (information) system for the entire public sector.
Phase I: (1999 - 2001)
(Estimated total costs of this phase: US$ 0.6m)
62. Phase I wiUl include:
Human resources management system
63. This system will provide guidelines for human resource management in the entire public sector and
aims at integrating atl personnel management functions. It will concentrate on the core elements of
human resources management such as recruitment, promotion, staff mix, training needs etc. It will
particularly focus on career planning to systematicaUly enhance skills and expertise in the public sector. In
this context it will promote vertical and horizontal mobility to widen the focus of public servants. It wil
also include the development of rules on conditions of service, benefits, discipline, penalties for
corruption and non-performance as well as the automation of human resources functions. Through the
development of a comprehensive human resource management system organizational planning will also
be facilitated and improved.
Development of Public-Private Partnership Program
64. The development of a comprehensive strategy for enhanced public-private cooperation is a first step to
operationalize the strategic objectives of the GoG. A report will analyze the existing cooperation
framework and identify areas where private sector participation is useful. It will also identify private
sector standards which could be applied on government operations. The Partnership Program will then be
introduced in selected public sector agencies which play a key role for private sector development and
economic reform. For sake of "administrative purposes" the partnership program is listed under this
program component although it is recognized as a discrete element of the reform process.
65. During phase I project funds would be provided for consultancy services to develop the
systems/strategy as well as for workshops and focus group discussion to discuss the scope and focus. The
funds would also cover piloting the systems in a few selected agencies at the central government level.



Page 40
This introduction would be coordinated with the institutional restructuring of central government
agencies.
Phase II: (2002 - 2005)
(Estimated total costs of this phase: US$ 2.6m)
66. Phase II would stabilize the usage of key systems and introduce additional systems which are
important for effective public sector operations. Funding would only provided if the triggers for
subsequent APL financing as specified in Annex 3 have been met. Phase II wil include:
Stabilization of introduction of key systems
67. Phase I introduced some key elements for systemic changes in Ghana's public sector. To finally
achieve systemic changes it will be of crucial importance to institutionalize these systems into day-to-day
operations. Project funds would be made available to additional training (workshops, training courses)
and coaching of public servants who are responsible for the system management.
Performance management system
68. This system aims at introducing result oriented management principles into the public service. It will
define performance standards and develop guidelines on how to operationalize organizational targets. It
wiU propose evaluation procedures to monitor and review performance and compliance with operational
targets. It wil further operationalize the budgetary/financial target setting which has been introduced
under MTEF & BPEMS and concentrateon the impact of public sector operations. The development of
the system can also build on the experience under CSPIP which aims at introducing Performance
Improvement Plans (PIP) in some government institutions.
Incentive system
69. The introduction of a salary structure which is perfonnance-oriented and provides incentives to
qualified staff is one of the key components of the GoG's reforn agenda for the public service.
Development and implementation of a coherent incentive system will be supported by this program
component. A pre-condition for the introduction of such system is the rationalization of the existing pay
structure in the public sector, in particular the consolidation of the comprehensive system of monetary and
non-monetary allowances which make it difficult to calculate staff costs. It is expected that GoG will
introduce a new salary structure based on a coherent grading and classification system during phase I of
this program.
IPPD expansion
70. The provision of consistent and reliable data on personnel management is of crucial importance for
human resource and financial management. The existing system - Integrated Personnel and Payroll
Database (IPPD) - which covers basically the core civil service is based on outdated technology with
limited possibilities for expansion. During phase I some funds will be made available by DFID to
stabilize the existing system and to develop a new platform for the system design. Based on this new
platform phase 1I of this program will support the expansion of IPPD. It aims at firther developing IPPD
to provide personnel data forthe entire public sector. Project funds would be made available for hardware
upgrades & expansions which are estimated to cost US$ 600,000. Additional US$ 600,000 will cover the
necessary adjustment of the software.
Expansion of Public-Private Partnership Program
71. This phase will introduce the Partnership Program to aUl levels of government. It wiUl finance
coaching and training to incorporate the program into public sector operations.



Page 41
Phase III: (2006 - 2009)
(Estimated total costs of this phase: US$ 0.8m)
72. Phase III would stabilize usage of systems introduced during phase II through additional
training/coaching. Funding would only provided if the triggers for subsequent APL financing as specified
in Annex 3 have been met. Phase III would then integrate the different sub-systems into a comprehensive
management system. This integration corresponds to the GoG's intention to further develop the
different sub-systems to a comprehensive public sector management systems which provides integrated
infonnation as well as monitoring and planning tools for result-oriented public sector management. The
program will support the development and introduction of such system to optimize public sector
operations. Project funds would be provided forconsultancy services to develop such system as well as
for workshops and focus group discussion to discuss the scope and focus of the system. The funds would
also cover the introduction of the system at the central government level.



Page 42
Program Component 4: Project Management for Change Process
(Cost (excluding contingencies) for all three phases US$ 6.3 million)
I. Overview
73. The program will be implemented under the umbrella of the National Institutional Renewal
Programme (NIRP). Program coordination will be ensured by a Secretariat which is headed by a
National Coordinator selected by the GoG. The main role of the Secretariat is to monitor and supervise
program implementation; consultancy assignments will be contracted out. The National Coordinator who
directly reports to the NOC is responsible for the program monitoring and implementation. Financial
support will be provided by this program component for administering the reform process.
II. Background
74. GoG finances the operations of the Secretariat and has seconded some staff (basically support staff) to
the fulfill its various tasks. During project preparation the Bank has provided funds for the recruitment of
two long-term consultants including the National Coordinator. These consultants have been responsible
for the analytical work of the Secretariat. With its present staff the Secretariat has been able to produce
some good strategy papers but neither the staff size nor the skills mix of the Secretariat is adequate to
implement and monitor a major reform program. Project preparation has provided some assistance to
enable it to develop an implementation plan for the different components of the reform agenda. It has also
identified qualified staffto enhance the project management capacity of the Secretariat (in particular in the
areas of project monitoring, procurement, financial management). It will be necessary to adequately
support the NIRP Secretariat during the implementation of the reform program. Financial support will
focus on salary support for long-term local consultants, additional consultancy services and project
monitoring tools.
III. The phases
75. Funding will be provided to ensure continuous support for the NIRP Secretariat during allthree
phases.
Phase I (1999 - 2001)
(Estimated total costs of this phase: US$ 1.7m)
76. Phase I will include:
Project management support for the NIRP Secretariat
77. Project management support will enable the Secretariat to implement a major reform program.
Funding will be provided for the recruitment of four (4) long-term local consultants (National Coordinator
and three additional staff for project management, procurement & financial management). Twenty (20)
weeks additional short-term international consultancy services per year will support the development of an
effective project management system to monitor and evaluate the implementation of a reform program as
well as regularly evaluate of the work of the Secretariat. In addition, some minor logistical support &
purchase of equipment for project management purposes are built into the program to ensure trouble-free
functioning of the Secretariat.
Project schedules & budgets/Project monitoring and evaluation
78. For the development, maintenance and update of accurate project schedules and budgets and for
project monitoring and evaluation to oversee the progress of the reforms additional US$ 20,000/year are
calculated for consultancy services, workshops and focus group discussions.
Social assessment
79. Given the failures of previous reform efforts as well as the high social and political risks of the
program a critical part of the work of the NIRP Secretariat is to ensure a broad participatory and



Page 43
systematic stakeholder analysis and consultation process (social assessment), beyond the managerial level.
The main objectives are:
* to identify gaps between fonnal rules in the public sector (i.e. procedures, salary scales, sanctions,
conflict of interest rules) and informal ones (i.e. incentives to pursue corruption, patronage system,
political pressures) in order to propose necessary adjustments;
* to clearly identify intemal stakeholders (i.e. different levels of public servants by gender, age) and
external stakeholder (i.e. public service users, trade unions, private sector) soliciting their views on the
change management process and the retrenchment program;
* to establish baseline data for future updates during project implementation, provide qualitative and
quantitative inputs for the social impact monitoring, and define the modalities and frequency of
continuous stakeholder consultation (participation plan);
* based on the above findings, to design a strategy to mobilize support and gain consensus on the pace
and scope of the refonn efforts. These elements will contribute to a design of a public information
campaign directed to both intemal stakeholders and the general public.
80. Funding will be provided for an analysis of the existing environment and the establishment of baseline
data as well as for a strategy to effectively address the findings (US$ 100,000). Funds will also be made
available for regular surveys and reviews to measure the impact of the reforms (US$ 120,000/year).
Communication strategy
81. An important element of the work of the NIRP Secretariat is to effectively build support for the
different component of the reform process. This will include a newsletter which will be published on a
regular basis as well as other activities aimed at informing the general public about focus and intention of
the reform program. Project funds would be made available for the quarterly production of a newsletter
and other communication activities (public information campaign, workshops, other publications etc.).
Funding for this component will amount to US$ 120,000/year.
Phase II (2002 - 2005) & Phase III (2006 - 2009)
(Estimated total costs of each phase: US$ 2.3m)
82. Phases II & III provide continuing support for the NIRP Secretariat. The support will include:
83. Project management support for the NIRP Secretariat
* Four (4) long-term local consultants (National Coordinator and three additional staff for project
management, procurement & financial management) for an average monthly salary of US$
3,000/person.
* An additional long-term local consultant will be added to oversee and support the implementation of
the alternative employment plan which will be developed during phase I (monthly salary of US$
3,000)
* Twenty (20) weeks additional short-term international consultancy services per year for an average
rate of US$ 5,000/week to monitor and evaluate the implementation of a reform program as well as
for a regular evaluation of the work of the Secretariat.
* Logistical support & purchase of equipment for project management purposes (US$ 30,000/year).
84. Project schedules & budgets/Project monitoring and evaluation
* US$ 20,000 annually for consultancy services, workshops and focus group discussions
85. Social assessment
* Funding will be provided forregular surveys and reviews to measure the impact of the reforms (US$
120,000/year).



Page 44
86.   Communication strategy
*  Quarterly production of a newsletter and other communication activities (public information
campaign, workshops, publications etc.) (US$ 120,000/year)



Page 45
Annex 3:
Program Phases, Performance Indicators, Exit strategies
Ghana
Public Sector Management Reform Program
Phase I                    Phase H                     Phase HI
1999 - 2001                2002 - 2005                 2006 -2009
Development objective    Setting the stage for full    Full scale implementation   Finalzing reform
of each phase    scale implementation,        of reform program;              program;
first implementation steps   expanding reform focus to      second phase of
Outputs                           in priority areas        all levels of government   full scale implementation
Subvented Agency sector      At least 5 pilot SAs without a   First group (70) of        Second group (70) of
made cost-dfective,          clear mandate closed down/at  Subvented Agencies without  Subvented Agencies without
performance- and customer-       least 12 with a viable   a clear mandate closed down   a clear mandate closed down
oriented to reduce the           mandate restructured;      and those with a viable     and those with a viable
financial burden on           development of fully costed   mandate partially/fully     mandate partially/fully
govenmment's budget          program and implementation       commercialized or           commercialized or
plan to reform entire sector      restructured                restructured
- .:.-  :Triggers for        *  Legal framework for the  *  Publication of annual
subsequent APL         transformation of the       progress reports of at
fincing                Subvented Agencies in       least 50 SAs
place and operational
*  Program to reform the
entire sector approved
by Cabinet
C  Outplacement and
alternative emnployment
program operational
* Publication of annual
progress reports of at
least 5 of the 10 largest
SAs
Exit Strategy      Withdrawal from this        Withdrawal from this
program component if        program component if
.  notatleast15 SAsare    *  Lessthan50 SAsare
closed down or              closed down or          . .   i
restructured including      restuctured
the two largest from the   *  the other tigger has not
target list agreed upon     been met
with the Govemment
*  the other triggers have
not been met                                       :         . .   : :: --



Page 46
.o...n.inue.:--.:::- Phase I                                              Phase II                       Phase III
1999 - 2001                    2002 - 2005                    2006 - 2009
f0S:glly iE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..    EER... Ei        ! ........E 
Development objective    Setting the stage for full       Full scale implementation          Finalizing refonn
of each phase      scale implementation,           of refonm program;                   program;
first implementation steps    expanding reform focus to             second phase of
in priority areas          al levels of government       full scale implementation
Outputs
Service delivery and                   Organization and               Organization and               Organization and
performance orientation of          management of Central        management of a first group      management of a second
aU public sector agencies           Management Agencies             of ministries (10) and      group of ministries (11) and
improved - the roles and             (CMAs)* made more             departments (25) at the        departments (25) at the
mandates critically reviewed      efficient with the staff size   central government level        central government level
to build a compact civil          adequately curWtailed to new    made more efficient with the   made more efficient with the
service and to achieve greater    mission and output targets   staff size adequately curtailed  staff size adequately curtailed
efficiency                                                       to new mission and output       to new mission and output
targets                        targets
Triggers for          *   Realigmnent of roles and  *   Realignmet of roles and
subsequent APL            fumctions of all CMAs*         functions of the first
financing                 operational                    group operational
:   Reorganization of each    *   Reorganization of each
* Main CMAs               individual CMA*                individual ministry and
include: Public
Servi f- '' l    -- *chdes  Commio  completed            department completed
; , ::,; ::    -, Services Connnission                                                      ::::g::g:::::::   ;  :EEEEE:::t:::::::::EE
(PSC), Mlinistry of
Finance (MoF)                                                                            . ... . ......
including the                                                                           .      . ........-
Controller and
Accountant General,
.......National
Development
Plamning Commission
(NDPC), Office of the
Head of Civil Service
(OHCS)
...............   Exit Strategy  Withdrawal from this         Withdrawal from this
program component if the       program component if
......               i         f ' -g-gggabove mentioned triggers  *   less than 25 ministries or
have notbeen met                   departments are
reorganized
*   the other trigger has not                            . .. ...
been met
L                                                                            L kEE g i4S E Ey  i i   i E EEE   -   - E 2 E i , S ,,#E ..... E iERED. i.ERERE E iERE.iERERE-E- .ERE .................. E i E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ... .... ... .... ...



Page 47
continted  : E .   .      .Phase I                               Phase H                     Phase HI
1999 - 2001                2002 - 2005                 2006 - 2009
Development objective   Setting the stage for full    Full scale implementation   Finalizing reform
of each phase    scale implementation,       of reform program;              program;
first implementation steps   expanding reform focus to      second phase of
in priority areas       all levels of government    ful scale implementation
Outputs
Systems and processes             Development and         Stabilizing implementation    Stabilizing implementation
introduced which improve       introduction of a human     of systems introduced in    of systems introduced during
effectiveness and efficiency of  resource management      phase I; additional systems    phase I & II; integration of
public sector management,      system, a Public-Private   introduced to improve public   different sub-systems into a
provide better quality of     Partnership Program, and a      sector efficiency      comprehensive management
public services, improve the  coherent public sector pay    (performance management   (information) system for the
performance orientation of             policy             system, incentive system);    entire public sector which
public sector employees, and                             coverage of IPPD expanded    provides monitoring and
create greater transparency                               to the entire public sector  planning tools for public
of public sector activities                                                              sector management
Triggers for        *  Human resource           *  Human resource
subsequent APL          management system           management system and
financing               introduced in pilot         coherent remuneration
government agencies        policy fully operational
-  Adequate remuneration       at the various levels of
policy introduced          government
*  Partnership Program     *  Additional systems
successfuly                introduced in pilot
implemnted in key          government agencies
public sector agencies    *  Public-private
partnerships throughout
the public sector
significantly increased
Exit Strategy       Withdrawal from this        .  Adjustment of
program component if the       Partnership progrm if
above mentioned triggers       annual private sector
have not been met              surveys show that
program is not effective
*  Withdrawal from this
program component if
the other triggers have
not been met



Page 48
Annex 4: Estimated Program Costs
Ghana
Public Sector Management Reform Program
Component I:                                                      87.3             19.2            106.5
RAumnt of Subvented Agencies
*  Consultancy services (including workshops, focus group        (16.4)           (154.)           (31.4)
discussions)
*  Redundancy payments                                           (63.9)             (0.0)          (63.9)
*  Trainig                                                        (5.0)            (3.5)             (8.5)
*  Equipment (Hard- & software)                                   (2.0)             (0.7)            (2.7)
Component m:                                                      29.4              6.2             35.6
Adjustment of Structures and Organizatioss
*  Consultancy services (including workshops, focus group         (3.7)            (4.2)             (7.9)
discussions)
.  Redundancy payments                                           (22.8)             (0.0)          (22.8)
*  Training                                                       (1.9)             (105)            (3.7)
*  Equipment (Hard- & software)                                   (1.0)             (0.5)            (1.5)
Component Im:                                                      1.6              2.4              4.0
Improvement of Systems and Processes
*  Consultancy services (inchlding workshops, focus group         (1.2)            (017)             (1.9)
discussions)
*  Truning                                                        (0.4)            (0.3)             (0.7)
*  Equipment (Hard- & software)                                   (0.3)             (1.4)            (1.4)
Component IV:                                                      4.4              1.9              6.3
Project Management System for Change Process
n Long-term national consultants                                  (1.9)            (2.1)             (1.9)
F Consultancy sirces (hicluding wo0shops, focus group             (2.2)            (1.8)             (4.0
discussions)
•  Equipment (Hard- & software, office equipment, logistical      (0.3)             (0.1)            (0.4)
support)
Total Baseline Cost                                              122.7             29.7            152.4
Physical Contingencies'                                         0.0               0.0              0.0
Price Contingencies'                                            6.9               1.7              8.6
Unallocated Funds                                               8 .93            2.1             11.0
PPF-Refialcing                                                  0.0              0.0               1.0
Total Program Costs4                                                       173.0
1 Because of minor procurement of predominately "off-the-shelf' goods no physical contingencies have been calculated
2 Compounded annually at 0.5%
3 Esfimate based on baseline cost distribution
4 Detailed cost estimates are in the project files



Page 49
Goods                                                             3.5              2.86.
Consultancy services                                             24.8             23.0             4.
Long-term national consultants                                    2.0              0.0              2.0
T'raining                                                         7.7              5.6             13.3 
Redundancy payments                                              91.6              0.0             91.6
Total Program Costs                      129.6            31.4            161.0
UnallocatedFunds         8.95             2.1             11.0
PPF-Refmancing                                           1.0
Total Financing Required                 138.5            33.5            173.0
Component I:                                                    8.5        49.9         48.1         106.5
Reform of Subvented Agencies  g
*  Consultancy services (incl.  workshops, focus groups)        (5.6)      (12.9)       (12.9)     (31.4)
*  Redundancy payments                                         (2.1)      (31.8)       (30.0)      (63.9)
*  Training                                                     (0.5)      (.40)        (.40)        (8.5)
*  Equipment (Hard- & software)                                 (0.3)      (1.2)        (1.2)        (2.7)
Component II-:                                                  3.6        16.0   1640 35.6
Adjustment of Structures and Organizations
*  Consultancy services (including workshops, focus groups)    (0.5      )        (      3.4) (0.)   (7.9)
*Redundancy paymencts                                         (1.8)     (10.5)       (10.5)       (22.8) .......|
*  Trahiing                                                     (0.6)      (1.4)        (1.4)        (3.4)
*  Equipment (Hard- & software)                                 (0.1)      (0.7)        (0.7)        (1.5)
Component II:                                                   0.6         2.6 0               .8   4.3
Improvement of Systems and Processes
. Consultancy services (including workshops, focus groups)      (0.5)      (0.8)        (0.6)        (1.9)
.Training                                                     (0.1)       (0.4)       (0.2)        (0.7) ....... 
*Equipment (Hard- &software)                                  (0.0)       (1.4)       (0.0)        (1.4) .......|
Component IV:                                                   1.7         2.3          2.3          6.3 ....... 
Project Management System for Change Processl
*Long-term national consultants                               (0.4)       (0.7)        (0.7)       (1.8) .......|
^Consultancy services (inchlding workshops, focus groups)     (1.2)       (1.4)       (1.4)        (4.0) ....... 
*  Equipment (Hard- & software, office equipment, logistical   (0.1)       (0.2)        (0.2)        (0.5)
support)
Total Baseline Cost                                            14.4        70.8         67.2         152.4
Physical Contingencies                                        0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0
Price Contingencies                                           0.8         4.0          3.8          8.6
Unallocated Funds                                             3.0         4.0         4.0          11.0
PPF-Refmnjcing                                                1.0         0.0         0.0           1.0
Total Program Costs                     19.2        78.8         75.0        173.0
5 Estimate based on baseline cost distribution



Page 50
Annex 5: Financial Summary
Ghana
Public Sector Management Reform Program
The calculation of the project's financial return is based on the two most costly components: (i) the reform
of Subvented Agencies (SAs); and (ii) the reform of Central Management Agencies (CMAs), ministries
and departments aimed at improving service delivery. The reforms involve (a) restructuring of central
government institutions; (b) restructuring of subvented agencies toward partial and full
commercialization; and (c) rationalization of agency staffing including retrenchment and retraining. The
unit costs for these activities are listed below.
Retrenchment US 3,000 per staff (30 times an average monthly salary of US$100)
Retraining         $400 per staff
Closures        $80,000 per institution
Restructuring  $400,000 per Phase I subvented agency
$220,000 per Phase II subvented agency
$220,000 per Phase III subvented agency
$200,000 per Phase I central management agency
$100,000 per Phase II & III central management agency
The direct financial benefits from these components are the savings from reduced subventions. We do not
attempt to quantify the benefits from more efficient service delivery and improved public sector
management. Although the per unit costs of service delivery should decrease, the government will be
able to expand its provision of services, hence the fiscal impact of these benefits may be either negative
or positive. 1 However, as shown in Table 4, the budget saving from the closure and commercialization
of subvented agencies is sufficient to generate a positive net financial return, provided the reform is
sufficiently front-loaded. We present a baseline scenario in which savings are based on the average
subvention across the sector, and 3 additional scenarios based on a proposed list ofsubvented agencies
the pilot phase.2
Table 1. Financial Assessment: Net Present Value
p.a. growth in remaining subventions  0%           5%             0%
average commercialization  30%            30%             50%
Baseline                             (5.16)          2.61           17.96
Scenario 1 (with UG& CSIR)            12.10          l9^65          45.68
Scenario 2 (with UG only)             4.85           13.55          33.61
Scenario 3 (without UG & CSIR)       (12.35)         (3.86)          4.95
As can be seen from Chart 1 the major costs of the program are incurred at later two stages and in the
baseline case savings do not accumulate fast enough to protect the financial retums.
I The wage bill will decrease because of retrenchments, but this will allow the payment of more competitive salaries to the
reduced establishment. The cost of services may decrease but this will allow the goverment to expand its provision in its
priority areas.
2 Scenario I includes two very large agencies, University of Ghana,Legon (UG) and Center for Scientific and Industrial
Research (CSIR), for partial commercialization in the pilot phase. In Scenario 2 only UG is included in the pilot phase, and in
Scenario 3, neither is included.



Page 51
Chart 1
20.OE+6     Baseline scenario                     20.OE+6      Scenario I
1 5.OE+6                                          1 5.OE+6
1 O.OE+6                                          1O.OE+6 - -
5.OE+6  )7                   costs                5.OE+6
T cum . NPV                   /                   costs
Zsavings                                                 c cum. NPV
000.OE+O      AI                                  000 IIII  O.OE+O- ^         
< ,  /  O   <    o  0  <7  0co aO           CD 7  EDc70o                         7
-5.OE+6                                           -5.OE+6    C     -  -5+- :J 
-1 O.OE+6                                         -1 O.OE+6
Costs
The average annual costs of each of these components are given in Table 2. The main costs of the
subvented agency reform, retrenchment payments, have been postponed to the later phases when the
annual average costs is approximately US$10 million. In addition, the majority of the central
government agencies is being tackled at the later stages.
Table 2: Average Annual Costs of Reform (US$ million)
Subvented Agencies                   CMAs
Phase I Phase II Phase HII Phase I Phase II Phase III
Retrenchment               0.20       7.50      7.50      0.60      2.63      2.63
Retraining                 0.01       1.00      1.00      0.16      0.35      0.35
Closure                    0.21       0.14      0.14
Restructuring              4.67       1.90      1.90      0.33      0.88      0.90
(Scenario 1)                                                               I
TOTAL (Scenario 1)       5.09      10.54      10.54     1.09      3.85      3.88
Benefits
Table 3 details the savings from reduced subventions as agencies are closed or commercialized. These
are based on 1998 data for subventions where available, and projecting a 15% increase in subventions
between 1996-1998 where only 1996 data is available. The other basic assumptions are (a) 5% growth in
the subventions continued over time to agencies reformed in later phases3; and (b) the minimum average
level 30% of savings from agencies to be partially commercialized. Alternative basic assumptions are
presented in Table 1. Finally, savings are assumed to distributed evenly over the years in each phase.
3 Without the programn total subventions are projected to increase by 18% p.a. over 1998-2001, but these include the expenditures
to very large agencies like Ghana Education Service. Total expenditure is expected to grow by approximately 8% p.a.



Page 52
Table 3: Annual Incremental Savings from Closure/Commercialization of Subvented Agencies
(billions cedis)
paiially       fully    total annual
closed        commercialized            savings
Baseline (average subventions)
Phase I            0.13          2.50         6.46          9.09
Phase II           0.08          2.69           -           2.77
Phase III          0.08          2.69                       2.77
Scenario 1 (including UG and CSIR in pilot phase)
PhaseI             0.19          5.37         6.46          12.02
Phase I            0.12          2.01      |    -           2.12
Phase II            0.12         2.01           -           2.12
Scenario 2 (only UG in pilot phase)
Phase I            0.19          3.54         6.46          10.19
Phase II           0.12          2.99           -           3.11
Phase IU           0.12          2.99           -           3.11
Scenario 3 (w/o CSIR and UG)
Phase I            0.19          0.86         6.46          7.52
Phase II           0.12          3.34           -           3.46
Phase III          0.12          3.34                       3.46
(a) 5% growth in continued subventions
(b) average 30% partial commercialization
Table 4 shows the computation of the NPV for these components over the life of the project for Scenario
1, given 5 per cent growth in remaining subventions and 30% average partial commercialization.
Savings are converted into US dollars using the current exchange rate (Cedi 2310 = US$1.00), devalued
each year by the differential between projected US and Ghanaian inflation rates.4
Table 4: Computation of Net Present Value
incremental adjusted  Adjusted Incremental total annual SA cosb  CMA   TOTAL Net Sav NPV   |
SA savings  for 5%   exchange  SA savings SA savings          costs    costs            8%
(bn cedis)  growth    rate    (USSm)    (US$m)   (USSmn) (USSmn)  (USSm) (USSm) (USSm)
Table 3                                            Table 2  Table 2                         l
1999      12.02     12.02   2,610.30    4.61        4.61      5.09    1.09     6.19   (1.58)   (1.5)
2000      12.02     12.63   2,845.23     4.44       9.04      5.09    1.09     6.19     2.86    2.65
2001      12.02     13.26   2,987.49     4.44       13.48     5.09    1.09     6.19     7.29    6.25
2002      2.12       2.46    3,077.11    0.80       14.28    10.54    3.85    14.39   (0.11)   (0.08)
2003      2.12       2.58    3,169.43    0.81       15.10    10.54    3.85    14.39    0.71     0.52
2004      2.12       2.71    3,264.51    0.83       15.93    10.54    3.85    14.39    1.54    1.05
2005      2.12       2.85    3,362.44    0.85      16.77     10.54    3.85    14.39    2.39    1.50
2006      2.12       2.99    3,463.32    0.86       17.64    10.54    3.88    14.41    3.22    1.88
2007       2.12      3.14    3,567.22    0.88       18.52    10.54    3.88    14.41    4.10    2.22
2008       2.12      3.30    3,674.23    0.90       19.41    10.54    3.88    14.41    5.00    2.50
2009      2.12       3.46    3,784.46    0.91      20.33     10.54    3.88    14.41    5.92    2.74
4 Inflation in the US is assumed to be 2% from 1999-2009. Inflation in Ghana is projected as follows: 1999=15%, 2000=11%,
2001=7.0%, and 5% thereafter.



Page 53
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Ghana
Public Sector Management Reform Program
1. Procurement
1. General
Procurement of goods, works and services will be carried out following Annual Procurement Plans agreed
with the Bank as part of the Annual Work Plan. Procurement of goods and works will be in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 and
revised in January, August 1996 September 1997), and procurement of Consulting Services by finms or
individuals will be awarded in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised in September 1997, and January 1999).
The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) will be used for all Intemational Competitive Bidding
(ICB) and the Bank's Standard Request for Proposals (RFP) will be used for Consulting Services.
2. Procurement Management
The NIRP-Secretariat which is part of the Office of the President is headed by a National Coordinator. As
part of the preparatory activities prior to Credit effectiveness and in order to ensure effective program
implementation, a limited number of project management staff; including a Procurement Specialist who
is fully familiar with Bank procurement guidelines would be hired. The selection process for the project
management staff has been initiated. Once the staff have been selected, an orientation workshop would
be held; topics to be covered would include Bank procurement and disbursement procedures.
3. Procurement Planning
A draft General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be prepared by the Borrower for the program and will be
finalized and published in the United Nations Development Business (UNDB) and in the local newspapers
immediately after negotiations. The GPN will be updated every year and submitted to IDA. It will show
all outstanding ICB for goods and works contracts, as well as consulting assignments. In addition a
Specific Procurement Notice (SPN) is required for all ICB, and consulting services with a value in excess
of US$ 200,000 prior to the preparation of the shortlist. The Borrower will prepare a Global Procurement
Plan (GPP), and a Detailed Procurement Plan (DPP) for the first year of the program showing processing
time for each contract, which will also include relevant information on all goods, works, consulting
services and training under the Program as well as timing of each milestone in the procurement process.
The Borrower will send these documents to IDA before Credit effectiveness. Three months prior to the
start of each subsequent fiscal year, the Borrower would submit up-dated versions of the GPP, and the
annual DPPs in respect of the following year.
II. Procurement Methods (See also Table A)
4. Goods (US$ 0.5m)
The program would finance the hardware & software upgrade for IPPD, minor capital expenditures which
may be necessary as part of the restructuring of public institutions, and some limited procurement of
fumiture, office equipment, computers, software and communication equipment for use by the NIRP
Secretariat and other implementing agencies. Packages estimated to cost US$ 200,000 equivalent or more
would be procured under ICB procedures using IDA Standard Bidding Documents. Contracts for goods
available locally with an aggregate amount of US$ 400,000 with contracts between US$ 30,000 and US$
200,000 each would be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to
IDA. Procurement for readily available off-the-shelf goods that cannot be grouped or standard
specification commodities for individual contracts of less than US$ 30,000 and not exceeding an



Page 54
aggregate amount of US$ 400,000 would be procured on the basis of comparison of quotations from at
least three eligible national suppliers. If these goods are not available in the country, international
shopping procedures would be followed.
5. Consultant Services (US$ 10.2m)
Consultancy Services will be financed for studies and reports, technical assistance for coaching and
training, workshops and focus group discussions for the various components of the program. Selection
and appointment of consultants for studies, technical assistance and support of program execution will be
carried out in accordance with the Consultant Guidelines. Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS)
method will be used except as provided otherwise. Allconsultancy assignments estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$ 200,000 or more will be advertised in the United Nations Development Business
(UNDB) and in at least one national newspaper. In addition, the contracts may be advertised in an
international newspaper or magazine seeking "expressions of interest". All consulting assignments in the
range of US$ 100,000 to US$ 200,000 would be procured through QCBS. In the case of assignments
estimated at US$ 100,000 or less, the assignment may be advertised nationally and the shortlist may be
made up entirely of national consultants, provided that at least three qualified national finns are available
in the country and foreign consultants who wish to participate are not excluded from consideration.
Consultant services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$ 50,000 may be contracted by
comparing the qualifications of consultants who have expressed an interest in the job or who have been
identified. Auditors would be selected using Least-Cost-Selection procedures.
Training programs are geared toward improving management and skills of public servants. These training
programs would be subject to the Bank's prior review and approval, as would be workshops and focus
group discussions.
6. Operating costs for the project management unit (US$ 0.4m)
Under the program a limited number of project management staff will be recruited to enable the NIRP
secretariat to effectively manage program  implementation.  This includes some long-term local
consultants for the duration of the program. Project Management staff will be recruited on the basis of
their qualifications for the assignment. The positions will be advertised in national newspapers and may
be selected by the Public Services Commission using procedures acceptable to IDA. The program would
also provide funding for the logistical support of the NIRP secretariat (equipment, incremental operating
costs). NCB and local shopping would be used for the procurement of goods and equipment maintenance
services which are required for operation and maintenance of the program following the rules under the
previous paragraphs.
7. IDA Review
All goods contracts estimated to cost US$ 100,000 or more will be subject to IDA review of bidding
documents including draft contract and technical specifications prior to inviting bids and IDA review of
bid evaluation prior to contract award. The TOR for all consulting assignments irrespective of value will
be subject to IDA prior review. Forconsultancy contracts with firms and estimated value of US$ 100,000
or more, and US$ 50,000 or more in the case of individuals, the draft Request for Proposals (RFP) and the
shortlist of consultants must be cleared by IDA prior to inviting proposals from consultants, In addition,
the evaluation of technical proposals must be cleared with IDA before financial proposals of the
qualifying firms are opened. All the procedures in Appendix I of the Consultants Guidelines would apply.
Contracts which are not subject to prior review will be selectively reviewed by the Bank during program
implementation and will be governed by the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the
Guidelines.
Training within the country and abroad, including workshops and study tours will be carried out on the
basis of IDA approved programs which would identify the nature of training/study tours/workshops,



Page 55
personnel to be trained, the duration of training/study tours/workshops, institutions where training/study
tours would be conducted (selection of institutions and justification thereof), cost estimate, contents of the
course will be reviewed by IDA on a quarterly basis.
Ill. Disbursement
1. Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
2. Statements of Expenditures (SOEs)
Disbursements for all expenditures would be against full documentation, except for items of expenditures
under contracts and purchase orders below US$ 100,000 equivalent, for goods, below US$ 100,000 for
consulting firms, and below US$ 50,000 forconsultancy services (individuals), training, workshops and
incremental costs for which disbursements would be based on statements of expenditures (SOEs).
Supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained by the Borrower for review by IDA missions and
extemal auditors.
3. Special Accounts
To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account for the NIRP Secretariat would be established and operated
in US$ at a commercial bank under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Upon credit effectivenessa
sum of US$ 750,000 would be deposited by IDA into this account. Further deposits by IDA would be
made into this account against withdrawal applications supported by appropriate documentation.
4. Financial Reporting
The program accounts, SOEs and the special account would be audited by the Auditor General, or any
other independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The auditors' reports and certificates in respect each of
these statements of accounts would be funished to IDA within six months of the close of the fiscal year.
In addition, audited financial statements for the NIRP secretariat would be submitted within six month of
the close of the financial year.



Page 56
Annex 6, Table A: Program Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million)
(incl. training)                                           95(95
Operating costs                                            0.411                  0.411
(0.3)                  (0.3)
Redundancy payments                                       4.112                   4.1
(0.5)                  (0.5)
PPF Refinancing                                                                   1.0
(1.0)
Unallocated funds                                          3.0                    3.0
(2.6)                  (2.6)
0.2       18.0                    18.2
Total                         |               (0.2)      (13.1)   |             (14.1)
Notes:
ICB - Intemational Competitive Bidding
NCB- National ConVetitive Bidding
N.B.F. - Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be finaced by the IDA credit



Page 57
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Goods            ~~~~US$ 200,000 or above            ICB                  all contracts
l              g        ~~~~~~(1.5m)  
US$ 30,000 - US$ 200,000            NCB                above US$ 100,000
(2.0m)
below US$ 30,000               Shopping                  None
Services                US$ 200,000 or above       QCBS (National and/          all contracts
intemational advert)
first 20 contracts = prior
US$ 100,000 - US$ 200,000       QCBS (National               review,
advert)          all others =post review
US$ 50,000 - US$ 100,000       QCBS (National        first 20 contracts = prior
advert/shortlist)           review,
all others =post review
US$ 20,000 - US$ 50,000          QCBS, CQ               Contracts with
individuals
below US$ 20,000                 CQ6                     None
______________________ _  1(23.0m )
Operating costs of              All                   CQ (National              all contracts
the project                                          Advertisement)"               (2.0m)
management unit
Redundancy                       All                       N/A                  all payments
payments                                                                           (6.7)
Retraining                      All                        N/A                  all payments
I ___________________  I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _____________________ _    l(1 3 .3 m )
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    US$ 48.5 million
Notes:
ICB - Intemnational Competitive Bidding
NCB- National Competitive Bidding
QCBS - Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
CQ - Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes
special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
5 All single source consulting assigmnents and all TORs for consulting services irrespective of value are subject to prior review.
6 Selection based on consutants' qualifications
7 Project management staff would be recruited in open competition in accordance with rules and regulations of the Public Services
Commission



Page 58
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Goods                                 0.4              100% of foreign expenditures
and 90% of local expenditures
Services (incl. training)            9.5               100% of foreign expenditures
and 90% of local expenditures
Operating costs of the project       0.3               100% of foreign expenditures
management unit                                       and 90% of local expenditures
Redundancy payments                  0.5                  100% of expenditures
Unallocated funds                    2.6               100% of foreign expenditures
and 90% of local expenditures
PPF-Refinancing                       1.0
Total                                14.3



Page 59
Annex 7: Financial Management
Ghana
Public Sector Management Reform Program
1.    The finance and administration unit of the NIRP wil establish a financial management system, acceptable
to IDA, which wiUl provide the NIRP and IDA with accurate and timely information regarding resources and
expenditures. The financial management systems will include accounting, financial reporting and auditing
elements. The project wiUl have a centralized finance unit to oversee the implementation of the project's four main
components (with several parts). In order. to ensure overall effective project implementation, the finance unit will
put in place a sound financial management system adequate to achieve effective budgeting and monitoring of the
cost of project activities, efficient internal control measures, recording and maintenance of up to date accounting
records and provision of project financial data for project management.
2.    A review  wiUl be undertaken and an assessment made of the existing financial management capacity,
policies and procedures and systems - including internal controls, accounting, financial reporting, and auditing
systems - of the NIRP secretariat. The review will reflect the requirements of the proposed Loan Administration
Change Administrative Initiative (LACI, see below). The Terms of Reference for this work has been agreed
between IDA and the government and the consultant is in the process of being contracted. The review willnclude
a time bound action plan to develop and implement adequate policies, procedures and systems to insure that the
financial management of the NIRP Secretariat under the IDA project is in full compliance with IDA operational
guidelines as specified in OP/BP 10.02 of August 1997 by credit effectiveness expected in August 1999.
Establishment of an acceptable accounting system is a condition of effectiveness of the project. The action plan
would specificaly address any gaps identified during the initial review.
3.    A procedural manual for the NIRP secretariat will beprepared which further specifies and describes: the
accounting system procedures and policies, chart of accounts, organization of the accounting and finance unit,
financial statement format, internal controls, and budgeting mechanisms. Audit arrangements will also be
specified as well as the administrative arrangements and structure within the project. The manual would also
describe the organization arrangements for the project, as well as the various roles and responsibilities for the
procurement and disbursement process.
4.    The central finance unit wiUl provide quarterly activity reports to the NIRP secretariat. The annual
financial statements of the project will be prepared in accordance with generaUy accepted accounting principles in
Ghana and with FARAH, which has been accepted by IDA for projects in Ghana. The financial statements will
include at least a statement of sources and uses of funds, a statement of reconciliation of the special account, a
balance sheet and required notes to the financial statements.
5.    The financial statements will be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the end of the fiscal year.
Auditing
6.    The financial statements of the project will be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA. The
auditor will provide an opinion on: (a) the project financial statements; (2) statement of expenditures; and (c)
special accounts.
7.    A management report wiUl be prepared on Internal Controls outlining any recommendations for improving
internal accounting -controls identified as a result of the financial statement audit.



Page 60
Staffing
8.    The NIRP secretariat is recruiting a qualified accountant (at the manager level within an accounting finn).
A draft TOR for this position has been developed and agreed with IDA and the accountant is expected to be at post
by credit effectiveness in August 1999.
Project Management Reports
9.    The Bank is introducing an initiative to change loan administration in Bank group projects, the Loan
Administration Change Initiative (LACI). This initiative assists projects to put in place sound financial
management, procurement and output monitoring systems. Where appropriate, if these systems are in place,
disbursements may be made on the basis of agreed quarterly Project Management Reports (PMR) rather than on
the basis of individual invoices or statements of expenditure.
10.   While the financial management system to be set up by the project will prepare Project Management
Reports, an assessment has been made that the PMR procedures will not be appropriate for the first phase of this
project because there is a need to ensure that the systems put in place are operating smoothly.



Page 61
Annex 8: Program Processing Schedule
Ghana
Public Sector Management Reform Program
Timetake toprepare the project (nnonths)    8 months             1 0 months
FirstBank  ission (identification)          07113/1998         *0711 311998
Appraisal mission departure                  90(1/20/1999    _      02/1511999
Negotiations                                   03/0111999           03/25/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  08/01/1999             / /19
Prepared by: Secretariat of the National Institutional Renewal Programme, Accra/Ghana
Preparation assistance: 1996: initial PPF (US$ 400,000), 1997: PHRD grant (US$ 395,000), 1998: PPF (US$
600,000)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
David Steedman                                  Public sector management
Guenter Heidenhof                                Public sector management
Claude Salem                                    Capacity Building
Jit Bahadur S. Gill                              Public sector management (peer reviewer)
Ellen Cohen                                     Operations
Camille Lampart                                 Financial analysis
Malathi S. Jayawickrama                         Financial analysis
V.S. Krishnakumar                                Procurement
Kofi Awanyo                                     Procurement
Hovsep M. Melkonian                              Financial management
David Webber                                    Financial management
Frederick Yankey                                Financial mmagement
Jean Nebrija Edillon                           TProgramn assistant
Patricia Ashby                                  Teamassistant
Nadege Thadey                                    Teamassistant
Nana Benyiwa Hutchful                            Teaassistant
At the request of the Africa Region and under the coordination of the Quality Assurance Group, a panel led by
Michael Stevens (Public Sector Management Specialist), and including Brian Levy (then: Institutional
Economist), Gloria La Cava (Social Scientist) and Surendra K. Agarwal (Operations Specialist) carried out a
quality enhancement review of the program. The program was also reviewed by the Regional Operations
Committee which was chaired by Mr. Callisto Madavo (Regional Vice-President).



Page 62
Annex 9: Documents in the Project File*
Ghana
Public Sector Management Reform Program
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*  Detailed descriptions, phasing and costs of the program components
C. Other
*  National Overview Committee Working Structure and Work Programme, March 1996, NIRP Secretariat
* Public Sector Strategy Formulation Workshop Report, September 1996, NIRP Secretariat
*  Structure, Mechanism and Difficulties of the National Policy Process, November 1996, NIRP Secretariat
* Proposal for a Policy Management Group, February 1997, NIRP Secretariat
*  Strategic Leadership and Coordination of Public Sector Reforms, Workshop Report, May 1997, NIRP
Secretariat
* Report on the Strategic Mapping and Analysis of the Component Environments of the Public Service, May
1997, NIRP Secretariat
*  Strategic Plan for the Civil Service, November 1997, Government of Ghana
*  Strategic Plan for the Central Management Agencies, November 1997, NIRP Secretariat
*  Strategic Plan for the Subvented Agencies, November 1997, NIRP Secretariat
*  Public Sector Re-invention and Modernization Strategy for Ghana - Transforming Vision into Reality, October
1997, NIRP Secretariat
*  A Decade of Civil Service Reform in Sub-Saharan Africa, IMF Working Paper, WP/97/179
*  1997 NIRP Annual Report
*  Organization and Sub-Committees of the National Overview Committee (NOC), March 1998, NIRP Secretariat
*  Roles and Functions of the National Technical Group (NTG), March 1998, NIRP Secretariat
*  Work Programme for Subvented Agencies, March 1998, NIRP Secretariat
*  Organizational Manual and Support to the Policy Management Group in the Office of the President, March
1998, NIRP Secretariat
*  Action Plan to Reform the Office of the President and Cabinet Decision-Making, March 1998, NIRP Secretariat
* Work Programme for Central Management Agency, March 1998, NIRP Secretariat
*  Towards Implementation of the Public Sector Re-invention and Modermization Strategy for Ghana, Summary of
Action Plans, March 1998, NIRP Secretariat
*  Public Sector Management Reform in Ghana, Logical Framework Analysis, August 1998, NIRP Secretariat
*  Restructunng and Realignment of Central Management Agencies, Logical Framework Analysis, August 1998,
NIRP Secretariat
* Improving the National Policy Process, Logical Framework Analysis, August 1998, NIRP Secretariat
*  Reform of the Subvented Agencies, Logical Framework Analysis, August 1998, NIRP Secretariat
*  Good Governance and Public Sector Reform, UNDP Programme Support Document No. GHA/97/001, February
1998
* Publicity Progranmne and Budget Proposal for NIRP, May 1998, NIRP Secretariat
* .Report on the 2nd National Governance Workshop on Accountability & Transparency in Ghana, May 1998,
UNDP/NIRP Secretariat
*  Policy Framework for Coordinating Capacity Building for Decentralized Management in Ghana, Status Report:
A Presentation to the Donor Community in Ghana, October 1998, Ministry of Local Govenment and Rural
Development
*  Policy Management Group in Office of the President, The Concept Paper, October 1998, GIMPA
*  Ghana Civil Service Performance Improvement Programme (CSPIP), Review & Progress Reports 1998, OHCS
*  1998 NIRP Annual Report
* Report on Subvented Agencies Reform Programnme, Pilot Scheme, NIRP Secretariat, January 1999
* Subvented Agencies Reform, Pilot Phase, Concept and Generalised Action Plan detailing the process to close
down, restructure/partially commercialise or fully commerciaUse a specific agency, NIRP Secretariat, January
1999



Page 63
* Subvented Agencies Reform, Pilot Phase, Concept on Alternative Employment and Action Plan to implement
Outplacement Progrdmme, NIRP Secretariat, January 1999
* Subvented Agencies, Pilot Phase, Draft Legal Framework for Reforms, NIRP Secretariat, January 1999
* Re-Alignment and Restructuring of Central Management Agencies, Review of Functions, NIRP Secretariat,
December 1998
*  Re-Alignment and Restrucuing of Central Management Agencies, Ihe New Environment, NIRP Secretariat,
December 1998
*IncMding electronic files.



Page 64
Annex 10: Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Ghana
OPERATIONS PORTFOLIO
As of 08-Mar-99
Difference Between expected
Fiscal                                                                                               Original Amount in US$ Milions                         and actual
disbluscmcts at
Project ID     Year                  Borrower                               Putpose
IBRD          IDA         Cancellations     Undisbursed         Orig  Frn Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 74
Active Projects
GH-PE-970          1999    GOV. OF GHANA                        TRADE GATEWAY & INV.                            0.00         50.50          0.00               50.14           -.24         0.00
GH-PE-946          1998    GOVT OF GHANA                        NAT.RES.MANAGEMENT                              0.00          9.30          0.00                 9.65         2.70          0.00
GH-PE-949          1998    GOVERNMENT                           HEALTH SCTR SUPPORT                             0.00         35.00          0.00                31.66         4.82          0.00
GH-PE-41150        1997    GOV'TOF GHANA                        VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTIU                           0.00         30.00          0.00                25.10         -1.81         0.00
GH-PE-45588        1997    GOVERNMENT                           PUB. FIN. MGMT. TAP                             0.00         20.90          0.00                17.21        10.44          0.00
GH-PE-42516        1996                                         PUBLIC ENTERPRISE/PR                            0.00         26.45          0.00               20.59          5.13          0.00
GH-PE-943          1996    GOVT OF GHANA                        NON-BANK FIN INS AST                            0.00         23.90          0.00                19.23        13.80          0.00
GH-PE-957          1996    GOVERNMENT                           HWY SECT INVPROG                                0.00        100.00          0.00                71.41        10.35          0.00
GH-PE-973          1996    MINISTRY OF FINANCE                  URBAN ENV.SANITATION                            0.00         71.00          0.00                56.00        32.39          0.00
GH-PE-975          1996    GOVERNMENT                           BASIC EDUCATION                                 0.00         50.00          0.00                44.52        19.13          0.00
GH-PE-926          1995    GOVT OF GHANA                        THERMAL (P-VII)                                 0.00        175.60          0.00                55.10        45.93          0.00
GH-PE-948          1995    GOVERNMENT                           EDUC/VOC.TRNG                                   0.00          9.60          0.00                 6.38         4.17          0.00
GH-PE-960          1995    GOVT OF GHANA                        PRIV SECTORDEV                                  0.00         13.00          0.00                 9.67         7.74          0.00
GH-PE-962          1995    REP OF GHANA                         FISHEPJES                                       0.00          9.00          0.00                 5.13         2.44          0.00
GH-PE-966          1995    GOVERNMENT                           MINING SEC.DEV & ENV                            0.00         IZ30           0.00                 7.07         4.44          0.00
GH-PE-924          1994    GOVERNMBENT OF GHANA                 COMMUNITY WATER& SA                             0.00         21.96          0.00                 9.31         6.74          0.00
GH-PE-936          1994    GOVERNMENT                           LOCAL GOVT DEV.                                 0.00         38.50          0.00                18.10         8.03          0.00
GH-PE-961          1994    TBD                                  AGRIC SECTOR INVEST                             0.00         21.50          0.00                 6.95         3.14           -.75
GH-PE-930          1993    GOVERNMENT                           LIVESTOCK                                       0.00         2Z45          0.00                  3.03         3.51          3.51
GH-PE-953          1993    GOVT OF GHANA                        NATL ELECTRIFICATIO                             0.00         80.00          0.00                IZ26         14.03          0.00
GH-PE-956          1993    GOVERNMENT                           URBAN TRANSPORT                                 0.00         76.20          0.00                14.68        13.90          -1.85
GH-PE-931          1992    GOVERNMENT                           AGRIC EXIENSION                                 0.00         30.40          0.00                 7.21         6.56          6.56
GH-PE-918          1991    GOVTOFGHANA                          AGRIC DIVERS (TREE C                            0.00         16.50          1.85                 5.52         6.39          6.05
GH-PE-928          1991    GOVTOF GHANA                         AGRIC RESEARCH                                  0.00         22.00          0.00                 1.99          1.08         1.08
GH-PE-910          1990    REPUBLIC OF GHANA                    URBAN 1i(SEC CITIES)                            0.00         70.00          0.00                 2.65         -3.73         0.00
Total                                                                                                           0.00      1,036.06          1.85              510.56        221.08         14.60
Active Proiects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                       511.17                2,618.46              3,129.63
of which has been repaid:                            0.00                 243.33                 243.33
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                      1,034.21               2,263.60              3,297.81
Amount sold         :                                    0.00                   .38                   .38
Of which repaid    :                                   0.00*                   .38                   .38
TotalUndisbursed      :                               510.56-                 15.06                525.62
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Ghana
STATEMENT OF IFC's



Page 65
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Jan-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Comnitted                               Disbursed
IFC                                     IFC
FY Approval                  Company              Loan     Equity    Quasi    Partic      Loan      Equity    Quasi    Partic
1988189/91193               Bogosu                         6.48      1.72      5.35      13.44      6.48      1.72      5.35      13.44
1989/91/93                  Cont Acceptances               0.00       .88      0.00       0.00      0.00       .88      0.00      0.00
1989/92                     Wahome Steel                    .87       .44      0.00      0.00        .87       .44      0.00      0.00
1990                        AEF Alugan                     .05       0.00      0.00      0.00        .05      0.00      0.00      0.00
1990/91/96                  GAOL                           4.50      2.55      8.11      0.00       4.50      2.55      8.11       0.00
1991                        AEF Packrite                    .06      0.00      0.00      0.00        .06      0.00      0.00      0.00
1991                        GHANAL                         0.00       .44      0.00      0.00       0.00       .44      0.00      0.00
1991/92                     Hotel Inv. Ghana               1.63      0.00      0.00      0.00       1.63      0.00      0.00      0.00
1992                        AEF BMK                         .99      0.00      0.00      0.00        .99      0.00      0.00      0.00
1992                        AEF CFL                         .28      0.00      0.00      0.00        .28      0.00      0.00      0.00
1992                        AEF Polytex                     .02      0.00      0.00       0.00       .02      0.00      0.00      0.00
1992/93                     Ghana Leasing                  2.27       .75      0.00       0.00      2.27       .75      0.00       0.00
1993                        AEF Afariwaa                    .18      0.00      0.00       0.00       .18      0.00      0.00       0.00
1993                        AEF GHUMCO                      .15      0.00      0.00       0.00       .15      0.00      0.00       0.00
1993/96                     ECOBANK                        4.85      0.00      0.00       0.00       .75      0.00      0.00       0.00
1994                        AEF Shangri-la                 1.30      0.00      0.00       0.00      1.30      0.00      0.00       0.00
1994                        GHACEM                          .94      0.00      0.00       0.00       .94      0.00      0.00       0.00
1995                        AEF Dupaul Wood                 .50      0.00      0.00       0.00       .50      0.00      0.00       0.00
1996                        AEF Pako Bay                   0.00       .05      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
1996                        AEF Tacks Farms                 .37      0.00      0.00       0.00       .37      0.00      0.00       0.00
1997                        AEF PTS                        0.00      0.00       .31       0.00      0.00      0.00       .31       0.00
1998                        AEFNCS                         0.00      0.00       .67       0.00      0.00      0.00       .67       0.00
1998                        AEF Plantation                  .50      0.00      0.00       0.00       .36      0.00      0.00       0.00
Total Portfolio:                             25.94      6.83     14.44     13.44     21.70       6.78     14.44     13.44
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loa        q        Qud       Paric
1995                        AIEF GHANA PACK                 .36      0.00      0.00       0.00
Total Pending Commiiment:                     .36       0.00      0.00      0.00



Page es
Annex 11: Country at a Glance
Ghana at a glance                                                           9129/98
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                       Saharan      LOw-
Ghana    Afria   Income       Dtvelopmtnri damonde
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                    18.0      614    2,048                 Lifeexpectancy
GNP per capita (Atbs method, US$)                   370      500       350
GNP (Atlas msthod, US$ bilIons)                    6.7      309       722
Average annual growth, 199147
Population (V.)                                     2.7       2.7      2.1     GNP                            Gr
Laborforce (*A)                                     2.7       2.6      2.3    per                             Gross
Most recent esfb at (latest year available, 199147)                            capitak                     enrollment
Poverty (A. of population below national poveir line)  31
Urban population (t7 of total popultion)             37       32        28
Life expectancy at birth (oears)                     59       52        59
Infnt moartiiiy per 1,000 live baths)                69       90        78
Child malnutrition It of childron under 5)           27                 61               Access to safe water
Aeeess to safe water (% ofpcopulation)               56        44       71
Illiteracy i% ofpopuation age 16+)                   36       43        47
Gross primary enrolment ( ofschooh-ge population)    76        75       91      -     Ghana -    Low4ncome group
Male                                               83       82       100
Female                                            70         67       81
KEY ECONOWIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1996      1996      1997
Ecanorn le retle
GDP (IJSs billions)                        2.8      5.7       6.3      6.8
Gross domestic investmentlGDP              8.9      9.4      18.7      16.0                   Trade
Expofts of goods and seniceslGDP           15.7    16.6      27.2     24.8
Gross domestic savingsdGDP                 8.5      5.8       8.3      7.3
Gross national savingodGDP                 7.7      5.1      10.4       9.6
Current account balancelGDP                -3.8    -36       -8.3      6.4    nDomestet
Interest payrnentdGDP                      0.7      0.8       1.9       1.9    Savings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                            25.7    47.9       96.8      93.9     avn
Total debt service/exports                 5.8    28.5       27.1      33.7
Present value of deWGDP                                      58.5      55.3
Presentvalueofdebtfexports                                  211.2    218.1
Indebtedness
19764S  1987497    1996      1997  199842
(average annual growth)
GDP                                0.0      4.4     5.2       3.0       6.0      -Ghana -Low-income group
GNP per cpita                     -2Z8      1.6     2.4       0.4      3.1
Expofs of goods and services      -7.4     7.5    19.8       -4.0       6.2
STRUCTURE aftib ECONOMY
1976    19SS      1996      1"7      Orewthrlsefaioutputandltrwetmnmt(%)
(V. of GDP)                                                                    40
Agriculture                                50.6    47.8      44.4      474
Industry                                   19.2    17.2      16.6      16.6 2
Manufacturing                            13.1    11.1       9.4       9.5     o
Services                                  30.2    35.1       38.9      36.0   B20                04   s   9e   97
Prlvate consumption                       79.2    83.1       79.4     82.3   -40
General govemmentcoonsumpion               122     11.1      12.3      104                  lGDI        0-GDP
Imports of goods and services              16.0    20.1      37.6     33.5
197646  198747       1996     1997     rovA rete oftexporte and lmporoa(%)
(avetrages annual growtth)
Agriculture                                 1.0     2.4       4.0       2.2    oo
Industry                                  -5.8      4.6       4.2       4.8    20
Manufacturing                            -8.1      2.9       3.0      4.0        l.                       A
Services                                    1.5     6.6       6.5       3.2
Private consumption                        -0.1     3.6       5.0       4.6     0
General govemment consumption               2.2     5.6       3.4    -4.5             tt02  9a        59 59   J
Gross domestic investment                  -4.7     6.1      -1.4      17.7    10
Importsofgoodsandservices                  48       5.2      12.1      -07             -Exports    -Imlmport
Gross national product                     40.1     4.5       5.1       3 1
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with ts income-group averge. If data are missing, the diarmond will
be incomplete.



Page 67
Ghana
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986       1996     1997      Inflation (%)
Domastlc ptlces                                                                   s 
(% rhange)                                                                        s0
Consumer prices                                ..    24.6       45.6     27.9     4 
Implicit GDP deflator                        28.1    41.7       33.1     29.6
20
Governmentflnance
(% of GDP, nchides cunent grants)                                                  o
Current revenue                                ..    13.6       19.2     17.6             92   93   94   95   o6   97
Currnt budget balanoe                          ..      1.7       1.3      1.1             -GDP deflator    cCPI
Overall surpkis/defict                          ..    -3.3     -10.4     -8.6
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1976    1986       1996      1997      Exportand rhorptlevels (USS miEons)
Total exports (fob)                            ..    749       1,571    1,511     2,5D0
Cocoa                                         ..    503        552      464
Timber                                                44       147      165      2,000
Manufactures                                  ..       .         .         .     1.990
Total imports (ci)                                    806  2,119  1,964  1,                   Miii
Food                                          .      44         64       64
Fuel and energy                               ..    125        261      278       MD
Capital goods                                 .      129       489      396
Export pice index (1995=100)                   ..      99        91        92           91  12  93  94  95  95  97
Import price index (1995-100)                  .       76       102        96               aEoports     is Imports
Terms oftrade (1995=100)                       ..    130         90        95
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1976    1986       1996      1997      CurenritaccountbalancetoGDPratio(%)
Exports of goods and services                891      797      1,728    1,676      o
Imports of goods and services                951      968      2,388    2,265
Resource balance                             -59    -171        -661     -589
Net inoome                                    -42    -106       -141     -142
Net current transfers                         -4       73       276       296         I I                     l l '
Current account balance                      -105    -204       -525     *435    -10
Financing items (net)                         46      147       513       461
Changes in net reserves                       59       57        13       -25    -15
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ mlilons)        113      624       606       466
Conversion rate (DEC, blacVCS$)               2.4    89.3   1,637.0   2,053.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986       1996     1997
(USS millions)                                                                     CowposIton of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         711    2,743      6,141    6,339
IBRD                                        38      134        44        30                G        664 30
IDA                                         56      446      2,530    2,617
Total debt service                            52      228       476       578          F: 422
IBRD                                         5       18        13        15
IDA                                          0        5        28        30                                      B:2,617
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             31      118       206       216       E: 1.344
OffIcial credikors                          19      217       419       350
Pdvate creditors                            -8       77        -61      -76
Foreign direct investment                  -18        4        20        36
Portfolio equity                             0        0       100        46              D:608       C:654
Wodd Bank program
Commitments                                 25       99       275        51     A - IBRD                     E - sBaterat
Disbursements                               14      169       244       237     B- IDA    D - Other mutilateral   F - Private
Prindpal repayments                          2       10        20        23     C *IMF                       G - Short-term
Netilows                                    11      159       224       214
Interest payments                            3       13        21        23
Net transfers                                8      146       203       192
Development Economics                                                                                               9/29/98



Page 68
Annex 12: Letter of Development Program
from the Govemment of Ghana
THE VICE PRESIDENT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
THE CASTLE-OSU
MR. PETER HARROLD
WORLD BANK COUNT%RY
DIRECTOR FOR GHNA- ACCRA
PUBLIC SFCTOkMANAGFNT RFFRM PROGRAMM1&
STATEM1-NT OF DFVELOPMENT POLICY
1.    The thrust of che Economic Recovery Prograrrnmc (ER?) introduced in 1983 and its
associated Strucnaral Adjustment Programmes (SAP) has been to introduce fuLndamental
reforms to improve and strengthen thc macro-economic franework of the nlational economy.
This has lcd to sustained average GD? growth rae of about 4.5% per annum ovcr a decade.
1n order to consolidate and sustain the gains achieved by the ERP and SAP,   the
Government of Ghana embarked on a search for a long-term development direction. This
culmirated in the oublication of Gliana-Vision 2020 which articulates the long-term Vision
ofohana-achivi:ng a rniddlc-income country status by the year 2020.
2.    A pre-condition for achieving this vision is the nced for the Public Sector to enhance its
capacity to foTmulate and implement sound and effective policies and programTnes that will
improve the enviuorunent for Private Sector-led growth in tbe economy. Furthermore, the
concept of human-centered approach to development as manifested in Ghana-Vision 2020
has weighty imnfications for institutional structures. roles and procedures as they relate to
the functioning of the Public Administration System.
3.   -Current performance review of the Public Sector shows widespread lack of clear objectives
at agency levels and weak leadership at administrative levels. Though the Public Service is
generally overstaffed at the lower and semi-skillcd and functional levels there is a dearth of
capacity and exaertise in critical arcas such as policy analysis. planning, budgeting and
accounting. Meanwhile Ghana's public service remains bloated with about 600,000
employees in a country of about 18 million people. At the corc of the deep-seated problems
of the public service is the weak institutional capacity and inadequate remuneration and
incentives which has lcd to poor performance, unsatisfactory delivery of services in termns
of quantity, quality and time; ineffilciunniis in the use of public resourccs and apathy
towards the gcnuine needs o'f the public and the private sector.  Other organi-adonal



Page 69
deficiencies relate to duplication of functions, overlaps and unclear roles and mand, tc- .f
public sector agencies.  These problems Further manifest themselves in weak str.:ctums
(unclear responsibilities of public scetor institutions), systems (e.g. the rules governing the
use of human and financial resources) processes (e.g. Policy design. decision-making, and
implementation processes and linkage with resource allocation process), incentives (e.g.
Remuncration, and linkage with performance and productivity). Past attempts at reforming
the public sector did not achieve the desired results and impact largely due to the non-
comprehensiveness and non-strategic approach that was adopted. As a consequence the
refonn projects suffered from poor tirning and sequcncing. The initiatives also lackcd broad
based stakeholder participation leaving several unanswered questions about ownership of
the reform programrnes. The reforms therefbre yieldcd limited success and measured low
impact.
4.    In order to reverse this trend and improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the public
sector, Government under the National Tnstitutional Rencwal Programme (NTRP) has
dcsigned for implementation a Public Sector Management Reform Project which aims at:
* defining the rolc and functions of state;
*  designing appropriate institutions and systems to implement this role; and
* rationalizing the existing structure and systems to meet the new design.
5.    Several on-going  reform  initiatives including  Public Financial Management; new
remuneration and grading; restructuring of subvented agencies; realignment of central
management  agencies;  policy  formulation,  coordination. decision  making  and
implementation; civil service performance improvement and Decentralization seek to
transform the public sector. How:ver. the overall impact of most of thcse reforms has been
rclatively low. In most cases, it has proven difficult to movc from analysis to action and
implementation. This to a large extent is attributed to weak coordination mechanisms for
the implementation process coupled with unclear mandates of the driving forces to the
change process.
6.    Govement is desirous to achieve the strategic objectives of the NIRP viz: good
govemance; improved administrative environment for accelerated cconomic growth and
equitable social development; a compact public sector, and enhanced public-private sector
partnerships. Govemxnent recognizes that a sustained method for the attainment of these
objectives is that of a comprehensive, strategic and long-term approach that represents a
departure from previous attempts at-reforrns.
7.    In accordance with this approach the N'1RP has undertaken institutional appraisal of over
t 80 public agencies to ascertain their ftunctional and institutional strengths and weaknesses
in the areas of policy management; human resource planning and management; financial
resource management; cotporatc orzanisation and development including structures.
systems, processes, work anvironmcnt. attitudes and work ethics; public facilities
managnITnent; accountability and performancc management: and legal and administrativc
2



Page 70
issues. Scveral studies and research have also bccn completed providing recommendations
and the basis for adopting a public sector reform strategy. Additionally, the participatory
methodology adopted in the appraisal and research processes has encouraged government to
reach consensus with mnajor stakeholders including the private sector on the strategic issues
that need to bc considered in a major public sector management reform agenda.
8.    In  December 1997, the govemment approved a new Public Sector Re-invention and
Modemnisation Strategy for Ghana (PUSERMOS). The PUSERMOS seeks to provide the
framework for integrating, sequencing and monitoring reformns in identified critical but weak
arcas of Ghana's public sector. Generally the reforms involve significant changcs in many
aspects of the public sector viz: transforration of its structure, human resources, systems
and processes, accountability framework and its relations with the general public and the
private sector.
At the core of the reform strategy are institutional and human capacity enhancement
including structural re-alignment of agencies. introduction of output based processes,
systems and performance orientation and monitoring. Thesc arc cxpccted to improve thc
performance and build a compact, cfflcienit and output driven Public Service.  The
Modernisation stratcgy among other objectives, aims at enhancing the use of informatioT
technology especially elcetronic information nietworking at managerial points within the
Public Service.
9     In pursuant of these objectives. the govermnment intends to carry out policy and institutional
reforms that will facilitate the det=uination of the accurate size and cost of the public sector
as the basis for rightsizing and building a compact public service with a leaner central
government machinery.  The Government has so far taken  steps to transform  the
PUSELMOS into implcmcntablc projects focusing special attention on reform of subvented
agencies, adjustnent of Central Government Structures and organisations, improvement of
systems and processes and improvemcnt of National Policy Management.
Govem-nment has further committed itself to reviewing and reforming all public sector
institudons in terms of their mandate, approach and scope of activities. The new roles and
functions of organisations will be defined, the appropriate institutional framework and
systems to implement the new roles will be designed and installed, and structures will be
adjusted accordingly. Of crucial importance in the operationalization of PUSERLMOS and
ibmplementation of the reform  projects  is the integration of all the different reform
components into a comprehensive reform agenda and the logical sequencing of activities for
implementation.
10.  Trhe Subvented Agencies Reform aim at making the sector cost-offectivo and reduicing the
financial burden on government budget by cntically reviewing the mandates of the 176
subvented agencies, closing down those without a clear mandate, and restructuring those
with a viable mandate. The Subvented Agencies reforms pose perhaps the greatest challenge
to government.  Currently. most of the over 176 subvented agencies impose serious
financisd burden on go'"srnment because of theiT unsatisfactory corporate peforrace. For
3



Page 71
example. total payments to such agencies amounted to 117 billion cedis in 1995, 158 billion
cedis in 1996 and over 220 billion cedis in 1997. The current ulominal role is over 416O000
with 75% to 96% of subvention going to staff salaries. The poor performance of subvented
agencies is largely as a result of intcrnal managerial capacity deficiencies such as poor
planning, absent of key management systems and unclear objectives and targets, and
extemal regulatory deficiencies such as ineffective and diffused governance and legal
frameworks. The Govemment intends to close down or stop subvention to agencies whose
mandates are no longer valid on account of current government development policy
direction and denocratisation; restructure somc agencics with income gcnerating capacities
to providc own funding up to 30-70%/O of their expenditures' commercialise fully agencies
which bave valid mandates but undertake functions that are classificd as comnmercial. The
Govermnent in 1997 approved a prelimtinary list of subvented agencies to be either olosed
down. rTestruturd or commercialised. Only agcncies of strategic administrative significance
to govemment business will be maintained on full subvention. However, such agencies are
to be restructured for efficient performance, and improved supervision and managerial
compctence.
11. Reforrns relating to the adjustment of centual government structurcs and organisations will
involve a cntical review of the mandates, responsibilities and operational objectives of
CMAs, ministries and departments bascd on functional aid insticutional analysis. It will
rcmove duplications and overlaps, develop new roles and missions. and realign functions in
line with the decenuralisation policy with the staff size adequately curtailed. It aims at
improving service delivery and perfornance orientation based on clcarly defined output
targets, and at enhancing skills and capacity for efficicnt pubic sector management.
Presently, a draft report that reviews  the roles of government organisations and the
mandates of CMAs has been prepared. Performance outputs and targets would be assied
to each identified function and indicators reflecting best practice -or measuring perforrnmaice
would be assigned.
IZ.   Improvemcnt of systems and processes will specifically target systemic constraints in
Ghana's 'public sector. It will develop and implement some key ciements for effective
public sector operations including a human resource management system, a perforrance
manragement system, records management guidelines, facilities management, and incntive
system, and a management information system. These clernents are required to improve
public sector management and to sustain institutional changes. This component will also
develop and introduce a public-private partnership programme. This programme aims at
increasing private sector input (exchange programmes, joint activities etc.) and applying
private sector standards (audit, supervision etc) on government operations. It will enhance
cooperation at all lcvels of government, and actively involvc the private sector in policy
design and decision-making of goverrmunent (private sector representation on public sector
boards etc).
13.   The reform to improve national policy management is aimed at enhancinvg policy analysis
capacity and improving efriciency and transpazancy of policy design, co-ordinatiori and
implemnentation in the Office of the President, the Cabinet Secrctariat and public sector
4



agencies. It will develop and intoduce a Cabinet Handbook with guidelines and procedures
for effective policy management. The reforms also aim at introducing an effective system
for monitoring and tracking the implernentation of Cabinet decisions.
14    Govemmenznt intends to implement the public sector management reforms as a long term
adjustment project This will enable Ghana sustain the synergisuc benefits that would
accrue to the change process. This will also make possible the effective management of
difricult decisions which would have to be taken as a result of adjustment of the size of the
public sector and the institutional changes that may affect the existng environmnt.
15.   Government will pusue and en=surc the enactment of the legal framework rcquired to
support a successful implemcntation of the public sector management rcform programme
especial!y in the areas of subvented agencies reforms and institutional and finctional re-
alignment and restructuring of government agencies.
16.   The Govemment has committed itself firmly to implement this far reaching public sector
management reform proramme in order to create thc enabling environment that will makc
early impact on private scctor development and the attainmcnt of Ghana-Vision 2020 goals
and objectives. rn fulfillment of this comnmitnent the Govcmen= has re-organised the
National Overview Committee (NOC) to provide policy guidance and advice otl specialised
public sector reform issues. The NOC consists of stakeholders with either public scetor or
private sector interests. In order to ensure that these diverse interes are harmonised to
facilitate the implementation of the reforms, the President of Ghana has appointcd the Vice-
President as the Chairman of NOC. The roles of the NOC and the Vice-President serve as
the active force of the change process and the unwavering commitment of the government to
take decisive steps to act;ieve the objectives of the reform programme.
Yours faithfully,
A.            s
Pl~{F.  E. ATrA NULLS
VICE-PRESIDE.NT OF THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA AND
CHAIRMAN OF N.OC
THE CASTLE-OSU



Page 73
Annex 13:
List of Subvented Agencies (SAs)
(Preliminary classification**, staff size, expenditures)
Ghana
Public Sector Management Reform Program
CATEGORY I  To be closed down or not to be Subvented
Atual Expenditures 1995
No                   Name                   Current     1996       Personal         Gen.       Estimate 1996
nominal    Ceiling    Emoluments       Adnin.
roll
1    Dev. & Appl. Intermediate Technology     12         12         16,963,802     11,516,635      45,560,000
2*    GhanaNational ATLAS Project*            10         10         41,281,660      11,358,345     56,597,000
3     Ghana National Science and Tech.        37         41        105,977.083      10,840,550    136,612,000
4*    Public Servant Housing Loans Board*      -          -         22,157,181       4,388,980     40,940,000
5     Technical Services Center               29         29         22,845,967      4,350,000      30,233,000
6     National Teacher Training Council        -         -            -               -            43,000,000
7     hnst. for Education Planning and Admin.  14        14         28,535,190      17,714,997     82,440,000
8     Integrated CommL for Centers
Employment Skills                       9          28          8,352,371      19,673,040     42,837,000
9     Ghana Science Association                -         -          12,639,275      28,009,423     31,800,000
10    Ghana Academy of Arts & Science         10         10         27,166,426      19,185,282     59,700,000
11*   Encyclopedia Africana Project*          8          10         15,109,081      5,558,969      35,200,000
12    Organization of Trade Union Unity        -         -            -             3,883,000       5,364,000
13    Opportunities Industrialization Center  111       111        184,515,770      16,085,000    205,403,000
14    Ghana Co-operative Council              19         19         29,602,469      14,012,000     58,303,000
15    Ghana Co-operative College              12         12         20,017,249       5,480,000     46,089,000
16    Local Govemnment Training School        -          -            -             3,657,000       5,000,000
17   National Association of Local Authorities  13       9           4,500,000        -            11,560,000
18    Armed Forces Sports Control Board       -          -            -            20,000,000      30,000,000
19    Pan African Writers Association         7          15          7,740,000     24,020,000      34,000,000
20    All African Students Union               -         -           2,623,500       8,032,000     26,553,000
21    Ghana Book Development Council          17         17         11,638,926      15,199,500     44,900,000
22    Confiscated Assets Committee            14         14          7,615,908       5,767,242     33,650,000
23    Anned Forces School                      -         -             -            17,000,000     26,000,000
24    National Revenue Secretariat             -         -          31,669,458      15,470,548     57,166,000
25    Ghana Education Serice Council          13         -           7,394,394        240,000     178,168,000
* Institution/agency which might qualify for severance pay under Bank operational policy (see OPRDR Operational
Memorandum, March 5, 1996, on "Financing Severance Pay in Public Enterprise Reform operations"
** Classification is based on the assessment of GoG
- Figures not available



Page 74
CATEGORY I: Core Public Service (Wholly Subvented)**
Actual Expenditures 1995
No                 Name                  Current    1996       Personal        Gen.       Estimate 1996
nominal   Ceiling    Emoluments      Adnin.
roll
1    Forestry Commission                   33         33         47,126,132    27,771,746    130,214,000
2    Ghana Highways Authority             4,545      3,769    6,610,095,000  1,816,098,000    9,441,910,000
3    National Council for Tertiary Education  14      14         14,683,108    29,803,518    101,400,000
4    Iinmigration Service                  454       600        473,265,508   200,891,785    1,820,283,000
5    Prisons Service                      3,785      4,221    5,201,055,957  2,186,738,313   11,062,503,000
6    Police Service                       14,645    17,685   21,272,580,220  9,782,875,375   33,796,538,000
7    Serious Fraud Office                  180        185       332,179,490    36,000,000    474,024,000
8    General Legal Council                 61         61        332,179,490    36,000,000    474,024,000
9    Law Reform Commission                  18        22         37,931,292    7,380,677      79,544,000
10   Council for Law Reporting              28        32         78,631,202    8,150,990     121,248,000
11   Prices & Incomes Board                62         62        101,322,135    13,200,000    181,210,000
12   National Population Council           60        100         37,542,455    78,171,973    646,085,000
13   Statistical Service                    -         -       1,092,390,006   135,672,158    1,669,683,000
14   Fisheries Commission                   6         10         38,000,000    9,267,000      66,377,000
15   Ghana Veterinary Council               -         -          7,995,000     4,581,000      19,736,000
16   Environmental Protection Agency       115       175        243,144,040    44,882,785    460,120,000
17   National Accreditation Board           6         18         20,000,000    34,723,000    169,300,000
18   National Board for Prof. & Techn.      -         -         30,000,000    37,890,000      95,000,000
Examination
19   Divestiture Implementation Committee   18        18        21,533,000    12,631,000      34,164,000
20   Customs Excise & Preventive Service  3,560      3,530    8,095,269,000  2,634,691,000   16,407,705,000
21   Internal Revenue Service             2,160      2,310    9,459,243,000  1,112,841,000   21,928,824,000
22   Land Comission                        477       350        224,263,323   113,590,028    1,061,157,000
23   Minerals Commission                    -          -        151,893,691   113,722,041    683,891,000
24   National Commission on Children        54        78         43,561,258    36,261,389    333,060,000
25   NCWD                                   78        64        100,604,599    28,092,970    501,650,000
26   Ghana FAO Rep.                         3         3          97,808,700    72,590,300    233,511,000
27   National Road Safety Committee         11        15           -          56,212,500     116,922,000
28   Commission on Human Rights and        415       800      2,740,302,000   549,622,000    3,807,900,000
Administrative Justice
29   National Electoral Commission         878       938      1,264,757,000   332,450,000    2,246,600,000
30   National Commission for Civic Education  -      1,500    2,740,302,000   549,622,000    3,807,900,000
31   National Service Secretariat          206       206        378,505,982    69,958,787    576,144,000
32   Narcotics Control Board                25        37         31,107,347    56,882,465    116,406,000
33   Public Tribunals                                   -           -                   -
34   Legal Aid Board                       22         23         34,578,202    7,492,097      59,048,000
35   Ghana Education Service              159,104   165,925   95,923,360,881  8,209,621,177  309,743,768,000
36   Non Formal Education Division          -         -         259,796,672   212,832,097    3,968,000,000
* Classification is based on the assessment of GoG
- Figures not available



Page 75
CATEGORY III - To be Wholly Commercialized**
Actual Expenditures 1995
No                  Name                   Current     1996        Personal         Gen.       Estimate 1996
nominal   Ceiling    Emoluments         Admin.
roll
1*    Ghana University Press*                 15         15         28,821,272     27,334,044      43,700,000
2     Institute of Chartered Accountants       -         -          84,643,681     154,540,587     21,991,000
3*   International Students Hostel*            -         -            -              7,520,520     25,908,000
4     Land Valuation Board                   968        968        673,752,303     107,342,750   1,535,302,000
5*    HOTCATT*                                21         30           -               -              -
6     Land Title Registry                     46         57         26,357,069      24,521,000     98,031,000
7*    Ghana Broadcasting Corporation*        1,919      1,945     5,604,782,000   236,837,000       7,285,000
8*    Ghana News Agency (Ghana)*             230        235        743,017,000     187,029,000    967,865,000
9*    Ghana News Agency (London)*                          -                          -              -
10*   National Theater*                       62         75         55,276,000     37,040,000     282,500,000
11*   Ghana Dance Ensemble*                   60         60         77,849,000     29,648,000     109,200,000
CATEGORY IV: To be Franchised or Contracted out with subsides (PartiaBy Subvented)**
Actual Expenditures 1995
No                  Name                   Current     1996        Personal         Gen.       Estimate 1996
nominal    Ceiling    Emoluments       Admin.
roll
I     Grains and Legumes Dev. Board          173        160        309,802,000     44,808,000     389,683,000
2     Irrigation Development Authority       377        360        765,856,000     217,835,000   1,080,866,000
3     Forestry Research Institute            294        294        471,629,000      21,996,000    732,213,000
4     Ghana Export Promotion Council          75         88         88,332,689     43,112,995     365,525,000
5*    Ghana Tourist Board*                    125       145        358,636,575      89,711,000    590,572,000
6     Ghana Standards Board                  388        388        509,595,553     171,568,178   1,814,068,000
7     NBSSI                                  204        172        189,004,000      62,418,650    544,189,000
8     Secretariat (CSIR)                     300        356        786,201,822     120,345,701   1,182,675,000
9     Crops Researchistitute                 624        550        831,134,402      31,600,001    969,139,000
10    Animal Research Institute              292        303        427,276,368     29,190,371     594,831,000
11    Soil Research Institute                407        410        458,578,356     20,920,000     629,668,000
12    Soil Research Center                    32         31         54,289,137      8,492,000      66,004,000
13    Building and Roads Research Institute  301        201        584,200,000     32,300,150     664,678,000
14   FoodResearchInstitute                   182        182        394,243,415     66,617,318     510,993,000
15   Institute of Aquatic Biology            125        125        268,758,131      30,727,000    378,103,000
16   Industrial Research istitute            104        104        326,219,755     38,337,698     406,424,000
17    Water Resources Res. Institute         155        155        410,467,877      16,396,050    497,673,000
18    OilPalmResearchlnstitute               696        550        658,000,205     37,570,000     611,389,000
19    Scientific Instrumental Center          58         52        139,352,861     41,169,485     233,750,000
20    Nyakpala Agric. Research Institute      548       507        480,500,000     116,644,000    767,793,000
21    Ghana Grains Development Project       366        360        591,363,602     142,500,001    808,606,000
22*   Technology Transfer Center*              -         -             -              -              -
23    Plant Genetic Research                  121        96         88,408,000      48,400,000    295,810,000
* Institution/agency which might qualify for severance pay under Bank operational policy (see OPRDR Operational
Memorandum, Mfarch 5, 1996, on "Financing Severance Pay in Public Enterprise Reform operations"
** Classiflcation is based on the assessment ofGoG
- Figures not available



Page 76
Actual Expenditures 1995
No                 Name                   Current     1996       Personal         Gen.       Estimate 1996
nominal   Ceiling    Emoluments       Admin.
roll
24    Government Technical Training Center   32        36         57,289,964     26,984,750     94,487,000
25    Ghana Library Board                   471        500       492,148,018    258,786,991    886,000,000
26    University of Ghana                   2,197     2,197     4,937,321,331   1,257,699,641   7,950,000,000
27   University of Science & Technology    2,565      2,720     4,322,359,683   1,818,473,849   7,320,000,000
28    School of Administration              117        118       335,133,093     83,946,623    509,000,000
29   University of Cape Coast               1,372     1,380     2,903,483,225   1,058,581,957   4,518,000,000
30   Institute of Africa Studies             74        74        181,377,161     33,459,142    260,000,000
31   Inst. of State Soc. Econ-Res. (ISSER)   38        40        119,604,214     16,092,913     189,500,000
32   Inst of Adult Education                186        199       327,483,098    147,006,359    650,000,000
33    College of Arts UST                    -          -        342,020,843     36,390,531    494,000,000
34   University of Ghana Medical School     440        461      1,342,346,790   239,464,456   1,636,600,000
35   VoltaBasinResearchhistitute             -          -         43,838,024      6,121,830     67,300,000
36   University Research Stations            -          -        426,690,792     71,311,247    557,500,000
37   Regional istitute for Population Studies  28      33         58,106,051      12,880,106    76,300,000
38    School of Medical Science (UST)        -          -        567,828,031     138,377,766    847,000,000
39    School of Agric (Cape Coast)          101        105       241,421,667     86,458,315    425,000,000
40   Mi. of Energy - Technical Division      -          -        184,566,897    221,897,638    576,753,000
41   State Enterprises Commission            48        71         42,453,544     46,189,251    218,325,000
42   Boadi Cattle Project (UST)              -          -         35,862,145     21,344,602     61,000,000
43   Noguchi Memorial Institute             123        131       342,224,441     65,624,350    489,900,000
44    Technical Cons. Center (UST)           -          -         66,348,176     27,439,360     111,000,000
45   Ghana Res. Appr. Tech. lId. Sch.       190        190       382,585,318     83,520,019    630,720,000
(GRATIS)
46    Science Tech. Policy Research Institute  37      37        104,807,798     26,708,599     172,278,000
47   Accra Polytechnic                      133        310       508,371,010     53,354,488    745,000,000
48   Cape Coast Polytechnic                  61        85         68,538,183      16,010,189    215,118,000
49   Takoradi Polytechnic                   199        250       323,400,080     63,838,948    787,000,000
50   Kumasi Polytechnic                     158        320       372,976,779     49,958,063    735,000,000
51   Tamale Polytechnic                     143        141       187,624,523     64,639,947    410,000,000
52   Distance Education                      -          -            -           60,623,500    266,500,000
55   University College of Education        490        899      1,018,116,769    400,116,867   3,522,000,000
56    St John's Ambulance Brigade            7          8          7,262,000      2,450,000      12,000,000
57    Scientific Research into Plant Medicine  -        -        421,182,000     101,567,000    589,501,000
58   Jachie Training Center                  23         -         24,775,425      6,481,000     41,606,000
60   Jirapa Orphange                         12         -          7,204,428      2,758,000      12,595,000
61    Abor Reh. Center                       22         -         13,793,000        -            19,055,000
62    GhanaNational Commission-Local         12        12         20,465,111      14,932,140    67,000,000
(UNESCO)
63    School of Engineering                  -          -        620,181,398     105,590,506    830,000,000
64   Inst. of Renewable Nat. Res. (USf)      -          -        143,757,915      17,632,675    166,000,000
65    School of Performing Arts              79        87         195,302,796     98,620,528    337,000,000
66    Ghana Institute of Language            82        90         181,234,962     36,705,080    324,000,000
67   Institute of Professional Studies       76        80        204,766,800      36,278,480    629,200,000
68   University of Development Studies       92        200       275,010,000     875,739,232   1,346,000,000
69   University of Ghana (London)            -          -            -              -              -
70   Dental School                           20        53         25,341,802      24,458,201    237,400,000
71   National Sports Council                464        464       803,248,000      83,517,000    944,675,000
** Classification is based on the assessment of GoG
- Figures not available



Page 77
Actual Expenditures 1995
No                 Name                   Current     1996       Personal        Gen.        Estimate 1996
nominal   Ceiling    Emoluments       Admin.
roil
72   National Youth Organizing Committee    358        393       635,397,000     191,124,000   981,226,000
73    National Sports College, (Wimneba)     26        28         24,936,000     37,805,000     80,699,000
74   Pharmacy Board                          -          -         88,109,000     40,673,000    216,829,000
75   Medical & Dental Council                11        11         13,537,000      10,009,000    58,365,000
78    Christian Health Association          6,003     6,303     5,847,000,000       -         8,241,756,000
79    MDPI                                  103        108       211,814,289     63,417,000    289,108,000
80   National Vocational Training School     -          -        483,609,000     39,870,000    723,181,000
81    Schoolof Social Work                   40        80         31,145,408      9,661,000     45,673,000
82*   Ashanti Mampong Babies Home*           -          -         21,281,411     21,954,000     68,059,000
83    GTMPA                                 314        314       191,754,227     123,448,569   1,158,203,000
84    Ghana Atomic Energy Commission        367        378       958,675,000    353,905,135   1,441,373,000
85*   Ghana News Agency*                    230        235       743,017,000     187,029,000    967,865,000
86    Ghana hnst of Journalism               63        63         150,773,000    28,120,000    213,532,000
87   National Film and TV Insttute          109        112       239,496,000     94,861,000    437,973,000
88   Legon Center for International Affairs  13        14         34,864,709      18,103,128    62,927,000
89   Veterans Association of Ghana          107        100        85,489,000      2,652,000     114,643,000
90    Ghana Armed Forces Staff College       -          -            -           93,000,000     130,000,000
91*   National Symphony Orchestra*           62        62         73,562,000      17,447,000    101,800,000
92*   Abibigroma Theatre Company             32        38         59,849,000     23,720,000     75,900,000
93*   Museum and Monuments*                 382        385       486,012,000     36,565,000     507,100,000
94*   Ghana Dance Ensemble*                  60        60         77,849,000      29,648,000    109,200,000
95*  W.E.B. de Bois Memorial Center*         27        27         36,845,000      18,187,000     55,700,000
96*   Kwame Nkrumah National Park*           22        25          7,228,000      7,530,000      30,000,000
97    School of Communication Studies        20        22        136,289,866      15,916,613    145,399,000
98    Ghana investment Center                69        75        258,254,271     90,263,741    565,482,000
99    School of Mines - Kumasi               -          -         90,404,473     48,572,645     164,000,000
100   School of Mines - Tarkwa               -          -        648,245,351    378,308,387   1,058,000,000
101  Nurses and Midwives Council             37        37         65,724,000     85,098,000    339,854,000
102  Regional Maritime Academy              118        114       750,000,000        -          975,000,000
* Institution/agency which might qualify for severance pay under Bank operational policy (see OPRDR Operational
Memorandum, March 5, 1996, on "Financing Severance Pay in Public Enterprise Reform operations"
:* Classification is based on the assessment of GoG
- Figures not available



IBRD 23606
30                              5'                               1'                               P                                1                                  2
BURKINA FASO                                            / RsIgu
rIl                                            IPPERPul mokorn
UPPER .                        do                     osma                                            GHANA
'_ WA  >    \ B ulenga .                                             <                                                      pJv  % g . . Korogs  )  PRIMARY ROADS
*   +1  )   > \.  Wupt   (         SECONDARY ROADS
TERTIARY ROADS
DbupayL                                                                                RAILWAYS
REGION HEADQUARTERS
jCh   h   )f0\ a m u g     1  NATIONAL CAPITAL
REGION BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
The boundaries, colors,
D'IOIE                                                                                                                              denominations and  any
Ka)|  /i. iother information shown
D'IVOIRE         jimply, on  the part of
mb   isn The World  Book Group,
any ju gmast on the ! sIol
staitus of any terrtr,
B-                                                                                                    or any  endarsnment
.'          ,'                                                                                                    mbai              or acceptance of such
0Sornpa  /                   D                                      0                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~boundaries. 
,  .  'i             . 8B,'RONG-AH                                 .I            & 1                1
0   50  20   50  45  55 ILES
B.k.                                                                tX Bib0 50                                       6= niin \,LOEVERS
k        In~~~~a\,BbIUaITO/
Obna.        ,~t         Oa"nsms
\~ ~~~~ptk                          Tur a                       t;'       ~      'Ania    
-64 ' ' ,, 2 et.,                                                                KOFORII2A q>)  "g ? :yhXt,r
\                         7N.jl                                    do\       \t                              005n tEl/CmSt0bi \S00 ,unman                                     t
Rbo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~O   Ofukw                      GUNE                                        co                       t   RDDN>    i             0;. MURTNA{  < 
FEBRUARY 1995



