Report No. PID7458
Project Name                     Ghana-Public Sector Management...
Reform Program
Region                           Africa
Project ID                       GHPE50615
Borrower                         Government of Ghana
Implementing Agency              NIRP-Secretariat, Office of the President
Dr. Appiah Koranteng, National Coordinator
P.O. Box 1618, Accra/Ghana
Phone: +233-21-780295, Fax: +233-21-780294
Date PID prepared                March 22, 1999
Project Appraisal date           February 1999
Projected Board date             May 4, 1999
1. Country background
Though the experience with fiscal adjustment since 1994 has been mixed, Ghana
has recently made strong progress in restoring macroeconomic stability. In
1997, the domestic primary surplus (defined as domestic revenues less
domestically financed non-interest expenditures) increased by an unprecedented
3 percentage points of GDP; and the rate of inflation was brought down from 40
to 20 percent. The macroeconomic situation has continued to improve in 1998
despite the energy crisis that hit the country particularly during the second
quarter of the year. Real GDP growth in 1998 is expected to be strong (4.5
percent). The annual rate of inflation declined to 15.7 percent at December
1998. Medium-term projections for Ghana assume further economic stabilization,
and strong economic growth averaging 5.5 percent per annum.
3. Sector background
In 1994, the Government of Ghana (GoG) created the National Institutional
Renewal Program (NIRP) in order to focus and give strategic direction to the
many reform activities taking place within the public sector. The program
includes efforts to reform financial management, a new remuneration and
grading system, reform of the subvented agencies (implementing agencies which
derive their funding from public subsidies), and a proposal to strengthen
policy formulation and the decision making process within the administration
and the Cabinet.
To further articulate and specify a clear vision for Ghana indicating the
long-term direction of the development, in 1995 the GoG published the "Ghana:
Vision 2020" document. The major objective of this strategic document is to
systematically reduce poverty through macroeconomic stability and to promote
sustained accelerated economic growth. A pre-condition for achieving this
objective is the existence of an efficient public sector which designs and
implements consistent policies and creates an enabling environment for private
sector-led development.
In October 1997 the NIRP Secretariat issued the "Public Sector Re-invention
and Modernization Strategy for Ghana: Transforming Vision into Reality"
(PUSERMOS). In this strategic document government has committed itself to



reform the public sector, in particular review and reform public sector
institutions in terms of their mandate, approach and scope of activities. The
document provides a framework for integrating, sequencing and monitoring the
reforms which address the key weaknesses of the public sector: lack of
qualified staff in critical areas such as economics, finance, policy analysis,
general management and information systems combined with inadequate
incentives; confused regulatory and organizational environment; weaknesses in
systems for planning, budgeting, implementation and monitoring combined with
an inefficient management regime.
4. Program objectives
The objective of the Public Sector Management Reform Program is to improve
efficiency, effectiveness and quality of public services in Ghana. It aims at:
- Redefining the role and functions of the state,
- Designing appropriate institutions and systems to implement this role, and
- Rationalizing the existing structure and systems to meet the new design.
5. Program description
The program would assist the GoG in its efforts to move from the planning to
the implementation stage of the reform agenda. It develops a critical path for
public sector reform in Ghana which integrates the various activities at the
different levels of government and provides guidelines for the step-by-step
implementation of the reforms. The program targets the central government
level which it aims to restructure in line with the decentralization policy of
the GoG. It will be coordinated with sector related activities of the Bank
(particularly health & education) and other donors (decentralization).
The program will address three different areas which have been identified as
the essential elements for the public sector reform agenda:
- Reform of Subvented Agencies (SAs)
This component aims at making the sector cost-effective and reducing the
financial burden on government budget by critically reviewing the mandates of
about 150 subvented agencies, closing down those without a clear mandate, and
restructuring those with a viable mandate;
- Adjustment of central government structures and organizations
This component would critically review the mandates, responsibilities and
operational objectives of central management agencies, ministries &
departments based on a functional analysis. It will remove duplications and
overlaps, develop new roles & missions, and realign functions in line with the
decentralization policy with the staff size adequately curtailed. It aims at
improving service delivery and performance orientation based on clearly
defined output targets, and at enhancing skills and capacity for efficient
public sector management;
- Improvement of systems and processes
This component will specifically target systemic constraints in Ghana's public
sector. It will develop and implement some key elements for effective public
sector operations including a human resource management system, a performance
management system, an incentive system, and a management information system.
This component will also develop and introduce a public-private partnership
program. This program aims at increasing private sector input and applying
private sector standards on government operations;
- 2 -



The program complements ongoing reform activities by the Bank or other donors.
It will build on these activities and integrate them into a comprehensive
reform agenda.
6. Program financing
The entire program costs are estimated at US$ 173.0 million to be spent over a
period of eleven years. The program will be implemented in three phases with a
first phase of three years. The costs for this phase are estimated at US$ 19.2
million with the Bank contributing US$ 14.3 million of the total costs of
phase I.
Bank assistance for the entire program (in total US$ 83.5 million) will mainly
focus on two areas:
- Support of consultancy services for the different program components (30w
of total program costs),
- Costs for retraining of public servants to enable them to effectively
fulfill their new roles and responsibilities (9t of total program costs).
As a consequence of the reform process a significant number of public servants
must leave the public sector. Therefore, termination and redundancy benefits
have been built into the program. Based on a comprehensive social assessment,
an alternative employment concept will be developed to carefully establish
eligibility criteria for severance payments and identify the public servants
who qualify under these criteria. It is estimated that approximately 10t of
the employees of the targeted institutions will be eligible for termination
and redundancy benefits. These payments represent 57T of total program costs.
Under its current operational policies IDA is able to support severance pay as
part of a technical assistance operation only for a limited number of
subvented agencies. It is estimated that only 2000 public servants are
eligible for IDA funded severance pay. With budgetary support from IDA the GoG
will provide adequate assistance to civil servants and public servants of
subvented organization which do not meet the requirements of IDA policy.
7. Program implementation
The Public Sector Management Reform Program has been designed as an eleven-
year Adaptable Program Lending (APL) operation with a first phase of three
years, and two subsequent phases of four years each.
The first phase (1999 - 2001) would concentrate on first implementation steps
in priority areas (closing down or restructuring some pilot Subvented
Agencies, realigning some pilot government agencies, introducing key systems,
etc.), and thus set the stage for full scale implementation. Assuming that
performance expectations have been met during the first phase the second phase
(2002 - 2005) would broaden the reform and expand the focus to all levels of
central government (e.g. a first group of Subvented Agencies closed down or
restructured, and realignment of a number of sector ministries and
departments). The third phase (2006 - 2009) would further advance the reform,
particularly focusing on the Subvented Agency sector and on reforming
processes and structures in the remaining ministries and departments at the
central government level.
8. Program sustainability
Ongoing support for the different components of the reform agenda will be
-3 -



necessary during and beyond implementation. This refers to staff,
infrastructure and maintenance which is needed to administer new systems and
processes as well as other components. The necessary costs for these elements
must be taken into consideration and integrated into the government's budget.
In addition, it is of crucial importance to maintain a participatory approach
involving all relevant stakeholders during and beyond implementation of the
reform program. The government will therefore continue to effectively build
ownership and internal/external support for the reforms.
9. Lessons learnt from part operations
It has been difficult to achieve concrete and measurable results with regard
to more efficient and effective public services in Ghana. A first civil
service reform project which was launched in 1987 had few positive results
because it lacked ownership by major stakeholders and did not sufficiently
focus on systemic constraints. Other public sector reform activities were
equally ineffective because they too narrowly focused on sector issues. The
proposed program is different: It will specifically target underlying systemic
constraints by developing and reforming key systems and processes which are
triggers for effective public sector operations. The institutional changes
proposed in this program cover the entire central government level. The
program design also reflects the need to involve all major stakeholders in the
reform process.
Important additional lessons from other projects, particularly from previous
public sector reform projects include:
- A long-term, strategic approach to technical assistance which is not
"donor-driven" is needed to achieve sustainable results. Previous projects
were predominantly focused on achieving macroeconomic targets. Neither did
they provide enough room nor sufficient time for a complex reform agenda which
is based on institutional development and capacity building. This program
proposes a long-term adjustment process. It particularly addresses underlying
systemic constraints and necessary institutional changes which can only be
achieved over a longer period of time.
- A strong discipline for the implementation process needs to be established
to ensure progress towards long-term objectives and a constant reassessment of
all significant program elements. Previous public sector reform projects
failed because of insufficient control mechanisms and a weak project
implementation discipline. A main emphasis of program preparation and the
first phase of the program was/is therefore to establish a comprehensive
project management system that is able to effectively monitor the
implementation process. This also includes more and closer monitoring by the
Ghana Office of the Bank.
- More attention needs to be paid to monitoring the quality of technical
assistance outputs to measure the overall performance of the program.
Performance indicators which focus more on quality, process and behavior will
be developed to sufficiently assess progress.
- Local "champions" who know what they want and who know how to operate are
important success factors. The first phase of the program will particularly
focus on identifying managers who are able to push the reform process forward.
- Explicit attention needs to be given to the institutional environment which
plays a crucial role during the implementation of the reform agenda. A
significant amount of training and institutional development has therefore
been built into the program.
- The various donor activities need to be better coordinated to avoid
friction and to rationalize activities. The key elements of the program have
- 4 -



been discussed with other major donors. Effective coordination during program
implementation will be ensured.
10. Poverty category
The program will indirectly contribute to poverty alleviation in Ghana. The
comprehensive reform of structures, organizations, systems and processes in
Ghana's public sector is expected to improve overall fiscal performance. The
medium term impact on the government budget will free funds for direct poverty
alleviation activities.
11. Environmental aspects
The program will have no negative environmental impact. It is a category C
project requiring no further environmental analysis.
12. Program objective categories
The program is consistent with the Bank's CAS for Ghana (Report No. 17002-GH,
date August 13, 1997, and discussed by the Board on September 2, 1997) in that
it aims to improve overall fiscal performance through comprehensive reform of
structures, organizations, systems and processes in Ghana's public sector.
13. Contact Point:                The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 26, 1999.
- 5-



