Page  1
April
25,
1997
The Hon. Richard Kwame Peprah
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box M 40
Accra, Ghana
Re:
Japanese Grant for the Public Sector Management Reform Project
Grant TF027006
Dear Sir:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to 
indicate IDA's agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an 
amount not exceeding three hundred and ninety-five thousand US dollars (US$395,000) (the Grant) to 
the Republic of Ghana
(the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and 
for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The 
Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and 
withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.
Upon receipt by IDA
of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become
effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Serge Michailof
Country Director for Ghana
Africa Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By:
__________________________
Richard Kwame Peprah
Minister of Finance
Page  2
Date: May
21
,
1997
__
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Activities
1.1.
The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
The Grant will support the activities of the National Technical Group (
NTG
), which is the 
technical secretariat of the National Institutional Renewal Program.  The NTG is in turn supported by 
national and international consultants.  The work program of the National Institutional Renewal 
Program, dated February
1997, contains three principal sets of activities:
(a)
Strengthening the leadership and coordination role of the National Overview Committee, 
which is the steering committee for the National Institutional Renewal Program.
Activities include:
development of a
"strategic map" of Ghana's public administration;
endorsement of a monitorable set of indicators covering the range of public
sector reform activities now underway in Ghana; and
design and implementation of a public communications program to raise
awareness of the National Institutional Renewal Program.
(b)
Strengthening policy resource linkages in public sector management.
Activities include:
reinforcement of central policy guidance structures through the establishment
of a Policy Management Group in the Office of the President.
(c)
Reforming the regulatory environment in the public sector.
Activities include:
proposal of appropriate governance frameworks for subvented agencies and
for other categories of agencies in the public sector.
2.
Implementation Generally
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and efficiency; (b) 
promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) 
furnish all information covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall 
reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views with IDA's representatives on the progress 
and results of the Activities; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable IDA to visit the 
territory of the Republic of Ghana for purposes related to the Grant. Without limitation on the 
foregoing, the Recipient shall, if IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish to IDA promptly upon 
completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to IDA, on the results and 
impact of the Activities.
Page  3
3.
Procurement
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants
’
services required for the 
carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by 
the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its books in the 
name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the Grant
% of
Allocated
Expenditures to
Item
(in US Dollars
)
be Financed
Consultants’
395,000
100%
services,
workshops
and training
TOTAL
395,000
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph
4.2 above no withdrawals shall be made: (i) for 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by IDA;
(ii) on 
account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of IDA or for services supplied 
from such territories; (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, if such payment, to 
IDA’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; or (v) after December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
IDA shall establish by written notice to the Recipient
(the Closing Date), except that withdrawals may 
be made for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding application is 
received by IDA within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount of the Grant 
remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by IDA.
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of Finance or 
such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) be accompanied by such 
evidence in support of the application as IDA shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen 
signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first 
application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant and 
its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy IDA that the Recipient is 
entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the 
carrying out of the Activities.  IDA shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant 
Page  4
Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) services of consulting firms costing less than $50,000 
equivalent; and (b) services of individual consultants costing less than $15,000 equivalent, all under 
such terms and conditions as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  IDA, at 
the Recipient
’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of the 
Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of 
this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such value shall be 
as reasonably determined by IDA.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain in dollars 
a
special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Attachment II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records and accounts adequate 
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of the Activities of the departments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out 
the Activities or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in subparagraph (a) 
above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to IDA; (ii) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to IDA such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as IDA shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account were 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be 
maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal 
year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable IDA’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included 
in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
Page  5
6.1.
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals under any development credit agreement with IDA 
shall have been suspended.
6.2.
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph
6.1
above; or
(b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, within 
six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities.
Attachment I
Procurement
Section I
.
Consultants
’
Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the Introduction 
and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” published by IDA in January 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section I.
Part B
:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants
’
Qualifications
Services for technical reports and studies and for administrative support to the NIRP Secretariat 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.1
and
3.7
of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for high-level strategic advice and advice on comparative international experience of a 
type typically provided by international experts, estimated to cost less than $90,000 equivalent per 
contract, may, with IDA's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs
3.8
through
3.11
of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for workshop facilitation shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Page  6
Guidelines.
Part C
:
Review by IDA of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the 
selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to IDA for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection 
of all consultants
’
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have 
been approved by IDA, and with the provisions of said paragraph
1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more, and each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $15,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other 
than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph
1
of
this Part, the procedures set forth in 
paragraph
4
of Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible items" means the items set forth in the table in paragraph 4.2 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost 
of services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $75,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph
3
(a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly 
Page  7
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, IDA shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw 
from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to IDA 
requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as IDA shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to IDA 
the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Attachment for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, IDA shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by IDA from the Grant Account under the eligible item(s), and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at 
such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph
3
of
this Attachment, IDA shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be made 
by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period of time specified 
in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the 
Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph
6.1
of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that IDA shall have been satisfied that all such 
Page  8
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to IDA, the Recipient shall, promptly 
upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such additional evidence as IDA may request; or (B) deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless IDA shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by IDA into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such outstanding amount.
