Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5245-PO
PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A COAL HANDLING PORT PROJECT
March 27, 1985
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency is expressed in Portuguese Escudos (Esc.) or US Dollars
(US$) based on a determination made in January 1984 at a currency exchange
rate of Esc. 135 = US$1.0.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
Units and Measures
The metric system has been used.
Principal Abbreviations and Acronyms
APS          - Administragao do porto de Sines
CP           - Caminhos de Ferro Portugueses
CNP          - Companhia Nacional de Petroguimica
DGE          - Directorate General for Energy
DGP          - Direccao Geral dos Portos
DGTT         - Direcqao Geral dos Transportos Terrestres
DWT          - Deadweight ton
ED?          - Electricidade de Portugal
EPG          - Empresa de Petroquimica e Gas
GAS          - Gabinete da Area de Sines
GEPTC        - Gabinete de Estudos e Planeamento de
Transportos e Communicaaoes
GDP          - Gross Domestic Product
GRT          - Gross registered ton
JAE          - Junta Autonoma das Estradas
LNG          - Liquefied Natural Gas
MIEE         - Ministry of Industry, Energy and Exports
MES          - Ministerio do Equipemento Social
MS           - Ministry of the Sea
MT           - Metric ton
MW           - Megawatt
NEP          - National Energy Plan
PETROGAL     - Petroleos de Portugal
PETROQUIMICA - Companhia Nacional de Petroquimica
PERL         - Public Enterprise Restructuring Loan
PIDDAC       - Investment and Development Spending
Program for the Central Administration
RN           - Rodoviaria Nacional
TAP          - Air Portugal
t.o.e.       - Tons of Oil Equivalent
UNCTAD       - United Nations Conference on Trade and
-   Development



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
PORTUGAL
COAL HANDLING PORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  THE TRANSPORT AND ENERGY SECTORS ..........................    1
TRANSPORT..z ...........................................   1
A.  The Transport System ..................................  I
B.  Transport Planning and Policy_ ....................... as  2
C.  Transport Sector Issues ...............................  3
D.  The Port Subsector  . ........................................ .  3
ENERGY     .................................................   5
E.  The Energy Problem ....................................   5
F. The National Energy Plan ..............................  5
G.  Sectoral Organization .................................  6
H.  Power System Development Program ......................  6
PREVIOUS BANK PROJECTS IN THE TRANSPORT AND ENERGY SECTORS 7
II. THE PORT OF SINES ..      ..    ............... ..        . .  7
A.  Situation and Access ...  ......... ..... .               7
B.  Port Facilities ........... o.  . .........................  8
C.  Organization, Management and Staffing        ...   10
D.  Operations .    .      .......................................... 14
E.  Port Planning and Development           . . . .   14
F. Budget, Accounting, Controls and Auditing, Tariffs
and Insurance                  ....  15
G.  Training ............................................. .  18
This report has been prepared by Messrs. D. Grant Duff (Senior Port Engineer),
M. Loir (Financial Analyst) and E.P. Vasur (Economist) following their
appraisal mission to Portugal in May/June 1984.
This doumnent has a resticted diibution and nmy be used by recpens only in the perfonnfme of
thei ofrfcial duties. Its contents may not otherwie be discdosed without World Bnk authoriZtn



Page No.
III.  THE PROJECT ...............................................  18
A. Background and Relationship to the Power Sector
and the Master Plan ................................     18
B. Project Objective   ........       ........   19
C. Engineering and Planning Aspects  ...............*.   19
D. Details of the Project ...... . . .    21
E. Cost Estimates .. ......................................2.3
F. Financing Plan .     .    .......................................  24
G. Status of Preparation and Procurement .................  26
H. Project Execution ...... . . .                            30
I. Disbursements ........................................    30
J. Operational Targets ..........                            31
K. Environmental Aspects .    .    ...............................  31
L. Employment Impact .    .     ...................................  31
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION .......................................  32
A. Project Context ........................................ 32
B. The Project ............................ .. ..... .....  32
C. Traffic Forecasts .....................................  33
D. Evaluation of Alternatives ............................  34
E.  Mbster  Plan ..........................................  37
F. Conclusion ........................................       37
V.  FINANCIAL EVALUATION ................................. ... .   38
VI.  RECOMMENDATIONS ........................................  44
Annexes
1. Petroleum Price Structure .     . ...............................  48
2. West Breakwater Repair Program ............................  49
3. Staff Organization of GAS .     . ................................  52
4.  Staff Organization of APS .    . ...............................  53
5. Project Cost Estimate .....................................   54
6. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements           . . .           55
7. Project Execution Timetable .     . .............................  56
8.  Studies       ........................................       57
(i)   PORT MANAGEMENT STUDY .............................. 57
(ii)  WEST BREAKWATER REPAIRS ............................  60
(iii)   COAL TRANSPORT TO FUTURE EDP'S POWER STATIONS ...... 61



Annexes cont'd                                                  Page No.
9.  Summary of Annual Commodity Tonnage ......................   63
10. Alternative to the Project ...............................   64
11. APS - Balance Sheet - Period 1978 - 1983 .................   65
12. APS - Income Statement - Period 1978 - 1983 ..............    66
13. Assumptions in the Financial Analysis of APS .............   67
14. APS - Projected Income Statements - 1984 - 1990 ..........   69
15. APS - Projected Sources and Applications of Funds
1984 - 1990 ............................................   70
16. APS - Projected Balance Sheet - 1984 - 1990 ..............   71
17.  Selected Documents in Project Files ......................   72
Maps
1. 18445 - Portugal Transport Network
2. 18446 - Location of Port and Power Station



I.  THE TRANSPORT AND ENERGY SECTORS  '
TRANSPORT
A. The Transport System
1.01     Portugal's transport system is relatively well developed, including
three major ports at Lisbon, Leixoes (serving Porto) and Sines, six smaller
comercial ports, about 3,500 km of railways, some 42,000 km of paved roads
and, on the mainland, three international airports. Generally, economic
development has been well served by the transport system, but much of the
infrastructure and equipment is overdue for renewal or modernization.
1.02     The concentration of agricultural and industrial activity in the
western coastal belt, the traditional seaward orientation of Portugal, and its
continuing dependence on international trade and tourism have combined to form
a dense transport corridor extending for 350 km or so from Lisbon to Porto.
The road and rail links in this corridor carry about half of all domestic
traffic. In the rest of the country where the level of economic activity is
lower and cities are smaller, both the network and traffic are more sparse.
1.03     Although total land traffic expanded rapidly in the 1960's and early
1970's, the transport network remained virtually unchanged.  There were no
additions to the basic rail network in the last decade, and the national
highway network has also stayed essentially the same. Nevertheless, the road
network provides a reasonable degree of access to all parts of the country.
Some of the railway lines now carry very little traffic.
1.04     Road is the dominant mode in domestic transport, bo.h for passengers
and freight. The railways' principal contribution is to serve passenger
traffic in the Lisbon-Porto corridor and cowunuter traffic in the Lisbon and
Porto areas; goods transport by rail is much less important because of the
generally short distances involved. Air transport and coastal shipping play a
minor role, except to and between the islands of the Azores and Madeira where
it is crucial. No firm statistics are available on total road transport, but
rough estimates indicate that road passenger transport accounts for about 84
percent of all mainland passenger-km and rail 16 percent, while in freight
transportation road accounts for about 92 percent of all ton-km and rail 8
percent.
1/ This chapter makes extensive use of two Bank reports, viz. Transport
Sector Memorandum, Report No. 3922-PO August 15, 1983, and Issues and
Options in the Energy Sector, Report No. 4824-PO, April 1984.



- 2 -
B. Transport Planning and Policy
1.05     The transport sector is under the authority of two different minis-
tries. Land and air transport depend on the Ministry of Social Infrastructure
(Ministerio do Equipemento Social, MES) whereas ports and sea transport are
under the Ministry of the Sea (MS). In the MES the Land Transport Department
(Direcgao Geral dos Transportos Terrestres, DGTT) is the central planning
entity for land transportation in Portugal, responsible for the administrative
supervision of road and railway services, both intercity and urban. The
planning of the main intercity roads and their access to the metropolitan
areas of Lisbon and Porto, meanwhile, is in the hands of Junta Autonoma dos
Estradas (JAE) the highway administration. Aviation also has its own planning
unit within MES.
1.06     With jurisdiction over the transport sector shared between two minis-
tries the need for modal coordination is of great isnportance. This has been
provided by a planning unit within MES specifically concerned with multi-modal
transport planning, the Studies and Planning Unit (Gabinete de Estudos e
Planeamento de Transportos e Communica9oes, GEPTC). Its orientation is to
develop general planning strategies for the transport sector, which are then
taken up by the modal planning units for detailed technical work.
1.07     Although port and shipping do not belong to the same ministry as
GEPTC, in practice all modal agencies submit their investment proposals to
GEPTC, which then applies screening criteria to bring the total requested
investment within annual sectoral ceilings. The ceilings are established by
the Minister of Finance and Planning subject to the Council of Ministers'
approval. The screening is based on conventional economic criteria with
preference given to continuing projects, and those that are expecting to
decrease deficits of transport enterprises or to maintain employment in the
sector.
1.08     As in most of Western Europe, transport services are operated partly
by the private sector, partly by the public sector. Public sector involvement
grew substantially after the 1974 revolution with the nationalization of
inter-urban buses in the south, a part of the common-carrier trucking fleet,
Air Portugal (TAP), the national airline, and the biggest shipping companies.
The rapid changes in the political environment during the 1970's have not been
conducive to systematic policy formulation and execution.
1.09     Nevertheless, important steps have been taken towards the formulation
of transport policies. A National Transport Plan, financed under the Bank's
First Highway Project was completed in 1982. The study: (a) analyzed the
different national policies that impinge on the transport sector; (b) made
specific recommendations for or against certain proposed investments in major
transport facilities; and (c) provided a computerized multi-modal model for
use by the Portuguese authorities. It provided the basis for the Bank's
Transport Sector Memorandum (Report No. 3922-PO, August 15, 1983) and the
methodologies and models introduced by it have been internalized by the GEPTC
which is now able to update it periodically.



C. Transport Sector Issues
1.10     In principle all public enterprises are expected to cover their
operating costs and debt service, to provide their own working capital, and to
provide an "adequate level" of self-financing. In practice this has not beer.
achieved. The total estimated deficit of the five most important public-
sector transport agencies I/ reached about US$260 million in 1983.  Of this
amount, the railways account for about half. The overall question of the
public-sector enterprises, their management, finances and future role has been
reviewed by the Bank during the preparation of the first proposed PERL opera-
tion A/ (Public Enterprise Restructuring Loan). In this context, a detailed
examination of the RN (Rodoviaria Nacional), a public enterprise operating bus
services on intercity routes throughout most of the country, has been carried
out and specific action programs to remedy deficiencies are being formu-
lated.   With respect to the railways, it has been agreed with the Portuguese
authorities to prepare remedial measures in the context of the preparation of
a possible Bank project. These measures are expected to provide the basis for
a continuous sectoral dialogue.
1.11     The transportation sector is second only to industry as an energy
user, accounting for 29% of final energy consumption in 1982 and 39% of the
petroleum consumption, compared to 45% and 41Z respectively in industry.
Given its almost complete dependence on petroleum (99%) the sector is expected
to become the main consumer of petroleum products. Transportation is, there-
fore, a key sector for any energy conservation program, particularly since
short-term measures can produce immediate effects in reducing energy consump-
tion. The main focus must be on road transportation as this accounts for 83%
of final energy consumption for transportation. The Bank's Energy assessment
Report 3/ makes a number of recommendations for transport energy savings.
The Portuguese Government is currently reviewing these proposals. Annex 1
shows the structure of fuel prices.
D. The Port Subsector
1.12     Port traffic is heavily concentrated at the three major ports of
Lisbon, Leixoes (Porto) and Sines (Map IBRD 18445). More than 90% of all
cargo loaded and unloaded is through these ports. A fourth port, Setuibal,
accounts for about 5% with the balance being scattered between 6 other main-
land ports and a number of facilities on the Azores and Madeira.
1.13     This difference in size and importance is also reflected in the
administrative arrangements. While the three major port authorities report
directly to the Ministry of the Sea, the remaining mainland ports report to
the General Directorate of Ports (Direcqao Geral dos Portos, DGP), which is an
agency of the Ministry of the Sea. The ports on the Azores and Madeira are
under the direct responsibility of the respective regional governments.
1/ Carris, CP, RN, TAP, CNN.
2/ Public Enterprises in Portugal: Recommendations for Institutional and
Financial Reforms. Report No. 5101-PO, June 8, 1984.
3/ Issues and Options in the Energy Sector. Report No. 4824-PO. April 1984.



1.14     A total of 40 million tons of cargo were handled in 1981 of which
about two thirds were unloaded and one third loaded. Oil (crude and products)
accounted for about 60X of total traffic while dry bulk and general cargo
amount to about 20X each. Lisbon and Leixoes are multipurpose ports, while
existing facilities at Sines serve exclusively oil traffic and petrochemical
products. Lisbon, the largest port, handled a total of about 13 million tons
of cargo in 1981, Leixoes about 9 million tons and Sines about 14 million tons.
1.15     The situation of the ports is well documented through two major
studies, one dealing with Sines, Setubal and L;sbon completed in late :982,
.' and the other dealing with the northern ports 2' (i.e. north of Lisbon)
completed in late 1983, both studies carried out by consultants. The southern
ports study recounnends that the three ports specialize to handle different
types of cargoes. Sines, in addition to handling crude and products, should
also be the coal import facility for Portugal, but should not be expanded to
handle general cargo. This should instead go to Setabal, or, if in con-
tainers, to Lisbon, which should be reinforced in its role as the main con-
tainer port for the southern part of the country. For the northern ports, no
new major investments are foreseen. Recently expanded, the port of Leixoes
has now reached the physical limits of development within the present break-
water. To serve the nortlhern part of the country investments are currently
underway at Viana do Castelo, Aveiro and Figueira da Foz.
1.16     The main recommendations of the studies are being followed.  In
addition to the coal terminal at Sines, the other major investment being
planned is an increase and modernization of the container facilities in
Lisbon. This new installation, to be situated at the Alcantara wharves, is
intended to be let as a concession.  No increase in general cargo facilities
in the foreseeable future is planned at the major ports. The ongoing expan-
sion programs at the secondary ports of Viana do Castelo, Aveiro and Figueira
da Foz will be completed during the next few years. The other main invest-nent
activity concerns the modernization and upgrading of a number of small fishing
ports. Further port development may be needed at Sines to enable coal to be
transshipped to EDP's future power stations, together with port facilities to
receive the transshipped coal near the power station sites. The proposed
project, therefore,. includes a study of coal transportation alternatives for
EDP's future power statiuius in order to determine port development needs
(Annex 8). Understandings were reached on the outline terms of reference for
this study. During negotiations, agreement was also reached to carry out the
study not later than December 31, 1986 and to exchange views with the Bank on
the study findings.
1/ "Estudo de uin plano orientador do desenvolvimento integrado dos portos de
Lisboa, Setuibal e Sines." TAMS et al. September 1982
2/  "Estudo de um esquema orientador do desenvolvimento integrado dos portos
do norte de Portugal." Organizaiao de Consultores, July 1982.



-5-
1.17     Low productivity is a problem at many Portuguese ports.  Some of the
specific reasons for this are: a lack of coordination between the port
administration, s.evedores handling cargo on ships, and dockers handling cargo
on wharves and in sheds; misuse of transit sheds for long-term storage,
encouraged by low tariffs, and conflicts between port operators and labor
unions. The Government is well aware of this but improved labor-management
relations are intrinsically difficult to achieve rapidly. To facilitate
improved management monitoring, port productivity indicators will be collected
and analyzed in a uniform manner at all ports. The format for data is
expected to be that recommended by the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development (UNCTAD). Understandings were reached that information will be
collected by the Direclao Geral dos Portos (DGP) and the autonomous ports of
Lisbon, and Leixoes and submitted each year to the Minister of the Sea for
analysis, with copy to the Bank. It was agreed during negotiations that the
inEornation related to the Port of Sines would be furnished to the Bank by APS.
ENERGY
E.  The Energy Problem
1.18     The high cost of energy in Portugal and the country's dependence on
imported energy sources are major constraints to its economic development.
Imported oil accounts for around 80X of final energy demand and net oil
imports absorbed about 30Z of export earnings from goods and services in 1982,
compared with only 3% in 1973. Including coal and net electricity imports,
the import bill for energy was about 33% of exports of goods and services and
672 of merchandise exports. Given the limited domestic energy resource base,
Portugal's major energy problem is how to keep down the cost of imported
energy while maintaining acceptable rates of economic growth. This requires a
strategy to reduce the energy intensity of the gross domestic product (GDP),
through demand management and the substitution of cheaper energy sources for
oil.
F. The National Energy Plan
1.19     The present Government strategy is based on the 1982 version of the
draft 1980-2010 National Energy Plan (NEP) designed to meet future energy
requirements at minimum cost to the economy while increasing the security of
supply and reducing dependence on imported oil. On the supply side, NEP
envisages intensified development of the limited domestic energy resources,
mainly hydropower and uranium, while diversifying the sources of imported
energy, primarily through a switch to coal and liquefied natural gas (LNG).
This policy is to be coupled with an intensive energy conservation program to
restrain demand.
1.20     The shares of the various forms of energy in final energy consumption
show substantial changes, notably the declining contribution of oil, from 72X
in 1980 to 49% in 2010, and the corresponding increases for coal (2% to 20%)
and natural gas (1% to 7%). These changes reflect the projected substitution
of coal for oil in industry and electricity generation, and the proposed
importation of LNG beginning in the later 1980s.



- 6 -
C. Sectoral Organization
1.21     The Ministry of Industry, Energy and Exports (MIEE) has jurisdiction
over most energy-related matters. The Directorate General for Energy (DGE) at
MIEE is responsible for formulating and implementing of energy policies,
preparing of energy forecasts, reviewing and coordinating investment plans,
price setting, and the establishing of energy conservation measures. DGE also
oversees the activities of the three state-owned companies, Petroleos de
Portugal (PETROGAL), Electricidade de Portugal (EDP), and Empresa de
Petroquimica e Gas (EPG), and all other power distributors currently operating
in Portugal. PETROGAL is responsible for exploration for oil and gas, and
importing, refining, distributing and marketing petroleum products.
PETROGAL's sales account for about 80% of all petroleum products sold in
Portugal. The remaining 201 of sales are shared among three international
companies, Shell, Mobil, and British Petroleum.
1.22     Presently, authorities within the power subsector consist of EDP, the
four Port Authorities which generate their own power, and 52 municipal and
private undertakings, all under the control of MIEE. Apart from some private
industries which sell small quantities of electricity locally, and some small
irrigation schemes which sell electricity to EDP (jointly they account for
about 21 of total sales), EDP is responsible for power generation and trans-
mission and for the distribution of about 80 of all the publicly-sold elec-
tricity in Portugal, while the municipal and private undertakings distribute
the remaining 20%. In addition, in the Lisbon area EDP distributes town gas
purchased from EPG.
H. Power System Development Program
1.23     The state power company, Electricidade de Portugal (EDP), uses
sophisticated and adequate models to determine the least cost development
program. The resulting EDP projections show a continuing decline in the
hydropower share. and substantial changes in the pattern of thermal
generation. Oil-fired steam plant continues to predominate up to 1985 but, by
1990, is superseded by coal-fired plant-, which is expected to be overtaken by
nuclear power in the late 1990s.
1.24     The projected consumption of fossil fuel reflects these changes.
After rising to nearly two million t.o.e. by 1985, fuel oil declines almost to
zero by 2010; coal consumption rises to about two million t.o.e. in 1997, then
falls to about 2.5 million t.o.e. after 2015; gas oil is virtually eliminated
after 1990 as pumped storage plants displace combustion turbines for peaking
service. Outside the public network, the use of industrial residues by firms
generating their own electricity rises from 100,000 t.o.e. in 1980 to 450,000
t.o.e. in 2010.
1.25     Any delay in the nuclear power program will increase coal require-
ments and probably also oil requiremenLs. In the extreme case of the non-
nuclear strategy, coal consumption for electricity generation would rise to
about seven million t.o.e. in 2010.



1.26     The least cost power program does not include any new oil-fired plant
beyond the recently completed steam units at Setabal (2 x 250 MW) and combus-
tion turbines at Sines (2 x 83 MW). In addition to the 2 X 300 MW units being
completed at Sines it comprises 1800 MW of coal-fired plant (6 x 300 MW) in
1985-19P3, 5700 MW of nuclear power (6 x 950 MW) in 1995-2009, and 3680 MW of
hydropower capacity (25 projects) between 1982 and 2010. Hydropower continues
to account for half or more of total installed capacity to the year 2000,
falling to 462 in 2010, by which time the system will be essentially based on
hydro, coal and nuclear power (40%).
PREVIOUS BANK PROJECTS IN THE TRANSPORT AND ENERGY SECTORS
1.27     In the T:ansport Sector the only previous Bank projects for Portugal
have been the First and Second Highway Projects (Loan 1334-PO of 1977 and
1700-PO of 1979, US$24 and US$40 million respectively). Both l.,ans consisted
of three-year time slices of the highway rehabilitation and t:aining programs
for highway administration staff. The first loan also incltded the National
Transport Study mentioned in para. 1.09. Both loans experienced delays due to
budgetary constraints, but the first project has now been completed and the
second is progressing well. No transport project in Portugal has yet been
audited by the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
1.28     For power, the Bank Group has made seven loans in Portugal totalling
US$219.9 million. Five loans were made during the period 1963-1966, out of
which three were to a thermal generating company and two for hydro electric
generation. The sixth loan made in 1976 financed EDP's 1976-1978 inrestment
program. All these projects have been successfully completed. For the sixth
loan, OED reports that all the project objectives were fully achieved except
for the self-financing objective. The seventh loan, Power Project VlI of
1983, consists of a three-year (1983-1985) time slice of EDP's 1982-1986
investment program.  The purpose of the program is to provide electrical power
to meet the forecast growth in demand at least cost while maintaining the
required reliability of the system.  The project constitutes an integral part
of EDP's development program including the Sines power station, which was
reviewed by the Bank and was found to represent the least cost alternative for
meeting EDP's needs.
II. THE PORT OF SINES
A. Situation and Access
2.01     The Port of Sines, at which the new Coal Handling Port is to be con-
structed, lies about 120 km south of Lisbon (Map No. IBRD 18445). Formerly a
small fishing village, Sines was selected as the centre of an ambitious plan
to promote port based industrial activities on one of the main shipping routes
between Europe, Africa and the Americas, at a time when passage through the
Suez Canal was uncertain. Sines was well suited to this concept because of
the very deep water which lies close to shore and extensive land suitable for
industrial development. The hinterland was then undeveloped, and the Master
Plan foresaw the creation of a large industrial area near th. port, catering
especially to petrochemical and steel making industries. A new town and
extensive infrastructure were created, with good road and rail connections to
Portugal's transport network.



2.02     Map No. IBRD 18446 shows the location of the existing port, the
proposed project and Sines power station which is under construction. The
first stage of port development was substantially completed in 1979 consisting
of a terminal for petroleum and petrochemical traffic, within the shelter of a
new breakwater constructed roughly north/south into depths of almost 50 m of
water. A project to create a large steel making plant was prudently post-
poned. T.ansshipment of petroleum traffic by very large crude carriers from
the Middle East did not develop as strongly as originally forecast. Neverthe-
less, the town and Port of Sines now existing has great potential for meeting
Portugal's industrial needs especially those involving traffic by large
carriers.
2.03     Winds predominate from the '*orth (261) and Northwest (241), and the
strongest blow from the Northwest during winter months. Offshore waves
approach the coast in directions between NWINNW through WSW/SW, while waves
generated by local winds come especially from W and SW.  Waves from W and NW
predominate, but waves from other quarters have been associated with serious
storm conditions at the port. The west breakwater shelters the port area.
Vessels normally approach the port from the South. Pilotage is compulsory for
vessels over 1500 dwt. Seven tugs capable of handling the largest oil tankers
to use the port provide ample capability for all present traffic and for traf-
fic forecast under the project. Once within the shelter of the west break-
water, vessels are easily maneuvered to berth. Tidal range is 2.88 m.
2.04     The sea bed shelves steeply near Sines and the port thus provides
berths for very large vessels close to shore. The sea bed in the vicinity of
the present port is generally composed of igneous rock, with some mudstones
present in the project area.
B. Port Facilities
2.05     Existing port facilities primarily serve the petroleum and petro-
chemical sectors. There are eight berths with depths ranging from 10 to 28
meters, as well as a small harbour which was originally a construction port, - -
and now provides shelter for tugs and other small harbour craft (Map No. IBRD
184&6).  There is alsn a small fishing harbour.  Crude is handled at Bert-bq2,
3, 4 and 5, refined products at Berths 3, 4 and 5, liquified natural-gas-at
Berths 5, 6 and 7 and petrochemicals at Berths 9 and 10. Berth No. 1 with a
depth of 36 m, was designed for very large carriers of up to 500,000 dwt. but
storm damage in 1979 rendered this berth inoperable. Following the re-opening
of the Suez Canal, the need to cater for vessels of this size greatly dimin-
ished, and the Government does not plan to repair Berth No. 1.
2.06     The petroleum berths serve the nearby refinery in Sines industrial
zone, operated by Petroleos de Portugal (PETROGAL). The petrochemical berths
are linked to the installations operated by Companhia Nacional de Petroquinica
EP (CNP).  There are also storage facilities at the port for ethylene and
propylene.
2.07     The first phase (2 X 300 MW) of a coal fired power station is nearing
completion at Sines for Electricidade de Portugal (EDP) with a planned



- 9 -
installed capacity of four 300 megawatt generators. The power station is
situated about 10 km south of the oil terminal, thus safeguarding the environ-
ment of the present town of Sines and the fishing village.
2.08     The west breakwater which extends seaward for about 1900 m suffered
severe storm damage in 1978 and again in 1979. Temporary repairs were under-
taken, generally restoring a length of about 1000 m, in order to ensure
the continued operation of the oil port, while repairs to the outer length
were deferred pending an extensive analysis of wave conditions and hydraulic
model tests. New designs have been prepared by consultants PRC Harris (USA)
assisted by Delft Hydraulic Laboratory (Holland) and other specialists (Annex
2). The main recommendations of the consultant are as follows:
a)   Additional repairs are needed over the length of breakwater from the
shore to Berth No. 2 to remedy weaknesses, especially to the inner
slope.
b)   Full repairs are needed for a distance of about 250 m seaward of
Berth No. 2 to ensure that vessels at this berth may be safely moored.
c)   Berth No. 1 designed for very large crude carriers need not be
repaired because of insufficient traffic in this category of vessel.
d)   The remaining seaward length should be repaired to maintain good
operational conditions and structural safety at the port. However
the precise length to be repaired needs to be further analyzed
because model tests indicate that acceptable protection may be
achieved with less than full length repair.
2.09     These recommendations are well conceived.  In reaching his conclu-
sions the consultant was able to take into account the Government's report on
the reasons for damage to the breakwater. This report concluded that the
concrete armour units used to protect the outer breakwater slope had rocked
under wave action and fractured, and the advisability of using large blocks of- -
this type in such an exposed situation was brought into question. The consul-
tant undertook a fresh analysis of the wave conditions for which repairs
should be designed, using information prepared by the Waterways Experimental
Station of the Corps of Engineers (USA). The consultant's proposals differ
from the original design concept in several important ways; the design wave
climate is more severe, concrete blocks in the outer armour protection are
heavier, of a more robust shape and laid to a flatter slope, the crest level
for the outer length of the breakwater is lower and is designed to permit
overtopping under extreme conditions. The new proposals have undergone
extensive hydraulic model testing and are reasonable.
2.10     The consultant has also prepared a report on the possible consequen-
tial damage which might occur within the port and the effect on port opera-
tions, if the west breakwater is not fully repaired. Berths 4, 5, 9 and 10
which handle petrochemical products and liquid natural gas, would be most
affected by any limitation of the repaired length but the coal port would not
be significantly affected. Moreover, the coal port structures have been
des,gned to remain safe even if further west breakwater damage occurred.



- 10 -
There is thus no justification for waiting for final west breakwater repair
before proceeding with construction of the coal port. The Minister of the Sea
expressed his intention to arrange for repairs under items (a) and (b) i11
paragraph 2.08, at an early date. The proposed project therefore includes a
study which would provide the Government with specific proposals for a com-
prehensive and definitive repair programme. The recommendations would be
based on risk analysis and cost/benefit studies of repairing various lengths,
model testing of the head of the breakwater at various lengths, and an
examination of the implications of repair proposals at the existing oil and
petrochemical berths. Understandings have already been reached with GAS on
the principal terms of reference for this study (Annex 8). Agreement has been
reached during negotiations that (a) the consultant's study of breakwater
repairs will be completed not later than December 31, 1985 under terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank, and (b) an execution program and financing
plan for repair based on the relevant findings of the consultant's study, will
be submitted for Bank review not later than September 30, 1986.
C. Organization, Management and Staffing
General: Local Development Authority and Port Authority
2.11     The port organization at Sines needs to be set in the context of
Government policy for the development of the region of Sines, as formulated in
Decree Law 270/71 (June 19, 1971). The establishment of a development author-
ity for promotion of industrial and urban development and coordination of the
different specialized public authorities operating in the area is central to
this policy. It follows that Sines departs from the usual pattern of port
organization in Portugal; port functions normally unified under a public port
are distributed betwee.i the development authority and the port authority. The
arrangements are as follows:
(i)    Promotion of industrial and port development is vested in the
development authority, the Gabinete da Area de Sines (GAS), created
in June 1971 and reorganized in 1980. It will build the port - -
included in the present project.
(ii)   Port operations and management are the responsibility of the port
authority, Administracao de Porto de Sines (APS) created in December
1977 after completion of the oil port construction. It will take
over the port after construction and will operate and maintain it.
(iii)   Pilotage is carried out by the local branch of the National Pilots
Public Iastitute, based in Lisbon with financial and administrative
autonomy under the tutelage of the Minister of the Sea.
(iv) Safety and security of shipping over a coastal range which includes
Sines is entrusted to the Navy through the local Port Captain.
(v) There are a few concessionary agreements. Bunker supplies are
secured by Petroleos de Portugal (PETROGAL) and Companhia Nacional de
Petroquimica (CPN) operates two berths specialized for its products.
Both concessionaries are organized as public enterprises under the
tutelage of the Ministry of Industry and Energy.



- Il -
2.12     The present arrangements are fully adequate for the purpose of the
project. However, arrangements need to be implemented as stipulated in the
legislation, and the port management study included in the project will facil-
itate this. In the past, issues developed that are relevant to the project,
for example:
(i)    Transfer of oil port assets from GAS to APS.  The existing oil port
assets built by GAS have not yet been transferred to APS. This needs
to be done but raises technical issues such as that of valuation and
apportionment of assets between the two entities. These issues will
be included in the study included under the project (para. 2.17)
expected to be completed before the end of 1986.
(ii)    Coordination of engineering.  APS recently commissioned a consul-
tant's study of the port of Sines. This was an unnecessary duplica-
tion of the consulting work arranged by GAS and contributed to the
delay in adoption by Government of the master plan for the port of
Sines; it will not recur as the Chairman of APS now has a seat on the
Board of GAS as director of engineering. The management study
included in the project will make proposals for the coordination of
the engineering activities of GAS and APS.
2.13     Given the preeminence of GAS in planning and coordination, it would
not be realistic to propose the establishment of a traditional port authority
with comprehensive jurisdiction. This would upset a delicate balance and
would conflict with Government policy. Moreover Sines port is expected to
remain basically a conglomerate of specialized berths, which lends itself to
operation by concessionnaires. APS is thus expected to develop as a regula-
tory entity, with limited commercial activity in the strict sense. The
objective must be to strengthen the existing authorities in the most econom-
ical way, given the strain on public resources in Portugal. APS is expected
to limit its direct intervention at the new coal port to the provision of
services to ships, leaving operation of the coal terminal to a separate
operator under a lease agreement. Details of the recommended organization of -
the coal terminal will be included in the management study to be carried out
under this proposed project.
2.14     Project accounts during construction will be held by GAS which there-
after will transfer to APS all assets and liabilities created under the
project. As a final beneficiary of the loan, APS will incur its debt servic-
ing under an onlending agreement to be signed with the Government, the Bank's
direct borrower and GAS. Arrangements for project accounts and for the trans-
fer of oil port assets are discussed in paras. 2.34 and 5.11.
2.15     Both GAS and ABS are established as public institutes, which in
Portugal are part of the Government administration with financial and adminis-
trative autonomy. Differences with public enterprises relate mainly to
budgeting and accounting procedures and to conditions of employment, which are
subject to the civil service salary and benefit rules. GAS and APS are



- 12 -
theoretically revenue earning entities, but in reality GAS earns little
revenue and its financial support derives largely from Government budget
allocations.
2.16     Coordination between GAS and APS was poor until recently, with
unnecessary duplication of effort for development planning and engineering,
and no payments by APS to GAS for port facilities already received. Coordina-
tion improved after they were both placed in 1983 under the tutelage of the
Minister of the Sea, with, in the case of GAS the additional tutelage of the
Minister of Industry and Energy. In addition, the President of APS was given
a seat on the Board of GAS in 1984, with responsibility for engineering. A
satisfactory coordination is expected to be reached after (i) assets and
liabilities in relation to the existing port are transferred from GAS to APS
and fairly apportioned between them, (ii) engineering functions are clearly
allocated to each entity. Technical requirements to meet those two conditions
will be reviewed under the management study included in the proposed project.
2.17     The management study would provide Government with recommendations
designed to improve the efficiency of the port based on Govervnient's port
management policy. Under this policy (a) APS would continue its role as the
entity responsible for operation and maintenance of the port with special
emphasis on its regulatory role, (b) appropriate concessionary or similar
arrangements would apply to operation of the coal terminal and (c) GAS would
be responsible for building the port and would transfer port assets to APS.
This would include the west breakwater after its repair. The Government's
policy is reasonable; the study will assist Government in refining its policy
and will provide recommendations on policy implementation. Understandings
have been reached with the Government, GAS and APS on the principal points for
the study terms of reference (Annex 8). These are summarized below:
Ci)   defining the activities and responsibilities of APS and of its
collaboration with GAS;
(ii)   ensuring an-evaluation of port assets and their transfer from GAS to
APS;
(iii)   determining tariffs based on costs, both for oil and coal traffic;
(iv)   determining the arrangements for operation of the coal terminal,
which are expected to entail a lease agreement; and
(v)   identifying training needs and establishing a training program.
During negotiations, agreement was reached to commence the study not later
than December 31, 1985, to exchange views with the Bank on the results and
recommendations of the study and to implement the agreed study findings.
GAS
2.18     Changed economic conditions after 1973 caused the Government to
redefine the duties of GAS, shifting the focus of its activity from execution



- 13 -
of works to planning the integrated development of the region. Decree Law
487/80 enunciates the new orientation that should have been set forth in draft
By-Laws within 60 days following its publication on September 17, 1980. This
provision never materialized and therefore GAS currently functions under its
previous status. GAS internal organization reflects the variety of its
activities in the area of Sines (Annex 3). The management structure include
an executive Board of five directors and an Administrative Committee where a
representative of the Court of Accounts sits together with two Board members,
and the financial and administrative managers. During 1980, three project
departments were created to maximize coordination and effectiveness in the
preparation and implementation of major projects related respectively to the
port, water supply and sanitation and urban development. The port project
department has three components dealing respectively with studies, supervision
and administration. These project departments are temporary by nature. There
are five permanent services supplemented by seven divisions and two sections
for public relations and documentation.                                       -
2.19     As of December 31, 1983, total staff at GAS was 1275 of which 877
were statutory personnel, 201 were recruited on fixed term contracts, and 197
were recruited on a temporary basis. Non-statutory personnel are hired first
to overcome the ceiling imposed by law to employment of civil servants by GAS
and also to recruit the qualified staff needed to handle the various projects;
and which, to be attracted and retained, must enjoy better conditions than
those granted to civil servants. About 55% of total staff are employed at
Santo Andre near Sines where the headquarter is located, the remaining being
based at Lisbon. Managerial staff, high qualified technicians, administrative
staff and others are respectively 4.4%, 15.0%, 20.2%, and 60.4, of total.
APS
2.20     An organization was se-t up after the creation of APS in 1977.  A
three-member commission was appointed by Government. Pending its preparation
of the By-Laws to be submitted to Government for approval not later than 90
days after publication of Decree Law 508/77, this executive commission was
authorized to take whatever action was needed to operate the port, including
recruitment of most urgently needed staff. In practice, the By-Laws have so
far not been issued and APS still functions under an interim organization and
staffing.
2.21     The proposed organizational structure when APS is fully established,
is shown in Annex 4. It has yet to be approved by Government. Staffing is
currently 340, including 214 non-statutory positions corresponding to the
highly qualified technicians that control of operations in an oil port
require. APS needs to enlarge its statutory personnel at the executive and
intermediary levels, so relieving pressure on top managers currently immersed
in the supervision of the day to day work. The cost of living in Sines is
higher than in Lisbon making it difficult to attract and to retain qualified
staff.
2.22     Under the organization proposed by APS, total staff would be 502 of
which 158 in the engineering department compared to 70 to date. As long as



- 14 -
GAS remains in charge of planning, design and supervision of port development,
such a development of the engineering function in APS is not justified. The
management study under the proposed project will review all aspects of the
future organization of APS and its staffing, and examine conditions for
improved coordination of GAS and APS as regards engineering activities. The
study thus provides a reasonable assurance that APS will be able to undertake
its responsibilities adequately on completion of the project.
D. Operations
2.23     Sines is presently operating below the potential capacity of the
available facilities. Total traffic during 1983 was about 13.0 million tons
while its capacity under 1983 conditions is estimated at about 35 million tons
per annum of crude and petroleum products and about 0.5 million tons of
petrochemical products.
2.24     During 1983, a total of 705 vessels used the port comprising 66
vessels at the petrochemical berths and 639 at the petroleum berths. The
number of vessels each month varies between about 45 and 79. During recent
years the number of vessels using the port has fallen from 915 in 1980 to 705
in 1983 and the average vessel size has increased. Vessels using Berth No. 2
averaged 188,000 dwt in 1980 but in 1983 average size rose to 282,000 dwt.
This trend toward port use by larger vessels is expected to be sustained at
present levels. Portuguese registry accounts for about 60% of all vessels
presently using the port. Cargo handling productivity is at a satisfactory
level.
2.25     The port is adequately provided with firefighting equipment aboard
its seven tugs. Fresh water and bunkering services are available. The port
is open 24 hours per day but pilotage is normally available for two shifts per
day.  Radar control of vessel movements is available, although the port is
normally free from fog and other factors which might create conditions affect-
ing good visibility. Traffic control is effected by modern computer con-
trolled instrumentation enabling the Port Authority to monitor each product
movement from berth to shore storage tanks. This equipment provides safety
against accidental valve malfunction and contributes to the ports' good safety
record.
2.26     The Port of Sines has a good record of freedom from oil spillage and
pollution. Equipment to deal with accidental spillage and fire is available
aboard all tugs in the form of foam monitors and spillage booms. Vessel
inspection and minor repairs may be undertaken at the port. For more serious
repairs, the facilities and dry docks at Setubal and Lisbon are available
about 170 km distant from the port. These arrangements are satisfactory.
E. Port Planning and Development
2.27     GAS has planning and development responsibility for the port of
Sines, the town and the industrial zone. The activities of GAS in relation to
port development are undertaken with adequate experienced staff and with the
assistance of consultants.



- 15 -
2.28     A port master plan was prepared for GAS by consultants PRC Harris
(USA) in 1983 which provided for the phased development of the port to cater
for coal traffic and for traffic generated by the industrial zone and its
hinterland. The project comprises the first stage of this plan. The plan is
an acceptable planning tool for the purposes of the project and can be
modified to meet changing patterns of traffic should the need arise. A
revision to the plan is foreseen when the results become available of the
proposed coal transport study for EDP's future power stations (Annex 8).
F. Budget, Accounting, Controls and Auditing,
Tariffs and Insurance
Budget
2.29     APS and GAS operate under the general rules applicable to public
institutes in Portugal and this is adequate for execution of the proposed
project. Their respective budgets are included in the Government budget.
Only budgeted expenditures can be authorized and reallocation of funds between
items follows strict rules. Budgets are not approved until funding is secure;
they include automatic transfer of funds corresponding to accrued payables.
Contracts to be executed over more than one year are authorized by the
Ministry of Finance and Planning and for port investment, by the Minister of
the Sea. The project data sheet then indicates the yearly breakdown of total
costs used to establish the budget, and related commitments for all co-
financiers.
2.30     The budget has two components covering respectively working and
capital expenses. The latter in the case of GAS are all part of the Invest-
ment and Development Spending Program for the Central Administration, known as
PIDDAC. Investment projects should first be cleared by the Minister of the
Sea after review by the General Directorate of Planning at the Ministry of
Transport. The projects are then transmitted to the Central Department of
Planning of the Ministry of Finance and Planning for apprLzal. As other major
port entities, APS carry out investments within and outside PIDDAC. The
latter are financed from cash surpluses resulting from the budget execution
which are accumulated in a development Fund after clearance by the Ministry of
Finance and approval by the Minister of the Sea.
2.31     Budget preparation is a lengthy process reflecting the severe finan-
cial constraints of Portugal. Budget preparation starts in March and a draft
is sent by mid year to the Ministries concerned. The final budget is expected
to be approved by the Parliament in December. The 1984 the budget was final-
ized in December 1983.
2.32     GAS must by law derive the yearly budget from a medium term opera-
tional plan to be approved by the Ministry of Finance and Planning. In 1983,
GAS prepared a draft plan for the period 1984-1987. This plan is still not
approved and will probably have to be cut in its components other than the
proposed port project, which was recently approved by the Council of Ministers
together with a financing plan.



- 16 -
2.33     The establishment by GAS of a separate project budget and account has
been agreed during negotiations. The Bank will review the project's annual
budget to ensure adequate funding. This has also been agreed during nego-
tiations.
Accounting
2.34     GAS and APS follow the principles of budget accounting.  There is a
standard classification with six digits which allows identification of the
nature of each transaction with an adequate level of detail. In the case of
GAS, transactions are further related to each project, each component of which
is given a separate code number. Accounts are prepared on a cash basis, but
there is subsidiary information which permits an analysis of commitments. A
major weakness is the inadequate recording of assets and inventories.
2.35     GAS has set up a plan to upgrade its financial management system
including the introduction of business type of accounts which APS, for
example, keeps in parallel to its budget accounts, based on the principles and
chart of accounts applicable to governmental enterprises. GAS is also com-
puterizing progressively its accounting system, and acquired the equipment for
that purpose.
2.36     GAS operates a centralized accounting system, but maintains at Sines
a limited staff of 11 for processing of local operations which remain subject
to control by the accounting service settled in Lisbon with a staff of 24.
Staffing is adequate and the overall performance satisfactory. The situation
at APS is not as good but the accounting department was strengthened in 1984
with the creation of a separate section for budget accounting. There are
plans to further expand the accounting system in APS. This will be reviewed
by the managcmcnt study undcr thc proposed project, so that any necessary
steps can be taken to strengthen APS when it assumes responsibility for the
completed project.
Controls and auditing
2.37     Both GAS and APS provide a sound segregation of responsibilities in
the handling of a transaction from beginning to end. At GAS and in relation
to a port investment, justification for a payment would first be established
by the port project department. The file would then be sent to the accounting
service and checked in successive order by two sections, for legality and
financial regularity. The transaction would be cleared by the chief of
accounts and sent to a separate section under the financial department for
payment after which the transaction is recorded in the accounts. Balances are
prepared each month in accordance with the budget presentation and communi-
cated to the Directorate of Public Accounting at the Ministry of Finance and
Planning.
2.38     Autonomy in spending is restricted by Decree Law 211/79 and associ-
ated regulations which specify the levels of responsibility for authorizing
contract award and payments. All draft contracts awarding public works are



- 17 -
subject to approval by the Council of Ministers. Above a maximum amount spec-
ified in the regulations, commitments and expenses must be authorized by the
Ministry of Tutelage, or the Prime Minister, or even the Council of
Ministers. Delegations are possible from one tier to that immediately lower,
and in particular from Minister to Management. For example, a decision by the
Minister of the Sea dated August 1983 allows the commission of APS to autho-
rize payments to a limit of Escudos 25 million for budgeted investments and of
Escudos 4 million for other expenses.
2.39     The administrative committee in GAS holds weekly meetings at which
final verification is made on the legality and financial regularity of a
decision before it comes into effect. A member of the Court of Accounts
attends these meetings to clear decisions. In APS, there is no such outside
representation and documents must be transmitted to the Court of Accounts for
prior clearance.
2.40     After the close of fiscal year ending December 31, final accounts are
prepared and, not later than March 31 of next year, are submitted to the
Directorate of Public Accounting and to the Court of Accounts. The latter
performs the audit covering all aspects of financial management through
extensive verification anld issues a report on its findings. Because the Court
of Accounts does not have enough personnel, agreement was reached during nego-
tiations that project related accounts kept by GAS be audited by the Inspector
General of Finance or by an auditor acceptable to the Bank. The audited
financial statements will be submitted to the Bank within six months after the
end of each fiscal year.
2.41     Because APS will partly finance the proposed project and will operate
the new port, its financial management will also be monitored by the Bank.
Its commercial accounts are to be audited by an independent auditor acceptable
to the Bank; the audited financial statements will be submitted to the Bank
within six months after the end of each fiscal year starting 1984. This was
agreed during negotiations.
Tariffs
2.42     Port tariffs are approved by Government.  The State Secretariat of
External Transport in charge of the port sub-sector before the Ministry of the
Sea was created established a provisional tariff at the port of Sines which
does not cover the costs of port infrastructure and equipment. A user charge
on oil traffic was recently created to bridge this gap. The charging base and
the rate was fixed by joint decisions of three Ministries, i.e. Finance and
Planning, Sea, Industry and Energy, dated February 1 and 23, 1984.
2.43     An indicative due of US$7.0 per metric ton of coal was also fixed in
September 1983 by joint decision of the Minister of the Sea and of the
Minister of Industry and Energy and a committee appointed with representatives
from GAS and EDP, to determine the final port due on coal traffic and make
proposals to the two Ministries. The matter is still pending. Port tariffs
will be assessed by APS subject to approval by the Minister of the Sea and the
Minister of Finance following consultation with port users, especially EDP and
subject to prior review by the Bank. These arrangements for the establishment



- 18 -
of tariffs will apply especially when the permanent project facilities become
available but also when temporary facilities are used (para. 3.10). This has
been agreed during negotiations. Furthermore, the management study under the
proposed project will review all technical aspects of port pricing for coal.
Insurance
2.44     Since 1983, APS has, like other major port administrations, set up an
Insurance Fund which as of December 31, 1983 held a total of Esc. 126 million,
representing 20% of the yearly surplus of the administrative account. Major
risks remain covered by outside insurance.
G. Training
2.45     Staff in APS and the port project department of GAS are generally
qualified and competent. They include staff with previous experience in other
Portuguese ports as well as staff from the Portuguese public sectors. Train-
ing is given from time to time to some staff to meet individual needs, but
training is not a structured routine activity.
2.46     On completion of the project, the need will arise for staff experi-
enced in both the management of the new coal terminal, as well as in the
operation and maintenance of the coal handling equipment. The management
study proposed under the project will review the full scope of the training
requirements of APS and GAS in these and other fields. In addition, the
project makes provision for training of staff in the operation of equipment at
the coal terminal (para. 3.28).
III.  THE PROJECT
A. Background and Relationship to the Power
Sector and the Master Plan
3.01     In April 1981, the Government instructed the Gabinete da Area de
Sines, to arrange for preparation of a Master Plan for the de'relopment of the
port of Sines. The project covers the first stage of this plan. Preparation
of the plan was entrusted to consultants PRC Harris, Inc. (USA), with
Portuguese and other associates. in addition, a contemporary planning review
of the main ports of southern Portugal was commissioned by the Port Authori-
ties of Sines and of Lisbon, and by the Director General of Ports in the
Ministry of Transport and Communication. Consultants TAMS and Associates
(USA) undertook this review. Both PRC Harris and TAMS viewed Sines as a
suitable centre for petroleum and coal traffic carried by large vessels,
especially coal traffic for Sines Power Station, now nearing completion and
scheduled for commissioning starting 1985.
3.02     The Master Plan proposals prepared by PRC Harris were reviewed by GAS
and by a Government commission, Comissao Executiva do Plano Geral e Projectos
do Porto de Sines, resulting in the careful scrutiny of alternative layouts
and design concepts. The Minister of Transport and Communication accepted the
basic Master Plan in January 1983, and later that year the Government



- 19 -
designated Sines as the national coal port. The Master Plan has been prepared
to meet long-term forecast coal traffic for Sines power station, coal traffic
transshipped to a projected EDP power station and to other users, the needs of
Sines industrial zone, and possible traffic from the ports hinterland. How-
ever, the plan can be easily modified to accommodate changing patterns of
traffic, especially the needs of EDP's future power stations, and the plan is
adequate for the purposes of the proposed project. GAS, EDP and their con-
sultants have collaborated throughout the planning of the port to ensure that
port facilities are well linked to those beirg constructed for the power
station. During negotiations, agreement was reached that the Government wilL
(i) exchange views with the Bank by June 30, 1988 on the draft long term
agreements for the use of the permanent project facilities; (ii) take all
measures necessary to ensure that such long term agreements for the use of the
permanent project facilities are entered into not later than June 30, 1989.
B. Proiect Obiective
3.03     The project would be the Bank's first port project in Portugal and is
designed to achieve the following objectives:
-  to ensure that the port is developed to meet the needs of the energy
and industrial sectors; and specifically to provide facilities
urgently needed for the first phase of Sines power station, now
nearing completion, which is part of Portugal Power VII project (Loan
2240-PO) assisted by the Bank;
-  to assist in the development of the country's only port capable of
receiving large vessels in which Portugal has already invested
heavily;
-  to participate in the review of Sines port operations, to assist in
the financing of a port management study and to monitor the setting
up of an effective port management organization and training program
based on that study; and
-  to provide for consultation between the Bank and the Government on
the future development of coal import facilities and in the port
sub-sector.
C. Engineering and Planning Aspects
3.04     In association with a number of Portuguese and foreign consultants
and specialist contractors, including Delft Hydraulic and Soil Mechanics
Laboratories (Holland), consultants PRC Harris (USA) prepared project designs
and tender documents. Project preparation has been competently undertaken and
the scope of investigations and analyses has been adequate.
3.05     In the preparation of designs for the project, several conceptual
issues were encountered of which the following are of interest:
i)    to review the conditions under which damage occurred to the west
breakwater and to establish a repair programme (para. 3.06);



- 20 -
ii)    to determine whetner a finger pier in the partial shelter of the west
breakwater would be adequate (para. 3.07); and
iii)    to make provisional arrangements for coal delivery to Sines power
station, which is scheduled for completion several years ahead of the
port (paras. 3.08 - 3.10).
3.06     An extensive analysis has been undertaken of the reasons for failure
of the west breakwater and a repair programme has been proposed (para 2.08).
The new coal port has been designed to meet the wave criteria established
during this analysis, which are more severe than those originally adopted for
the port. In addition the new east breakwater and coal berth have been
designed to remain structurally safe even if repairs to the west breakwater
are not undertaken.
3.07     GAS and their consultants considered the possible construction of a
finger pier for handling coal vessels within the partial shelter of the
existing west breakwater during their review of various project alternatives
(para. 4.11 et. seq.). However, a finger pier would have to be designed with
a deck height clear of storm waves, introducing serious operational ineffi-
ciencies not foreseen in the early port master plans. For example, the
unloading cranes would have a longer operational time cyrle ,ecause of the
much greater distance the grab would move into the ships hold. Finger pier
costs would also be unusually high because of ground conditions. The project
solution of a berth within the shelter of a new .breakwater was chosen on
grounds of cost and operating efficiency and is the most suitable one.
3.08     Because the permanent coal import berth under the proposed project
will not be ready until after the first 300 MW unit has been installed at
Sines power station, provisional arrangements have been made for coal supply.
These arrangements are two fold; firstly, as an emergency measure, coal will
be imported through the existing oil port, and secondly, coal will later be
imported through temporary facilities to be built under the project. The
emergency arrangement will not be permitted by APS to operate for more than
the minimum period of time for environmental and safety reasons.
3.09     Under the emergency arrangements, Berth No. 2 in the oil port will be
used by coal carriers. This scheme was adopted after consideration of a
number of other alternatives such as importation through the port of Lisbon.
Facilities will be provided at Berth No. 2 enabling geared vessels t. dis-
charge coal into hoppers which will load coal into trucks. The truck!: will be
permitted as an emergency measure to travel along the west breakwater and past
the fishing port to the EDP power station. This scheme is expected to operate
from December 1984 to about September 1985. EDP will arrange and pay for it,
outside the project. The trucks will not use the existing main roacs which
lie on the eastern boundary of the town because of the considerable additional
cost of such a circuitous route.
3.10     A temporary coal import berth to be built under the project will come
into operation about April 1986 and cease when the permanent facilities come
into operation at the end of 1988. The berth will be built at the east side



- 21 -
of the causeway leading to the new breakwater. It will be suiisable for use by
small geared vessels during the calm summer months. Coal will be discharged
into hoppers and conveyor fed to a temporary stacking area. From here coal
will be taken by truck to the EDP conveyor system near the coal port. At a
later stage when some of the permanent port conveyor system has been
installed, it will be possible to dispense with the use of trucks. The
temporary conveyor system will be re-usable elsewhere.
D. Details of the Project
3.11     The principal components of the project are as follows:
(a)  Coal Unloading Facilities
A coal unloading berth 345 m long with a minimun depth of 18.0 m at
low water capable of accepting vessels up to about 150,000 dwt.
within the shelter of a breakwater approximately 1100 m in length
of rock rubble core with selected rock and concrete block armour.
(b) Coal Storage Area
Ci) An area ashore for storage of about 250,000 tons of coal in
several stockpiles together with an emergency stockpile at
the rear of the ship unloader;
Cii) Port buildings including administrative offices, fire and
ambulance station, workshops and stores; and
(iii)  Utilities including a sewerage system, wa;er supply, fire-
fighting, electrical substations and communication system.
(c) Coal Handling Equipment
(i) Two unloaders at the berth, each with a grab of about 40
tons and a nominal rated capacity of about 2,000 tons per
hour;
(ii) Two combined stacker/reclaimers each of about 4,000 tons per
hour stacking and 2,000 tons per hour reclaiming capacity at
the stockpiles;
(iii)  A belt conveyor system complete with transfer and weigh-
stations connecting the ship unloaders to the port stock-
piles, and also to the EDP conveyer system; and
(iv) Miscellaneous mobile equipment for terminal operation.
(d) Engineering Services and Training
(i) Completion of detailed designs and tender documents, and
supervision of construction;



- 22 -
(ii)  Consulting studies for repairs to the west breakwater,
management of the Port of Sines and coal import facilities
to serve EDP's future power stations (Annex 8); and
(iii)  Training in the operation of coal handling equipment.
3.12   Coal would normally 'e stacked at the port and later reclaimed; it
could also be unloaded and consigned directly to Sines Power Station as
required. Coal which may occasionally be too wet for discharge on to the
conveyor belts, or which may have become so hot during a long voyage as to
present a risk of spontanpnils combustion, would be unloaded directly by the
cranes to a safety storage area. Hot coal would be compacted by bulldozer to
suppress combustion. A water sprinkler system would be provided at the berth
and storage area both for reasons of fire safety and for dust suppression.
Wind shields along conveyors and covered transfer points will be provided to
minimize dust emission. A fresh water mist spray will be provided to mois-
turize coal on the conveyors and at transfer points.  Coal spillage at trans-
fer points will be returned to the main material flow to minimize dust. These
arrangements are satisfactory.



- 23 -
E. Cost Estimates
3.13   Total cost of the project including customs and duties is estimated at
about US$163 million equivalent with a foreign exchange content of US$110
million (about 68 X) (Annex 5). A summary of costs is given below.
Iftx*ntage
us$ milimn               Esado Billiai          Foreign   of total
Item   Dariptin                    Local   Forgn  Total        Im-a    Forein    Total        %     base cost
I.  Civil ilis
Nariime civil wsr'ks       23.47    35.21   58.69       3.17     4.75       7.92     60        43
Civil s1urewxs buildings
and utilities             5.44    14.06   19.50       0.7      1.90       2.63     72        14
Sub total                   28.91    49.28   78.19      3.90      6.60     10.55     63         57
I1.   qRipemnt for coal haniling   8.33    33.31   41.64      1.12     4.50      5.62      BD        30
m.   Dedgm, aVervisio% coxr
suiting aezvices & training   6.11   6.13   12.24      0.82      0.83      1.65     50          9
IV.   TeMorary facilities         1.43     3.80    5.23       0.20     0.51       o.n     73          4
Sub to1a               44.78    92.52  137.30       6.04     12.49     18.53     67        100
V.  GCingeies027
Rwyical                   4.58     9.27   13.85       0.62      1.25      1.87     67        10
Priee                     3.64     8.40   12.04       5.21     11.23     16.44     70         9
Stu total              53.00   110.19  163.19      U.87      24.97     36.84     68        119
ILerest ding co xtion19                      25
an Bk loan                -       12.95   1.95        -         3.80     3.80    100          -
Total financing reqijed    53.00   123.14  176.14      11.87    28.77     40.64      -          _
Total rimded               53.00   123.00  176.00      12.00    26.00     41.00      -          -
3.14     Cost estimates are based on those prepared by consultants PRC
Harris.  The cost of the marine civil works, which is the main item in the
project, is based on the lowest evaluated bid, submitted in January 1984.
This date has accordingly been used as the base date for the cost estimates.
(Contract with the lowest evaluated bidder was signed in July 1984). Equip-
ment costs are based on prices obtained from a range of manufacturers. Civil
works and building costs are based on prevailing rates determined by
Portuguese consultants. Supervision of construction includes both the con-
sulting services and the cost of the Project Implementation Unit. The cost



- 24 -
estimates are therefore reasonable and acceptable. Costs include customs and
duties on imported items estimated at about ll%. Physical contingencies have
been applied as follows: marine civil works and temporary coal importation
facilities 10, civil shoreworks, buildings, and utilities, for all of which
detailed designs have not yet been prepared, 152; equipment 7 l/2Z to l0%;
design, supervision of construction, studies arnd training 10% to 15X. These
percentages are reasonable because of the status of detailed engineering, and
an assessment of rock availability for construction. Annual price
contingencies have been applied as follows for costs determined in Portuguese
escudos and in US$, reflecting trends from documented sources.
Calendar year       1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Escudos              28     20     25      20     20     20      20
Us$               -2.8       5      7.5    8       8      8       8
F. Financing Plan
3.15     Bank finance of US$66 million is proposed to cover (i)the full
foreign exchange cost of the marine civil works contract, (ii) the full cost
of supervision of construction, training and studies, (iii) interest during
construction on Bank-financed items. A number of commercial banks have
expressed interest in possible financing of coal handling equipment but no
firm offers have yet been made. Suppliers' credits are also available for
equipment. The Government will provide the balance of funds needed for
project completion. During negotiations, the Government provided appropriate
assurances as to the availability of funds. Because the contract for the
marine civil works has been awarded in July 1984, in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines for procurement, retroactive financing is reconmended for
this part of the project. In addition, retroactive finance is recommended for
supervision of construction and to enable GAS to expedite urgent project
studies for management and for the west breakwater. The estimated sum
eligible for retroactive finance is about US$6.6 million.
3.16     A financing plan for the project is given on page 25.  This has been
prepared after consultation with the Government, and was confirmed during
negotiations.



- 25 -
Gost Estiute Ixulzing
wsical & Pdice    ieFiCnt  Plan
=E million
Iten    Descriptimn      Ial 'Freign    T           Ral  Soxtce        r    Source
1.  Civil iurine woks     27.37   41.08     68.45   16.32   APS       41.08  I=D
11.05   Govt.
2.  Civil shoreaorks       1.40    2.09      3.49    1.40   Govt.      2.09  Govt.
3.  Building               2.53    3.80      6.33    2.53   Govt.    3.80  Govt.
4.  Mech. Utilities        1.51    6.06       7.57    1.51   Govt.    6.06  GDvt.
5.  Electrical Utilities    1.51    6.04     7.55    1.51   Govt.      6.1Y4  GDvt.
6.  Fquipment             10.02   40.09     50.11   10.02   Supplier 40.09  Supplier
7.  Design                 0.65    2.91      3.56    0.65   Govt.      2.91  Govt.
8.  Supervision            6.03    2.59      8.62    6.03   IMR        2.59  IDD
9.  Studies and fraiiing    0.41    1.38     1.79    0.41  lED         1.38  ImBR
Sibtotal              51.43  106.04    157.47
10. Temp. berth civil      0.85    1.26      2.11    0.85   Govt       1.26  IBRD
11. Temp. berth Equip.     0.72    2.89      3.61    0.72   EDP        2.89  EDP
Sdb total      1.57    4.15      5.72    1.57  EDP         4.15  EDP
TDMiL        53.00 110.19      163.19
Interest during cmn-
struction on Bark loan -     12.95     12.95
Grand Total          53.00  123.14    176.14
Grand Total rounied    53.00  123.00    176.00
=     _ 



- 26 -
Summary by Source
--   --US$ Million       --         Approximate
Local       Foreign       Total         Percentage
Government             19.50        20.90        40.40               25Z
Suppliers credits      10.02        40.09        50.11               311
APS                    16.32         -           16.32               10%
EDP                     0.72         2.89         3.61               2Z
IBRD                    6.44        46.31        52.75               32X
53.00       110.19       163.19              1001
Interest during construction on Bank loan        12.95
Total financing required                        176.14
Total IBRD financing                             65.70
Total IBRD Financing (rounded)                   66.00
3.17     The Bank's proposed share of total project cost (excluding interest
during construction on the Bank loan) has been established taking into account
the availability of other sources of foreign exchange finance through sup-
pliers and export credits as well as what is considered the appropriate con-
tribution of the Government and the project agencies to the equity structure
of the port after completion. The proposed Bank share of project cost
(excluding interest during construction) would amount to about 321; including
interest during construction on the Bank loan, the Bank's share increases to
about 371. Moreover, the foreign exchange cost of the project after deducting
the foreign cost of items reserved for Portuguese procurement is considerably
more than the proposed Bank loan. The total foreign exchange financing for
the project amounts to about 55% of project cost, which is less than the full
foreign exchange cost of the project (both excluding interest during construc-
tion).
C. Status of Preparation and Procurement
3.18     Designs and tender documents for all construction and equipment items
have already been completed. The principal objectives and outline terms of
reference for studies have already been agreed. Understandings have been
reached with GAS that target dates for completion of preparation and procure-
ment shall be as follows:
Construction and Equipment
Marine civil works                  Contract signed July 10,.1984 with lowest
evaluated bidder in accordance with Bank
guidelines.
Equipment                           Invitation to tender May 1985. Bid
submission and evaluation July/October
1985. Negotiation and award January 1986.
Start of manufacture February 1986.



- 27 -
Civil Shore Works                 Invitation to tender April 1985.  Bid
submission and evaluation - May/September
1985. Award of Contract October 1985.
Mechanical Utilities              Invitation to tender May 1985.  Bid
submission and evaluation - June/October
1985. Award of Contract November 1985.
Electrical Utilities              Invitation to tender March 1985.  Bid
submission and evaluation May/August 1985.
Award of Contract September 1985.
Buildings                         Invitation to tender June 1985.  Bid
submission and evaluation August/November
1985. Award of Contract December 1985.
Temporary Berth                    (i) Civil works:  Included in Contract No. 1.
(ii) Equipment: Submission and Evaluation of
proposals March/April 1985. Award May 1985.
Detailed design July 1985. Fabrication,
erection, commissioning April 1986
Engineering Services
Supervision of Construction       Agreement reached on the formation of Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) with participation
by consultants, EDP and APS.
Port management Study             Terms of reference April 1985.  Invite
proposals June 1985. Proposal submission and
evaluation July/October 1985. Award December
1985. Study January/December 1986.
West Breakwater Study             Study already in progress.  Analysis of costs
and benefits September 1985. Final
recommendations December 1985.
EDP Coal Transportation Study    Terms of reference December 1985.  Invite and
evaluate proposals January/April 1986. Award
June 1986. Initial study December 1986.
Final study and preliminary engineering
December 1989.
Training                          Prepare terms of reference December 1986.
Proposals due April 1987. Evaluation and
award June 1987. Completion of training
December 1987
3.19     Tenders for the marine civil works, procured in accordance with Bank
guidelines, were received on January 16, 1984 from six prequalified consortia
of contractors representing 24 firms from a total of 8 countries. The lowest
evaluated bid was received from the Consortium Sociedade da Empreitadas



- 28 -
Somague SARL (Portugal) and Societa Italiana per Condotte d'Acqua SPA (Italy)
in the amount of Esc. 8,632,676,000 (approximately US$64 million). The
Government approved an award of contract to the above tenderer in their
decision published on April 23, 1984, and a contract was signed on July 12,
1984 in the sum of Esc. 7,923,684,840 which will entail the adoption of an
alternative quay design proposed by the contractor. An optional item in the
b.d for a temporary berth for coal importation in the sum of Escudo 1,935,292
was signed at the same time. Possession of the site was granted on July 15,
1984. Procurement procedures and bid evaluation were carried out according to
the Bank's guidelines. All other civil works and building contracts will be
restricted to Portuguese tenderers under local competitive bidding and will be
financed by Government. Coal handling equipment will be financed by suppliers
credits. Suppliers will be selected by GAS principally on the basis of the
cost of the equipment, and on the cost of finance. This procedure is
acceptable. A contract for coal handling equipment at the temporary coal
berth is expected to be awarded by EDP as an extension of their existing
contract at Sines power station. This will ensure the earliest practicable
installation of equipment. Designs and tender documents have been completed
by Consultants Motor Columbus (Switzerland) for EDP. EDP will pay for this
contract.
3.20     Assistance to GAS in the supervision of project construction will be
provided by the design consultants PRC Harris and their Portuguese associates,
under terms and conditions, and according to terms of reference, to be
approved by the Bank. Studies concerning the management of the Port of Sines
and coal delivery to EDP's projected power station will be undertaken under
terms of reference subject to Bank agreement. The study of the west break-
water entails model studies at Delft Hydraulic Laboratory and analysis by
consultants PRC Harris, also under terms and conditions to be approved by the
Bank.
3.21     Only one contract is eligible for Bank finance, namely, the marine
civil works. This contract has been subject to prior Bank review and con-
sequently no threshold for prior Bank review is stated for this project. The
estimated amount of this contract is about US$61 million.



- 29 -
3.22      A simmry of procurement arrangements is given below.
Projert Elemut           Procuemeut Metbod and Aproiate (bst in 1S$ millim A
Internaticzal
Qpetitive
Internatimul T1cal                  Bidding with
aaqetitive    CaiVetitive      /2  Pmtoguese
BiddiR       Bidding    Oder   Psrticipatin   Total
A. Civil Works
Marine civil works       68.45                                           68.45
(41.08)                                         (41.08)
Shore civil works                       3.49                              3.49
&lldings                                6.33                              6.33
Mwlmnical utilities                     7.57                              7.57
Electrical utilities                    7.55                              7.55
B. Eqzipit                                                      50.11        50.11
C.      rer   sevices
Design                                          3.56                      3.56
&Vevision of                                    8.62                      8.62
Cstruction                                   (8.62)                    (8.62)
Stxlies & Training                              1.79                      1.79
(1.79)                   (1.79)
D. Temporary Txcct
Facilities
(i) Civil works         2.11                                             2.11
(ii) Eupit                                      3.86                     3.61
70.56         24.94   17.58        50.11       163.19
(41.08)               (10.41)                   (51.49)
/1 Fiwes in pae his repessnt poposed Book finang
72 Deoign and constrtion supervision servces gre epated to resut in the
cmutimuatima of the services of th design conultants.



- 30 -
3.23     The Government wishes to continue present arrangements whereby GAS is
responsible for development of the port including construction of the coal
terminal, while APS is responsible for port operation and maintenance. APS
will pursue a principally regulatory role; operation of the coal port will be
arranged on concessionary lines. Port assets, including the west breakwater
after it has been repaired, will be handed over to APS. In order to refine
the precise arrangements under which this policy is implemented a management
study has been included in the project. This study will include specific
recommendations on such matters as the valuation of assets and the dates for
asset transfer to APS and tariff determination (para. 2.17). The pri;,cipal
points for the study terms of reference have been agreed during negotiations,
and are summarized in Annex 8.
H. Proiect Execution
3.24     GAS undertook supervision of construction of the west breakwater and
the oil and petrochemical berths. They will again be responsible *for project
execution, with assistance from consultants PRC Harris and their Portuguese
associates, in a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) which has already been
established. It will incorporate representatives of APS and EDP. This
arrangement is satisfactory. The principles of the organization and staffing
of the PIU and its reporting procedures has been agreed at negotiations.
Agreement has also been reached that the PIU will prepare a completion report
on the project under terms of zeference acceptable to the Bank, comparing the
assumptions made at appraisal with those obtaining on completion of the
project.
3.25     An execution schedule showing links between completion of the civil
works, the installation of temporary coal importation facilities, the provi-
s.on of the permanent coal handling equipment at the port, the completion of
Si.-es power station and the associated coal handling facilities is shown in
Annex 7. Construction would be completed by the end of 1988 which is adequate
for the scheduled installation of three of the four 300 MW generator sets.
This schedule is reasonable because the west breakwater was completed by the
same contractor within a period of about 40 months. The stipulated completion
time in the marine civil works contract is 36 months. The project including
the study and preliminary engineering for EDP coal transport would be com-
pleted by the end of 1989.
I. Disbursements
3.26     it is proposed to disburse the Bank loan against the major marine
civil works contract, and part of the engineering services, all procured in
accordance with Bank guidelines. The eligible items and disbursement percent-
ages would be as follows: (i) 672 of marine civil works, (ii) 100% of consult-
ing services for supervision of construction, studies and training costs. The
disbursement under marine civil works represents the estimated foreign costs
of that contract and the full cost of supervision of construction by GAS staff
in the Project Implementation Unit. The estimated disbursement schedule for
Bank-financed items is given in Annex 6. A special account will be estab-
lished in Treasury with a view to ensuring earlier payment of contractors and



- 31 -
simplified Bank records. This was agreed during negotiations. Disbursements
for the marine civil works would be supported by full document- ation; those
for supervision of construction, studies and training, by a statement of
expenditure with a minimum reimbursement payment of US$20,000 equivalent.
3.27     The marine civil works contract, which is the only major item
proposed for Bank finance was awarded in July 1984. Possible delays in
bidding, bid evaluation and agreement to contract award for marine civil works
which might otherwise have to be taken into account in forecasting disburse-
ments, will therefore not arise. Disbursements are expected to take place
over a period of 5 1/2 years; this is equivalent to a disbursement period of
about seven years considering that work has been started since 1984. The
project disbursement profile thus compares reasonably to the profiles of
previous Bank projects in Portugal and in the port sector in the region. The
loan would be closed on December 31, 1990.
J. Operational targets
3.28     Staff who will operate the coal. handling equipment will be given
training at a similar installation abroad. After the commissioning of the
project coal handling equipment, and after a period of about 6 months
familiarization in its use, productivity is expected to be as follows.
1989     1990    1991
Availability of quay gantry
cranes for coal unloading                 85%      90%      95%
Availability of stackers/reclaimers         90%      95%      95%
Availability of entire conveyor
system including transfer stations        90%      95%      95%
During negotiations, agreement was reached with APS that productivity targets
in the operation of the terminal will be established by APS by December 31,
1987 in consultation with the Bank.
K. Environmental Aspects
3.29     Sines has been planned taking the environment into account; the town
is located well away from the power station and the coal port. The conveyor
in the area of the port will be screened and a water sprinkler system will be
installed to dam-rn t-e coal stockpiles.  Any spillage at transfer points will
be automatically returned to the main conveyors. The conveyor system and the
coal handling equipinpflt has thus been designed with a view to achieving the
highest practicable standards of pollution avoidance.
L. Employment Impact
3.30     The project will provide local employment opportunities for about 800
people for a period of about 5 years. On completion of the project, a wide
range of jobs will become available in the operation and maintenance of the
port terminal. These posts, numbering about 200, would be filled by existing
APS staff and by local recruitment.



- 32 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Project Context
4.01     The proposed project will provide port facilities for the import of
coal to a coal-fired poser plant, the first phase of which is at an advanced
stage of construction at Sines. It also constitutes the first phase of a
proposed port expansion in accordance with the master plan. In addition to
the power plant at Sines (4 X 300 MW), Electricidade de Portugal (EDP) plans
additional coal-fired plants for which coal is expected to be imported through
Sines. Although the master plan foresees that Sines port will eventually also
handle a variety of other commodities emanating mainly from the industrial
area close to the port, this traffic is as yet unclear and coal for the power
plants is expected to remain the dominant cotmmodity for the foreseeable future.
4.02     The Sines and other projected coal-fired plants are part of EDP's
development program which has already been reviewed and appraised by the
Bank '' and represents the least cost solution for meeting Portugal's
electricity demand.
4.03     A coal import facility forms an integral and indispensable part of
the power plant. The economic evaluation of the port thus becomes a task of
finding the least cost solution for importing the coal required, subject to
the condition that the cost of this solution be within the limits needed to
maintain overall feasibility of the power plant project (see para. 4.16). It
should be noted that of a total power plant investment of about US$2 billion
the port represents less than l0%.
4.04     From the point of view of port development the project can also be
seen as the first phase of a possible future expansion should the traffic so
warrant. A master plan for such an expansion has been prepared (see paras.
3.01 - 3.02) and is evaluated below (paras. 4.17-18).
B.  The Project
4.05     The project comprises the first phase of the master plan, and is
designed to meet the requirements of coal for the Sines power plant, i.e.
about 2.6 million tons per year (see para. 4.07). Given this and the degree
of uncertainty surrounding the growth of traffic beyond this level, the
project must be justified in its own right and not only as part of a larger
long-term scheme. The same is valid also for the possible subsequent phases.
The possibility to adjust the proposed future components and their timing in
accordance with the development of traffic is an important feature which the
master plan provides. Although the project is economically justified on the
basis of the Sines power plant requirements for coal traffic alone, an addi-
tional consideration, favouring the project, is the possibility of expanding
the facilities beyond this level, especially to handle traffic for EDP's
future power plants.
l/ Power Project VII SAR Report No. 3805a-PO. January 27, 1983.



- 33 -
4.06     When determining the key characteristics of the coal receiving
facility, the origins of coal supply play an important role since different
sources imply different ship sizes and hence different draft requirements.
The main factors influencing the decision where coal should be bought are the
price and quality of the coal, the transport cost and the reliability of
supply. Taking into account the large quantities involved and the need for a
secure and continuous supply, EDP is planning for a diversified supply net-
work. It is expected that 40% of the requirements would come from each of
United States East Coast and South Africa, 7.5% each from Australia and
Colombia and the balance, 5X, from Europe. Since transport costs per ton
decrease with increased vessel size for long journeys, this implies the use of
large vessels from non-European sources. Taking into account the present
fleet and foreseen development of coal carriers, a facility that could receive
ships up to 150,000 dwt would be advantageous from the point of view of
maritime transport costs.
C. Traffic Forecasts
4.07     The EDP coal-fired power plant at Sines has been designed for four
300 MW units of which three are under construction and the fourth one has been
decided upon. The present EDP schedule for commissioning is as follows:
Unit                     Commissioning Date
1                          March 1985
2                          April 1986
3                          November 1987
4                          September 1989
The corresponding coal requirements, including inventory build-up, assessed by
EDP and based on average hydrological conditions (to take into account hydro
power availability), are in thousand tons:
Year        1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
Coal         550   900  1100  1500  2300  2600  2600  2600  2600  2600  2600  2600
Since the Sines power plant is part of the lowest cost solution for meeting
Portugal's electricity demand and since it provides base load electricity and is
in an advanced stage of construction, the above figures can be considered as
firm. The justification of the project is based on the above forecast volumes.
4.08             In addition to the traffic forecast for the project, additional
traffic may develop at later stages, requiring expansion of the port facilities.
This will have to be evaluated independently at a later date. However, the
likelihood and character of traffic beyond the phase under consideration is of
importance when evaluating the value of the project's expansion possibilities.
4.09             A second coal-fired power plant with essentially the same
characteristics as the Sines one, i.e. four 300 MW units, has been planned and is
expected to be located in the northern part of the country. Commissioning of the
units is scheduled with one each year starting in 1993, giving the following
schedule of coal requirements in thousand tons, including inventory build-up.



- 34 -
Year           1992   1993    1994      1995       1996      1997 19998
Coal            550    800    1400      2000       2100      2600    2600
This plant forms an integral part of EDP's expansion strategy.  Sites under
consideration for the next coal fired station include Lavos, near Figueira da
Foz. It is likely that its coal requirements would be imported through Sines,
and transshipped via coastal vessels. The plant serving northern Portugal
could thus be able to make use of large vessels for coal import without having
to construct a corresponding port. This arrangement would lead to the
following coal shipments in thousand tons, through Sines for the power plants
at Sines and the new location combined.
Year _                1992   1993    1994    1995    1996    1997        1998
Coal in               3150   3400    4000    4600    4700    5200        5200
Coal out               550    800    1400    2000    2100    2600        2600
Total                 3700   4200    5400    6600    6800    7800        7800
l'  Traffic prior to 1992 would be the same as for Sines power station only.
Although EDP is firmly committed to construct an additional power station to
serve the north of Portugal, its location and coal supply facilities have not
yet been finally selected. Depending on what receiving facilities are built,
the plant may or may not take some of its coal directly from European sup-
pliers. It has not yet been finally determined whether to bring the coal from
Sines by coastal shipping or by rail and this will be studied under the
project. Estimates of coal traffic to new plants through Sines can therefore,
at present, not be considered firm, and the justification of the project does
not therefore include these forecasts.
4.10     In addition to thermal coal, a number of other potential commodities
for the port of Sines have been identified. The bases of these forecasts are
usually future industrial expansion at Sines for which firm decisions have not
yet been taken. The forecasts for the commodities in this category (see Annex
9) cannot yet be considered as certain and are, therefore, excluded from the
economic evaluation of the project.
D. Evaluation of Alternatives
4.11     There is presently no facility in Portugal that could handle the 2.6
million tons per year foreseen at Sines by 1989, so a port facility has to be
constructed. In addition to the project, the following alternatives, which
appear to be the most realistic and feasible ones, have been investigated by
consultants PRC Harris:



- 35 -
i)    discharge at finger pier in Sines harbor;
(ii)    discharge at anchorage to barges in Sines harbor;
(iii)    discharge at anchorage to barges in Sines harbor by geared ships;
(iv)    discharge in midstream Tagus River (Lisbon) to coastal vessels to
Sines;
(v)    midstream discharge in Tagus River, barge to south shore, rail to
Sines; and
(vi)    adaptation of onxe of the existing petroleum berths at Sines.
4.12     The table below sets forth the estimated investments and operating
costs.
Alternative               Investment              Operating Costs
(million 1984 US$)   (as compared to project)
Project                       129
i)                        147                      higher
(ii)                       147                      see para. 4.16
(iii)                       148                      higher
(iv)                       130                      higher
(v)                       193                      higher
(Vi)                       131                      higher
All the alternatives considered except alternative (iv) involve heavier
investments than the project. For the barge solutions in Sines (alternatives
ii and iii) this is attributable to the need to construct a sheltered barge
port, the investment necessary for barges, tugs and fl oating cranes as well as
a much longer conveyor system than for the project. .,~he Tagus discharge
alternatives (alternatives iv and v) likewise involve heavy investments in
port and vessels or rail line upgrading respectively. All of these alter-
natives also have higher operating costs than the project for the following
reasons: alternative (i) more vessel down-time; alte-iatives (i, ii, iii)
longer conveyors; alternatives (ii, iii, iv, v) more complicated unloading
procedures; alternatives (iv and v) costLier ocean freight since the maximum
size ship in the Tagus estuary is limited to approximacely 70,000 dwt.
Alternative (iii) has also costlier ocean freight since geared vessels are
about US$7/ton more expensive (from US East Coast) than ungeared ones. Thus
alternatives (. iii, iv, and v) are clearly economically less feasible than
the project.
4.13     Alternative (vi), adaptation of one of the existing petroleum berths
at Sines, would be a highly controversial proposition and is not recommended
as a permanent solution, although it will be adopted during the emergency
import phase, i.e. about the first 9 to 12 months starting late 1984, by



- 36 -
temporarily modifying Berth No. 2. However, the first year coal requirements
are only about ZOZ of the annual coal requirements when the power plant is
fully operational, i.e. 0.55 and 2.6 million tons respectively. The emergency
system would not suffice but would require important modifications in order to
handle the final volumes. A stockpile near the berth would be needed. The
advisability of doing this is seriously doubted, since it would be close to
the installations for crude and chemical products and for other safety
reasons. This solution would also entail the transport of coal either around
the town, a distance of about 8 km by conveyor or an even greater distance by
road, or along the beach, which is Sines' main recreation area and past the
fishing port. Both cases would raise strong environmental objections. Also,
there are no expansion possibilities beyond the initial phase for this alter-
native. Given this and the fact that the alternative would have both higher
investment and operating costs than the project, it has been rejected.
4.14     Finally, alternative (ii), discharging to barges by means of floating
cranes in Sines harbor, has higher investments than the project and is deemed
to have higher operating and maintenance costs, but a comparison with the
project is not as clearcut for this alternative as for the others. It has
therefore been compared more rigorously with the project and the details are
shown in Annex 10. This shows that the net present cost of the project
discounted at 10%, which is taken to be the opportunity cost of capital, is
US$136 million vs. US$176 million for alternative (ii). The project thus
represents the least cost alternative available. Although the cost estimates
for the project alternative are firmer than for the other alternatives, there
is no reason to assume that the cost estimates are biased in different direc-
tions for different alternatives. Hence changes in costs would yield the same
conclusion.
4.15     In order to be economically feasible the proposed coal import
facility must be, in addition to being the least cost one, also within the
limits necessary to keep the Sines power plant economically justified. The
Bank's appraisal of the Power Project VII l- which includes the Sines power
plant, arrives at the conclusion that this plant is justified if the cost of
coal delivered to plant yard does not exceed US$96/ton (1982 prices). This
cost is composed of the following items:
(i) cost FOB at the port of origin;
(ii) sea transport;
(iii) unloading and handling at Sines port (up to the EDP transfer tower);
and
(iv) conveyor transport from EDP transfer tower to the plant yard.
4.16     EDP's recent (late 1982) medium term coal contracts have been between
5G and US$60/ton FOB US East Coast. The prices have subsequently weakened and
it is considered that a long-term price, FOB US East Coast, of about US$
1/ Power Project VII SAR, Report No. 3805a-PO. January 27, 1983.



- 37 -
45/ton (1983 US$) is more likely. The other intended suppliers have lower
costs. The cost for ocean freight from the U.S. East Coast to Sines is
calculated to about US$10/ton. The rates actually paid of course vary con-
siderably, but for a long-term view it is reasonable to expect the average
rate to be close to cost. Both South Africa and Columbia are likely to have
similar costs (longer distances offset by the use of larger vessels). The
costs at Sines port are made up of three main components: capital, maintenance
and operating costs. As shown in Annex 10, the project's operating and main-
tenance costs at an annual volume of 2.6 million tons are about US$2/ton. The
capital costs, at lOZ and 30 years, amount to about US$5.5/ton. Conveyer
transport from EDP transfer tower to the plant yard is assessed to about
US$2/ton.  Thus the Sines port costs add up to less than US$10/ton.    This
gives a total cost of coal at the plant yard of about US$65/ton, which is thus
well below what the power plant can bear in order to remain economically
viable.
4.17     The coal import costs, in order to render the power plant project
infeasible, would have to rise by more than US$30/ton (96-65). As can be seen
by the size of the coal cost components above, this will not be brought about
by an increase in port costs. A doubling of the port construction costs will
increase the cost of coal at the plant yard to about US$70/ton, still far from
the US$96/ton limit referred to in para. 4.15. As explained in para. 4.14, an
increase in construction costs is not likely to affect the determination of
the least cost alternative.
E. Master Plan
4.18     Although as explained above, the project at hand is designed to
provide facilities for the import of coal to the Sines power plant only;
additional traffic may develop in the future. The possibility of expanding
the facilities is thus important and the master plan provides for phased
expansion. The master plan concept is a highly feasible one. When the fully
developed scheme is compared to a without a master plan situation where coal
is being imported through Lisbon, transferred to smaller colliers, and shipped
to Sines and to other power plants, and where non-coal commodities are assumed
to move overland to/from Lisbon, the internal rate of return is about 40%.
4.19     The proposed master plan is also the least cost one.  An alternative
finger pier solution at Sines which would fulfill the same requirements,
albeit under much less satisfactory operational conditions, has higher invest-
ment, maintenance and ship waiting costs than the proposed project. Thus the
master plan is an economically feasible long-term solution for the traffic
volumes forecast.
F. Conclusion
4.20     The project provides the least cost solution for import of coal to
the Sines power plant. This solution has costs that are well below what is
required to maintain the overall feasibility of the power plant. The project
can also be developed in the future according to a master plan which provides
for phased expansion in a feasible way.   There are no particular risks for



- 38 -
the economic feasibility of the project for three main reasons: (i) Sines
power plant is in a very advaneed state of execution, (ii) the justification
of the project is based on Sines power plant's coal requirements only, and
(iii) the cost estimates for the project can be considered very reliable
because the contract for the marine civil works, which is the main item in the
project, has already been awarded.
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
Introduction
5.01     The present balance sheet of APS is summarized on the following page
and shown in Annex 13. The gross fixed assets, valued at Esc. 639 million in
1983, cover only part of the total port construction cost. Investments in
port equipment are included but investment in port infrastructure are recoraed
at historical costs in the GAS accounts for about Escudo 22.0 billion. There
are no outstanding long-term debts.
APS: Summary Balance Sheet - 1980 through 1983
(in million escudos)
1980       1981       1982        1983
Current assets                         611.90      980.38    1379.09    1476.03
less
Current liabilities                    457.90      471.81     454.26      277.71
Net fixed assets                       418.26      375.04     453.64      413.72
Other assets                           119.41      153.26      78.24      110.37
Total                                691.67    1036.87    1456.71    1722.41
Government equity                       36.50       36.50      36.50       36.50
Provision and reserves                 597.70      923.85    1363.85    1846.96
Retained earnings                       57.47       76.52      56.36   (-161.05)
Total                                691.67    1036.87    1456.71    L722.41
Indicator
Current ratio                            1.34        2.08       3.04        5.32
5.02     Reserves to a total of Esc. 1.843 billion were constituted in 1983
under three headings: (i) depreciation on assets to be received from GAS, Esc.
917.8 million, (ii) development, Esc. 800 million, (iii) self insurance, Esc.
126 million. The liquidity position is good: in 1983, APS had a current ratio
of 5.3 and its cash at hand and Bank amounted to Esc. 1.165 billion. However,
the accounts receivable are still abnormally high in 1983, although reduced to
Esc. 205 million from Esc. 487 million in 1982. Accounts payable also remain
high and inventories rose sharply in l983. Those features all point to a need
to tighten the working capital management of APS.



- 39 -
5.03     The income statement for years 1980 through 1983 is summarized below:
APS - Summary Income Statement - 1980 through 1983
(in million escudos)
1980       1981       1982        1983
Operating revenues                     559.04     724.55      890.82     812.60
Expenses                               184.00     325.32      463.58     538.27
Depreciation, provision                365.89     400.68      494.99     542.64
Operating income (deficit)               9.15     (-1.45)   (-67.75)  (-268.31)
Net income (deficit)                    37.30      19.06    (-20.16)  (-217.41)
Indicator
Operating ratio (xlOO)                  98.4      100.2       107.6      133.0
5.04     APS has not been profitable since 1981.  In 1983, st incurred a
deficit of Esc. 217.4 million because of inflation, stagnatiig traffic and
unchanged tariffs. APS made a request for higher tariffs in 1982 but the
Government set it aside for two reasons: (i) there is still a large excess of
cash over needs shown in the APS budget accounting, (ii) the financial respon-
sibilities of APS are only partially defined. A decision has to be taken on
the cost of assets to be transferred froa GAS to APS, and on the corresponding
debt service requirements before new tariffs can be determined.  This wilI be
assessed in the management study under the proposed project (Annex 8).
5.05     The deficit is understated in.t-h- accounts because of the rules used
for depreciation. Pending the transfer of assets from GAS, APS constituted a
provision starting fiscal year 1979 to a monthly total of Esc. 10 million
progressively increased ta Esc. 40 million as of June 1983. This provision
for depreciation is based on a 5Z annual rate and therefore relates to assets
valued at Esc. 9.6 billion, much below the actual value (see para. 5.01
above). Appropriate depreciation should be accounted for and tariffs adjusted
accordingly so as to reflect the true port costs and to allow APS to finance
its share of the coal port investment (para. 5.12).
Future Financial Performance
5.06     The Government established a user charge on oil traffic as part of
the APS revenue. Two rates apply (i) Esc. 700 per m.t. for oil discharged,
(ii) Esc. 350 per m.t. for oil transshipped. The Ministers of Finance and
Planning, of Industry and Energy, and the Sea, have jointly agreed that the
full proceeds of the new user charge should, for the time being, be trans-
ferred to GAS to help its servicing of port-related borrowings. The initial
system provided for revenues generated by the user charge to transit through
the Supply Fund 1' but is now being revised so that APS may be paid directly
by the oil refining company, PETROGAL. A new ministerial order will be issued
shortly following which APS will start collecting the user charge and repaying
it to GAS.
1/ Government administered fund which re-distributes the difference between
market price and refining cost on some petroleum products, to some food and
petroleum products used in agriculture.



- 40 -
5.07     The user charge based on the existing rates and system would generate
a revenue of some Esc. 4.0 billion in 1985 or 75X only of what it should be to
cover the operation, maintenance and capital costs of the oil port with the
current replacement value roughly estimated as Esc. 50 billion. The revenue
shortfall is even higher considering the debt service requirements related to
the port investment. If port users were to share the debt servicing in the
same proportion as the port investment to total investment by GAS, the user
charge should produce a 1985 revenue of about Esc. 7.0 billion. The manage-
ment study under the proposed project (Annex 8) will establish the conditions
for a fair transfer of assets from GAS to APS and the user charge will then be
revised accordingly.
APS
5.08     The forecast income of APS is summarized below and shown in Annex 14.
This statement takes into account a recent decision by the Government to
strengthen APS finances by increasing present user charges on oil by 402 and
by increasing other port tariffs by 115Z. These increases are expected to
become effective in April 1985 and will jointly generate about 50X more
revenue than those based on tariffs in effect on June 30, 1984. Given that
the oil port assets are not expected to be transferred to APS until the end of
1986, and that their value as well as the related debt remains to be estimated
by the management study, the 40Z increase in the user charge on oil is a
satisfactory first step. The Government agreed during negotiations that
further adjustments will be made to gradually reach the level needed by the
debt service requirements of APS, starting 1987. Present financing needs
would be adequately covered by the introduction of the two tariff increases
mentioned above; enactment of these tariffs is therefore a condition of loan
effectiveness.
Summary Income Statement
(in million escudos except for traffic and revenue per ton of coal)
1986      1987       1988        1989       1990
Operating revenues           10,248     14,155      14,813     20,454      21,699
Expenses                      1,081      1,326       1,588      2,426       2,911
Depreciation, provision         189      1,517       1,826      5,024       6,484
Operating Income              8,978     11,312      11,399     13,004     12,304
Interest                      7,914      9,662      9,874      11,416     10,879
Non-operating revenues           45         45          30         80         120
Net income                    1,109      1,695       1,555      1,668       1,545
Indicators
Operating ratio                0.12       0.20        0.23       0.36       0.43
Return on net fixed assets   29.8Z       21.1%       19.7%      13.4%        9.4%
Operating revenue per ton
of coal (US dollar)          2.16       2.77       3.35       10.26      10.13



- 41 -
5.09     Before the coal handling facilities are completed, revenues earned by
APS must allow a normal rate of return on the investment in the oil port and
to finance about 10% of the project cost plus the debt servicing for equip-
ment.  Before 1986, the coal traffic will be accommodated at the oil berth
under the emergency arrangements and charged the same way as oil. When this
traffic switches to the temporary facilities, a new tariff will apply based on
the following principles: (i) APS must recover the costs incurred in providing
these temporary facilities through an interim user charge; (ii) a sliding
scale will ensure that at the time the coal port is commissioned to traffic,
the port cost to EDP will not be increased in a way which might deter the use
of the new facilities. When the traffic switches to the permanent facilities,
75% of revenues will be raised through the coal user charge, the remaining 25%
will come from port dues; and the coal terminal will be leased to an operator
distinct from APS, who will be responsible for paying the user charge. The
other assumptions used in the financial projection are given as Annex 13.
5.10     The forecast balance sheet of APS is summarized as follows and shoi-n
in Annex 16.
Summary Balance Sheet
(in million escudos)
1986      1987       1988        1989       1990
Current assets                1,407       1,310       2,162      2,733       4,191
less
Current liabilities              108        132         159        243         292
et fixed assets             56,398      56,569      66,135    126,855    136,041
Deferred charges                  -           -           -      3,015       5.546
Total                      57,697      57,747     68,138    132,360    145,486
Government equity            16,167      16,167      16,167     25,875      25,875
Reserves, etc.                3,900       5,831      18,103     41,268      57,401
Debt                         37,630      35,749      33,868     65,217      62,210
Total                      57,697      57,747     68,138    132,360    145,486
Indicators
Current ratio                 13.0        9.9       13.6       11.2        14.4
Debt to equity                65135      62/38     50/50       49/51       43/57
Net fixed assets incorporate from 1986 onward the infrastructure and equipment
received from GAS which is given here a notional value of Esc. 54 billion
corresponding to the replacement cost minus accumulated depreciation and
excluding the repairs to the west breakwater. These assets are then depreci-
ated at a yearly rate of 2%, and revalued each year to neutralize inflation.
Assets are further increased in January 1989 by the investment in the coal
port made by GAS, the total amount of which is Esc. 47.3 billion. Government
equity is 19% of this amount. The accumulated interests during construction
amount to Esc. 3.8 billion at the start of 1989. Other assumptions are
detailed in Annex 13.
5.11     Gizn the inflation in Portugal, the projection provides for a yearly
revaluaticn of both assets and tariffs at the inflation rate. The outstanding
amounts of foreign loans are also adjusted to reflect the decreasing parity of



- 42 -
the escudo against foreign currencies. The variation of exchange rates is
integrated in the value of the coal port assets during construction. Total
assets transferred bv GAS to APS when the port is counmissioned include Esc.
6.6 billion as losses due to variation of exchange rates. The financing plan
including those foreign exchange losses is as follows.
Summary Financing Plan
(in millions)
Escudo       US
dollar
Funds required
Proposed project
Capital expenditures                         43,500         163.19
Interest during construction, fee             3,793          12.95
Sub-total                                  47,293         176.14
Sources of funds
Foreign loan for equipment                   14,682          50.11
EDP                                             664           3.61
Proposed Bank loan for:
Capital expenditures                       15,471          52.75
Interest during construction, fee           21793          12.95
Equity contribution by Government ;           9,044          40.69
Internal cash generation: APS                 3,639          16.03
Sub-total (rounded)                        47,293         176.14
/1 Including design already financed.
5.12     Under the above assumptions, the operating revenue will increase from
Esc. 10.2 billion in 1986 to Esc. 21.7 billion in 1990. Revenue sources are
twofold. Traffic in the oil port is a constant and revenue increases will
only be obtained through higher tariffs. Traffic at the temporary berth will
generate a growing share of the total operating revenues earned by APS start-
ing from a low 5.17 in 1986 to 14.52 before swi-tching to the new port. The
pricing policy is essential for APS to meet its targets, i.e., financing of
about 10% of the project cost plus servicing of the equipment related debt.
Financial covenants will address this need: (i) during construction, a cash
generation against capital expenditures covenant is most approp.7iate and will
set forth that APS will finance from internal sources all capital expenditures
expected to be incurred in relation to the project, (ii) when the coal port
starts to operate, APS will be required to earn a minimum return of 7.5% on
its net fixed assets based on asset values as revalued to neutralize inflation.
5.13     Special attention must be paid to the pricing policy for coal. The
users must pay the full cost for the service. In the above financial projec-
tion, revenues generated in the new coal port amount to Esc. 8.2 billion for
the first year of operation, i.e., 1989. This is the cash generation needed
to earn a satisfactory return on the investment (7.5%) after coverage of all
operating costs including maintenance and depreciation. It is assumed that
the coal terminal would be leased to a specialized operator and 752 of the
revenue would be earned through the user charge to be paid by the lessor. The
remaining 25X would come from the port dues. The average charge per ton of



- 43 -
imported coal to cover necessary payments to APS would be about US$10.3 in
1989 prices. The terminal operator would charge EDP for its own services in
the production of which he would incur costs in relation to labor, power and
water consumption and maintenance of equipment. Payment to the terminal
operator in current prices would be equivalent to Esc. 1.7 billion in 1989, or
about US$2.1 per ton. In total, EDP would bear an overall cost per ton of
some US$12.4 in 1989 prices (or US$9.2 in 1984 prices).
5.14     The user charge, collected from the time coal traffic moves to the
temporary facilities has two purposes: (i) it covers the costs associated to
the investments already incurred by APS in providing the adjacent area and
facilities without which the EDP financed berth and equipment would not be
operational; (ii) it creates a financial incentive to use the new coal port
when completed. The user will pay to APS in 1986 some US$2.0 per ton of coal
imported through the temporary facilities, rising to US$3.3, at the end of
1988 before switching to the new port. There, he will be charged by APS an
additional US$7.0 per ton in 1989 prices (or US$5.2 in 1984 prices) and some
US$2.1 per ton (or US$1.6 in 1984 prices) by the terminal operator, which is
less than the benefits he will get from the economies of scale in the maritime
transport of coal.  Large gearless bulk carriers making use of the permanent
facility would save about US$7.5 per ton in 1984 prices over that of geared
vessels to be received at the temporary facility.  Other savings will accrue
to the user in terms of reduiced waiting times and elimination of all working
expenses borne by EDP in its operating of the temporary fac.lities.
5.15     Agreements was reached at negotiation on the following:
)  The existing port tariff, including the user charge on oil, to be
increased by about 50% above the level of tariffs in effect on June
30, 1984 as a condition for loan effectiveness.
(ii) Port tariffs to be adjusted not later than June 30, 1986 and each
year thereafter to allow APS to finance 10% of the coal port invest-
ment plus the debt service relaLed to the investment costs for
equipment.
(iii) The transfer of the oil port assets to be effective not later than
December 31, 1986, together with a settlement of the APS debt to GAS
according to the relevant conclusions of the Bank-financed management
study, on the basis of a satisfactory capital structure with no less
than 30% of those assets received by APS as government equity. The
user charge should be adjusted not later then December 31, 1986 and
from time to time thereafter to cover the debt servicing related to
the assets received from GAS.
(iv) A user charge on coal traffic to be collected as soon as traffic is
transferred to the temporary facilities and to be revised on a yearly
basis.
(v)  The transfer of the coal port assets from GAS to APS to be effected
under a subsidiary agreement satisfactory to the Bank, not later than
June 30, 1989; and tariffs to be established to cover the full costs
of the coal port and allow a rate of return not lower than 7.5%.



- 44 -
(vi)  All port tariffs to be further adjusted from June 30, 1989 onward to
cover the full port costs and maintain a rate of return on net fixed
assets not lower than 7.5%, at the coal port and at the oil port.
(vii)  All port fixed assets to be revalued yearly on the basis of a
methodology determined in consultation with the Bank starting with
fiscal year 1985, in order to eliminate the distortions of local
inflation on the accounts, and to serve as a basis for computing a
satisfactory rate of return.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS REACHED
6.01      During loan negotiations, clarification was obtained on the
following:
(i) Financing Plan:- Confirmation was provided on the amounts, and
adequacy of the project financing plan (para. 3.15).
(ii) Special Account: The Borrower confirmed that a revolving special
account will be established to facilitate payment to contractors and
to simplify Bank records (para. 3.26).
6.02      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached with the Borrower,
ABS. GAS as designated below on the following topics.
1. Financing Plan, Budgets, Accounts and Audit
(i)   With Government
The Bank to review the budget for the project each year to ensure the
timely provision of funds to meet project costs (para. 2.33).
(ii)  With GAS
Project related accounts to be kept by GAS, to be audited by the
Inspector General of Finance or by an auditor acceptable to the Bank
and the audited financial statements to be submitted to the Bank
within six months after the end of each fiscal year (para. 2.40).
(iii)    With APS
Financial statements of A2S to be audited by private independent
auditor and the audited financial statements to be submitted to the
Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal year starting
1984 (para. 2.41).
2. Assets
(iv)   With APS
Port assets to be revalued yearly determined in consultation with the
Bank starting with fiscal year 1985 (para. 5.15).



- 45 -
(v)   With Government
The transfer of the oil port assets to be effective not later than
December 31, 1986, together with a settlement of APS debt to GAS on
the basis of a satisfactory capital structure, with no less than 30%
of these assets received by APS from GAS as Government equity (para.
5.15).
(vi) With Government
The transfer of the coal port assets from GAS to APS to be effected
under a subsidiary agreement satisfactory to the Bank not later than
June 30, 1989 (para 5.15).
3. Tariffs
(vii)   With Government
Port tariffs to be put into effect by APS subject to approval by the
Minister of the Sea and the Minister of Finance, following consulta-
tion with port users especially EDP and an exchange of views with the
Bank; these arrangements to apply in particular when the temporary
and permanent facilities are each available for use (para. 2.43).
(viii)   With Government
A user charge to be agreed on coal traffic using the temporary berth,
until permanent facilities are available (para. 5.15).
(ix)   With Government
Port tariffs to be adjusted not later than June 30, 1986 and annually
thereafter to allow APS to finance 10% of the coal port investment
and service the debt related to the investment costs (para. 5.15).
(x) With Government
The user charge on oil traffic to be adjusted not later than December
31, 1986, and from time to time thereafter to cover the debt servic-
ing related to the assets received by APS from GAS (para. 5.15).
(xi)  With Government
Coal port tariffs to be established not later than June 30, 1989 to
cover the full cost of the coal port and allow a rate of return not
lower than 7.5% (para. 5.15).
(xii) With Government
All port tariffs to be further adjusted from June 30, 1989 onward to
cover the full port costs and maintain a rate of return not lower
than 7.5% at the Port of Sines (para. 5.15).
4. Project Preparation and Implementation
(xiii)   With GAS
The principles of the organization and staffing of the project
implementation unit has been agreed, together with the procedure for
reporting project progress and for the preparation of a project
completion report under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank
(para. 3.24).



- 46 -
(xiv)   With APS
Productivity targets in the cperation of the coal terminal to be
established by December 31, 1987 after consultation with the Bank
(para. 3.28).
With Government
(xv)   The Government to (i) provide to the Bank by June 30, 1988, copies of
the draft long term agreements for the use of the permanent project
facilities and exchange views thereon; (ii) take all measures
necessary to ensure that such long term agreements for the use of the
permanent project facilities are entered into not later than June 30,
1989 (para. 3.02).
5. Studies
(xvi)  With GAS
A study of comprehensive repairs to the west breakwater to be
completed not later than December 31, 1985, under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank and to submit for Bank review an execution
timetable and a financing plan for a repair program based on the
relevant recommendations of the study not later than September 30,
1986 (para. 2.10).
(xvii) With GAS
To commence a study not later than December 31, 1985 of the manage-
ment of the Port of Sines under terms of reference and according to a
timetablc to be agreed; to consult the Bank on the findings of the
study; to implement thp rplpvant study recommendations not later than
June 30, 1989 (paras. 2.17, 2.22).
(xviii) With APS
To implement the relevant recommendations of the management study of
the Port of Sines (paras. 2.17, 2.22).
(xix)  With Government
To cortsl-.t. the Rank onI thhp findings of the management study of. the
Port of Sines, amid Lu IZIUL= the timely implementation of the--agreed
recommendations and the actions to be taken thereon by APS and GAS
(para. 2.17).
(xx) With Governmrent
To undertake a coal transportation study for EDP's projected power
stations to carry out the study not later than December 31, L986 and
to consult the Bank on the study findings (para. 1.16).
6.  Data Collection
(xxi)  With Government
Data on port Droductivity, prepared in an internationally approved
format, will be collected on the Port of Sines and furnished to the
Bank (para. 1.17).



- 47 -
6.03     Port tariffs will be increased by about 50Z above the level of
tariffs in effect on June 30, 1984 as a condition of loan effectiveness (para.
5.15).
6.04     Agreements having been reached on the above, the proposed project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$66.0 million to the Republic of Portugal on a
thirteen year amortization period with four years' grace period.



- 48 -
ANNEX I
PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A COAL HANDLING PORT PROJECT
Petroleum Price Structure
Selected Products, July 1983
(US$/metric ton) .J
Ex-refinery   Distribution    Net Taxes         Retail
Product                    Price         Maraing       (Subsidies) b/   Price
Super gasoline                372            23              736         1,131
Regular gasoline                -             -                -             -
Kerosene (lighting)           362            28              201           591
Kerosene (heating             383            19              180           582
Gas oil C,                    314            18              224           556
Fuel oil (electricity)         203            2              (28)          177
Fuel oil (non-electricity)   203              2               (8)          197
a/ At US$1 - 99.068 escudos.
b/  Includes customs duty, cDecial national tax and "taxa de compensacao" (or
subsidy) to (from) the Supply Fund.
c/ Except for agriculture and fishing.
Source: Portugal. Issues and Options in the Energy Sector Report
No. 4824-PO. April 1984.



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A COAL HANDLING PORT PROJECT
West Breakwater Repair Program
1.       The west breakwater which extends seaward for about 1900 m suffered
severe storm damage in 1978 and 1979, during which the outer concrete block
armour layer was breached, many blocks broken and the exposed rock hearting
washed out over a substantial length (Map No. IBRD 18446). Pipelines at the
most seaward oil Berth No. 1 were also destroyed, the breakwater wave wall was
broken in places and the breakwater profile was flattened. The severity of
the storms and resulting damage prompted extensive enquiry, not only into wave
forecasting and the many other factors determining breakwater design at Sines,
but also into the effect of the wave climate on the Master Plan for port
development. A Government appointed panel reviewing the reasons for failure
concluded that the unreinforced Dolosse concrete armour blocks of the size
employed at Sines were particularly vulnerable under severe wave attack. They
also concluded that the design wave itself should have been greater. The
repairs which are proposed and project structures will be designed to avoid
earlier mistakes.
2.       In order to avoid interruption to petroleum traffic, substantial
temporary repairs were carried out. Concrete block armour of a pattern first
successfully used at an exposed breakwater at Antifer, (France) have been
placed on the outer side of the breakwater over a length of about 1000 M.
These blocks, which weigh about 90 tons, have been laid on the seaward side at
a variable slope of about 1 to 3 below water and 1 to 2 above.
3.       Consultants PRC Harris (USA) have been appointed to make
recoamendations for outstanding breakwater repair, and to review temporary
repairs already in place. The consultants have retained specialists including
Delft Hydraulic and Delft Soil Mechanics Laboratories (Holland) as well as
Laboratorio Nacional Eighenaria Civil (LNEC, Portugal) to assist them. The
consultant recommends that repair is needed over a length of about 250 to
300 m seaward of the end of the presently repaired section to safeguard
mooring lines from tankers at Berth No. 2, and to improve protection to
vessels at this berth. Additional repairs are also needed for full security
of the temporarily repaired section; this co-&ista of (i) repairs to the inner
slope of the breakwater from the shore up to Berth No. 2, (ii) additional
blocks to safeguard the already reconstructed wave wall, and (iii) a new
protective underwater breakwater to provide safety tc the original breakwater
where the Dolosse protective blocks are still intact. The Government has
indicated its wish to undertake this work after ccmpletion of the proposed
Bank project; a recommended execution programme will be prepared under the
study in that project.



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.       The consultant has recommended rehabilitation of the outer length of
the breakwater to a reduced crest level because it provides protection to the
port, yet allows exceptional waves to overtop the breakwater releasing their
energy. This strategy is advisable. Berth No. 1 which was originally
designed for 500,000 dwt. tankers would thus not be rehabilitated. Antifer
type concrete armour blocks of 90 ton size would again be used in
rehabilitation; the inner layer would comprise 90 ton concrete blocks of a
wedge shape, Roblocs, which will minimise rocking of blocks under storm
conditions.
5.       Repair costs of the full length of about 800 m of outer portion of
the west breakwater might reach US$90 million. Moreover the benefits to the
existing port of repairing this outer portion, as determined in hydraulic
model analysis, diminish relatirely the further the repair is extended
seaward. An extension of about 500 m for example might provide a high
proportion of the security at Berth No. 2 whicn would be conferred by full
repair. In addition consideration needs to be given to the possible
re-organization of the petroleum and petrochemical berths to ensure that only
essential west breakwater repairs are undertaken. The project therefore
includes a study of the west breakwater to assess both the costs and benefits
of a repair programme; the objectives are given in Annex 8. The new coal port
has been designed to remain structurally safe even if these repairs to the
West breakwater are not undertaken.
6.       An indication of the cost a hypothetical programme assuming the
repair of about 500 m out of the full 800 m dAmaged outer length is given
below.
Approximate /l
Recommended          Order of Cost
Item                         timing of repair           US$ m
1.    Length adjoining                     1985                  17-20 /2
Berth No. 2
(250 m approx.)
2.    Improvement of
repaired length                                               2
i)  Inner slope                  1985-86
ii)  Wave wall protection         1986-87                    7
iii) Underwater breakwater
3.    Outer length including
roundhead                        1987-89                 30-55
(approx 250 m)
TOTAL                                       56-64
11 Approximate timing recommended by consultants when rehabilitation of the full
length was under consideration.
/2 Higher cost for roundhead if item 3 not done.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Approximate 1
Recommended           Order of Cost
Item                         timing of repair           US* m
1.    Length adjoining                      1985                  17-20 12
Berth No. 2
(250 m approx.)
2.    Improvement of
repaired length                                                2
i)  Inner slope                  1985-86
ii)  Wave wall protection         1986-87                     7
iii) Underwater breakwater
3.    Outer length including
roundhead                        1987-89                 30-55
(approx 250 m)
TOTAL               56-64
/1  Approximate timing recommended by consultants when rehabilitation of the
full length was under consideration.
/2 Higher cost for roundhead if item 3 not done.



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
PORTUGAL
COAL HANDUNG PORT PROJECT
Staff Apprail Report
Gabinete do Area de Sines - Organization Chart
BUcad ot Drectof s
DMSIONS   Master~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ainiitrtv
Pat RPct DemaCrnent                               Pueft Relations
DlRKr~~~~asic Santto |eotne                                        Dou[ott| ion |<| 
DMSWON5 ~  ~    Ltc cete 3              [p[                        [i 3 
woo Bar*-26493



-53-                  ANNEX 4
LI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IJf  ii
liii   I                 __
'oRt~~~I =Ijf    Mi  M
SFj]"T



- 54 -
ANNEX 5
SW AIIRUIS FO  Cl
Qet SsY
l Fompi;p   Been
L  n_MM          C
A. CUM a RCM.;EID S
1. thrinm ciyil wdu             3,169.476    4,75.214   7,923.690    23.478     35.216    51.69      60        43
2. CivLil dm ini                  1247.5B2     221.373     368.955    1.093      L644      2.733     60         2
3. ad.ldmr.s                      265.1S4      397.791     662.985    1.964      2.947     4.911     60         4
4. Iblmnical  iliti                M9.92       636.76B     795.960     1.179     4.717     SAN       s0         4
5. Electral Utitiu.               10D.785      643.14W     8D3.925    1.191      4.76%     5.955    8D          4
-loA1 CWC9L 6 avL       M W     1S   3.902.229    6,653.286  10,5S.515    28.905   49.2t     7m89       63        57
B. WM300                                            .0
1.  1dar.                         429.3D0    177.20   2,1b.50         3U        12.720    I90D       ID        12
2. Stkm/rmr1ima                   216.0DD      866.000   1,090.000    1.600      6A00      8.COD     80         6
3. uexmr ayti                     32B.185    1,312.740   1,6.0.925    2.31       9.724    12.155     OD         9
4. Gmtrol aptm                    150.714      6m.856      753.570    1.116      4A66      5.52      80         4
Suh-Ab1 WIM. HREN                  1.1Z.199    4,496.796   5,620.995    8.327     33.310    41.637     1)        30
C. E CISMiSAriMG
1. Desipi                          15.930       63.720      79.650    0.1U8      0.472     09D       OD         0
2. Dwipi alr.dy did Wd             81.S00      334.OOD    405.OOO      .600      2.400     3.00W     80         2
3. Suvisn 6a          n           685.125      293.62S     978.750    5.075      2.175     7.250     30         5
4. Bre8kmtA                         2.700       24.bO       27.000    O.0OZ      0.180     0.2OD     90         0
5. !    _mqm                        6.750       20.250     27.O0      0.050      0.150     0.20D     75         0
6. Pat dwelpzt                     25.313       74.93B     11.250     0.19       0.563     0.750     75         1
7. Ifinig                           8.438       25.313      33.750    0.063      0.183     0.250     75        _
Sthomal                              SZ/SlADVJ  p25.255  827.145   1,652A00  6.113  6.127    12.260     SO         9
D.  !MPAR 
1. CCvil IDm4                     10.490       156.735     261.225    0.774      l.I6      1.935     60         1
7. Iipi                            89.100      356,400    445.500     0.660      2.640     3.300     8          2
Sdgboca1 1DE RARY EI                 193.590      513.135    706.725     1.434      3.801     5.235     73        4
Tbt.  ASELME   is                      6,065.273   12,490.362  18,535.635    44.780    92.521   137.301    67       1OD
ThysiCAI axitiiies                   618.198    1,250.857   1,869.055    4.579      9.266    13.845     67        10
Price contisgsie                   5.211.634   11,233.741  16,445.375    3.619      8.41W    I050       70        9
1urL RjECr 03I                        11,875.105   24,974.960  36,850.065    53.008    l10.L8    163.196   68       119
Tnteet durirg cmutamtim
on Uwi-fiamced itm                     -    3,792,595   3,792,595                   12.94S    12.945
Tool                              11,875,105   28,767,555  40,642,66        53.00     1233    176.14
U,900,W0   2,800,00   40,700,0           53        123       176



- 55 -
ANNEX 6
PORTUG&L
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A COAL HANDLING PORT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
USS Million Equivalent
Bank Fiscal Year                    Quarterly                    Cummulative
and Quarter                      Disbursements                Disbursements
1986
Sept=eier 30, 1985                       7.5                          7.5
December 31, 1985                        3.5                         11.0
March 31, 1986                           4.0                         15.0
June 30, 1986                            4.0                         19.0
1987
September 30, 1986                       4.0                         23.0
December 31, 1986                        7.0                         30.0
March 31, 1987                           4.0                         34.0
June 30, 1987                            6.0                         40.0
1988
Septemer 30, 1987                        3.0                         43.0
December 31, 1987                        5.0                         48.0
March 31, 1988                           4.0                         52.0
June 30, 1988                            4.0                         56.0
1989
September 30, 1988                       3.0                         59.0
December 31, 1988                        2.5                         61.5
March 31, 1989                           1.5                         63.0
June 30, 1989                            1.0                         64.0
1990
September 30, 1989                       0.5                         64.5
December 31, 1989                        0.5                         65.0
March 31, 1990                           0.5                         65.5
June 30, 1990                            0.5                         66.0
Providing for some slippage, the loan would be closed on December 31, 1990.



PORTUGAL
COAL HANDLING PORT PROJECT
StaoRApprmlsol Repod
Est mated Execuffon Timnetable
NO.  ~                                   .                                                 .M
VW         198                40s                49                                    4"ts               19
NO.          rrm         QUARTER  1   2 3 4              2-314   I 2   3   4 i                    1 2   3 3                 4 4     1  4-2     .3   4
THE PROJECT                                                                    Quay-   -   i1iioi
1.   Marie CM Woks          WA11111                     QAIWC11111
2.   EquomeTW                                          t-ll -      -
Res,omfcn       CN"7 stmction                   Wmtnfa Cno
I  45 ^ I hd t i-f ;. e E i:! g                                                            SIA,
a   liCNNhd xks                                                                           a 11WW  W       1 11W
4.   MechanIca UtAHits                                                11110o01   a1111P&wp111WNIP
6    btc Ou flfcing                                                                           111  NI1W1 
7.   Termaeory Coal so"CeitutinIU
- CNN WIia (lI*ed to tern                            --                                                                      I   I   I
t. .__* CofWhucS o cn11 h111m, Phs m
----Rbn Phc d Const=tton
9.   TechnIcal                                      bauIncted                 A                             )
- Mongwnent ;ru                                   I   I
- Wedt Breakwater                               -1.d-but-                                                              StLRxV
- EDP Cocg~~                              I.  -                                           -
ASSOIATED PROJE$                          Start        inStatOpeto                            SW~Oeto                          btIOeab
S    PwrStation          AN111 NW                 11P.1111 jmi _ -'  r I 4111011              it.    111011 Aiv
Emergecy Coxl -v  Fwacilte                 rj                                                           
-                          -~~~~Lowd  1;1EstUIo...... o n W o imnlPhi w 
Preparation Fhase
(tendesti. bid evakjoton. owad etc-)
NohesDeulguw& ender docum,ents alead prepare seoaldCMIwali& quqmenwt. MaimoI$clle tkm uiu aiwodydkwid.
VONl 80*-27213



- 57 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1
PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A COAL HANDLING PORT PROJECT
Studies
The proposed project includes studies as listed below.
(i) PORT MANAGEMENT
(ii) WEST BREAKWATER REPAIRS OR ALTERNATIVES
(iii) COAL TRANSPORT FOR EDP'S FUTURE POWER STATIONS.
A note on the background to these studies and the principal points
for the terms of reference, follows:
(i) PORT MANAGEMENT STUDY
Background
1.       Several organizations have partial responsibility and authority over
functioning of the Port of Sines. The major ones are:
Mi) Gabinete da Area de Sines (GAS) a public institute which since its
creation in June 1971, is in charge of promoting the integrated
industrial development of the Sines region.
(ii) Administracao do Porto de Sines (APS) created in December 1977 to
operate the part facilities developed by GAS and more generally to
manage the port. APS is expected to become a public institute just
as the Ports of Lisbon and Leixoes but has remained so far under a
transitory status providing for its administration by a Settling
Commission.
(iii) The Sines Port Captain, within the Portuguese Navy, who is in
charge of safety and security on a coastal range which includes the
area of Sines.
(iv) The National Pilots Institute, an autonomous organization which
provides pilotage at all ports with a good deal of independence
from the port authorities as regards services and tariffs.
(v)   The industrial users like Petroleos de Portugal (PETROGAL),
Coipanhia Nacional de Petrochemica (CNP) - both established as
public enterprises and which are involved in port operations
thorough their ownership of specialized equipment, i.e. pipelines,
storage tanks.



- 58 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2
2.       Because of the importance of Sines industrial zone, and the need to
provide coordinated development of both the port and the industrial zone, GAS
has been created bj, Government as a development agency while administrative
and operational responsibility of the port remains with APS. Sines is the
only port in Portugal having such an arrangement and close collaboration
between GAS and APS is needed for the successful development of both the port
and the industrial hinterland. The Port of Sines is currently being expanded
to serve the coal import needs of Sines power station operated by
Electricidade de Portugal (EDP). This major development is included in the
Master Plan of the port which also foresees coal transshipment and general
cargo facilities at a later stage.
3. Port facilities at Sines are highly specialized and will remain so with
the development of the coal terminal. Several options are open to the
Government in administration of the port; APS might be limited to a largely
regulatory role while operation of port terminals might be undertaken by
several leased, concessionary or managemental arrangements. The Government
has not yet taken any decision on the way in which the coal terminal should be
operated.
4.       Port activity at Sines is under the tutelage of three ministers:
Ci) The Ministry of Finance and Planning has relevant general
responsibility.
(ii) The Ministry of the Sea is responsible for the port and the
associated maritime activities. Both APS and GAS are directly
supervised by this Ministry.
(iii) The Ministry of Industry and Energy supervises the industrial
users, EDP, Petrogal, CNP and also the activities of GAS which lie
outside the direct responsibilty of the Minister of Sea.
5.       The main legal documents relating to the Port of Sines are:
(i) Decree Law 270-71 establishing GAS, modified by Decree Law 487/80.
(ii) Decree Law 508-77 establishing APS.
(iii) Decision 178-83 by the Ministries of Sea and of Industry and
Energy, establishing the joint interest of these Ministries in the
supervision of GAS.
In general, all Portuguese legislation pertaining to financial management of
public enterprises and agencies, and to the conditions of employment is
relevant to this study.



- 59 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3
Principal Points for Terms of Reference
6.       The study is to provide advice to Government on measures to ensure an
efficient management of the Port of Sines, including but not necessarily
limited to:
(i) the establishment of APS as a permanent port authority on the
termination of its present transitional phase, and the revaluation
of its assets;
(ii)  the definition of a system ensuring the financial viability of APS
with recognition of its liabilities to GAS;
(iii) the institution of new tariffs based on costs;
(iv) further the coordination between all entities directly or
indirectly involved in port activities;
(v) the preparation of a lease agreement with appropriate cperational,
technical and financial features, to be signed between APS and a
designated coal terminal operator;
(vi) a recommendation on the mix of interests to participate in a public
enterprise to be established to operate the coal terminal;
(vii) the identification of training needs at all levels of the
organization of the Port of Sines; and
(viii) the preparation of detailed programs to cover all identified
training ueeds and their implementation schedules.



- 60 -
ANNEX 8
Page 4
(ii) STUDY OF THE WEST BREAKWATER REPAIRS
Introduction
1.       The Gabinete da Area de Sines and their Consultants PRC Harris have
undertaken investigations into the rehabilitation of the west breakwater
following the damage resulting from storms during 1978 and 1979. The
Consultant's recommendations cover three areas:
(i) Rehabilitation and improvements over a length, from the root of the
breakwater to Berth No. 2, approximately.
(ii) Rehabilitation for a length of approximately 250 to 300 m seaward
of Berth No. 2.
(iii) Rehabilitation of the remaining outer length of the breakwater
covering a length of about 500 to 550 m.
Principal Points for Terms of Reference
2.       The study is to provide GAS with recommendations as to the optimal
tim. ng, costs and benefits of repairs especially over the outer length
refi:red to in para. (iii) above, having regard to the following:
-   Possible modification of the existing petroleum and petrochemical
berths consistent with the needs of the petroleum and petrochemical
forecast traffic, which might result in the rehabilitation of less
than the full outer length. This review would take account of:
(a)    the cost of the construction of a new breakwater roundhead; and
(b)    the possible removal of remaining elements of Berth No. 1 or
other measures to ensure safety of navigation.
-   The navigational conditions at the existing port and at the new coal
terminal under each of the alternative analysed with a definition of
the number of days per year that each of the existing and future
berths could be safely operated.
-   To the extent practicable the review would analyse and quantify the
costs and benefits of each of the alternatives.
Execution of Timetable
The study should be completed not later than December 1985 and an
execution timetable and financing plan prepared, for a repair program based on
the relevant recommendations of the study.



- 61 -
ANNEX 8
Page 5
(iii) COAL TRANSPORT STUDY FOR EDP'S FUTURE POWER STATIONS
Introduction
l.       Electricidade de Portugal (EDP) is presently considering the
construction of two more coal fired power stations under its future
development program. Amongst several sites under review is a coastal site, at
Lavos near Figueira da Foz in the north of Portugal. GAS plans to arrange for
transshipment of coal from the national coal terminal at Sines to serve EDP's
proposed coal fired power stations, which are expected to come into operation
during the early 1990's. Investigations and designs of the power station are
in progress, and transshipment facilities at Sines port are incorporated in
the Master Plan of the Port of Sines. There is need however to review the
optimal timing., precise location, transport systems and style of construction
of coal port facilities to meet the needs of EDP's future coal fired power
stations, and to determine whether, and if so to what extent, transshipment of
coal at Sines remains a least cost transport solution. The study advice
should preferably be available to GAS to suit the planning decision on further
development of Sines which they are expected to face during the period of
execution of the marine civil works contract under the project. The study
will take account of relevant existing reports and would be undertaken in at
least two phases.
Principal Points for Terms of Reference
Phase 1
2.       To provide information on the least cost system for coal supply to
EDP's projected power stations and on the scope, costs, benefits and optimal
timing of related port investment, having regard to the following:
(i) A review of shipping costs to assess the feasibility of direct
shipment as an alternative to coal transshipment.                      -
(ii) A review of transshipment costs of coal from Sines to future power
stations and to their possible ports of supply.
(iii) A review of the cost of rail movement of coal to future power
station as an alternative to coal transshipment.
(iv) A determination of additional port investment costs at Sines to
accommodate the projected power plant traffic.
(v) A determination of investment costs for a coal berth at selected
possible supply ports based on alternative strategies for
deepening the channel to various depths, and on alternative berth
locations, with a view to minimizing total transport costs.



- 62 -
ANNEX 8
Page 6
vi)   A determination of operational and maintenance costs for each of
the transshipment and or land transport alternatives for coal
delivery to the projected power stations, which will be selected
for definitive review by Government.
Phase 2 '
-    The preparation of detailed designs and tender documents for any
agreed selected port development.
1/ The timing of Phase 2 to suit the timetable for EDP power station
construction.



- 63 -
ANNEX 9
PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A COAL HANDLING PORT PROJECT
Summary of Annual Commodity Tonnage
by Time Phase and Teruinal
Conmnodity                1989             1992           2015
Bulk Terminal
Coal-Import
EDP Sines              2,437,000        2,549,000      2,658,000
EDP Expansion            150,000        2,004,000      1,945,000
Cement                .1.200,000        1,200,000      1,200,000
Sub-Total           3,787,000        5,753,000      5,803,000
Coal-Export
EDP Expansion            150,000        2,004,000      1,945,000
Cement                 1,200.000        1.200,000      1,200,000
Sub-Total           1,350,000        3,204,000      3,145,000
Phosphate rock                     -               -        980,000
Potassium chloride                 -               -         45,000
Fly ash                            -         250,000        250,000
Fertilizers                        -               -        400,000
Sub-Total           5,137,000        9,207,000     10,623,000
Liquids Terminal
Sulphur liquid                     -               -        275,000
Sulphuric acid              400,000          550,000        700,000
Phosphoric acid                   -                -        465,000
Sub-Total             400,U00          550,000      1,440,000
Multipurpose Terminal
Containers                   52,000           23,000          6,000
Bulk cement                        -         200,000        200,000
Copper cathodes              85,000          100,000        100,000
Copper concentrates         200,000            -_           _     -
Sub-Total             337,000          323,000        306,000
Total               5,874,000       10,080,000     12,369,000
Potential Regional Cargo
Breakbulk                   225,000          250,000        275,000
Dry bulk                    110,000          115,000        125,000
Liquid bulk                  29,000           30,000         31,000
Total                 354,000          395,000        431,000



- 64 -
AN= 10
S7WF APPRUAL RERNT OF
A COAL HWIEML R NOJEAC
Alterative to the Pm,ject-
Di8hage at Aichm  to BMW in Sins B.rbaw
Cost Strei, Net of Mwes. 1US$ Million
A - Project; B - Disharge at Awhr2M to Barges in Sie Hlakbo (Altexmative ii)
vesbzts    Maintence   Operations         Dly           Total
Year    A      B      A      B   A        B     A       B      A      B
1984   6.43   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   6.43   O.0O     6.43
1985  29.96  18.32   0.07  0.00  0.00   0.0   O.OD   0.00   30.03   18.32    11.71
1986  42.00  42.74   0.68  0.56   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  42.68  43.30    -0.62
1987  28.35  42.74   1.77  1.87   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   30.12  44.61   -14.49
1988   9.37  18.32   2.48  3.18   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   11.85  21.50    -9.65
1989   0.0  0.00   2.66  3.74   2.08   3.18   0.00   3.24   4.74   10.16    -5.42 ]
10 yars
1998   0.00   0.00   2.66  3.74   2.08   3.18   0.00   3.24   4.74   10.16    -5.42 1
1999   4.44  14.95   2.66  3.74   2.08   3.18   0.00   3.24   9.18  25.11   -15.93
2000   0.00   0.00   2.66  3.74   2.08   3.18   0.00   3.24   4.74  10.16    -5.42
] 4 yea
mm03   0.00   0.00   2.66  3.74   2.08   3.18   0.00   3.24   4.74   10.16    -5.42
2MM4  20.76  28.29   2.66  3.74   2.08   3.18   0.00   3.24   25.50  38.45   -12.95
2005   0.00   0.00   2.66  3.74   2.08   3.18   0.00  3.24   4.74   10.16    -5.42 :
14 years
2008   0.00   0.00   2.66  3.74   2.08   3.18   0.00   3.24   4.74   10.16    -5.42 ]
2009  19.60  22.96   2.66  3.74   2.08   3.18   0.00   3.24  24.34  32.12    -7.78
2010   0.00   0.00   2.66  3.74   2.08   3.18   0.00   3.24   4.74   10.16    -5.42 ]
] 10 years
2019   0.00   0.00   2.66  3.74   2.08   3.18   0.00   3.24   4.74   10.16    5.42 1
WV at 1(1; A  US$136 ilnioni   B - $176 million



- 65 -
ANNEX I1
PORIUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A COAL HANDLING PORT PROJECT
AdMinistragio Do Porto de Sines (APS)
Balance Sheet - Period '978=19ft3
(in million eseudobj
IS7 8   1980           198 1 1 98              192        M
Current Assets
Cash in hand and bank           32.21     231.65       193.62     523.86      854.67    1165.54
Receivables                     24.92       90.88     414.69      435.23      487.43      205.17
Inventories                      -          -           3.58       21.29       36.99      105.32
Sub-total                   S7,13      322.53      611.90      980.38    1379.09    1476.03
Fixed Assets
Gross fixed assets               1.88        9.29     455.69      487.00      619.79      639.13
Depreciation (minus)                         1.54       37.43     111.96      166.15      225.41
Net fixed assets                 1.88        7.75     418,26      37S.04      453.64      413.72
Work in progress                            16.27      118.36     135.08       53.13       81.03
Other assets                     0.58        0.81        1.05      18.18       25.11       29.34
Total Assets                S9.59      347.36    1149.57    1508.68    1910.97    2000.12
.urrent Liabilities
Accounts payablc                 -          16.80      26.88       40.08       21.97        7.84
Other creditors '1               -           -        431.02      431.73      432.29      269.87
Sub-total                     -         16.80      457.99      471.81     454.26      277.71
Provision '2                     24.20     273.89      563.85      923.85    .363.85         3.21
Transfer of provisign to
nDrgeiation-3                    -          -          33.85        -
Capital                         36.50      36.50       36.50       36.50       36.50       36.50
Reserves 4                       -          -           -           -           -        1843.75
Retained earnings                -        (-1.11)      20.17       57.46       76.52       56.36
Benefit of the year            (-1.11)     21.28       37.30       19.06    (-20.16)  (-217.41)
Total Liabilities               59.59     347a,6    1149.57    1508.68    1910.97    2000.12
La  mostly debt to GAS for equipment received and not yet paid.
LZ  Provision constituted pending settlement of issue related to transfer of fixed assets from
GAS to APS.
L2  Amount corresponding to depreciation incorrectly accounted for as provision before 1980
and transferred to accuumilated depreciation in 1981.
/4  APS conver-ed the accumulated provision into three reserves (i) an improvement fund for
Esc. 800 million: (ii) an insurance fund fir Esc. 126 million: (iii) a reserve for
amortization of assets to receive from GAS.
The two funds are constituted from surpluses of Lhe management account defined
according to the public accounting rules.



- 66 -
AM 12
9EML
SAF APPRAISAL I,  OF
A  AL HANDLING PDRT F ERfEC
AdministrAD Do rto de Sims CS)
hinxi Statement - Period 1978-1983
(in million escudos)
1978     1979      1980     1981      1982       1983
Dues on goods A                      12.87    177.74    363.04    332.24    376.80    320.85
Dbes on ships                        12.05    143.52    170.19    282.69    326.42    310.09
Hiring of equipnent, supplies /2     -        10.89     21.51     95.02    140.43    132.99
Miscellaiuoza                        -         -         3.43     14.59     47.17     48.67
Sub-total                         24.92    332.15    559.04    724.55    890.82    812.60
Operating expenditures
Cbnswptiqms                          0.14      9.81     31.00     24.42     36.66     39.46
Services                             0.62      8.00     35.64    134.90    220.14    257.48
Labou costs                          0.83     37.04    117.33    165.37    206.35    240.72
Miscellaneous                        0.16      2.97      0.04      0.46      0.34      0.59
hzc                                  0.08      0.01    (-0.01)     0.17      0.09      0.02
Provision /3                        24.20    251.50    330.00    360.00    440.00    483.20
Depreciatin                          -         1.54     35.89     40.68     54.99     59.44
Sib-total                         26.03    310.87    549.89    726.0O    958.57   1080.91
__-w - ---
Nixi-perating section
Ncn~raprting reveumes /4                                2&16      20.91     47.93     53.00
(Nbn-operating expenditures)                            (0.01)   (-0.40)   (-0.34)   (-2.10)
Income                           (-.11)    21.28     37.30     19.06   (-2D.16) (-217.41)
/1 Reveues from bunkers supplies are xncluded until 1980 and those from fresh water supplies are
included in 1981 cnly.
/2 Storage tank for bunkers are leased to Petropl. other revDe fran buners nd fresh   ter
supplies a-e included in this categly with exceptions specified in /1 above.
/3 Bending settlement of issue relatpd to transfer of port assets from GAS to APS, a provision is
cnittuted, eah year, based on the estisvted value of those assets.
/4 Most inpaortnt item is interest mn deposits at Ireasury (e.g., escudo 50.3 million in 1983).



- 67 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1
PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A COAL HANDLING PORT PROJECT
Assumptions Used in the Financial Analysis of APS
1. Income Statement
-    The operating revenues are increased by 115% as of April 1, 1985, and
further by 40% and 20% in January, 1986 and 1987 respectively
-    The user charger on oil traffic is increased by 40% each year
starting 1985 until 1987 when it generates revenues equivalent to
what APS pays to GAS in servicing its loan.
-    The user charges on coal traffic generates 75% of total revenues
earned in the coal port from 1989 onward. Before 1989, the user
charge is calculated as a rising percentage of the present value of
the coal tariff applicable in 1989, starting from $2.0 per ton in
1986.
-    All operating revenues are revalued each year on the basis of local
inflation rates.
-    The working expenses expand by Esc. 80.0 million in 1984 prices over
the next 3 years to account for recruitment of additional staff and
further increase in current cost based on local inflation rates.
-    In 1989, the working expenses integrate the costs incurred in running
the coal port, mostly for maintenance of civil works (about Esc. 520
million).
-    The maintenance costs of the cargo handling equipment is assumed
borne by the terminal operators.
2. Balance Sheet
Assumptions are as follows:
(i)  net fixed assets to incorporate by December 1986 the
infrastructure and equipment received from GAS, at a notional
value of Esc. 53.8 billion corresponding to their replacement cost
in 1986 prices with repairs to the breakwater excluded;
(ii)  assets to be revalued for local inflation on a yearly basis.
Assets currently carried in the APS books are furthermore revalued
in 1984 to a net total of Esc. 855 million with an average
depreciation rate of 8.4%;
(iii)  the average depreciation on assets in the coal port to be 5.0%.  A
2% depreciation rate applies to oil-related assets received in
1986 from GAS;



- 68 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2
(iv) the debt to GAS in relation to the oil port to be 70% of the
valuation of assets received in 1986 and to be repaid over 20
years at a real interest of 4Z (the remaining 301 representing
Government equity contribution);
(v) the debt in relation to the coal port to include two components;
the World Bank loan has its period of grace extended to 4 years,
and therefore its amortization period reduced from 15 to 13
years. The loan covers the foreign cost of marine civil works,
the full supervision and technical assistance costs, the front end
fee and the interest during construction. A foreign loan finances
the equipment (3 year-period of grace, repayment over 8 years and
interest rate of 12%); APS would service it entirely;
(vi) the outstanding borrowings from foreign sources to be revalued in
line with changes of the escudo exchange rate; resulting losses
are recognized in the income statement under provision and in the
balance sheet under deferred costs: the amount charges to the
income is the total loss divided by the number of years needed to
amortize the foreign loans;
(vii) inventories, receivables, payables to be restored at a normal
level, i.e. the user charges on coal is paid 15 days after due and
the other receivables and payables are paid with a 2-month time
lag; payables are calculated as 10% of cash operating expenses
from 1985 onward;
(viii) the capitalized interest during construction is included in the
value of fixed assets financed by the loan.



- 69 -
ANNEX 14
PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT Of
A COAL HANDLING PORT PROJECT
Administracao do Porto de Sines
Proiected Income Statement: 1984 throuah 1990
(In million escudo at current prices)
Operatino Revenues           im       1985       18 L.7                18          19       1990
a- Oil port
Dues on goods           350      725        1023       1228       1228       1228      1228
Dues on ships           318      S00        705         846        846        846       846
Lease of equipment       150     160        22S         270        270        270       270
Miscellaneous             50      60          70         84         84         84        84
User charge            4000    55          7700      10686       70235        9784     9333
Subtotal           4868    6945        9723      13114      12663      12212    11761
b- Coal Port
Dues on goods             17      40                                         1030      1242
Dues on ships              3      30          40         65        100       1030      1242
User charge              -         _                    976       25         6182      7454
Subtotal             20       70        525       1041       2150       8242      9938
Total operating Rev.        4888    7015       10248      14155      14813    Z2454    21699
Expenditures
Consumables              45       56          69         85        102        lgo       228
Services                292      365        447         548        658       1136      1363
Labor costs             285      39?        563         690        828       1094      1313
Miscellaneous              1        1          2                     4          6.i       7
Sub Total               623      819       1081       1326        1588      2426       2911
Depreciation             '15     ]S0         189       1517       1826       4S62      5482
Provision                                                                     462      1002
Subtotal            738      969       1270       2843       3414       7450      9395
Interest              (4000)  (5500)      (7914)    (9662)    (9874)   (11416)  (10879)
Earned on deposits       75       40         45         45          30         80       120
Net Income                   225     5Ak        1109       169        155        1         154S
Operating Ratio                0.15    0.14        0.12       0.20       0.23       0.36       0.43



- 70 -
ANNEX 15
PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A COAL HANDLING PORT PROJECT
Administracao do Porto de Sines
Proiected Source and Anplication of Funds: 1984 through 1990
(In million escudo at current prices)
Source of Funds          1984        198i      I386      i18         1988       19i8     1990
Internal Sources
Income               225         586      1109      169S       1555       1668      1545
Depreciation         115         150       189       1517      1826       5024      6484
Interest            4000        5500     7914       2fhi       9874      11416    10879
Sub Total           4340        6236      9212     12874      13255      18108    18908
Equity 1/              -           -    16130           -          -      9708         -
Loan                                    37630           -          -     33944         -
Total Sources       4340        6236    62972      12874      13255      61760    18908
ARplication of
Funds
Assets Transfers       -           -    53760           -          -     43112
Capital Expenses
Project related                  498      1092       1387       605        598         -
Other Invest-
ments                            Q         60         75        7 
Sub Total             75         548      1152      1452        675        673        80
Debt Service
Interest            4000        5500     7914       9662       9874      11416    10879
Repayment           _50  _)        -         -       1881      18E1       607Z      6540
Sub Total           4500        5500     7914      11543      11755      17488    17419
Workina Capital          126          98       164        155        183       233       121
Total ARAlications      4701        6146      92301    13150       12613     61506    17620
Increase
(decrease)        (-361)         90     (-18)    (-276)        642        254      1288
Cash at
beginning of
year               1166         805       895       877        601       1243      1497
Cash at end of
year                805         89S       877       601       1243       1497      2785
Ratio
Debt service
coverage 2/         n.a.        n.a.        7.1       2.6        2.8        1.1       1.2
Ij  The addition to equity corresponds to transfer of port assets from GAS to APS: the
existing oil port in 1986 and the proposed coal port in 1989.
Z/ In 1984. APS will pay Esc. 500 million to GAS as an advance pending settlement of
the debt issue.
3J  Includes the debt service related to the oil port assets which is tied to the level
of the oil user charge.



- 71 -
ANNEX 16
PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRArSAL REPORT OF
A COAL HANOLING  PORT PROJECT
Administracao do Porto de Sines
Proiected Balance Sheet:  1984 through 1990
(In million escudo at current prices)
Current Assets           1984        J9f 1i8             1987                  i2 i8     i29-2
Cash                 805         895       877        601       1243       1497     2785
Receivables          160         253       424        579        763       1002      1125
Inventories           70          87       106ra     i13         16        234      .81
Sub Total           1035        1235      1407       1310      2162       2733      4191
Fixed Assets
Gross value         1400        1786    66248       66819     80252    153129   172483
Less:
nepreciation        5Aa          2fi    11440      13227      17699     26274    36442
Net Fixed Assets        855         960    54808       53592      62ss3    126855   136041
Work in progress                 498      1590       2977       3582          -         -
Deferred charges        -           -        -          -          -      3015      5546
Total Assets        189         2        57805      57879     68297    112603   145778
Current Liabilities        70         82       108        132        159        243       292
Long Term Debt
To GAS                  -          -    37630       35749     33868      31987    30106
Project related:
RD R                                        -          -          -     18980    18499
Suppliers Credit      -                                                 14250    1360S
Sub Total              -           -    37630      35749      33868      65217    62210
Eguity
Government            37          37    16167       16167     16167      25875    25875
Revaluation
surplus             375         580       797      1033      11750      33247    47835
Reserves. etc.      1183        1408      1994       3103      4798       6353      8021
Benefit of the
Year                225        .58       1109       1695      1555       1668      1545
Subtotal        1820        2671    20067      21998      34270      67143    83276
Total Liabilities       1890        29       S7805      57879      6B297    132603   145778
Indicators
Current ratio         14.8        15.1      13.0        9.9       13.6       11.2     14.4
Debt equity
ratio             0/100       0/100    65/3i      62/38      SO/50      49/51    43/57
Rate of return
on NFA              1          1/       28.8%     21.0%      19.7%      13.4%      9.4%
jj  Rate of return on net fixed assets: not significant before 1987 because of
inadequate valuation of assets operated by APS.



- 72 -
ANNEX 17
PORTUCAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A COAL HANDLING PORT PROJECT
Selected documents on project file
Reports by PRC Harris
-    Concept master plan for the expansion of the Port of Sines,
Augugt 1981 and subsequent revisions.
-    West breakwater studies and testing  - Progress Reports.
-    National Coal distribution study, December 1982
Report by Kampsax International A/S
National Transport Planning, January 1981
Reports by TAMS
Master Plan study for the integrated development of the ports of
Lisbon, Setubal and Sines.
Report ay Comissao Executiva para apreciacao e dinamiziacao do plano geral e
projectos do porto de Sines, November 1982.
Project cost estimates by PRC Harris
Cost estimate for Finger pier alternative by PRC Harris



100                  90~~~~li                     10                          7
-420                                                -    ~   ~      /
.-*.              ~~~~~~420-
PORTUGAL                           DO STELO                                              CA
COAL HANDLING PORT PROJECT                                  Brogo
MAIN TRANSPORT NETWORK    t                                                                                  q/
LA                       VL REAL,                          &,
PORT PROJECT                      PORT
+.---4-4-EXISTING RAILWAYS(Lios 
HIGHWAYS:                                                                                                    410-
EXPRESSWAYS
F IRST CLASS
SECOND CLASS
|   4.   MAIN PORTS                                       z
INTERNATIONALCAPITAL
DISTRICT CAPITALS
REGIONAL BOUNDARIES                  IM                      o* 
INTERNATIONAL
BOUNDARIES
400-
A  r L A   N  F    C     /      >      9       (RI    ASTELO BRANC 
A  C E A N



I I.  t:   /  #   v   >                                                                               Madrid
19 ~~~~~Torres X ;>y,f)  D
-390
m0fib                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~390-
LBON,~    
E            A X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ar,ecw                          RA 
S        t  Cas  roncer                                   \      <).-
-38    c/   Lt. 
Sinestk                             
380~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30
\   :  t9 J  ...............Serpa               To Sev/Ia                           38-
0    20   40   60   80                                                                                 ___________!
I          I        I          I
KILOMETERS                  Ode ira                                                         AUANT/C  OCEAN V
Tma has bean paedby i                             _FRANCE
The World Ba* 's staf .xdm\*
Im 0*, convesenca of NWe                                            LI,
Cnuaaron use of   mem W*l
SW    bo#F ft wwba Fei                                                                                        Zq,  
coroIu n   rho a                                 A      l      G     A       R     V                              s P A I N   r
>   uwed d No boaa ta, atom
C:   nM onmw daWopy, ane )w                        \       Portimao  \la g1U                                                             i 
CG  pa,of Tnhe Ob _Ba  &n I w
ai $pywn on Diekg, s lvires s                                                                                                edarIra an
of anyarv tw a NW                                                                                                                              Go
_   andowrnanl tor    aaept!ee           p                                                                                      =
sum ba.oxi                           ,                                                                                                         4.R
_________________________________________________________                                                                              CACOALEI



"OR 0" SIIVESl*- 
1/  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^'t         ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........
(rbX  X t/]~~~~~OA



IBRD 184
PORTUGAL
COAL HANDLING PORT PROJECT
PORT OF SINES, POWER STATION AND
PROPOSED COAL PORT
Main Roads
Other Roads and Strast
=4-*44-~ Rallways
\ \             ~~~~REFINERYPlCorlr
REFINF-RV                               wommommis ~~~~~~~~~~~~Pipe Corridor
IIMIIII Urban Area
......... Port Umits
\  -I., NatutaI Park
0 200 *40 600 600 1000 METERS
I I  j   I   I   I
PROJECT COMPONENTS APPEAR IN RED
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0
-3             38 -
\ED.P. POWER STATION _Su j
AUGUST 1934






