Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
,zp. ~99g-a- (0
Report No. P-4011-PO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USS66.O MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FOR A
COAL HANDLING PORT PROJECT
March 28, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Portuguese Escudo (Esc.)
January 1984 1/                    July 1984                 March 1985
US41  =  135 Esc.                Us$     = 153 Esc.         US$1    = 185 Esc.
1 Esc. =  US$0.0074              1 Esc.  =  0.0066          1 Esc.  = US$0.0054
FISCAL YEAR
January - December
UNITS AND MEASURES
DWT    -      Deadweight tons
GRT    -      Gross Registered Ton
km     -      Kilometer
m      -      meter
MW     -      Megawatt
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APS    -      Administracao do Porto de Sines
EDP    -      Electricidade de Portugal
EEC    -      European Economic Community
GAS    -      Gabinete da Area de Sines
GDP    -      Gross Domestic Product
IMF    -      International Monetary Fund
LIBOR  -      London Interbank Offered Rate
MES    -      Ministry of Social Equipment
MS     -      Ministry of the Sea
NPE    -      Nonfinancial Public Enterprise
PIU    -      Project Implementation Unit
0                                     a
I/  The exchange rate of the escudo is being adjusted monthly on the basis
of a "crawling peg" system.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PORTUGAL
COAL HANDLING PORT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Portugal
Beneficiary:         Administragao do Porto de Sines (APS)
Amount:              US$66.0 million equivalent including US$13.0 million
for interest during construction on Bank financed
items.
Terms:               Repayable in 13 years, including a grace p tiod of
four years, at the standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:     The Bank loan related to the coal port assets would be
onlent to APS upon completion of the construction
phase, under a subsidiary agreement between the
Borrower and APS on the same terms and conditions as
the Bank loan, with APS bearing the foreign exchange
and interest rate risks.
Project Description:- The proposed project would assist the Government in
developing the country's only port capable of
receiving large coal vessels, including the
construction of a coal handling facility to supply
coal to the new 1200MW power station for electricity
generation now nearing completion at Sines. The
project consists of:
(i)    a deep water berth within the shelter of
a breakwater capable of receiving vessels
up to about 150,000 DWT together with a
coal stockyard and associated shore works;
(ii)   coal handling equipment including vessel
unloaders, stacker/reclaimers and a
conveyor system at the port;
(iii)  studies relating to port development and
management, detailed engineering and
construction supervision, and training in
port operations.
The port is the least-cost solution for coal
supply to the power plant under construction at
Sines, and has the potential for meeting
expanded needs for a projected additional major
|This document has a rescrted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance|
ofb their officiall dutieL Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank: authorztion.



- il -
coal-fired power plant. No special risks are
foreseen to the physical or economic viability
of the project, although realization of the
improved financial status of the port as a whole
is dependent on adequate periodic and timely
increases in port charges.
US$ million (equivalent)
Estimated Proiect Costs:  al                        Local       Foreign  Total
I.   Coal Terminal                                   28.9        49.3     78.2
II.  Equipment                                        8.4        33.3     41.7
III. Design Supervision studies and training          6.1         6.1     12.2
IV.  Temporary facilities                             1.4         3.8      5.2
Base Costs                            44.8        92.5    137.3
V.   Contingencies
Physical                                     4.6         9.3     13.9
Price                                        3.6         8.4     12.0
Subtotal                                8.2       17.7      25.9
Total Project Cost                     53.0      110.2    163.2
VI.  Interest during Construction  b/                  -         13.0      13.0
Total                                  53.0      123.2    176.2
US$ million (equivalent)
Financing Plan                                     Local      ForeiRn    Total
Government                                      19.5        21.1     40.6
Suppliers credits                               16.5        33.2     49.7
APS                                             16.3         -       16.3
EDP                                              0.7         2.9      3.6
IBRD                                             -          66.0     66.0
Total                                  53.0      123.2    176.2
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Million Equivalent
FY1986 FY1987 FY1988 FY1989 FY1990
Annual                     19.0    21.0    16.0      8.0      2.0
Cumulative                 19.0    40.0    56.0    64.0    66.0
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable: least cost solution
Appraisal Report: No. 5245-PO, dated March 27, 1985
a/ Includes customs and duties on imported items of about 11%
bl On Bank loan only



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL FOR A COAL HALNDLING PORT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
%P     to the Republic of Portugal for the equivalent of US$66.0 million to help
finance a Coal Handling Port project. The loan would have a term of 13 years,
including 4 years grace, with interest at the standard variable rate. The
loan proceeds would be onlent to the Administragao do Porto de Sines after
completion of the construction phase, on the same terms as the Bank loan to
the Republic.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       The latest economic report, entitled "The Portuguese Economy,
1980-82, An Updating Report" (No. 4004-PO, dated March 1, 1983) was
distributed to thi Executive Directors in March 1983. Country data sheets are
attached as Annex I. An updating economic report is being prepared and will
be discussed with the Government in May 1985; its main findings are reflected
below.
Background
3.       The revolution of April 1974 radically transformed Portugal's econ-
omy. Major sectors of the economy were nationalized, and a comprehensive land
reform was carried out in the central and southern parts of the country.
Trade union activity was legalized and workers' rights safeguarded. The
Government increased its intervention in the economy through wage and price
controls, as well as by a significant increase in public expenditures. The
disruptions from these structural changes, together with a combination of
adverse external factors, resulted in a sharp deterioration in the balance of
payments by 1977. In 1978, the Government adopted a comprehensive adjustment
program, including a Standby Agreement with the IMF, which reduced the current
account deficit to virtually zero by 1979.
4.       The period from 1980 to mid 1983 has seen the progressive
deterioration of economic performance in most areas, including the balance of
payments. The combination of high current account deficits since 1980, the
political uncertainty which followed the fall in December 1982 of the AD
coalition (which had been in power for about two years), and the lack of
economic leadership by the caretaker Government during the first semester of
1983 led to a serious deterioration in Portugal's credit rating in
international capital markets. Difficulties were encountered in renewing part
of the short-term external debt of public enterprises resulting in its decline
by about $600 million during 1983. A large part of the current account
deficit in 1983 was financed through reductions in reserves, mainly gold sales.
Recent Developments
5.       The Government which took office in June 1983 adopted a number of
measures (including devaluation of the escudo and reduction of subsidies)



to start addressing the country's deteriorated economic situation; it
developed a comprehensive adjustment program aimed at reducing the balance of
payments deficit, slowing down the growth of indebtedness, and reducing the
public sector budget deficit. A Standby Agreement with the IMF for the period
up through February 1985 was signed on October 9, 1983, and included agreed
targets for domestic credit and external borrowing.
6.       On the external side, the Government attained its two main
stabilization goals: (i) a reduction in the current account deficit in the
balance of payments from over $3.2 billion (13 percent of GDP) in 1982 to
about $1.7 billion (7 percent of GDP) in 1983, and to about $0.6 billion (3
percent of GDP) in 1984; and (ii) containment of external debt below the
targetted 1984 level of $15 billion. Measures to keep the escudo competitive
(through devaluations and an increase in the crawling peg) were effective and
merchandise exports increased in constant prices by 21 percent in 1983 and
total exports by about 14 percent in 1984; merchandise imports declined by 8
percent in 1983 and total imports by an estimated 4 percent in 1984, partly as
a result of a drawdown of inventories of imported goods. Tourist receipts,
which had been declining in the 1980-83 period, increased by about 30 percent
in 1984 in dollar terms. Workers remittances also declined steadily in US
dollar terms during 1980-83, in large part due to factors external to Portugal
(i.e., depreciation of European currencies against the US dollar and the
continued weakness of European economies). In 1984, they remained at roughly
the 1983 level.
7.       On the internal side, however, the Government was not as successful
in reducing the deficit of the enlarged public sector, which includes both
public enterprises and the central administration. After an initial, dramatic
reduction in this deficit in 1983 (down from 23 percent of GDP in 1982 to 15
percent of GDP in 1983), the preliminary figures for 1984 indicate that it
increased again to about 17 percent. The central administration budget
deficit alone reached 9 percent of GDP for 1984, compared to the target of 6
percent.
8.       The successes of the stabilization program were achieved through a
sharp curtailment of domestic demand as well as a drawdown in stocks; GDP
growth was minus 0.5 percent in 1983 and minus 2 percent in 1984. Real wages
declined for three years in a row, and have returned to levels experienced
prior to the revolutir!r- Unemployment increased to over 10 percent by the end
of 1984. The corporate sector has been faced with reduced access to credit,
higher interest rates, and lower domestic demand, even as it faces the
pressing need to restructure to meet the changing market conditions which will
result from EEC accession. Iniflation, as measured by the consumer price
index, also accelerated during 1983, averaging over 25 percent during 1983 on
an annual basis, and reached an estimated 30 percent on average during 1984.
It has since subsided and is expected to be around 22 percent in 1985,
reflecting in part the anticipated delays in price increases prior to the
Presidential elections at end 1985.
The Need for Structural Change
9.       The dilemma which the Government is now facing is to maintain the
gains of the stabilization program while at the same time bringing an end to



the economic recession and preventing a further deterioration in the financial
situation of the economy and in living standards. In addition, Portugal has
still to undertake the structural changes which will be necessary to prepare
for and take advantage of the forthcoming accession to the EEC, currently
planned for L986. Attempts to obtain GDP growth on the order of 3 to 4
percent per annum, as currently planned by the Government, may not be
compatible with a sustainable balance of payments position over the next three
to four years, largely because the measures required to increase productivity
and stimulate investment are yet to be taken. The Government has approved a
program for medium-term economic recovery and reform. The objectives of this
program are to resume economic growth, reduce unemployment and reduce
inflation. The structural reforms it proposes relate to the financial system,
rationalizetion of the public enterprise sector, restructuring of the private
manufacturing sector, tax reform, and regional development. These are all
areas where substantial improvements are required.
10.      The Bank is closely associated with work underway at the Government
level to formulate a restructuring program for the statutory nonfinancial
public enterprises (NPEs). NPEs consist of government transport, utility and
marketing monopolies, and some large industrial enterprises. They account for
about 13 percent of value added, 5 percent of employment, and 18 percent of
gross fixed capital forma ion. The need for structural change in the NPEs is
acute for several reasons.  First, there has been little direct pressure on
these enterprises to adjust to changed circumstances, resulting in low
profits, if not losses, for many of them.  Administered prices, rigid labor
laws, inadequate manageri..1; incentives/accountability, and insufficient
self-financing requirements for investment have retarded rationalization at
the entcrprise level. Second, exogenous circumstances have aggravated the
adjustment problem; these include the concentration in the public sector of
industries which are economically depressed worldwide (e.g., shipbuilding,
steel, cement, and international transport); the delays and uncertainties in
budgetary transfers and investment approvals due to changing governments; and
the strong position of labor unions in the large public sector enterprises.
Uncompensated social service obligations, such as maintaining strategic
reserves or uneconomic services, might also fall into this category. And
third, the NPEs have been required, to some extent, to borrow abroad for more
than their own foreign exchaage requirements and also to bear the burden of
adjustment of inadequate fiscal policies through accumulated net budgetary
arrears. It seems essential, therefore, that the public enterprises increase
their self-financing capabilities. This must be closely tied to institutional
changes and some financial restructuring to increase long-run profitability.
11.      While a few larger private enterprises perform well, and account for
the bulk of ?ortugal's manufactured exports, typically private enterprises are
in a difficult economic and financial position. Following the
nationalizations of 1974, the pri-4ate sector comprises small and medium sized,
rather traditional enterprises. Many of these enterprises are characterized
by low productivity, high indebtedness, low or negative profit rates except in
tourism and trade, poor management, marketing and labor relations. Partly
because they had borrowed mostly on short-term, often capitalizing the
interest on their debt, many private enterprises were recently faced with
falling output, reduced capacity utilization, and higher real interest rates,
and they experienced serious liquidity problems. Few bankruptcies were



declared but arrears accumulated. Restoring financial soundness of the
enterprises is urgently needed, but it is only a partial solution. Much
remains to be done to modernize private enterprises and to develop a
supporting policy environment. Since 1980 steps have been taken to make
improvements in that direction. Changes in labor laws were implemented and
the private sector has recently been reopened to fertilizer, industry, banking
and insurance activities. The Government is currently revising the scheme for
investment incentives and has taken measures to create modern capital
markets. A number of proposals have been made recently to continue improving
the policy environment for industry, but they have iot yet been translated
into a program of action. Next to maintaining a con.petitive exchange rate, as
well as other sound macroeconomic policies, there is a need for developing
modern export promotion and export diversification policies, and to improve
the existing export credit and insurance schemes. A reform of the export
institute is in preparation but work is proceeding slowly.
12.      A year before the anticipated entry to the EEC, the need for change
in the agricultural sector is evident almost everywhere. Portugal is largely
dependent on food imports, schemes for agricultural credit do not operate
efficiently, the land reform initiated after the revolution has yet to be
completed and much has to be done to bring more flexibility to the land
market. In addition, agricultural technologies are often inadequate and
productivity is surprisingly low for a country of Portugal's income level.
The Government, with the assistance of the World Bank, has prepared an action
program aimed at improving productivity, and projects are being developed in
that area. In addition, the Government has to: (i) complete the reform of
the pricing and subsidy system undertaken since 1980; (ii) design a strategy
for adjusting producer prices to EEC level; (iii) complete the land reform and
bring more flexibility to the land market; (iv) establish a modern scheme of
agricultural credit; and (v) decentralize the authority of the Government.
While the accession to the EEC might provide additional resources from the EEC
regional fund, restructuring the agricultural sector will not happen
automatically and will require continuous efforts by the Portuguese
authorities to modernize agriculture, especially by strengthening support
services.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
13.      Portugal's recent experience in the international capital markets has
been quite good, with successful borrowings both directly by the state and
through public enterprises. Borrowings have been contracted mainly at
floating rates and in US dollars, although recent efforts at diversification
of currencies have begun to be effective. Total external debt of Portugal
increased from $7.3 billion at the end of 1979 to $13.7 billion at end-1982 to
an estimated $15 billion by end 1984; this represents a very high level of
indebtedness, amounting to about 70 percent of GDP. Short-term debt has
stabilized at about $3.6 billion, but still accounts for a high proportion of
the total. Over 90 percent of the total outstanding debt has been contracted
by the public sector, with public enterprises accounting for 51 percent; more
than 85 percent of the short-term debt has been contracted by NPEs, with the
bulk of it concentrated in four enterprises.



14.      The debt service ratio, including interest on short-term debt, rose
from 14.5 percent in 1980 to about 34 percent in 1984. In addition to the
rapid build-up in Portugal's external debt and the hardening terms of
borrowing, the deterioration in the debt service ratio has been the result of
large amortization payments falling due on the medium-term debt contracted in
the late 1970s*. The cale of gold reserves in 1983 and the recent decline in
the international price of gold have resulted in a situation where Portugal's
gold reserves now provide coverage for about 40 percent of total external
debt. Although less than the previous coverage, most lenders still perceive
this as an important guarantee of creditworthlness for the medium-term.
15.      Despite the gold coverage and the Government's success in 1983-84 in
reducing external borrowing, the rapid growth in debt and the debt service
ratio in recent years is a cause for concern. Creditworthiness over the
long-term will depend on the ability of the authorities to formulate and
implement the structural reforms discussed above. In the short term, the
necessity of rolling over existing short-term debt and obtaining additional
lo-ns will require careful management of Portugal's foreign exchange position,
and external financial arrangements will remain an extremely important issue
for Portugal for the next several years. About two-thirds of total
borrowings, and virtually all of the short-term borrowing, have been
contracted from financial institutions. Multilateral lending constitutes only
about 13 percent of Portugal's medium- and long-term debt outstanding, and is
slightly less than bilateral lending. The Bank's exposure is relatively
limited. Bank loans disbursed and outstanding amount to less than 3 percent
of total outstanding medium- and long-term debt.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
16.      The first phase of Bank lending to Portugal, during the period
1963-66, was concentrated in the power sector; this reflected the Government's
development priorities to meet the power needs of a rapidly developing
industrial sector. The events of the more recent past have created special
problems; the transition to an open political system has revealed social and
economic weaknesses which are unusual for a relatively high-income developing
country. The Bank has responded to Portugal's needs by identifying, preparing
and financing projects, and through economic and sector work in a number of
areas.
17.      The proposed project would be the twenty-seventh in Portugal, the
twenty-second since the resumption of lending in 1976. Bank operations since
1976 amount to about $882 million (net of cancellations), and have been
concentrated in the industry (7 projects for $357.9 million) and energy (4
projects for $207.0 million) sectors.  About 39 percent of the total lending
has been channelled to publi_ enterprises, about 36 percent via lines of
credit for onlending to individual enterprises, with the remaining 25 percent
in support of activities undertaken by the Government administration. Map No.
14942R3 shows the location of Bank activities supported by Bank loans.
18.      Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC
investments as of September 30, 1984. At that time, total disbursements from
loans made after 1976 amounted to over $382 million, of which about $84.0



- 6 -
million was disbursed in FY84. Disbursements in FY85 to date have improved
slightly, with over $52 million disbursed in the first 7 months of the fiscal
year. This improvement follows a full review of the performance of the
portfolio, held in Lisbon in March 1984. Also as a result of this review, the
Bank has agreed to the establishment of special accounts for several projects
to help facilitate disbursements,. and the Government has cancelled, or is
considering the cancellation of, unutilized balances of several loans.
19.      The projects with public enterprises are progressing well in physical
project terms and all but the most recent loan to the electricity corporation
(FY1983) are nearly fully disbursed; the petroleum exploration and the
mechanical industries projects were recently completed. As noted above,
however, many public enterprise borrowers are experiencing serious financial
difficulties. This situation is under close scrutiny by the Government and
the Bank, and special efforts to address the underlying and institutional
causes are being designed. The loans for onlending via lines of credit have
recently slowed in disbursements. With the devaluation of the escudo over the
course of project execution, the recently compLeted first Small and Medium
Industry line of credit required about twice as many sub-loans denominated in
local currency as had been expected at appraisal to become fully committed
Commitments under the second National Development Bank loan have been
adversely affected by the slowdown in investment in Portugal, which appears to
have particularly affected its larger-scale enterprise clients. Most of the
loan for the agricultural and fisheries credit project, which experienced
severe institutional difficulties and wv 3 not able to reach the target
population, was cancelled.  This loan too has recently closed.
20.      The Bank is also assisting the Cavernment in an intense parallel
effort at macroeconomic and sectoral levels, to review policy and management
issues. The report "Policies for Industrial Restructuring", dated August 4,
1982, laid the basis for a number of policy improvements and identification of
projects for possible Bank assistance, including the recently signed Textile
Industry Restructuring Project. This report was followed-up by an updated
economic memorandum and a special report on "Prospects for External Trade in
Light of EEC Entry - with Special Reference to Agriculture," both of which
were distributed to the Executive Directors in March 1983. At the sectoral
level, an Agricultural Sector Survey was completed and distributed to the
Executive Directors in July 1984, and an Energy Assessment Report in April,
1984. The major ongoing effort is the preparation of a report on the
nonfinancial public enterprise sector which has been discussed with the
Government and is expected to be distributed to the Executive Directors
shortly.  Future economic and sector work will be directed at analyzing the
prospects and opportunities for the Portuguese agricultural and industrial
sectors and regional development in the EEC environment.
21.      The industry, energy, and agriculture sectors have been identified as
the most appropriate areas of concentration for Bank work. The importance of
the industrial sector cannot be overemphasized, as it is expected to be the
major growth point for the Portuguese economy and exports. The main
objectives of Bank assistance to the industrial sector are structural reform,
rationalization of public enterprises, export promotion and efficient
import-substitution, employment creation and the preservation and promotion of
energy-saving. Restructuring projects for a number of industrial subsectors



- 7 -
are being prepared, as well as a project to promote technological
improvements. Bank activities in support of the development of the energy
sector in Portugal are also important, given the continuing high dependence of
Portugal on imported petroleum products, the attractive potential benefits
from energy conservation, and the very large share of energy investments in
the overall public investment program. Follow-up projects for the electricity
corporation and energy savings projects are planned. In the agricultural
sector, Bank assistance will be focused on institution-building programs and
technical assistance. In addition to the Agricultural Services Project,
approved in FY84, other project proposals identified in the Agriculture Sector
Survey include programs for livestock, dairy and cereals production
improvement, and marketing.
22.      In the context of the stabilization program, the overall investment
program of the Government and the public enterprises has been severely
constrained; in L983, public investment declined by 4 percent in nominal terms
and overall public consumption during the first half of 1984 increased by only
1.5 percent in nominal terms. The slowdown of growth for the general economy
has dampened private sector investment levels as well. The Bank program of
assistance is therefore designed to address policy level issues which will
facilitate the progressive return to robust growth, and is targeted at those
specific investment areas which should receive priority, especially in the
constrained circumstances and in view of Portugal's forthcoming entry into the
EEC.
PART Ill - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
23.      Portugal's transport system on the mainland is relatively well
developed. It includes three major ports at Lisbon, Leixoes (serving Porto)
and Sines, six smaller commercial ports, about 3,500 km of railways, some
42,000 km of paved roads, and three international airports. The concentration
of agricultural and industrial activity in the western coastal belt of the
country, its traditional seaward orientation, and the continuing dependence on
international trade and tourism have combined to form a dense transport
corridor extending 350 km or so from Lisbon to Porto. The road and rail links
in this corridor carry about half of all domestic traffic. In the rest of the
country, where the level of economic activity is lower and cities smaller,
both the network and the traffic are more sparse.
24.      Road is the dominant mode in domestic transport, both for passengers
and freight. The railways' principal contribution is to serve passenger
traffic in the Lisbon-Porto corridor and commuter traffic in the Lisbon and
Porto areas; goods transport by rail is much less important because of the
generally short distances involved.  Air transport and coastal shipping also
play a minor role, except for service for the islands of the Azores and
Madeira, where it is crucial. Rough estimates indicate that road passenger
transport accourts for about 84 percent of all mainland passenger-kms and rail
for about 16 percent, while freight transport by road accounts for about 92
percent of all ton-kms and that by rail only 8 percent.
25.      Although total land traffic expanded rapidly in the 1960-70s, the
transport network remained virtually unchanged; there were no additions to the



- 8 -
basic rail network in the last decade and the national highway network also
stayed essentially the same. A growing problem for the sector is the fact
that much of the infrastructure and equipment is overdue for renewal and
modernization. Nonetheless, economic development has been relatively well
served by the transport system, with the road system providing reasonable
access to all parts of the country.
26.      The transport sector is under the authority of two ministries:  the
Ministry of Social Equipment (MSE) oversees land and air transport, and the
Ministry of the Sea (MS) is responsible for ports and sea transport. There
are several units within the MSE which deal with transport: (i) the Land
Transport Department acts as the central planning entity for all land
transport and is responsible for administrative supervision of road and rail
services, both inter-city and urban; (ii) the planning of the main inter-city
roads and their access to the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto is in the
hands of a separate highway administration (Junta Autonoma das Estradas); and
(iii) a separate planning unit within MSE for aviation. Within the MS, the
Ports Department has responsibility over the smaller ports, while the three
largest port authorities report directly to the Minister of the Sea.
27.      With the jurisdiction over the transport sector shared between
various departments within two ministries, there is need for a good system of
intermodal coordination. This is being provided by the Planning and Studies
Unit within the MSE, which develops planning strategies for the sector, which
are then taken up by the separate modal planning units for detailed technical
work. Although ports and shipping are under the MS, in practice all modal
agencies submit their investment proposals to the Planning and Studies Unit
within MSE, for screening and allocation of investments within the annual
sectoral investment ceilings. The screening is based on conventional economic
criteria, with preference given to continuing ongoing projects and to projects
expected to decrease deficits of public sector transport enterprises or to
maintain employment in the sector.
28.      As in most of Western Europe, transport services are operated in part
by the public sector. ln Portugal, this public sector involvement grew
substantially after the 1974 revolution with the nationalization of inter-city
buses in the south, a part of the common-carrier trucking fleet, Air Portugal,
and the biggest shipping companies. In the absence of a strong sector policy
and given the rapid turnover of political forces in the 1970s, those
responsible during this period for transport sector policy, regulation and
planning have acted largely on an ad hoc basis.
Transport Sector Issues
29.      Important steps have been taken however to define the issues in the
sector.  A National Transport Plan was completed in 1982; this work was partly
financed under the First Highway Project, Bank Loan No. 1334-PO. This study
analyzed the different national policies that affect the sector, made
recommendations on several major proposed investments in transport facilities,
and provided a computerized multi-modal model for use by the Portuguese
authorities. The methodologies and models introduced by this study have been
accepted by the Planning and Studies Unit, which is able to update its plans
periodically.



- 9 -
30.      The Bank prepared a Transport Sector Memorandum (Report No. 3922-P0,
dated August 15, 1983), which built on the above study and further explored
policy issues for discussion with the Government. The Bank has also provided
assistance to the road transport sector through two projects for road
rehabilitation and maintenance: the First Highways Project (Loan No. 1334-PO)
was completed in September, 1984 and the project completion report is expected
shortly; the Second Highways Project (Loan No. 1700-P0) is proceeding
satisfactorily.
31.      In principle, all public enterprises are expected to cover operating
costs and debt service and to provide their own working capital and an
adequate level of selE-finance for new investments. In practice, this has not
been achieved; in 1983, the total estimated deficits of the five largest
revenue-earning public sector transport companies reached about $260 million;
of this amount, the railways accounted for about half. The overall question
of public sector enterprise management and finance has been the subject of
careful review and discussion with the Government by the Bank (see para 11),
and a program is being developed to improve the institutional relations
between the Government and the enterprises, introduce financial discipline,
and enhance the autonomy and accountability of enterprise managers.
32.      The transport sector is second only to industry as an energy user,
accounting in 1982 for 29 percent of final energy consumption and 39 percent
of petroleum consumption, compared to 45 percent and 41 percent respectively
for industry. Given its almost complete dependence on petroleum (99 percent),
the transport sector is expected to become the major consumer of petroleum
products. Transportation is, therefore, a key sector for energy conservation,
particularly since short-term measures can produce immediate effects in
reducing energy consumption. As road transport accounts for 83 percent of
final energy consumption in the transport sector, the concentration of efforts
to conserve energy should be directed there. The Bank's Energy Assessment
Report (Report No. 4824-PO, dated April, 1984) makes a number of
recommendations for increasing the efficiency of energy use in the transport
sector. These include operational reforms, such as better inspection and more
careful licensing of vehicles and the introduction of better transport
management systems through appropriate warehousing and traffic management.
The Port Subsector
33.      Port traffic is heavily concentrated at the three major ports of
Lisbon, Leixoes and Sines, which collectively handle more than 90 percent of
all cargo unloaded and loaded. A fourth port, Setubal, accounts for about 5
percent, with the balance scattered between six other mainland ports and a
number of facilities on the Azores and Madeira. Lisbon and Leixoes are
multipurpose ports, and the existing facilities at the Sines port serve
exclusively oil traffic and petrochemicals. The port authorities of the three
major ports report directly to the MS, whereas the smaller ports are dependent
on the Ports Department of the MS; the ports on the Azores and Madeira are
under the direct responsibility of their respective regional governments.
Ports in Portugal receive no operating subsidies, but the Government does
contribute capital for investments.



- 10 -
34.      A total of 40 million tons of cargo were handled by Portuguese ports
in 1981, of which about two thirds were unloaded and one third loaded. Oil
(crude and petroleum products) accounted for about 60 percent of total
traffic, while dry bulk and general cargo amount to about 20 percent each.
Lisbon handled about 13 million tons of cargo, Leixoes about 9 million tons,
and Sines about 14 million tons in 1981.
35.      Low port productivity is a problem at many ports.  Some of the
reasons for this are: (i) inadequate coordination between the port
administration, stevedores handling cargo on ships, and dockers handling cargo
on wharves and in sheds; (ii) misuse of transit sheds for long-term storage,
encouraged by low fees; and (iii) conflicts between port operators and labor
unions. The Government is well aware of these problems, but improved
labor-management relations, which lie at the heart of most problems, are
intrinsically difficult to achieve. To obtain a better understanding of these
problems and to facilitate improved management, the Government has decided to
collect and analyze port productivity indicators in a uniform manner at all
ports. The data will be prepared in an internationally agreed format.
36.      The current capacities of the ports and their prospects are well
documented through two major studies which were completed recently--Study of a
Plan to Orient the Integrated Development of the Ports of Lisbon, Setubal and
Sines, and Study of a Plan to Orient the Integrated Development of the
Northern Ports of Portugal. The southern ports study recommends that the
three ports specialize to handle different types of cargo: (i) Lisbon to
reinforce its role as the main container port for the southern part of the
country; (ii) Setubal to concentrate on general cargo; and (iii) Sines, in
addition to handling crude oil and petroleum products, to be also the national
coal import facility, and not be expanded to handle general cargo. This study
therefore recommends the expansion of the Sines harbor to build a coal
handling facility, and a new container installation at Lisbon.
37.      For the northern ports, investments are currently underway at Viana
do Castelo, Aveiro and Figueira da Foz. The port of Leixoes has now reached
the physical limits of development within the present breakwater. No new
investments are foreseen, other than the possibility to be reviewed under the
proposed project for coal transportation from Sines to meet the national
electricity authority (EDP's) future expansion program.
38.      In the early 1970s, the Sines area was selected to be the center of
an ambitious plan to promote port-based industrial activities on one of the
main shipping routes between Europe, Africa, and the Americas. This plan was
conceived at a time when passage through the Suez Canal was uncertain and the
oil shocks had not yet been felt.  The original master plan foresaw the
creation of a large industrial estate near the port, catering mainly to
petrochemical and steel-making industries. A new town and extensive
infrastructure and the first stage of the deepwater port were completed.
39.      A separate development authority was established in 1971 to undertake
this major project, the Gabinete da Area de Sines (GAS), with authority to



- 11 -
promote industrial and urban development and coordinate the different
specialized public agencies operating in the Sines area. GAS also acts as the
agency to construct the major physical infrastructure in the area, after which
the assets are to be assigned to other more specialized agencies for operation
and maintenance.
40.      The Administracao do Porto de Sines (APS) was established in 1977 to
be responsible for the port facilities after they have been constructed.  Port
facilities at Sines currently include eight berths (for petroleum and
petrochemicals) and a small construction harbor, all within the shelter of a
1900 meter (m) breakwater. This west breakwater was damaged by storms in 1978
and 1979, and has been repaired to a length of about 1000 meters. Most of
these facilities are still. under GAS ownership, as the financial terms for the
transfer to APS have not been satisfactorily arranged; this issue will be
dealt with under the proposed project. As the port is expected to remain
essentially a conglomerate of specialized berths, operation of most facilities
is by concessionnaires, with APS concentrating on regulatory matters and
overall management of the port. For example, bunker supplies are being
managed under a concession agreement with the national petroleum company and
petrochemicals berths are operated by the national petrochemical company; both
these facilities are linked to nearby refining and processing installations
operated by the respective companies.
41.      The assumptions about international traffic in petroleum products and
the prospects for industrial activities underlying the original Sines area
plans proved unsound, and the Sines area is now left with an unbalanced and
expensive framework for developments which are not likely to take place. In
the light of these new circumstances, the Government instructed GAS in early
1981 to prepare a revised master plan for the development of the Sines port
facilities. The originaL master plan was revised with the assistance of
consultants PRC Harris and correlated with the southern ports study discussed
above; both studies concluded that the port of Sines is the most suitable
center for petroleum and coal traffic car-ri-ed by large vessels.
42.      Alternative layout and design concepts for the revised master plan
were tested to meet the following needs: (i) long-term forecast coal traffic
for the EDP coal-fired thermal plant being built about 10 km south of the
Sines port oil terminal; (ii) coal traffic transshipped to a planned second
major thermal plant in the north of the country and other potential users;
(iii) the reduced needs of the Sines industrial zone, and (iv) possible
traffic to other smaller oorts. Extensive analyses were undertaken of the
reasons for failure of the west breakwater from the first phase of port
development and appropriate standards of safety, engineering, efficiency and
cost have been used for the design of the new coal handling facility.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.      The proposed project covers the first stage of the revised master
plan for the development of the Sines harbor, and was appraised by the Bank in
May/June 1984. The project is described in detail in the Staff Apprais.-l
Report entitled "Portugal - Coal Handling Port Project" (No. 5245-PO, dated



- 12 -
March 27, 1985), which is being distributed separately.  Negotiations were
held in Washington, D.C. in February/March 1985.  The delegation from the
Government was led by Mrs. Isabel Mota, Ministry of Finance and Planning and
included representatives of Gabinete de Area de Sines (GAS), and Administragao
do Porto de Sines (APS). The main features of the loan and project are listed
in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
44.      The object of the project is to assist in the development of the
country's only port capable of receiving large coal vessels to meet the needs
of the energy and industrial sectors and, in particular, to provide urgently
needed facilities for the Sines coal-fired thermal plant nearing completion.
The estimated needs for the thermal plant are expected to build up to 2.6
million tons per year by 1989, with the commissioning of the last of the
planned four 300 megawatt units. Through the project, the Bank would also
assist in the formulation of an improved organization for the operations of
the Sines port and in the development of plans for additional coal import
facilities. The main components of the project are: (i) a coal unloading
berth within the shelter of a new east breakwater; (ii) shore storage,
utilities and administrative facilities; (iii) coal handling equipment and
mobile equipment for terminal operations; and (iv) engineering services and
training.
45.      The coal unloading berth (345 m) would have a minimum depth of 18 m
at low water, capable of accepting vessels up to 150,000 deadweight tons
(DWIT); it would lie within the shelter of a 1100 m breakwater, made of rock
rubble with selected rock and concrete block armour. The area for storage
ashore would provide room for about 250,000 tons of coal in several
stockpiles, together with a safety storage area. The coal handling equipment
to be installed would include two unloaders, two combined stacker/reclaimers,
a belt conveyer system complete with transfer and weigh stations connecting
the ship unloaders to the port stockpiles and also to the conveyer system
leading to the thermal plant.
46.      The project also provides for several important studies.  GAS would
undertake a management study of the Sines port, with the objective of advising
the Government on measures to ensure the efficient management of the entire
port of Sines, including: (i) definition of the detailed terms for the
transfer of port assets from GAS to APS, including the coal handling facility
to be constructed under the proposed project; (ii) capital structure and
tariff system to ensure the financial viability of APS; (iii) permanent
by-laws for APS; (iv) determination of the arrangement for operation of the
coal terminal, which is expected to entail a lease agreement with a separate
concessionnaire for operations; and (v) preparation and implementation of
training programs for APS staff to meet their new responsibilities.
47.      This study would be started no later than December 31, 1985, under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and would be carried out by
December 31, 1986 (GAS Project Agreement, Section 2.02 (b) (ii)). The
Government and the agencies involved would consult with each other and the
Bank on the results and recommendations of this study, and would take all
necessary actions to implement the agreed recommendations, including those



- 13 -
necessary to ensure attainment of the management and financial conditions for
APS as specified in paras 54, 56 and 58 below (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04
(a)(ii); APS Project Agreement, Section 2.03 (b): and GAS Project Agreement,
Section 2.02 (b) (ii)).
48.      The project also includes services of consultants to assist with the
supervision of construction. Two o.her studies are also included to provide
the Government with recommendations on: (i) the optimal timing, cost and.
benefits of further repairs to the west breakwater; and (ii) least cost
solution for coal supply to serve EDP's future expansion program, to be
followed in a second phase by the preparation of selected port investment
proposals. The Government and the agencies involved would consult with each
other and with the-Sank-anktthe results and recommendations of these studies.
GAS would complete the west breakwater study, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, by December 31, 1985, and would propose to the
Government and the Bank by September 30, 1986 a timetable and financing plan
to carry out the agreed repairs (GAS Project Agreement, Section 2.02 (b)
(i)). The Government would complete the coal transportation study by December
31, 1986, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and would consult
with the Bank, GAS, APS, and EDP ua the results and recommendatious (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.03 (b)).
Proiect Cost and Financing
49.      The estimated cost of the project, including contingencies and
interest during construction on the Bank loan, is $176.2 million equivalent,
of which 68.1 percent, or $123.2 million equivalent, would be in foreign
exchange; excluding interest during construction on the Bank loan, the foreign
content of the base cost is 67 percent. The cost to GAS of managing the
project has been included in the cost of supervision of construction. A
physical contingency of 10 percent was applied to marine civil works and the
temporary coal import facilities; 7.5 -10 percent for equipment; 15 percent
for civil shoreworks, buildings and utilities for which detailed designs have
not yet been completed; and 10-15 percent for consulting services. Prices
were calculated at January 1984 prices, the date of submission of the major
marine civil works bids. Price contingencies were applied for calendar years
1984-1990: for local costs at 28 percent, declining to 20 percent; and for
foreign costs within a range of -2.8 percent to 8 percent.
50.      The Bank loan of $66 million equivalent would be made available with
a term af 13 years including four years grace; this adjustment to the standard
lending conditions for Portugal is proposed because of the length of the
construction period, during which the facilities to be constructed under the
project will not generate sufficient revenues. The Bank's proposed share of
the base project cost was established taking into account the availability of
other sources of foreign exchange finance through suppliers/export credits and
the procurement procedures to be followed. The proposed loan would meet about
48 percent of the foreign exchange cost of the project, or about 33 percent of
total costs (all excluding interest during construction on the Bank loan).



- 14 -
Financing for the project (excluding interest during construction on the Bank
loan) would be as follows: (i) Government contribution of about 25 percent;
(ii) APS contribution of about 10 percent; (iii) EDP contribution of about 2
percent; and (iv) total foreign borrowings (including the Bank loan and
suppliers/export credits) of about 63 percent.
51.      The onlending of the Bank loan associated with the coal port assets
would be made by a subsidiary agreement, satisfactnry to the Bank, to be
signed by the Government, GAS, and APS by December a'. 1985; this agreement
would include provisions transferring the coal port assets to APS on project
completion (see para 54), and assigning to APS the respoinsibility for
servicing the outstanding balances of the loans related to the coal port
assets, with APS bearing the foreign exchange and interest rate risks on
repayment (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02 (a)).
Project Execution
52.      The construction phase of the project would be managed on behalf of
the Government by GAS, which would maintain a Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) which is already established within its structure to handle this
assignment, with the assistance of consultants and in close association with
APS and EDP (GAS Project Agreement, Section 2.01 (b)). Arrangements,
satisfactory to the Bank, would be made to provide the necessary funds to GAS
to execute the construction of the project; the proposed annual budget and
financing plans would be reviewed with the Bank not later than three months
before the beginning of each fiscal year (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01 (c)
and APS Project Agreement, Section 4.04). During the construction phase, GAS
would keep separate accounts for the project (GAS Project Agreement, Section
4.01 (a)). GAS has already awarded the marine civil works contract, and the
contractor was granted possession of the site on July 15, 1984. Target dates
for the balance of the implementation schedule, which are satisfactory to the
Bank, have been established by GAS. The coal handling facility is expected to
be physically completed by December 31, 1988.
53.      Until the coal handling facility is completed, EDP will arrange for
the provisional supply of coal for the testing and start-up of the thermal
units via: (i) an emergency solution utilizing one of the petroleum berths to
enable coal to be discharged by geared vessels onto the west breakwater, and
carried by truck to the plant's conveyor system; and (ii) starting about
April, 1986, a temporary solution utilizing a berth at the base of the new
breakwater (while it is being constructed) to receive geared vessels and a
temporary conveyor system. The civil works involved in the temporary solution
have been included in the main marine civil works contract already under
construction; the temporary conveyor can be utilized elsewhere by EDP once the
permanent facility is available. EDP will operate both the emergency and the
temporary facilities under a special license arrangemer.: with GAS and APS,
with terms and conditions established to ensure maximum safety and a smooth
transition into the use of the permanent facility.
54.      After the construction phase is completed, the new coal handling
facility would be conveyed to APS by June 30, 1989, for operation (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02 (a) (iii)). The terms and conditions for the transfer



- 15 -
and the organizational arrangements would be established following the
recommendations of the port management study, as agreed with the Bank (paras
46 and 47). It is expected that the actual operation of the coal handling
facility will be assigned under a concession agreement, the terms of which
shall be satisfactory to the Bank (APS Project Agreement, Section 3.04 (b)).
The Government would exchange views with the Bank by June 30, 1988, on the
proposed long-term agreements for the use of the project facilities, and take
all measures necessary to ensure that such long-term agreements are entered
into no later than June 30, 1989 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06).
55.      APS staff who will manage the coal handling facility will be given
training under the project at similar installations abroad, both on management
of the terminal and maintenance of the equipment. The detailed training
programs would be defined by the management study, taking into account the
expected responsibilities for APS under a concession arrangement. APS would
assign appropriate staff to the project training program (APS Project
Agreement, Section 2.01(b)). After the commissioning of the equipment, and
after a start-up period of about six months, APS would be expected to build up
productivity to yield 95 percent availability of equipment by 1991. APS would
adopt productivity targets for the ultpration of the coal handling facilities
by December 31, 1987, in consultation with the Bank, and build up to these
targets on a schedule satisfactory to the Bank (APS Project Agreement, Section
2.04).
56.      The existing oil port facilities currently held by GAS will be
transferred to APS not later than December 31, 1986, following the
recommendations of the port management study, as agreed with the Bank; the
terms would include a settlement of responsibility for the related debt and
accounts payable and receivable and a capital structure for APS with no less
than 30 percent of those assets received by APS to be in the form of equity
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.02 (a) (i) and (ii)).
Financial Performance
57.      Recently a special user charge was introduced for the oil port assets
to provide for at least a part of the related debt service; the cost of
operations and maintenance for these assets is covered by other port charges
collected by APS. As an important interim step towards achieving the
financial objectives of providing for full cost recovery on the use of all
port assets and making a contribution to the capital costs of future expansion
of the Sines port, the Government has decided to increase both the user charge
for the oil port and the other APS port tariffs and charges in the Sines
port. These increases are expected to be effective from April 1985. It would
be a condition of loan effectiveness that these increased tariffs have beccme
effective (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01).
58.      Starting June 30, 1986, APS port tariffs and charges would be
established and adjusted to enable APS to contribute 10 percent of the coal
handling port investment costs after covering all expenses related to
operations, including any debt service, but excluding depreciation (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.05 (c), APS Project Agreement, Section 4.03 (a)). The
separate user charge for oil traffic would be established no later than
December 31, 1986 and maintained thereafter at a level to cover at least the



- 16 -
debt service related to the oil port assets (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05
(b)). Starting from June 30, 1989 (when the coal handling facility should be
completed and in full operation, and all other port assets and their related
debt assigned to APS), the charges for the use of all port assets would be set
to ensure a rate of return to APS of not less than 7.5 percent on the coal
port assets separately and for all APS assets at the port of Sines (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.02 and APS Project Agreement, Section 4.03).
59.      The draft license for operation of the temporary facilities also
envisions a payment schedule, reflecting EDP's use of the phased investment in
the project.  It has been agreed in principle that these fees to be charged by
APS would be set at about $2/ton when the temporary facility begins operation;
the user fee would increase to about $9/ton in 1984 prices when the permanent
facility begins full operations. The user charge for the use of the temporary
facilities would be established by March 31, 1986, following consultation with
the Bank and adjusted periodically thereafter (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05
(a)). It is estimated that in 1984 prices the user fee would be increased by
$6-8/ton, when the traffic switches to the permanent facilities, whereas the
marine transport costs alone for imported coal would be reduced by about
*7.50/ton when shipments can be made by large gearless carriers! compared to
the costs of transport with smaller geared vessels to be received at the
temporary facilities.
Accounting and Reporting
60.      APS and GAS operate under general rules applicable to public
institutes in Portugal, which are considered adequate for the execution of the
proposed project. In addition to budget accounts, APS also keeps accounts
based on the principles and chart of accounts applicable to public
enterprises. Starting for fiscal year 1985, APS port assets would be revalued
annually, on principles determined in consultation with the Bank, in order to
eliminate the distortions of inflation and to serve as the basis for computing
the rate of return (APS Project Agreement, Section 4.05). The GAS and
Government project accounts, the special account for disbursements from the
Bank loan and the APS financia statement would be audited by independent
auditors satisfactory to the Bank and provided to the Bank within six months
of the close of each fiscal year (Loan Agreement, Section 4.03, APS Project
Agreement, Section 4.02, and GAS Project Agreement, Section 4.02).
61.      To monitor the productivity of all ports in Portugal, understandings
were reached that the Government would collect data in an internationally
agreed format. These data would be collected annually by the Director General
of Ports and by the autonomous port authorities for analysis by MS; copies of
these reports would also be provided to the Bank. APS would begin collecting
such data for the Sines Port not later than June 30, 1986 (APS Project
Agreement, Section 4.06). GAS would also be responsible for preparing a
project completion report within six months after the completion of the
project.
Procurement and Disbursement
62.      The contract for the marine civil works was procured in compliance
with Bank guidelines, and awarded on July 10, 1984 to a consortium of



- 17 -
Portuguese and Italian interests (Sociedade da Empreitadas Somague SARL and
Societa Italiana per Condotte d'Acqua SPA, respectively). All other civil
works and building contracts are restricted to Portuguese tenderers under
local competitive bidding (LCB). Tender documents for the equipment are under
review and should be issued in May 1985; tender documents have been completed
for the remaining works. As the coal handling equipment is expected to be
financed by suppliers/export credits, suppliers will be selected principally
on the basis of cost of the equipment and on the cost of the finance
provided. The contract for the temporary coal handling equipment to service
EDP pending the completion of the permanent facility is expected to be awarded
by EDP to Koch (Germany) as an extension of their existing contract at the
Sines thermal plant.
63.      It is expected that GAS will award the consulting wssignment for the
breakwater study and for supervision of construction to PRC Barris (the
consulting firm which prepared the revised master plan and the tender
documents for the marine civil works). Given the integrated nature of this
work with that already undertaken in the design of the project, this is
considered acceptable. Other consulting services will be procured according
tc Bank guidelines. For contracts eligible for Bank finance, the threshold
for prior review would be $500,000 equivalent. The total amount of contracts
subject to Bank procurement guidelines is estimated at about $70 million
equivalent.
Procurement Method
(US dollar equivalent Million)
ICE           LCB       Other           Total
Project Element
Civil Works
Marine    68.5 (41.1)                              68.5 (41.1)
Shore                   29.9 (-)                   25.0 ( - )
Equipment                              50.1(-)         50.1 ( - )
Engineering                            14.0 (10.4)      14.0 (10.4)
Temp. Facil.   2.1 (-)                 3.6 (-)           5.7 ( - )
70.6 (41.1)   25.0 (-)  67.7 (10.4)    163.2 (51.5)
note:    figures, which include contingencies, have been rounded with those
in parenthesis representing the respective amounts financed by the
Bank.
64.      The Bank loan would be disbursed as follows:  (i) 67 percent of
total expenditures for the marine civil works contract; (ii) 100 percent of
the cost of consulting services for supervision of construction and studies
and for training; and (iii) 100 percent of the interest and other charges
on the loan accrued on or before December 31, 1988. A special account



- 18 -
would be established in dollars with a financial institution as a revolving
fund to handle most disbursements from the Bank loan (Loan Agreement,
Section 2.02 (c) and Schedule 4). Disbursements for civil works would be
supported by full documentation; those for consulting services may be
arranged by statements of expenditure, with a minimum reimbursement payment
of $20,000 equivalent. Retroactive financing of up to $6.6 million
equivalent would be provided to cover the costs of eligible expenditures
made from July 1, 1984 to the date of loan signing for the marine civil
works, port management study and construction supervision. Disbursements
are expected to be phased over about five years, and the loan closing date
is December 31, 1990.
Environmental and Employment Aspects
65.      The project has been designed with a view to achieving the highest
practicable standards to avoid pollution. The conveyor system will be
screened and a water sprinkler system will be installed at both the berth
and the storage areas for reasons of fire safety and dust suppression.
Wind shields and fresh water spray mist will also be provided along the
conveyors and transfer points to minimize dust. Any spillage at transfer
points will automatically be returned to the main conveyors. A separate
safety storage area has been provided for coal which is too wet for
discharge onto the conveyor belts or so hot as to present a risk of
spontaneous combustion; hot coal would be compacted by bulldozers in the
safety area to suppress combustion. The emergency arrangement for the
delivery of coal (para 53) will be operated for the shortest possible
period of time to minimize the hazards of using the petroleum berth for
coal handling and disruption in the area from the increased use of trucks.
The construction phase of the project will provide local employment
opportunities for about 800 people for about 5 years. On completion of the
project, about 200 jobs will become available in the operation and
maintenance of the coal port terminal.
Risks
66.      There are no special physical risks associated with this project.
The design of the facility has been carefully prepared taking into account
the extensive work already done to analyze the problems of the west
breakwater, including wave criteria more severe thati those adopted for the
original port design. In addition, the new east breakwater and the coal
berth have been designed to remain structurally safe even if further
repairs of the west breakwater are not made. Acceptable safety features
have been introduced in the construction and implementation phases.
67.      The risks that project implementation may be slower than planned
are low due to the fact that the major marine civil works contract aias been
signed and the contractor is already on site. The contractor is well
qualified, and already has experience in the Sines port as the original
contractor for the west breakwater. There are also no significant
financial risks for APS in taking on full responsibility for all port
assets, including the debt service, for which it will depend on steadily
increasing port tariffs to meet its obligations. The tariffs will be



- 19 -
raised before the start of the project, and agreements have been reached on
the principles to be met in revising the tariffs in the future (paras
57-59).
Justification
68.      The proposed project will provide port facilities for the import
of coal to the Sines coal-fired thermal plant which is in an advanced stage
of construction. The Sines coal-Eired thermal plant, included in EDP's
development program, which has already been appraised by the Bank as the
least cost solution for meeting Portugal's electricity needs (Bank
Appraisal Report No. 3805-PO, dated January 27, 1983). Although the
potential demand for coal for the second plant and 'for other commodities is
likely, the analysis of the viability of the proposed solution is based
only on the import needs of the Sines plant, estimated at about 2.6 million
tons per year. After reviewing a number of alternatives, including
different designs at the Sines site as well as discharge/transshipment via
other ports, our analysis concluded that the proposed coal handling port
provides the least cost solution for meeting these needs. Furthermore, the
cost of this solution is well within the limits needed to maintain the
overall feasibility of the thermal plant. The standard calculation of the
economic rate of return was not prepared for this project, as there is no
realistic "without project" alternative; making a comparison of with and
without the project in such conditions would greatly overstate the returns
from the proposed investment. The risks for the economic viability of the
proposed coal handling facility are considered minimal, as the Sines power
plant is nearing completion, the justification of the project is based only
on the minimum expected usage of the facility, and the cost estimates can
be considered as very reliable.
69.      Through the project, the Bank would be able to assist also in the
formulation of an improved organization for the operations of the Sines
port and consult with the Government on the future development of coal
import facilities. As the financing for the Sines development program has
become a serious burden on the Government, the program to improve the
management and operations of the Sines port through consolidation of
activities in a well-established port agency and to establish realistic
port charges to cover the associated costs of these assets is another step
in the Government's program to rationalize the public sector (para 11).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Portugal and the
Bank, draft Project Agreements between the Bank and GAS and APS
respectively, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
71.      Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. It would be a condition of loan effectiveness that the



- 20 -
increases already agreed upon for current port charges for the use of the
existing port facilities at Sines are effective (Loan Agreement, Section
6.01).
72.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
March 28, 1985



- 21 -                                                 ANNEX I
TANLE IA                                        Page 1 of 5
POINCAL               - SOCIAL IHDICATOSS DATA SHETS
PORTUGALS RPRCNCE 00oun (MEIGHIED AVRGS fl
HOST                 (WET RtCENT ISTINTS) b
ESCENT         MIDDLE INCmE         INDUETIt
litk      t7@b    ESTINATdL             EUROPE        HARLET tCONNIICS
AUSA (11_S Eq. ml)
TOTAL                                92.1        92.1      92.1
AGSICULTURAL                         49.6        63.1      60.8
UllP ER CAPITA (U$)                    320.0       770.0    2450.0           2345.3              11071.0
MIEY -WHlTllON  - CAPITA
(KILOCIRAS OP OIL EqUIVALENT)       363.0       161.0    1145.0            1122.8              4996.9
PO TIAN  S  VITAL SEATSTIC
POPULATION.HID-YEAR (THOUSADS)     832b.0     9044.0   10056.0
MRBAN POPULATION 5X OF TOTAL)        22.5       26.2       31.7              6.6.                76.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YIER 2000 (HILL)                           11.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                             13.7
POPULATION IOHENIUM                                       1.4
POPULATION DENSITt
PEEnSQ. IOU.                       95.9        98.2     106.7             82.9                139.3
PER SQ. M1. ACI. LAND             178.0       210.1     240.8             158.9               519.2
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE CR)
0-14 YES                          29.2       28.       26.3              31.6                22.1
15-64 tRS                          62.9       61.9       63.0             6l.1                 66.1
6* AND ABOVI                        5.0         9.7      10.1               7.1                11.7
POPULATION ClOSNH RATE (E)
TOTAL                               0.5 Ic      0.2 Ic    0.9               1.6                 0.8
URSAN                               2.1         IS        2.5               3.7                 1.3
CRUDEC BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)        21.2        19.1       17 8             23.4                13.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE CPR TEOUS)          10.8        10.3       9.9              8.6                 9.2
C1oss REPRODUCTION RATE               1.5         1.1       1.1              1.6                  0.9
FAMILY PLtANINC
ACCLPTOR5 ANNUAL (THUS)
USERS (I OF IARiED UOCN)                        b. b60 Id
FOOD AND NMRrnr
INDEX o FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                        92.0       105.0      73.0             114.5               11.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIS 55 OF RZQUIEMlENTS)      11 .0       128.0     110.0             128.6               132.3
PROTEINS (CUAN  PER DAY)           80.0       89.0       70.0             89.7                98.5
OF WHICH ANIA AND PULSE          33.0        39.0      39.0 1e           34.5                61.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE           9.0        5.0        1.0              5.2                 0.6
USTE
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (TEUS)         63.3       67.1       70.6             67.4                 74.9
INFANT MIT. SATE (PER THOUS)         78.0       58.0       26.0             54.2                10.3
ACCESS TO SAE WATER (SPOP)
TOTAL                              26.9        34.5      65.0 tf
URSAN                              82.1                  90 .0 f
RURAL                              14. 4                 56.0 rf
ACCESS TO EtCRETA DISPOSAL
CZ OF POPULATION)
TOTAL
URBAF
RURAL
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           1250.0      1110.0     540.0 Id         1065.8               553.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON            1420.0 ij  1080.0      650.0 is         764.4                166.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             180.0       170.0     180.0 lh          326.3               120.8
URBAN                              70.0 IL    70.0       80.0 re         201.5                143.1
RURAL
AmIUSSIONS PER HOSPITAL S              .-        9.8       13.5 fe          20.D                 17.8
1C1INC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOU5EHOLD
TOTAL                               3.9         3.7
UBAm                                4.0          ..
RURAL                               3.9          ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                               1.1         0.8
133LAM                              1.0          ..
RURAL                               1,1          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 oFr DELLIMCS)
TOTAL                              60.5        64.2
UIDAN                              88.5          ..
RUAL                               27.4          ..



- 22 -
A-AILE   3                                  ANNEX  I
OMNAL ThLage  2  o f  5
NOUT               CtNOT ReCINY Z un `
IIIo~RCUIS   tNIUIDLI INC=          lUU&thL
Moll       Mal      lT    ab          1097            MAT *U 0C CUO
ADJUSTED ENROLUIENT RATIOS
PRIMART3  TOTAL                      *.        95.0      103.0            101.1               101.3
HALe                       ..       99.0         ..            105.5                103.0
PUtALE                     ..       96.0         ..             96.7                102.7
SECONDARY: TOTAL                      .        37.0      56.0              59.1                90.3
HALE                       ..       63.0         ..             0649 66.6
FDIALS                     ..       51.0         ..             50.6                87.8
VOCATIONAL (2 OQ SECONDARY)          46.4        33.6       9.6              21.6                17.9
PUPIL-TEACHER EATIO
PRIIMAR                            36.0        36.0      19.0 lh           25.1                20.2
SECOuDAR                           19.0        17.0      23.0 i            20.5                15.0
ADULT LITEACY RATE (2)               62.9        71.0      78.0 /d           75.6                99.1
PASSENCER CARS/TUOUSAND POP          17.9        60.9     120.9 /h           54.7               367.2
RADIO REMIVERS/THOUSAND POP          96.1       151.3     161.6             16A.9              1090.7
TV PZCEORS/THOUSAND POP               5.2        63.0     141.7             123.8               431.0
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY CENtRAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPUIATION            63.2        82.2      50.5 /d           96.3               331.2
CINLM AINUL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         2.9         3.1       3.4 6             2.9                 3.6
TOTAL LABOR FOC  (THOUS)           3397.0      3550.0    4590.0
FEMALE (PURCENT)                   17.9        24.8      26.0              34.5                36.2
ACEICuLTIEs (PERCENT)              44.1        33.3      26.2              40.7                 6.2
INDUSTRY (PEUCEhT)                 29.0        33.2      33.1              23.3                37.7
PARTIClPATION RATE CPERCENT)
TOTAL                              3B.5        39.3      *3.6              62.9                43.7
;ILE                               66.0        62.3       56.0            53.7                 59.3
rEMALE                             13.2        18.5      36.7              31.0                32.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENC  RATIO             1.0         1.0       1.0               0.9                 0.7
INCOMB DZDSEUITIO
PERCET OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED ST
HIGIST 5S OF NOUSENOLDS              ..
IGUEST 20 orOFOUSEHOLDS              ..        56.1,/1     ..                ..                63.1
LOWEST 201 OF HOUSHOLDS             ..         6.2                                             54..  ..  3.
LWEST 4OI oOUSEAOLDS                 ..        20.6 I,   ..                  ..                16.6
ESTMTD ASSOLUTE POVERTY INXltg
LEML (US PER CAPITA'
uR6                                  ....                   ....
URBAL                                ..
ESTiTED RLATIVE POVERY INCOIE
LEVEL (USS PMR CAPITA)
URA                                  ..          ..      480.0
RURAL                                ..          ..    460.0
ESTIMTED POP. NELOW ABSOLUS
POVY  DINcM  LVEL (C)
RURA                                 ..          ..        ...
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N OTS T S
/a   The gop mrqoe for ech indicator are population-wigted arithmetic  m. Coygrage of contriem  amg the
indicaton depends on availability of date end Is not unifonr.
/b  DUle. othawsi noted, 'Data foc 1960" refer to ew year between 1959 and 1961; Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; end data for ,Most ReAent atimata" beteen 1980 nd 1962.
/c  Due to   gratloon population growth rate to  lowr then rate of nturl Imerem; Id 1979; / 1977; /2 1976;
/tj 1962; lh 1976; /I Zigheet 252, lweut 22 and 501 of boueholdo; /1966.
JUNEt 1954



-23-                                                                        ANNEX I
nptfwyra a  aria eicnePalge=3of  .5
oet.. iltlreeo  tag. doe IIIc di.. f tee con."   jecovlty jdt  th oa te        ittotte  mm peIiohte. IS d tIe6. hecoe  thee lbk" ma  a  ho ttecmm           ittat
mospoepei, teem.. c  tl. i.e or  totdeeccoed af&novmoe aI ocooge  eeoOt IVsrrerffotl SManome  Sctotut.  ieee6 a.   ,   itov dOte 5*. poreetete, oec me
ae6.tt  sete m .1 etoc*todleoce&.M trees,         hod etoralti  mfotel major dileroesm, INoee meetrmagA.
vim peicnoema, arac eo    tim oAL-t omrpinse   the ethi-rot mAttex  ad is) 0  met?, BrMW etch ema     hisher orge  ton  lime the  =selv  mo or the
eehj"' amen (ePat 0.. -mt  lee stt lcportet OeOP are  -w"klit  It-a  sloth, W1   -4te   ted Oii. bo            . flab  Wette  ci emr-sr tol"  seio
o=rtetvtee). to tao pirm   grew, dots the a-cow are eePeitmaI  olgrtod orishmtlo maa Poe CIA taW11Aot a1. et   aret    ajrir .6 tim aewital   tota
ge te  os o   et%  todIeete. Otee0. the -eeri  of selttee  A=e the tAledorep  adood  MOt o.etatlr qjt   d to a  'm.avl.oO  aortoma  lot he
eAvetoeod Se rotceiej -.0r  of -   todlecto  I. eobtlot. llama eftroleo 5.. ma,lp maSS to        etoFWI Ithe veto  oP -toiteoRWMr et  tInt  maO aM Omote  OM
flAlln  -bticlo or otiaicat-l  -ee see  tolm-rti  or Poremolstip                    aeoiIatcgoei erree..mtotn  fmar.0  pretteo  "mama ad
Pii     proree. eoebt ad htrl,ettoe or Ce tte  .. ltrtote.                         etlo4lee oettted,te.
OlDi ad miuidte                                                                       or.:m erL1ttl  roLai.:~                            ree  *Ppoiiia  (ci
loU. iON, aod IOU dee.                                                                    hr ai loam       phe,lotot.    alomitcf yt  -  Imotds pitrtpetIp onmitte
lp                                                                                                                          mare ore   a"tetee.d beret IWaptote, es.,AA  tnd  t.Ietm  ad
500?  Wn.N .UTA-emo apitooolao   oee                                                  ta  LIM..1 -L  -eeserovip et 1rby he om ph,tes   bet he   - eSt-
lEWead~Tesred     toi.. porie., Imatne  an teW tydr. meteor                      eeetote,tr.  oer,c. ohich fere te-Pottetm                   eiaa
eoeOseml stsiroicr  toOtiqemaer tt ootvteespetcontin  ien,pittde   i"M.o P.o er  trdoi rattitil,ma.wal
atOm.    mn de oto.Aeeleor   oiL                                                                                     oal lopor" eslt    to   dieoohrlm
-l~~al-Jiira-tw- "ator or he."
jorrera ipiettio  M oter      Mro maIrost erofetl      d05                        AW  mi. Male -it.  A lotdor- or ial.r Maor  -  me h. 11l1todod to
oAwl eeaLto.1c  IWO.1 100, ad ti.dct                                                    the. heetold fra eLetterteni pooper.,
,=,d   .  ~               corne  ppositeteo prejtilaoare heWre-  iIs                    ioem    e  m   o.1cie,odprter,idoesa
ltort.  fteU tre oneecest -w tint12 ontto  oWtih enorf  rer                         ot,,t.*IttYerolloilm)  otd                              . Syrt
roplieo tAA,  -I, ad reni. Lt.t eepeonyoo olatettite ot1aU,)                                 teeellorle  trnlrelligwree                             oeti
poerce  Th. porareer C retrnottr rote slo  he-  ohm  lassI                            AF toti.ol,e ad prot ftia    inpett-oetl.r.
Pt. e" doatter 0. Pe.ietomegmardo  Os lb.        tentad  peIfth  *stp
.Htoeroaltio-,to -   to alah an- ae -.-poop-it.    at                    -                       e    ma        P=    - Or-e totot, -4. eel romt
.me   ~oepertt, wile  ae Ltf . *tnlotp                   on- maI.     ec-aL        C   pde      - len   aP.-oee-sofr. ecpoott
era hoe oteIttseARat   Mosted at        ..eaome  tet  ee                               Prime, erhaiso.  peotrtIa ,el allpbein  ehoid,. ~Ad e-m
roProdotoc rooe).  me marl,  .         2-.psae, a. t4oth Pal   eara-ar  a"  di-.cre  p. dftr.t-e  toceehe or vri-ev wboetst r
ad tq-oL to the  - d.ltots, toA at tirogotor  he alo  cecoo-t, ad ' aooeietao.4 edIt nenm   etosoLo Isoretsom l, Aeons IoN pnorat
orath eAdots he _r. ?M, caiotta.  eAwLattog. eo   aI Aombated Ma the                    .oto,o re  plt an  eI  or eket. Cm  f rote   at-  U'.
ate or a. piejened thder Itep galoi a    papolattma, to tim 7tr                             .ysstrtt  Oo gm. (sit - ameted ao abIot ermoaam
mm. Lad theo et sP doatima op rsrouttt   Me Oe repiseeot  en,                                  teroatI-test  mt p....- V-    6 "ppc-e  Primer  streeAtanI
posotriotisee - tothe tAo-w, ror PoIpolei  gArso   cc AAeStO,                       pP."io  senset, tMaIAtsnt, or tee        tr9Atle teI-mtOn   icr
iji~ilil~Thot  opilseeeo-lseo  lepttOit,  hoe     . t         bhteoe :k            poptic= 1ut   or alo t.    par lor"Ll nel etr    o oe arcs 4a
tee cte eie.       a  eotesetec oorM ten rtek.-dcot,, iTo                       ge-rot, ocetodd
eecs or    heeta  ote  e    to.       M.eso    eatl 01 theVptnt   ri .ilo   nu,  - ogrMI.   ttioLe
soke. .tAAttsap  eoacs"     t    rn11c Atc.se  e ee  oet3,  in                      moO   teleeleIt      I toeiit,  rot    mores  otltopolee
lmooid. ton jet.,                                                                   biott-1oork  ratM eisrv  M e..a     - tee    "4.)tdee aretid te
prma, odonear~laot Jreod te eemp  C tegie  to tho
tofrj~3e7d-eer  optattapotoqat heoerir (Ot) ocieoctor             tro-Inpoldl   -I.ele
ictrlS.t It),  iSC,  d lvi doee                                        Sui ttteoov ote teereoer    - tvoar   dft. lotte we reedAL sot t) M
tepe. he totoeteciIsS- bated ma wher for  "seIet.,ero. Isri                       0pcog 1tetdiwp.ptRts- ad It Veore aodovr
airS  cost, low. on76 tnt4 doteatr.,3 "re-sta                                                          M W          -m
a  en0a    coo   e  ot  dsc)o2prrio   rcdnptr                                                            heed          m   -Alos tor  mr  ittte
potlota  1000  010,i. ad lOt-Sh" date.lo ~                                                                                               Asor "'.ron,  ad.
pN.Hdopoistt   orIddo-62. Iou-O,  d  i.eML                                            Osdtr t"Ioolrtop. ice, rimsod mvtate MI W ) -Whpo. or reMacir  ror rode
pcotsimaOtmth at  CerrAti   oite- Seen. W.et Paterd or splat                         AI tregot cc jesotl pstte1 pop eko -r AL o      h.op -Ntmalseldee6
pl  opotnlec  for tOE -c  t          I-o     al1015 P, a1-do  .                        Vlteooo   reptwt lb.  topteedsper. etc 1 PmatetoeoP it l
_ee  nttae  et.-Aeslt-  tart tontIthe tolop               -16 chwse   iad.a AR-    -4to orsrc  e  roe p.000 peer. c                   Tp a  he    M taa i   tal at
0-dt howl, taco (ocr tst -' S-oot,-1 do thepo  wheoe  C  S-v1t1                           broien  orP -theree  mateto)-i rtcoter,c roe trad                 ltw  i
poeata; ed,tre        m!doeoomPto poett                                                                  d reP  " a t prtta   otdceetee   otet
F-II. booepe   at   go            ,roldo  ber a1 ten. oI)kr   0                              he rm taeo  adt ot pooe tim  c&-ecrtte  o to- n. -ma.  t  t
her cPed  oprootei. petot t ohe..t t-,e poemar eeri-orrt tota.ese                       'Al!"           tocimttt-,  - MAd    a  aim  mboro
tiP                                                                                       cireladno  prtmtit isprsdeotaotemaltimraloe
Post. plice- - wortec otnr.mat  (wisota olm) - oteocl a           ci cLongem              -1h1d1    C  Pigp.ooa  ottPe  ic      tt
tolPist."   - .hope  tormc  or  Apoidmae 1-6 Ppe9     neo nuttedIocbtte  tic,t    t-P..~WN
nof toeit-mleto   Lo C   trr powetrlaf. or. Cem  Nhoaa  t-eeootol    doo.t.                                                                            I
P hi)dn   mowt cc  pe  ocootl se   mo  ti1veotdt rr m
matis  now.cpwft.].to  erodforocepoL rboc                                                 Iooa mcte,hretdtnM tmoeiMa, otrdeeso  owe. mann
-    P---  . .,r-         1= 1-11 -d-1-plat -A                 RE~~IoRttcs  r          L~ot.   rolofte  to marion reopotma eMAI a
ten-d      .A ura tn    "'in.rohtoLt itt), tiNW[adriOeo dotc
cotaa    om   no eIlede).  10r111   veeota-  C oath,  tABL  0.                          n.,iili .:.A-o ad  l- M prors-Om   oP coo) tewit P500  titi, iO
d-owo        -                      to   t-,16.                                      prottrtato .   ke   epcw      as.sr    drns    etept0 
tepn..  est  Poteo   creoo  c,eoet).teoa   e                                              riiprrase-atct   n.odrt   Wloa rarma -
ma   sataLoet C or  rt C." apptose  Lo.attth he      T ene   poprlpta pot            porootoece of O.t. s1, h   al Peal. povtetic  of sat No.e ee,peawolvep
top. StAIShit c0"orvt  marts. tewt pedsectoc. Ivion  los                                tt0. altO, ad ivit de.  time a-  heaod ma tLO'. poeengtttp,orta r
sore.r-,d thapa to ecthf. bet cwtppt  ootlaio oiowll  faod, MLd.,                       rtrtncta ge-ce  .co ore the pop-Ltooiee  ad iso cho "I'o,  A
qostwtse -tod tc tad Pr.oetee. ad Stere   to dtcptlaiea  ftote-                         Pr- mtnwo no  Pmr  oenoto Mop.-
setitty ad litch  -etdctN  n ooo mael edoporotno,bm hodprttom.                        mi-WthINqep P". It&oo  (tee, cpd it-66).
tc teoAfl&A  sej sm1-es. iton  a6 iNc date.                                         eIeIm-en
to  retsmalt A   etteoc toos -dod   precci tert=e  cipr  r Opt.                              L~i Wnoit    .we   n    dbe)-hcodh  ia 
a ot   t   PPdp   c,ctmpi  rish dctt  al ehe. Pt-                                       Potn-    pior       oec,  orw3   orn,a    aoc-t Mt pooint of
ottne- or tO aopen or totel penis. P- Sar oad 0 eP,A of aisi ad
of  atso  preelo Ma er sate   Pop mim -eId,           byeo   F" p.  tor wimchtt he towoetotd cite ermadchlo aetee
per  Wtsrt  enwot  otca pal Ita  ad mIn  "- nes~pys ron t,roct roroIM                                   ; ror ten  eve  teto   toMa Lee  kI   eih   tta
arm   on   -)bet-dt  rpctoed -  woo dowmro  c                     it?) o               etne  OratoPvert tote  tema raI  -f   -l
Chailds ooA 14.-S                                                                        Botavod Pootstt  hi-.   Mtoostorrtoe   et(esf  I o
ictror tectitty bets (to. cemocad)                                   -,- geaR11ALMA, doathe Aci. tctscto ado, ass
poor or ge per tronad tin htnimm  rema, ant) ad tIieS dee.1- 1. 
cstad mt erM i.Ma."Pr   oro ltt . ordmco oros1                 c adJa  v
a    t  aMotli  gsmi or .wtsooo los a-   an.. w               I   ae
tent -seto Otpne  eMar Cw mertawoma) - too          Awta. ad iore
..I,)5 Mas  twotet,. eote  adt reed),sts Vhe  t-eet deeoe
a.-  ad    b  adUl doomodoet   itor ci-tPa olodooflar  of  a2  Ameo,t,
ad    Imrrord he  --atordhero perm  r  eo   of1A    --btt oriet, adC
loot-  tswallnta.Idikr9Wch  lodU



24                                                        PA"-4 ofa
(Mounts In millions of Us Dollars)
Lettul                    Annual BrethX oat. Elt                  Shave of MP at Barkut
1952                                                         gri7p s Iturront2 Irip=  I
Gross  Omatic Product o/             20u61           6.2    4.1    0.1    2.2   -0.1   -2.1          101.0       100.0      101.0
Agricultur                            1,727         20.1    0.4  -13.2    5.3    -5.0       ..         3.6         0.4
Indutry                               3.177          I.E    4.7    2.0    1.1      0.4      ..        25.6       29.5         ..
Servics 1.6714                                       1.1    4.7    3.7    2.7      0.1      ..        11.1       52.1
ConsuNption                          17,224          1.3    2.0    2.2    2.5      0.0   -2.4         83.1       33.8        32.6
Gross Investnt                        5.93t          3.6   13.a    4.0    5.4   -22.1  -11.2          27.0       29.0        22.3
Exports of UPS                        3.513         27.3    6.1  -2.4    6.0    i6.7   15.1           26.2       31.1       23.8
umports oP  FS                      *.162          10.6   11.4    5.5    5.4    -6.1   -3.6          46.5       44.3       41.3
Gross Nationl Savings                               33.1    0.6  -11.1   -1.4    4.4   -9.3           22.1       21.3        21.1
Prics
Dato of Inflation (Consumer Price Index)          24.2  16.6   20.0   22.4   25.5   27.1 C/
Exchanog  Date                                    43.92  50.06  61.55  79.47  110.71  144.57
UEAI*SDISI TEASE                                   Annual GrowthDates a        tant Prices       As P*ect of Total
leort.                                               52.t   LQ    Li.h    LA      Z*        ..    JMJ1  1lo  1JEL
Food                                              16.9   8.7    4.6    4.4   -10.2        ..     11.0    3.2   14.6
Other Cenu_r Goods                                 4.1   10.9    1.7    6.7    -2.1       ..      9.3    5.1   11.1
Petroles Products                                 15.2   2.5   -7.7   14.7   -5.4         ..      9.6   26.3   27.3
Intermediate Goods                                 3.3   10.9    0.0    2.6   -5.5        ..    41.5   37.5   21.1
Captal Goods                                       3.6   11.0   16.0    4.      -.        ..     2.6   22.    25.4
Exports                                             2Le 21. L2E   I                         ..   looE0 JUL.! JlDOO
Agriculture and Food                              11.2  -1.0   -8.8    7.0    17.2        ..    20.9   1.1   11.6
Wood. Cork. Ptaer and Pulp                        23.2   17.3  -6.8    6.4    13.1        ..    16.1   17.7   13.4
Textiles and Clothing                             Z6.2  -4.0    4.1   16.9    12.6        ..    26.4   25.2   25.4
retroleum Products                                33.6  50.0   10.0   23.3    40.3        ..       ..    6.3    9.0
Othe Itnufactures                                        13.0  -5.2   16.3    21.5        .      3 - 6.7   38.m   37.6
.eZrn"aimrsr mi T U OIDICFS                                        1970 = 100
Expert Pric  Inde                                323.2  467.5  529.7  617.1   732.5
Illert Price Index                               452.7  576.6  700.6  21.9 1.059.4
TeM  or Trade Index                               84.4  80.8   75.6   75.1    72.9
Current Pries lR11lion Esudosi             s Peremet ef      at aret Pries
BSZLULE                                                                                            1979  ns    iii 11      1J
Current Ueipts                                   264.2  261.9  466.4  616.0   628.5  906.5       26.6   29.2   33.0   22.3  36.6
Current Expenditures                             302.2  404.2  556.1  708.9  914.0  1016.1       30.4   32.7   27.3  28.2  29.9
Ctrrent Surplus/Deficit  o- f oP the State       -17.9  -42.3  -49.7  -90.9   -75.5  -107.7      -3.6   -3.4   -4.7   -4.9   -3.3
Capital Expenditures (Net)                        42.7  64.1   79.3   95.3   111.4  111.6         4.2    5.2    5.4    S.1    4.9
Net Financin  Dequirements                        80.6  106.4  149.0  186.2   186.9  219.2        3.1    3.6   10.1   10.0    3.2
Financing leads                                   97.1  118.S  171.7  220.0  226.4       ..       9.3    9.6   11.7   11.8    9.9
Debt Anrtlzation                                 -16.5  -12.1  -22.7  -33.8   -39.5       ..     -1.7   -1.0   -1.5   -1.8   -1.7
.*ULESL                                   TOTAL LAME FORCE d/
In Thnusandk                         P. ftrennt af Tota1                      Annual
Gt nt
4197    40      13    41       -I3  at        1979  45    411i 4          1        at     I BU
Agriculture             1.189   1.082   1.027      993     914         30.4   27.2  26.0  25.    22.7              -4.1
Industry                1.364   1,443   1.45   1.472   1.374          34.9   36.4  26.   37.3   34.1               32.
Services                1.3S6   1.426   1.466   1.479   1.737          34.7  26.2  27.2  37.4   43.2                 2.7
Total                 2.911   3s96?   3.942   3.949   4.025         100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0              0.9
A/  At market prices. Far 1979 tt. growth of sectoral comonents is expressed at factor costs.
k/ Estimtes.
ut Date reflecting evolution between September 1982/September 1984.
j/ Total eeloyed labor force excluding workers abroad and uneuloyed.
g/ Figures Pr. now survey, not comarable with rarlier years due to mthodological differences.
INot available.
March 12 196S
(0406. v. 3-41



- 25-                                                         eamu. z
Page 5 of I
(Awonts In MIlIeIs of US Dollar at Currant Mces)
IWorts (F.0B..)                  232    2556   4575   4U   41sin    457n    5I6
JagitS (F.o.I.)                  Am2   mu13   m2u    mu D      m31 l   51 ml z2
Trade than  M-)                 -246B  -2432  -4215  -515  -4812  -3256  -22Z
let len-Factor Services         275    541    IU      421    177    121    Ile
Tourim  welipts (Cro131       12       1=   L      L14 uAI 124 51IS   AII   Lj
ResOurce Mlance                 -2112  -2091  -1342   -4764  -46i6  -2722  -1176
at Snvztestnt Income a           -229   -437   -S12   -975  -1269  -1056  -12am
let Tu,sfmrs V/                  1621   247u   SIll   ZU7   26<0   2171   2196
mla4  on Current Account                                             -I= i2 ne aunt  4331  de  5
Dlrect ForeeOn Investmnt           56     19    126    144    120    112
Ehengs In OffiCial Liquid
Freign Fxchange Reserwes
(- * Increus)                -1I3    -68    120    164    162    601
Official Sleeves
crers End of Year St           5672  12262  14376   9673  10146   6244
Ofr  ech:  Gold                5361  11331  11583   9144   6<91   7954
Foreign Exchange    671    931    751    467    292    365
Official Cants and Grant-l1ike      -      -       -      -       -      -          Total ILT Debt Outstand-
tin and Disbursed -
Public MaLT Loans                                                                     Public Debt Oily            "90  5426  6576  7399 un       9s
MmIIID                          131    143    134    120         -   24       .   Intest -  Public Debt          153   229   479   619   910   "41
MDA                               -       -      -      -       -      -          R.peents  en Fublic Debt   26<   435   554   764   799  161
Other Iultlaterai               112      64    167   1II    5SS    210            Total Public Oebt Service    427   764  1612  1613  176  1651
Goverumits                      913    257   i1       174      27    444
Suepliers                        6       IS    12     166    s6       16
Public Debt Service btlo j/ 3.2  10.6  16.7  17.1  2.4  2Z. 4
Financial Markets               795   1121   1237   2373   14D0   1182
Public Laws n.e.t.
Total Public 9LtT Loans                                                             Average Tem  of Public
Debt (Grant flmnt)          4.6  -5.7  -5.3 -1S.6  -6.9  -2.9
khttatstsIna an lambrll1 1963                Intest on Public let    9.6  11.4  11.4  12.6  11.6  19.4
alluLsIm                      ~~~~~~~~LUM-lblt1           Pern
a                                              "25                 2.4             lrtiztion as   Prier
IDA                                             -                    -              Year Public OM1               11.6  11.1  16.2  11.9  10.1  11.1
Other ge,tilateral                           lse                   9.6           2am  Obt Omutanding
Goversnmets (Bilateral Loans)                 1526                 13.9             and Disbursed                 35.1  6<.6 169.4 132.4 164.7 219.5
SuPpliers  Credits                             273                  2z.S           S  0050 as S Public Oebt
Firmcial Institutions                        664                  62.4              Outstanding Md Disbursed    6.9   1.2   1.7   1.6   2.6   2.6
Total Public Uld Publicly Guaranted Debt  JIM                    ..LI             1M  Debt Service a S
Total Public md Private ISIT Debt  1/ iWS6                         100.0              Public Debt Service            1.7   1.7   1.5   1.6   2.4   2.6
Uort-teru Debt (Estiated) s/                  339B
Largely interest paymfnts.
11/ Largely workers' raittances.
c/ Gold valued at the end of Period Lendon  aret  Price, and Special Drawng Eights.
d/ Debt sWrvic  as a ratio of earnings frem exaerts, non-factor services and  lters' r_ttantes (an mdiu- and long-ter  debt only).
SI Estiate fer public debt and publicly guarcnted debt based on Treasury dta processed by the World Eank Debt Reportine Systs.
V  Source:  lank of Portugal, Includes private non-guranteed debt (not included In OIS).
s/ Source: ln* of Portugal.
b/ Estiates.
1/ Debt service on Public adieu- erA lone-tern debt only.  If private debt service *nd interest on short-tern debt are included, the ratio would
be 34 in 1984.
r   ot available.
Europe. Middle East and north Africa Oegion
March 12. 196S
(346G. P. S a 6)



- 26 -
ANNEX Ir
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
($ million)
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS l/ (as oE September 30, 1984)
Loan                                                     Amount (less cancellations)
No.  Year     Borrower                 Purpose              Bank       Undisbursed
Six loans for power development, one each for
industrial finance, transportation and industry
fully disbursed                                       229.4           -
1334 1977 Republic of Portugal      Highways
1541 1978 Republic of Portugal      Water Supply            40.0           14.5
1559 1978 Republic of Portugal      Education I             21.0            9.1
1603 1978 Republic of Portugal      Agricultural Credit    15.0            11.1
1700 1979 Republic of Portugal      Highways II             40.0           24.5
1701 1979 Republic of Portugal      Small and Medium
Industry (SKI) I       45.0          10.1
1793 1980 Republic of Portugal      Education II            40.0           33.0
1853 1980 Republic of Portugal      Forestry                50.0           36.1
1874 1980 COMETNA                   Mechanical Industry    25.8             4.7
1942 1981Banco de Fomento Nacional Development Finance   100.0             68.2
2024 1981 PETROGAL                  Petroleum Exploration  20.0             5.5
2168 1982 Republic of Portugal      Industrial Energy
Conservation           30.0          29.6
2175 1982 Republic of Portugal      Tras-os-Montes Rural
Development            51.0          50.6
2240 1983 Electricidade de
Portugal, EdP            Power VII              126.4           98.2
2263 1983 Republic of Portugal      SKI II                  40.3           38.2
TOTAL 2/                                         873.9          433.4
of which has been repaid                        151.8
TOTAL now outstanding                            722.1
Amount sold                         2.6
of which has been repaid           2.5            0.1
TOTAL now held by Bank 3/                        722.0
TOTAL undisbursed                                               433.4
1/ The status of projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/ Excludes three loans approved in FY84 : $34.7 million for the Textiles
Industry Restructuring Project, $30.5 million for the Manpower Training and
Development Project (both signed November 29, 1984) and $7.4 million for the
Agricultural Services Project (not yet signed). The loan for the Manpower
Training and Development Project became effective on March 7, 1985.
3/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



-27-                             ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1984)
Year        Obligor              Type of Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1981 SPI Sociedade Portuguesa   Development Finance   10.0       1.0     11.0
de Investimentos, SARL      Company
1983 Sociedade Portuguesa de    Money and Capital         -      0.3      0.3
Locagao Financiera, SARL   Market
Tourism                                             0.9     _        0.9
TOTAL Gross Commitments 1/                      9.1     1.3     10.4
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments, Sales
TOTAL Commitments now held by IFC              10.0     1.3     11.3
TOTAL Undisbursed                                -
1/   Does not include an investment loan oE $2.0 million for the Soltejo Hotel
project or a second investment loan of $12.0m and equity contribution of
$0.4m to Sociedade Portuguesa de Loca,ao Financeira which were approved in
FY84 but are not yet signed.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PORTUGAL
Coal Handling Port Project
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section 1: Timetable of Mey Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare
the project                                 3 years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:          GAS and consultants
(c)  Date of first presentation to the           February 1983
Bank; date of first Bank mission            July 1983
to consider the project:
(d)  Date of negotiations:                       February/March 1985
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness:              September 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III:  Specia  jonditionb
1.        Conditions of effectiveness:
(a) Increases on current port charges for the use of the existing port
facilities at Sines be implemented (paras. 57 and 71).
2.        Other Conditions:
(a) The assignment of the debt associated with the Bank loan related to
the coal port assets would be made no later than June 30, 1989,
under a subsidiary agreement, to be entered into by December 31,
1985, between the Government, GAS and APS, satisfactory to the Bank
(para 51);
(b)  New coal port facility and associated debt would be transferred to
APS not later than June 30, 1989 (para 54);
(c) Existing port assets, together with a settlement of responsibility
for the related debt, would be transferred to APS not later than
December 31, 1986 (para 56);



- 29 -                          ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) User charges for the oil port would be established by December 31,
1986 and maintained thereafter at a level sufficient to cover at
least the debt service related to these assets (para 58);
(e) APS tariffs would be adjusted, not later than June 30, 1986, to
allow APS to cover the full cost of its assets and contribute 10
percent to the cost of the coal port facility, plus the debt
service related to the suppliers credits for the coal handling
equipment; starting December 31, 1989, APS tariffs would be set to
ensure a rate of return to APS on the coal port separately and on
all APS port assets of not less than 7.5 percent respectively (para
58); and
(f) User charges for the temporary coal handling facility would be -
established, satisfactory to the Bank, no later than March 31, 1986
and adjusted periodically to reflect the cost of providing these
facilities to EDP (para 59).
r



1%
o         ..       .   ...
a      :     -      :-..........                                                     ..... -::::---X N , -: :--::- ..    ....       ---:
..........~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a..
w.-------^                                                                                                                2 _.-.-. ..-......
.........
s.,,...:.  -::(::-......  e:::::::::z:w                                                          -----\-S::-:: ::::::  :::::..  .........  . ...........    ........   ..........  
'                                                                                                                                   ..-----........  .........  ...
SS*->c ....e.    ':::: ::-::s::::-:-w..........................        ......... 
;  -.- . ----- ------i^ .                                    . . . . . . . - . r    -:::-::: -- - --e :::::::--  -:
) -:-:-:-:-:-.S:::--*                                              -Y    ---.-.-:.-........    -:.:..:.:..  ...............\ 
. .-.-. ,,-,@, ........~~~~.                                            . . . . . . . . . . .               .    . . . . .J- ; ....... L----------- *---------- -
w :: :':_::o-~~~~~.                                    :; fg.. . . . .    . -. : :-.-. -.   -:.:. :. . . . . . . . . ..: . . . .   .-.-.-.-.....
Li: \ (  4: t: ::: :  :i:::::::;!-::--:S ,...              ............         ..........                          ......................
UC L 
,, F  uo                                                                                             ro   
'.....   I      L                             ,,  .          .          .     . ,         .         i. ....I.I
En ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ -
U. ui                                                                     CB~a  .   C   a 
0  0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~-IL0                                                                                                -
-~ s                                                                                                                        - ,4,  
z
0~~~00
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 e                                                                                         O
'   t                                                            o                                                                  v                           ..~~CO  i



ntiarniional Boundarie.
.390
39.-
OCEAN                                                                                           r                   M toeo'
L~~~
PROJECT          FISCAL YEAR APPROVED
* Electric Power I                96 
* Electric Power II              1964                                                                                          KILOMETERS
*Corregado I Power               1965                                                                                     unm  w eupwd~
*Carrapatelo I Power              1966               .T-.-. *  P,    b
*Corregado It Power              1966                                                  9iiue                               w to caww   ff
*Power M1                         1976            /                                                                        rmd.s NW w Mc5 J' for
*Highways I           *1977                                        /', ' . :\                                                          #; SrW*
*Development Finance (BFN I)*    1977      Sine                                                                   j "f dmowA
Lisbon Region Water Supply      1978                                                          erpa         To Se villa         'U C      M       3Td-
Education 1                     1978                                                                         se villa                            350-'
*Agricultural and Fisheries Credit   1978                                                                                   W of Tn,  rAW ,t* &w  .
* Fertilizer Modernization        1979                                                                                     AVe u J
Highways IL                     1979                                                                                                  N .    ase
Small and Medium Scale Industry  1979                                                                                    embmua or  OF,   i of
Development I                                                                                                          such b u.x  Xz
Education 3l                    1980
Forestry                        1980       ODEMIRA
Mechanicat Industries           1980                                                                           ArL ANTI'1C fOCEZANJ      FRANCE
Development Finance (BFN ]I)*   1981
Petroleum Exploration           1981
Industrial Energy and Conservation* 1982                                                                                                -nx 
Tras os-Montes Rural Development 1982         /1                                                                                     ANDORRA
Power Va                        1983          /_
Small and Medium Scale Industry  1983                                        (  
Development II*
Textile Industry Restructuring*  1984                                                               oSeiriio 
Manpower Training and Development 1984                                                                                0
Agricultural Services           1984
g  _ s~~~- z / - 2 <2 ibra~~~'ltor   . _ 
* Country wide    *Proects Completod                                                                                         MOROCCO   ALGERIA



420                                                           z                            j4
|        ~~~PORTUGAL                    4, STELO                                                         Ira <  v  l> ^ 
COAL HANDlING PORT PROJ.ECT                             Brogo        -                
iMAIN TRANSPORT NETWORK.'                              f    g/    
PORT PROJECT                       POaRT /  ^
(  Leixoes)       s/POCi, 
 ZI @EXISTING RAILWAYS\                               I/                           /          _4
EXPRESSWAYS                           > )t,    
--FIRST CLASS-                                      S E           
SECOND CLASS                  7        <X                            7 ;;                   ooor
-J       MAIN PORTS'.0,                         >/                /9      , wy                  )
i3    ~INTEANATIONJAL CAPITAL        iJ        Jtd                                    f 
i)   ~DISTRICT CAPITALS            /          (s      <gh_f
REGIONAL BOUNDARIES    F:  ^f  I
-~ *    ~I NTE RNATIONALr,                              
BOUNDARIES                  ,    -;/                                                                 4P
alEIRIA   4   \  g   CAStELO BRANC t>
7A  1  A           C                   9                  ', '    g       - _       .



*  oMadfid
-390
M&O                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~390-
~~~-1
|~~~~LBr O C-                                                                                                                         Af/ __  .   a,d-/\
Sines.,e                                                                     To S                                       380 
?  ~~ KILOMETERS6'                                                                                                         ATLANTIC  OCEANV
)   g j zOdeeira      
Ns map has be. prapa,.d by
h WNWi Bur*s gla\ exchanve1y
for the conerwenwa of fte
raders an Is excAjsA'e*, for fth
a*                             ' R1  F(SX A  L  G  A  R V                                                                                               N
c:   on b'vs aW do not _q*. an VW
ar 01 ofhe) World Oar* \M the
C       nati-Mon Frhanme Coiro.abo.ag
anypxr d ani VW/mthe l_Itatw                                                                                                                                                  as
of any terntiy or anry
Cntorset or acceptande of
s uchbo,m.1a' e,.                                   ,                                             *.......                                   OROCCO           ALGERIA






