ac       Of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Re1t Nob 5385
PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
CAQUETA RURAL SETTLEMENT PROJECT (PHASE II)
LOAN 1118-CO
December 26, 1984
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distributin and may be used by recipients oly in the performance of
their officil dues. Its eontents nmy not othrwise be dislosed without World Bank astoiation.



Currene,y
US$1   Pesos  flnO
Peso Col$ = US$0.01
Weights and Measures
Metric System
. meter (m)                  =      39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)                     0.62 miles
1 Hectare (ha)               =       2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km2)     =       0.386 square miles
1 kilogram (kg)              =       2.205 pounds
I ton (t)                    -   2,205.0 pounds
I liter (1)                  =       0.264 gallons
Abbreviations
CAJA AGRARIA          =  Agricultural Credit, Industrial and IMining Ban.k
CAMINOS VECINALES     = Rural Roads Agency
CECORA                =  Cooperative Development Center of Agrarian Reform
Ltd.
CIAT                  =  International Center for Tropical Agriculture
COOPERAGRO            = Agricultural Cooperative of Caqueta
HIMAT                 =  Colombian Institute for Hydrology, Meteorology and
Land Improvement
ICA                   =  Colombian Agricultural Research Institute
IDEMA                 = Agricultural Marketing Institute
INDERENA              =  Institute of Natural Resources
INCORA                =  Institute of Agrarian Reform
USAID                 =  United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
CAQUETA RURAL SETTLEMENT PROJECT (PHASE II)
(Loan 1118-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ...................i
Basic Data Sheet ...................ii
Highlights ............iii
I.  INTRODUCTION ......         .....................................         1
II. BACKGROUND .............. ..   1
III.  PROJECT FORMTULATION ....... ................. ...............             1
IV.  THE PROJECT .......................              .................        3
A.  Project Objectives and Description .................                 3
V .  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .....          .............................      4
A.  Key Events              ...........................................  4
B. Implementation Problems                      ... .    4
C.  Components             ...........................................   5
D.  Procurement .......         ...............................          9
E.  Project Costs and Financing              ..........................  9
F.  Disbursements ......          ..................................    10
G.  Compliance with Loan Covenants .......................   10
VI.  AGRICULTURAL AND ECONOMIC IMPACT ..... ............                      it
A.  Agricultural Impact ..................................   11
B. Environmental Impact of Project Settlement Process
on Soil Conservation ...............................   13
C.  Economnic Impact ......................................   14
VII.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE ................................   15
A.  INCORA ...............................................   15
B.  Other Implementing Agencies ..........................   15
VIII.  BANK PERFORMANCE ....................             .....................    16
IX.  THE PROJECT AND CIVIL DISORDER ...........................   16
K.  LESSONS LEARNED ....... ..............           .....................   17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONT'D)
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.  Allocation of Loan Funds .................................   19
2.  Revised Physical Targets                 ...... .. .... .. ....   20
3.  Amended Loan Agreement ...................................   21
4.  Project Cost .............*..............................   23
5.  Distribution of Farm Size, 1982  ...............*...e..*   24
6.  Economic Cash Flow ................. .......**..........c   25
7. Comments Received from the Colombian Agricultural Research
Institute ..............................  26
8.  Comments Received from the Borrower's Rural Roads Agency .   27
9.  Comments Received from the Borrower's Institute of
Agrarian Reform ............................... .0...   28
MAP    IBRD 11000 (P.P.A.)



COLOMBIA
CAQUETA- RURAL SETTLEMENT PROJECT (PHASE II)
(Loan 1118-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Preface
The loan, US$19.5 million, was approved by the Board on May 22,
1975, signed 3n June 2, 1975, and became effective on April 1, 1976. The
original Closing Date was expected to be October 31, 1979, but was ultimately
extended to December 31, 1982. The final disbursement was made on June 1,
1983, at which time US$1.0 million was also cancelled.
The Project Completion Report (PCR) was prepared by the Bank's
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. Because of civil disorders
in Colombia it was not possible to visit the project area during preparation
of the report. Data sources for this report were the Staff Appraisal Report,
the President's Report, the Loan Agreement, the Project Completion Report
prepared by INCORA (Institute of Agrarian Reform), Bank supervision reports,
correspondence with the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda on project
issues as contained in relevant Bank files.
A copy of the draft report was sent to the Borrower on September
11, 1984. Comments received from the Colombian Agricultural Research
Institute and the Borrower's Rural Roads Agency and Institute of Agrarian
Reform are in Annexes 7-9 respectively.
This project has not been subjected to an audit by OED.



CWLMiIA
CACtUErA mueAL SETTLDENTf FDJKT CP44SE Ii)
(Lou't 115E 18-COtD11
asic Doat sheet
Appraisal                Actual or                  Ac-tua as S ot
Key Project Dat                        Estimate              Estimte  Acua               Aoaraisal Estl_tA
Total Project Costs (toSS *111  .)             37.1                    40.4                           t09
Lam  Amount (l55l m I llon.                    19.5                    19iL                           100
- DisburSed                                    -                      18.5
- Cancel d                                     -                        .0                            -
Dat Board lovaI                                 -                     05r22zn5 
Vat. of Etftctlnnss                        1002/75                   04101/76 
Closing Date                                10/31/79                  12131/2
Econmic Rat ot Return S                        15.6                        1                          ao
_mer of Direct BeticIarIes                    2.850 £19753              2.36 £19863                   82
Cumulatin Disbursemts                       FY15      ma      FY        FY73    FY79    Fle         F618     FY82     FT63
ADoralsal Estimate lUSl IIlIon)             0.4       2.0      6.0       9.0     13.0     19.5
Actual tUSS millIon)                                          53.        6.3      9.4     11.6      14.3     16.8     13.5
Actul as S at Estletas                                         6S        70S      72n      61S       73%      861      95%
Dat of Final disburseewnt - 06Z01/A3
Nehe of
Nemher ot      Itndays       Soecliailztloas      Pertfrmanc                 Types of
Mission Data             MannTlYer      of Parsons      In Field      Represented    I/  Reting       2X   Trnd 3t Problem  */
Identification (Forloe-a to C -alta I Project (Loan 739-C))
Pregaration               01I/75             2             10               n/a
ARoraIsal m/n4                              6           242.5           bttabr
Supervision I             07/75              5            15                bed                  1            2          FM
SUDaerlslon I1 ITIn5                         2            22                 be                 3             3          t
Supervislon III           01/76              2            19                 be                 I             1          FM
Supervision 1             09no               1            18s                 d                 2             1          FF
Suervlslon V              03/77              3            1i1               a"                  2             2          FF
Suaervlslon Vl            07/77              2             2                 _                  2            2           FF
Supervlsion Vil           09/77              1            12                                    2             2          w
Supervislon Viii          1 i7              1             1                  a                 d             2          FM
Supervision IX            03n6               2            24                 _                  Z             2          F
Supervision X             05/7e              1            10                  d                 2            2           0
Supervision Xl            09/78              2            20                 ad                 Z             2          IF
Supervlsion XII           O/79               5            15                n/a                 2            2           IF
Supervision Xlil          10/79              3            21                n/a                 2             2          MF
Supervlsion xIv           01/80              2            24                 nb                 2             2          0
Sunorvislon XV            04/80              I             3                  a                 2             2          PF
Supervision XVI           09/80              1             6                  b                 2            2           0
Su ervislon xvII          06/81              1             9                  b                 2            2           F
Super.lsIon Xl II         03/82              1             B                  b                 2            3           F
Subtotal                                               492.5
Other ProJect Damn
Borrowr: Governmnt of Colombia
Executing Agency: Institute of Agrarian Reform (iNORA)
Fiscal Yew: January 1 - December 31
Ns_ of Currency (Athrweiation): Peso tCol)S
Currency Exchange Rate:      USSI *
Aooralsal Yer Average:      USSI * ColS 25.7
Intervwning Yers Average:  USSI * ColS 44.5
Completion Year Average:    USSI - ColS 64.'
FPrevlous Project:
taet: Caquta Lend Colonizatli  Project
Loon imber: 759-CO
Loan Amunt CUSS mi lIon):  8 1
Data Board Aporoval: 05/04/71
Fol lo. On Project: None
I/  a * Agrlculturallst: b * Agrieultural Eronamist: c   Financial Poalyst: d * Forestr: a - Engineer; and   - Educatlon Exoert.
2/  I * Proble  tre or  Inor problem: 2 - Moderate Problems; and 3 * Mbjor Droblems.
/ 1 * Improvlng: 2 - Stationary: end 3 * Deteriorating.
y/  F . Financial; N * Managerlal: P - cPol ItIcal



- iii -
COLOMBIA
CAQUETA RURAL SETTLEMENT PROjECT (PHASE 11)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
(Loan 1118-GO)
Highlights
1.        The Project, a continuation of the Caqueta Land Colonization
Project, partially financed with Loan 739-CO, was intended to assist the
settlement of 2,850 farmers and to provide social and physical
infrastruccural support to many of the 12,000 settler families in the area.
The project was planned for a four-year period and consisted oE: on-farm
development; long-term credit, mainly to purchase breeding cattle; credit for
fattening cattle; road construction and complementary works; forestry and
erosion control; education and health programs; technical assistance to
farmers; and strengthening of project administration.
2.        The Project experienced delays in implementation.  There was a
six-month delay in effectiveness because of a lengthy dialogue between the
Bank and the Government on subsidized interest rates. ln addition, the
jurisdictions of Government institutions responsible for onlending to small
livestock producers changed, contributing to the delay.
3.        There were further delays due to the Government's periodic late and
inadequate funding of INCORA. The budget constraints imposed on INCORA, the
principle implementing agency, extended the time needed to implement the
project from four to seven years. Delays were also encountered due to civil
disorder in the project area.
4.        Most physical targets were accomplished in spite of increases in
the cost of materials and labor (para. 5.29), and a higher than expected rate
of inflation. In spite of increasing farmer demand, there was a 13%
shortfall in the long-term loan targets envisioned at appraisal because of
lack of funding by the borrower, and increases in the price of cattle.  The
road program, begun in Phase I, was completed and much of the road
maintenance carried out. The social infrastructure was expanded, building on
the base of Phase I. Programs for the construction of health facilities,
schools, and water and sewage were completed almost as targeted.
5.        The one component not implemented satisfactorily was research on
reforestation and soil erosion control. This critical component was the
victim of a lack of adapted technology and poor administration by the
implementing agency, INDERENA.
6.        The project's economic rate of return has been reestimated at 11%.



- iv-
7.        Both Phase I and Phase II have accomplished a great deal
considering the chaotic and spontaneous efforts of migrants who are opening
up the Amazon basin. The implementation problems, which arose partly from
these conditions, and the lessons that have emerged, have led to more
comp-ehensive solutions including improved technologies, which could have a
spin off to future projects in areas of spontaneous settlement.
8.        Some of the lessons learned from Phase II are specific to the
Caqueta Project and should be applied during subsequent investments in the
area. Other lessons can be generalized to settlement projects in general.
These lessons are summarized below, and described in greater detail in
Chapter X.
(a) The Caqueta Rural Settlement Project, Phase II, has demonstrated
the type of physical and social infrastructure needed to support a
spontaneous land settlement in Colombia's Amazon basin. It has
also defined the financial requirements needed to establish a
cattle-based farnsng system (para. 10.02);
(b) The road system begun in Phase I and continued in Phase II was
essential to improve farm production and is likely to be an
essential component of future projects (para. 10.03);
(c) Requiring lega'l title to land as a prerequisite for long-term
production loans is desirable. The settlers' sense of a secure
land title contributed to a more responsible approach to the use
and repayment of credit (para. 10.04);
(d) The baseline requirements to be eligible for loans seem to have
been a useful indicator of settlers' commitments to improving
technology and repaying debts (para. 10.05);
(e) The implementacion period for settlement projects is necessarily
longer than for other kinds of agricultural development projects,
especially during the start-up period when the institutional,
physical and social infrastructure is rudimentary and cannot be
depended upon (para. 10.06);
(f) Generally, Bank experience with tropical cattle production
involving the removal of forest cover and the establishment of
improved pastures has been negative resulting in pasture
abandonement and low rates of return. Nevertheless, data available
and enpcrience from this particular project and from Phase I
(05/04/71) indicates with the technology utilized for converting
the forested savannah to grasslands and the management practices,
including chemical weed control, provided by existing settlers, at
least some of the cleared areas are being protected and
productivity mairtained with use of some chemical fertilizer.
Also, pasture abanoonement in the project area has not been
experienced. However, because of the diversity of soils and
topography in Colombia's Amazon Basin, we cannot generalize the



v
experience and the search for technologies for a rational
utilization of tropical lands must continue. Further, since the
project areas, both in Phase I and II, excluded the piedmont of the
Andes and areas of lighter soils on the hills, the above experience
relates only to a relatively flat plains lying between the piedmont
of the Andes and the Orteguaza river. It is important that future
projects in this area incorporate existing technologies for
conservation of all slopes and river banks and not await the
outcome of long-term project-sponsored research. If the forests
are cleared from such sites, heavy rainfall will cause changes to
the quantities and periodicity of surface water runoff being
discharged into rivers, creating over the Amazon Basin a twin
potential threat of floods alternating with water shortages; and
(g) It is difficult to apply a rigorous assessment concerning certain
aspects of a settlement project like Caqueta Rural settlement,
Phase II. Two important aspects, the lack of malaria control and
loss of valuable wood during clearing, could not be incorporated in
the cost stream for lack of reliable data and clear guidelines for
such analysis. It would be useful if future settlement projects in
this area could consider these aspects.



COLOMBIA
CAQUETA RURAL SETTELMENT PROJECT (PHASE II)
(Loan 1118-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      At the time of appraisal in 1974, there were about 1.5 million
families engaged in agriculture in Colombia, representing 43Z of the
economically active rural population. Of these rural families, an estimated
200,000 were landless. Rural income was estimated at about US$210 per
capita per annum.
1.02      To improve rural productivity in the Department of Caqueta, the
Government, through its Institute of Agrarian Reform (INCORA), requested a
Bank loan to assist in the financing of the second stage ("Phase II") of the
Caqueta Land Colonization Project.
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      The same areas were covered in Phase II as in Phase I.  The land
covered was a strip 70 to 100 km wide in the Caqueta intendencia in southern
Colombia, which includes the foothills of the Andean Cordillera with
Florencia as administrative center, and the lowlands which extend southeast
toward the Amazon basin, between the Caqueta River in the south and the
Caguan River in the northeast (Map 11000). The total area amounted to
1.2 million ha.
2.02      A Bank mission, which visited Colombia in 1967 to review INCORA's
activities in rural development, identified rhase I (Ln. 739-CO) of the
Caqueta Land Colonization Project. A loan amounting to US$8.1 million for
Phase I was approved by the Bank on May 4, 1971. The Project Completion
Report for Phase I is dated June 30, 1978 and available in LAC files.
Phase I had the following effects on Phase II: (a) The INCORA project
concept was firmly established by the time of Phase II; (b) experienced
technical and financial staff were assigned to the project; and (c) limited
social and road infrastructure was in place.
III. PROJECT FORMULATION
3.01      A Bank mission visited Colombia on August 16, 1973 to supervise
Phase I (Ln. 739-CO), the Caqueta Land Colonization Project; it also reviewed
the preparation of the Phase II Project. The mission recommended that due to
poor analysis by the contracted consultants, further preparation should be
carried ouit by INCORA. Appraisal began on January 21, 1974 and the Board
approved the loan on May 22, 1975. Four issues were identified during
appraisal and presented in the issues paper as follows:
(a) the need to increase the loan size from US$10 million to US$19
million. This was thought necessary because: (i) the project's
life had to be extended from three to four years to complete roads
begun in Phase I; (ii) there were increased construction costs; and
(iii) costs were subject to higher inflation rates than expected;



-2-
(b) the suitability of INCORA as an implementing agency was in question
at appraisal, but the mission decided to continue with INCORA
mainly for the following reasons: (i) INCORA was the only
institution with sufficient experience in agricultural development
projects (45 projects by the time of appraisal); (ii) and INCORA's
loan processing costs had decreased from 30% of year-end portfolio
to 9.5Z during the years 1964-1973;
(c) the justification for a subsidized interest rate. The following
supporting reasons and recommendations were given by the appraisal
mission: (i) the mission viewed the project as having a strong
social justification since it prevented rural migration to urban
areas; (ii) there was little danger of loan funds being misused as
about 80% of subloans were in kind for cattle; and (iii) the rate
of interest recommended by the appraisal mission was 12-14% with
capitalization of interest during the grace period, which was 2%
points lower than loans to large farmers in the project area. The
Government and the Bank agreed to review the rate of interest
should the Government decide to change the then existing interest
rate regulations affecting agriculture; and
(d)  the technical assistance during Phase I was judged inadequate by
the appraisal mission for the following reasons: (i) settlers in
Phase I improved production per unit of area less than expected;
(ii) there was a need to improve pasture management to avoid
over-grazing; and (iii) the ratio of veterinarians to cattle needed
to be increased. In order to assure the improved technical
assistance in Phase II the Bank would disburse against
project-related technical assistance expenditures including
salaries.
3.02      During project processing, three further potential problems were
identified:
(a) the immediate need to establish forest reserves, to be funded
retroactively;
(b) the potential for considerable erosion in the foothills and lighter
soils of the Andean Cordillera; and
(c) the road conostruction and maintenance component was seen to be a
problem i' a satisfactory contract could not be worked out by
IN'COA with CAMINOS VECINALES, the Government agency in charge of
rural ro:ads construction.
3.03      During Board Presentation on May 22, 1975, concern was expressed by
Executive Direccors that:
(a) iNCURA was to supervise a complex project involving many Government
agencies when its own organizational structure was in question;



-3-
(b) Phase II might be designed to cover a cost overrun from Phase I,
especially in regard to the roads component;
(c)  the colonization of marginal land might relieve the Covernment from
dealing with needed land reforms in more productive areas; and
(d)  Phase II nad a lower rate of return (13.8%) than Phase 1 (17%).
IV. THE PROJECT
A.  Project Objectives and Description
4.01      The project continued the ongoing Caqueta Land Colonization
Project. It was intended to assist directly the settlement of 2,850 farms
and indirectly to provide infrastructure to support the estimated 12,000
settler families in the area. The project, to be implemented over a four-
year period, included:
(a) clearing of forested land and establishment of pasture by settlers;
Cb) long-term credit, mainly for the purchase of breeding cattle and
for other basic farm investments;
(c) credit for purchasing feeder steers;
(d) road construction and maintenance works;
(e) forestry and erosion control;
(f) education and health programs; and
(g) technical assistance to farmers and strengthening of project
administration.
4.02      To enable the project to meet its objectives, it was planned to:
(a) provide long-term farm credits for about 2,850 settlers with
holdings of 30 to 200 ha. Cattle would make up about 80X of the
investment loan amount. Farmers receiving loans for the first time
were provided a maximum of 10-15 breeding cows and one bull. The
remaining 20% of the loan amount was to be for farm improvements;
(b) expand a cattle fattening program carried over from Phase I, using
short-term credit; 60% of the gross margin was to go to the farmer
and 40Z was to cover the cost of a marketing cooperative;
(c) include about 200 km of roads as a continuation of those started
under Phase I and to provide for complementary road works to
maintain about 1,000 km of road surfaces in areas of heavy
equipment use in frontier zones;



- 4.-
(d) construct about 30 primary schools of 150 m2 each and to provide
500 sets of teaching materials for schools built in Phase I;
(e) construct and equip 10 satellite health posts and two health
centers in the project area;
(f) establish a 20,000 ha forest reserve for adaptive research on
erosion control methods;
(g) provide technical assistance to farmers with less than 200 ha to
reduce over-grazing and improve farmer incomes; and
(h) support project administration costs by covering salaries of
INCORA's project manager and five secti-n chiefs, and headquarters
overhead and salaries of additional staff.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Key Events
5.01      The project became effective on April 1, 1976 after a six-month
delay. The expected Closing Date was October 31, 1979, but it was ultimately
extended to December 31, 1982. The extensions of the Closing Date were
necessitated by slow project implementation, particularly of those components
dependent on counterpart funds. Two reallocations of loan funds occurred,
the first on November 29, 1977 from Category 8 of the Loan Agreement to
Uategory 3 (Road Construction), and the second on July 9, 1980 (Annex 1).
The second reallocation resulted in reprogramming of physical targets and
Amendments to the Loan Agreement (Annex 3).
B. Implementation Problems
5.02      The project suffered implementation problems from the beginning.
There were two main reasons:
(a) the lack of timely and adequate financial support; and
(b) institutional weaknesses of CAJA AGRARIA, the principal
agricultural bank in the country and ISDERENA, respcnsible for
forestry.
Financial Problems
5.03      The financial difficulties were caused by:
(a) insufficient budget contributions to INCORA; and



-5-
(b) delays (three to five months) for Bank disbursements to reach the
project passing through the national treasury.
Several Bank missions proposed a revolving fund and the idea was accepted by
Government officials. However, the Government did not appropriate
counterpart funds requested by the Bank to establish this fund. Repeated
efforts to have the monthly budget installments changed to a trimester
appropriation were unsuccessful.
5.04      According to staff members who visited the project, one reason for
the lack of financial support to the project may have been changes in
INCORA's administrative mandate, which resulted in less than a desirable
level of Government suxpport. The najor change occurred when an irrigation
agency, the Colombian Institute of Hydrology, Meteorology and Land
Improvement (HIMAT), was created leaving INCORA with land reform and
settlement as its principle focus and some of INCORA's better technicians
transferred to this newly created entity. INCORA thus had a less technical
focus and played a more controversial role in land reform. This trend away
from a technical development role concerned with irrigation and drainage to
land reform created the impression that INCORA was solely dedicated to social
reform issues. This impression limited the support of INCORA by some
legislators, especially on budgetary matters, and contributed to the
Government s inadequate financial support for the project. This has plagued
the institution ever since and affected all its activities.
Weak Institutional Capaci_y
5.05      Two Government agencies did not successfully carry out their
project components. The first was CAJA AGRARIA, which was supposed to give
financial and administrative support to the long-term credit program being
run by INCORA in the project area. Due to the lack of local administrative
support in the project area, CAJA AGRARIA did not give the timely service
needed to process loans submitted by INCORA field personnel, thus delaying
the implementation of this vital component.
5.06      The second agency to perform poorly was the Institute of Natural
Resources (INDERENA), responsible for the forestry and erosion control
component. According to supervision reports, the main problems stemmed from
lack of administrative support for INDERENA's project staff in the field, and
unavailability of technical packages to improve reforestation and the control
of soil erosion. In the letter stages of the project, INDERENA's efforts
were absorbed by INCORA and the Colombian Agricultur.l Research Institute
(ICA).
C. Components
Credit Prog.-
5.07      The Government's policy of putting CAJA AGRARIA in charge of
development loans to small farmers, instead of Fondo Ganadero as planned at
appraisal, caused this component's initial problem. A S;cbsidiary Agreement
between INCORA and CAJA AGRARIA, and a continuing dialogue between the Bank



6-
and the Government on subsidized interest rates for small farmers, delay-d
the effectiveness date. Late and reduced funding of the long-term credit
program, increasing prices of cattle, and CAJA AGRARIA's poor support for the
component resulted in a reduced number of loans (2,326) to project
beneficiaries by project completion, compared to the appraisal target of
2,850 loans. The total amount loaned was Col$ 481,700,000, compared to
Col$ 556,300,000, a 13% shortfall from appraisal estimates; 81% of this total
was for the purchase of 30,540 cows, 2,121 bulls, 938 work animals, and 19%
was spent on complementary farm works, fences and veterinary products.
Repayment of Long-term Credit
5.08      Information from Bank supervision missions indicates that, by 1982,
about 50% of Phase I long-term loans had been repaid from a total of 1,907
subloans. By the same time, about 11% of Phase II loans had been repaid.
Recent Bank missions report some loan recipients are paying back their loans
in advance. However, there have been negative effects on loan repayments due
to the civil disorder, particularly from those loan recipients who live in
remote areas.
Short-term Cattle Fattening Loans
5.09      Few of these loans were implemented due to the bankruptcy of the
implementing cooperative, Agricultural Cooperative of Caqueta (COOPERAGRO).
The mismanagement of this cooperative by the Cooperative Development Center
of Agrarian Reform (CECORA) and conflict with INCORA over this mismanagemenc
forced the eventual reduction of the short-term loan component from its
original target of & J subloans to 37 loans by project completion. This
short-term credit had been highly effective in Phase I and allowee, when
properly managed, for project beneficiaries to reach economic independence
earlier than predicted at appraisal.
Road Construction
5.10      Of the 2C' kms of roads estimated to be necessary at appraisal,
192.9 kms were completed. However, there were delays in implementation.
These delays were due to four main reasons: (a) selection of contractors
with insufficient experience in rmad building under project area conditions;
(b) poor cost calculations by selected contractors at the bidding stage; (c)
the Government substituted roads with A higher national priority for those
included in the project at appraisal; and (d) civil disorder towards the end
of the project limited the work of both road contractors and bridge builders.
5.11      Road Maintenance.  The appraisal estimates called for 1,000 km of
road maintenance; 1,050 km of road maintenance had been carried out by
project completion. This component depended upon heavy equipment purchased
with funds from the loan under international competitive bidding and imported
into Colombia. The imports were delayed by INCORA's lack of local funds to
pay customs fees at the port of entry. Subsequent poor relations between
CAMINOS VECINALES and INCORA and the turn-over of the heavy equipment
contributed to delays in road maintenance in the project area. CAMINOS
VECINALES had insufficient operational budget to carry out a full program of
road maintenance in the project area. Toward the end of the project period,
internal security limited road maintenance.



-7-
5.12      The maintenance of project roads was important especially during
the early stages of development, wben much heavy equipment was being moved
into frontier areas, damaging road surfaces in the process. It was decided
at appraisal that it was important for extra investments to be made in
maintenance in order that, at project completion, roads could be turned over
to local authorities in an easily maintainable state.
Social Infrastructure
5.13      Education.  The school construction program was originally planned
to include 30 schools.  By project completion, 27 had been built.  This
increased the number of available classrooms in the project area by 57 for a
potential of 2,052 additional students at 36 students per classroom. To
improve the education infrastructure from Phase I, in which teaching
materials had been lacking, Phase II provided 500 sets of teaching materials
and 60 courses for adults. About 100 school libraries were also established.
5.14      Health Programs.  The two proposed health centers and eight of the
ten proposed satellite health posts were built. Implementation of this
component was delayed constantly due to problems with counterpart funding.
However, the staffing and services rendered by these facilities were
considered good by beneficiaries.
5.15      Anti-malaria Program.  Some protection from Malaria was afforded
about 534,000 residents of the project area by the spraying of 102,000 houses
with 54 tons of baygon. The annual cost per home was between US$15 and US$20
and the cost of application increased over the life of the project. However,
during interviews with farmers, in the course of the project completion
survey, it became apparent that 95% of the population sampled were still
suffering from various degrees of debilitation from this disease. The
effectiveness of similar control measures should be addressed in any future
project activity in this area.
5.16      Construction of Administration Buildings.  The construction of the
planned administrative buildings was carried out except in the case of
Solano, where security problems would not permit construction. However,
substitution and maintenance of the administrative building in Florencia for
the building in Solano allowed for complete disbursement in this category.
The least successful construction involved the building of storage,
marketing, and input distribution centers which were abandoned before
completion of the project due to poor managu-nt by CECORA.  Tne civil works
for buildings associated with the forestry component were not begun because
of a poor working relationship between INDERENA and INCORA.
5.17      Water and Sewerage Facilities.  This was one of the most difficult
civil works items in the project, as it depended on 50% counterpart funds
whose allocation was delayed. Water facilities were developed for 6,600
settlers, or about 70% of the intended target. The sewage development was
mainly associated with school construction, and benefited 548 students.
5.18      Research and Technical Assistance.  The results from Phase I's
agricultural production indicated that farmers with less than 200 ha needed



-8-
continuing technical assistance to maintain productivity and prevent soil
erosion on the newly established pastures. ICA's technicians from the
Macagual station near Florencia provided a source of information and grass
seed for pasture improvements. The improved species of pasture grass, plus
recommended stocking rates developed at this station helped the small farmers
maintain productivity in newly cleared areas. Stocking rates improved, from
0.b head per ha at project initiation to an average of 1.2 head per ha at
completien, and also provided for control of soil erosion. Extension agents
from both ICA and INCUOA helped with this transfer of technology.  However,
their effectiveness has been limited in the last two years by budgetary
constraints and local civil disorders.
5.19      Forestry and Erosion Control.  This component was intended to
provide a program of applied forestry research and the establishment of an
experimental forestry reserve in the project area. The component was only
partly implemented due to INDERENA's lack of administrative support to its
area technicians. While, in fact, INDERENA abandoned these activities, ICA
and INCURA assured their continuation. The ICA and INCORA program was
reviewed by the Bank in 1982 and new sources of funding were established to
support the program. The new program envisaged: (a) experimentation to
determine the species of trees best suited to contain erosion in river banks;
(b) conservation programs and extension services; and (c) planting about
15U ha with trees.
Project Administration
5.20      The project's administration expanded from three administrative
centers to five, in line with planned decentralization. Visiting Bank
missions considered the performance of staff in these isolated
project posts to be good. The remote location of some project beneficiaries
caused extra hardships for project personnel who had to travel on horseback
and be boarded by local residents. Hardship bonuses were successful in
improving the performance of isolated technicians and staff, as was INCORA's
flexible policy on working hours. Leadership at the field level during the
earlier phases of the project was good and ensured a high level of commitment
by staff members. However, resources and travel became more precarious and
from 1981 on, effectiveness was reduced because of civil disorder and the
lack of funding.
Reporting and Auditing
5.21      There was one persistent auditing problem for the long-term credit
program; namely, the reconciliation of loan balances, cash account, and loan
portfolio balances between INCURA and CAJA AGRARIA.  This reconciliation was
carried out at the national level and there was never agreement with local
authorities. The Bank suggested that there be reconciliation at the project
level in order to identify errors before they were caught at the national
level. In 1979 and 1980, the Colombian Comptroller General disapproved of
the transfer of project investments to entities responsible for their future
maintenance. In 1982, the Bank suspended disbursements for all INCVRA
executed loans, for overall lack or compliance of the institution with a
number of covenants, especially the ones related to financial management and
accounting. This suspension was lifted in 1983 following the taking of
corrective actions by INCORA.



-9-
5.22      The Bank's records indicate late project reporting for 1982, when
most reports were two months behind schedule. Except for 1982, the reporting
was submitted on time and with acceptable detail.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.23      A monitoring unit was called for under Section 2.13 of the Project
Agreement.  In discussions with a March 1978 Bank mission, it was recommended
that INCORA receive funding for a consultant from other existing Bank loans.
The goal was to develop a work plan and methodology for a specialized unit
*      which would monitor all INCORA settlement programs.  Such a unit was formed
in 1979, and it began studies on Phase I beneficiaries. However, by
mid-1980, the effort was abandoned due to budget constraints. A subsequent
attempt to reorganize a monitoring unit in 1981 failed again. A lack of
funding was given as the reason.
5.24      Evaluation was carried out piecemeal by a centralized unit within
INCORA and contributions from the evaluation units of other cooperating
agencies involved in project implementation. The unfortunate results of this
approach to monitoring and evaluation resulted in an evaluation which lacked
clear guidelines and well-structured objectives.
D. Procurement
5.25      The construction of roads and the purchase of road construction
equipment was processed in accordance with Bank procedures for international
procurement. The only response from foreign suppliers was for the sale of
heavy equipment for building rcads. There were delays in obtaining some of
the equipment due to INCORA's lack of funds for paying port and customs
fees. International contractors were uninterested in road construction of
the limited scale and in such remote locations as in this project.
E. Project Costs and Financing
5.26      Initial project costs were estimated in 1974 at US$37.1 million of
which 22%, or US$8.1 million, would be foreign exchange. Actual project
costs were estimated at US$40.4 million (Annex 4). The Bank loan financed
US$18.5 million of these costs.
The cost estimates shown in US$ equivalents in Annex 4 have been arrived at
by using the weighted average exchange rate prevailing during the
implementation period of the project.
Increase in Project Costs
5.27      Three components had extensive cost overruns:  roads, health, and
project administration. In the roads component, the maintenance sub-
component accounted for the highest overrun, about 287% over the appraisal
estimate. This increase is partially due to increases in the price of labor
and materials during project implementation. In the health component, the
highest cost overrun occurred in the sub-components of malaria eradication
(344%) and sanitary engineering (386%). In the case of malaria eradication,
increases in the cost of chemicals and a more ambitious house spraying
campaign than anticipated during appraisal contributed to these increases.
Labor and price increases partly explained the increase over the appraisal



- 10 -
estimate for the sanitary engineering and water supply items. Project
administration accounted for a 195% increase over appraisal targets. This
inrease was in part due to salary increases to the personnel covered by the
loan. The cost overruns can be partially explained by increases in the cost
of labor or materials, but they were also a fu7 -tion of the inherent
difficulty at the time of appraisal to fully foresee the course of inflation
and changes in exchange rates.
5.28      The percentage of total project costs estimatee at appraisal to be
covered by the Bank loan was 53%, while 47% was to be paid with Government
funds. However, the final percentages were 46% for the Bank and 54% for the
borrower. This discrepancy can be partly attributed to the difficulty of
predicting inflation, and changes in exchange rates and relative prices.
F. Disbursements
5.29      The disbursement rate was lower than appraisal estimates (Basic
Data Sheet). There were two reallocations: the first, on November 29, 1977,
and the second, on July 9, 1980 (Annex 1). From 1979 to 1981 there were
improvements in disbursements due to increasing financial support from the
Government. However, after 1981 there was a slowdown in long-term loans and
project activity. This was partly due to the limitations on travel which
resulted from civil disorder and the lack of counterpart funds due to
restricted Government budgets. These factors continued to slow down
disbursements, and on June 1, 1983, the outstanding balance of US$1,000,687,
was cancelled.
G. Compliance with Loan Covenants
5.30      The Borrower failed to comply with two covenants and only partly
complied with five others; but one of the covenants not complied with was
later waived.
(a) The covenant not complied with was Section 3.01 of the Loan
Agreement, (para 5.03 of this report) which stated that sufficient
funds would be allocated to INCORA and appropriate agencies
involved in the project to meet the full cost of the project.
There was a continuing lack of sufficient and timely funds for the
project and uncertainty in the transfer of funds. This situation
improved for a short time in the second half of 1981, but
deteriorated again by the end of 1982.
(b) The covenants only partially complied with were as follows:
(i)   Loan Agreement, Section 2.13(a) established and maintained a
special unit for continuously monitoring progress of the
project and evaluating the project's effectiveness. The unit
was set up in 1979, but shortly afterwards was disbanded. Its
monitoring activities were adequate, but were limited by lack
of funding and civil disorders in the project area.



(ii)   Loan Agreement, Section 3.04(b):  Interest rates and
repayment schedules of long-term credit loans subject to
revision if the Government's regulation of credit to the
agricultural sector have been changed. The nominal lending
rates were increased on January 1, 1982, to 18% through
covenants of Agricultural Credit III Project (Loan 1737-CO);
(iii)   Loan Agreement, Section 4.01(b):  The project entities were
to set up separate project accounts and revise accounting
procedures. This improvement has now taken place under the
Cordoba II Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1163-CO)
with consultants provided to INCORA for this purpose; and
(iv)   Loan Agreement, Section 4.02(d):  All roads in project areas
were to be maintained and repaired, and all funds, equipment
and other resources were to be provided for that purpose.
Insufficient funds were made available to CAMINOS VECINALES
leading to some deterioration in project roads. These
allocations however, began increasing after 1982, but were
still insufficient.
(c) The covenant not complied with and later waived was: Loan
Agreement Section 2.07 which stated that: INCORA should employ
engineering consultants to assist in analyzing bids and supervising
road construction.
VI.  AGRICULTURAL AND ECONOMIC IMPACT
A. Agricultural Impact
6.01      In most agricultural and settlement projects, the initial
investments are completed before the full impact of production can be
analyzed. Many years are necessary before the farms and their various
enterprises reach full development. Any data presented to show impact is
thus limited to a single interim image of the farm development. INCORA,
during preparation of its completion report, with guidance from FAO/CP,
carried out a survey of 253 loan recipients, or about 9% of the 2,326
families receiving long-term credit under the project.
6.02      During appraisal, it was estimated that the project would directly
benefit 2,850 settlers families and indirectly benefit a large portion of the
12,000 families living within the project area. The assumption was made that
a more efficient extension service, using technology generated during Phase
I, could improve livestock production and pasture management. It was assumed
also that improved pasture management would help prevent soil erosion in
areas of newly cleared forest or pastures being over-grazed. Lastly, farm
family nutrition was to be improved as the result of increased consumption of
meat, milk, and a greater variety of subsistence crops.
6.03      However, only 2,326 direct long-term loans could be made due to
cattle price increases and project funding delays. This loan program



- 12 -
directly affected 215,000 ha in the project areas. Of this total area, 9%
was planted in subsistence crops, 8% in natural pastures, 28Z in improved
pastures, 14% in fallow, and about 41% was left as forest.
6.04      The areas devoted to subsistence crops produced maize, plantain and
cassava in quantities exceeding family consumption needs. The yields of
these crops were low but stable as their production was incorporated into the
land clearing process. Maize yields were about one ton per ha. The
appraisal mission suggested rice as a viable crop ,n the area. However, in
practice, rice proved not to be appropriate for social and agricultural
reasons.
6.05      The average first time long-term loan recipient purchased
between 10 and 15 cows and one bull. The average reproduction rate assumed
at appraisal was 50% and turned out to be 65% by project completion.  After
10 years in the project area, the average herd size stabilized at about 37
cows, which would indicate a total herd of about twice this number, per
settler. The absence of short-term credit complementary to long-term credit
placed some limitations on the growth of herd size and the cash flow
situation for some settlers. The almost sole dependence on long-term credit
did not facilitate the retention of male calves for long enough periods to
allow the settler to realize good profits. As it was, he was obliged to sell
calves before one year in order to meet operating expenses. Typically, the
settler sold calves to a larger land owner, leaving the animals on his
pasture for an eventual 50:50 split two to three years later. The price to
the large farmer was usually half what the eventual market price would have
been resulting in a loss of potential income. A short-term bull retention
loan for two years with animals as collateral could have improved the
settlers' economic situation sooner in the project cycle. As it was, only
after about five years were the settlers able to retain a portion of their
male calves to slaughter weight because of improving economic conditions.
COOPERAGRO was the sou-ce of short-term credit under Phases I and II of the
project. However, it went bankrupt in 1979 due to poor management, and no
other source for such credit was available under the remainding Phase II.
Dairy Production
6.06      About 90% of those settlers interviewed by INCORA were selling both
fresh and home-preserved milk products. As the road infrastructure improved,
fresh milk products were being sold to a newly built milk plant in Florencia,
something that was not contemplated during appraisal.
The Use of Improved Pasture Technology
6.07      The initial carrying capacity of pastures among the 2,326 long-term
loan recipients was estimated at about 0.6 head per hectare; at project
corpletion ic was estimated to be 1.2 head per hectare. The increased
efficiency was partially brought about by technology that included the
seeding of improved pasture grasses such as Bracharia decumbens Aleman
(Polystrachia PhrAiolodes) and Kudzu (P-qeraria Phasiolodes).  The project
investments in ICA's research station near Florencia assured a dependable



- 13 -
source of seed to project settlers. Cultural techniques that improved
pasture production were: (a) division of pastures for selective grazing; and
(b) improved chemical and mechanical weed control.
Land Tenure
6.08      The land titling component contributed to a stable form of land
exploitation and farmer commitment to the land. Legal land titles were
achieved for 90Z of all long-term credit recipients. The remaining 10% had
fulfilled initial land titling requirements for loans and were in the final
e       stages of receiving legal titles.  The project-supported titling office in
Florencia processed about 1,300 titles per year. The average size of farms
in the survey was between 80 and 90 ha, and 64% of the f'i.ms were less than
100 ha (Annex 5).
6.09      Of the loan recipients surveyed, 51% had made legal purchase of
cleared land and 32% had established their title by clearing the land
themselves. The remaining 17% had used a combination of the two processes.
Land was available for purchase in the project area from the transitory land
clearers who initially clear land, sell, and move to more remote areas to
repeat the process and earn cash income.
Improved Transportation
6.10      The project improved the road network which had an important
impact. First, there was a direct impact on the long-term loan recipients in
the transport of fresh dairy products to the plant in Florencia, and the sale
and purchase of live animals, and an indirect impact on the estimated 12,000
families benefitting from the improved infrastructure. Using 1974 constant
prices, it was estimated at project completion that costs for passenger
transport per kilometer had decreased from Col$ 1.05 to Col$ 0.37, a net
decrease in cost per kilometer of Col$ 0.68. Similarly, freight costs went
from Col$ 3.74 to Col$ 1.23, a net decrease of Col$ 2.51. Before the
initiation of Phases I and II Projects and the construction of 192.9 kms of
penetration roads, much of the areas' transport needs were met by rivers.
The new road system increased commercial exchanges, lowered transport costs
to project area inhabitants, and opened markets with :he central and coastal
areas of the nation.
B. Environmental Impact of Project Settlement Process on Soil Conservation
6.11      The Andean Cordillera area bordering Caqueta is presently subject
to the greatest pressure from soil erosion. It is the catchment area for
most rivers flowing through the project area. The soils are sandy and prone
to landslides. Population pressures in the area are heavy; over-grazing was
in greater evidence here than in other project areas. The soil exposure
under heavy rainfall (about 3.5 m/year) creates a threat to the hydrological
balance downstream. The pastures in this area are subject to erosion,
especially if there is over-grazing. The soil erosion problems have resulted
from settlers over-stocking pastures and not providing sufficient time for
good grass recovery.



- 14 -
6.12      The project, using the results from ICA research on stocking rates
and improved pasture management, has modified the tendency for over-stocking
in the project area. The improved pasture species maintained at greater
density have helped prevent some of the erosion problems. However, a large
problem still exists in the steeper slopes and micro watersheds where
reforestation would provide a longer term solution. ICA and INCORA have
identift4cd tree species and are conducting on-farm trials. One of the greater
problems in gaining farmer participation for reforestation has been the
economic incentives necessary for settlers to carry out reforestation. At
present, very little research is directed toward agro-forestry in this
region.  A well developed agro-forestry program for this area is needed in
subsequent projects and development of a comprehensive land use survey that
would target those areas best suited to grazing, reforestation, agro-forestry
or perennial plantation crops. The best way currently to prevent soil
erosion in cleared areas would be to extend good pasture technology and
assure that inputs are available for improved pasture management techniques.
C. Economic Impact
6.13      The best estimate for the economic rate of return for this project
is IIZ (Annex 6). The assumptions are: (a) that project benefits are the
incremental on-farm output over a 20-year period; (b) costs included in their
entirety are those associated with on-farm development, livestock fattening,
technical assistance, project administration and environmental protection;
(c) the percentages of the costs of roads, education, and health charged
against the project benefit stream were equal to the percentages of the total
benefits from these services judged to have been captured in the quantified
benefit stream of the direct beneficiaries, namely, 25% for roads, 50% for
education, and 75% for health; and (d) all major project outputs ar.d inputs
have been valued at their border price equivalent by applying specific
conversion factors.
6.15      Finally, if all project investment and operating costs were
included and charged to the incremental agricultural output of the project,
the rate of return would be 5%. However, this is an unrealistic assumption
because a substantial portion of the benefits of roads, for example, accrue
to some 12,000 indirect project beneficiaries.
VII. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
A. INCORA
7.01      INCORA's principal administrative weakness lay in accounting and
administrative procedures needed to prepare working budgets at the national
level. The principle areas that slowed project implementation were:
(a) The ineffective procedures for requesting prompt disbursements from
the Bank against incurred project expenditures, so as to reduce, at
any one time, the amount of expenditures perding disbursements; and
(b) the need to accelerate contract procedures and payments of
expenditures incurred by contractors, by tightening up technical
and financial supervision of the contractors.



- 15 -
7.02      The performance of INCORA improved from 1979 until the first
quarter of 1982, when constraints on funding from the Central Treasury again
had a negative effect on project implementation (see para. 5.26 on costs and
financing). This poor performance at the national level needs to be
contrasted with the overall good performance of project personnel at the
local project level where, because of good personnel procedures (see
para. 5.20) INCORA's technicians and their staff performed well. However, as
project financing became more constrained in the latter stages of the
project, local INCORA effectiveness decreased.
*                              B.  Other Implementing Agencies
7.03      The weakness of INDERENA forced INCORA and ICA to take over the
implementation of the component dealing with reforestation and soil-
conservation. As discussed in paras 5.19 and 6.12, INDERENA did not give
adequate administrative support to its field staff and did not have an
adaptive and economically viable body of technology to extend to project
beneficiaries. However, it is difficult to provide incentives for the
settlers struggling to open up more land as a prerequisite for loans and more
cattle to take all precautions needed for environmental protection. Doing so
sucessfully would require a massive education and extension program to reach
the newly established settlers. INDERENA's mandate pitted its technicians at
the settlement area frontier where communication was difficult. Furthermore,
rural guerrillas made INDERENA the scapegoat for some of the "injustices'
regarding land distribution during the latter stages of the project.
INDERENA's efforts to establish a forest reserve was seen by some guerrillas
as an effort to deprive settlers or land.
7.04      ICA's performance was constrained by the deficiencies in the
infrastructure, the settler's labor requirements for land clearing and sowing
subsistence crops and pastures, and the unavailability of needed but
expensive inputs for a more intensive pasture production. Only the most
rudimentary changes in pasture pioduction techniques were feasible at the
time.
7.05      The improved pasture technology developed at Maquagual station with
assistance of ICA and CIAT's pasture improvement program provided the message
that seeding of improved pasture grasses and selective grazing and rotations
were necessary to obtain increased grazing capacities. However, ICA
neglected other aspects of preventive animal health. For example, TCA
neglected the control of parasites and the use of supplemental m_nerals.
7.06      The organization of technical assistance was difficult to manage
and control because of the dual responsibilities of INCORA and ICA
technicians for field visits and transmitting information. The efforts to
introduce some of the preventive medicine and nutritional technologies failed
because of poor coordination among ICA and LNCORA technicians. There was
little agreement as to the mix of technology to be extended. Survey results
at completion indicated that over the last two years of the project, 50% of
the settlers had not received a visit from either ICA or INCORA technicians.
This is partially explained by the constrained budget of the last two years
and the grousing civil disorder which restricted travel to the project area.



- 16 -
VIII. BANK PERFORMANCE
8.01      The problems which initially delayed project effectiveness and
prolonged implementation reflected insufficient knowledge by the Bank about
some Colombian institutions and of the policy changes being contemplated by
the Government during the appraisal and post-appraisal periods. The
project's designers were faced with a changing set of institutions and
policies regarding the implementation of the long-term credit component. The
dialogue between the Bank and the Government on subsidized interest rates
delayed effectiveness directly. The project's designers were also faced with
a lack of knowledge about the institutional capacity of INDERENA and whether
it had the ability to provide the technology and leadership to carry out a
complex project component.
8.02      During supervision, the Bank made every effort to provide the
necessary technical assistance to review and suggest improvements in the
weaker implementing agencies such as INDERENA and CAJA AGRARIA. The Bank's
intervention in the forestry and soil conservation components led to a
complete reorganization of the component and assumption of leadership by
INCORA, with technical assistance from ICA.. Almost all supervision missions
tried to deal with the Government's lack of financial support to the project
and were successful in keeping the Government aware of this problem and the
need for action. INCORA's auditing and accounting difficulties were well
known to the Bank from its experience with other INCORA-Bank loans.
Supervision missions provided technical assistance as part of other Bank
loans to INCORA to help it meet its auditing commitments.
IX. THE PROJECT AND CIVIL DISORDER
9.01      The Bank supervision mission of June, 1981 reported increased
guerilla activities within the project area. The Department of Caqueta is
presently considered the main stronghold of revolutionary forces. These
forces are split into two main groups; namely: M-19 in southwest Curillo, La
Solita, and Belen, and FARC (Fuerzas Amadas Revolutionarias Colombianas) in
the same area. There are about 12,000 Government troops stationed in the
area in an effort - not always successful - to maintain order.
9.02      Recently, there have been reports of open confrontations in
Florencia between the army and revolutionaries. The promise of a general
amnesty has been made since elections in 1982. It remains to be seen whether
the latest promises have resulted in a significant number of guerillas laying
down arms and taking advantage of Government terms which include another
resettlement project similar to Caqueta II.
9.03      The project's road and bridge building programs have been delayed
by civil disorders since 1980. In 1981, the army ordered construction of the
Valparaiso - La Solita road stopped. In this same area, two of INCORA's
project officers were detained by the guerillas but later released after
their car was burned.
9.04      Despite the strong guerilla presence in the project area, it is
indeed remarkable that INCORA's project field staff has not been subjected to
more harassment. The only possible explanation is that INCORA's work is



-17 -
serving both camps and that INCORA is in fact playing the role of a possible
mediator in the area: the Government increasingly feels that further
economic development is the most effective avenue to pacification, and the
guerillas probably do not want to antagonize 1NCORA for fear of losing the
support of local farmers and settlers. As a result of the amnesty decree
referred to above, INCORA has also been authorized to buy land in view of
future possible settlement of the guerillas receiving amnesty.
9.05      The Caqueta farmers, including the sizable number of project
settlers, appear to have suffered most from the disturbances so far, because
*       they are successively harassed by both the army and the guerillas.  Some
farmers are reported to have left their farms, but there is no estimate so
far of how many. Those who have given up cannot be easily identified through
credit supervision because the farmers most likely to be affected, i.e.,
those living in remote areas, are recent credit beneficiaries and as such are
still in the grace periods of their loans. The project's management has,
therefore, decided to request all the area supervisors to find out more about
withdrawals in their respective areas.
X. LESSONS LEARNED
10.01     Much of the experience gained from Phase I was applied in Phase II,
the Caqueta Rural Settlement Project, helping to compensate for some of the
original difficulties in implementation. However, given the short duration
of the project cycle, lessons from Phase I could not be completely acted upon
in Phase II. The lessons from Phase II are better defined than those from
Phase I and, hopefully, will be easier to act upon in future projects.
10.02     The Caqueta Rural Settlement Project, Phase II has provided
examples of the kinds of physical and social infrastructure needed to support
a spontaneous land settlement in Colombia's Amazon basin and the financial
requirements needed to establish a cattle-based farming system.
10.03     The road system begun in Phase I needed to be completed and
maintained. Completion under Phase II permitted linking of remote project
areas with local commercial centers, and increased the project area's contact
with other parts of the country. This road system provided project cattle
producers with dependable transport for excess milk production and improved
the marketing of beef.
10.04     The desirability of requiring legal titles to land as a
prerequisite for long-term production loans was demonstrated by the
settlers' more responsible approach to the use of credit and its repayment.
It is obvious that the sense of security provided by the settler's clear
title to the land was an important factor in the manifestation of this
behavior.
10.05     Once again, as in Phase I, loans were made only to those farm
families who had cleared a minimum number of hectares, usually 10, and had
started a herd of dual purpose animals. These baseline requirements seem to
have been a useful indicator of the settlers' commitments to improving
technology and repaying their debts.



- 18 -
10.06     The implementation periods for settlement projects tend to be
longer than other kinds of agricultural development projects. This is
especially the case for the start-up period when institutional, physical and
social infrastructure is rudimentary and cannot be depended upon to provide
the level of support services for a more accelerated implementation.
10.07     Generally Bank experience with tropical cattle production involving
the removal of forest cover and the establishment of improved pastures has
been negative resulting in pasture abandonement and low rates of return.
Nevertheless, data available and experience from this particular project and
from Phase I (05/04/71) indicates with the technology utilized for converting
the forested savannah to grasslands and the management practices, including
chemical weed control, provided by existing settlers, at least some of the
cleared areas are being protected and productivity maintained with use of
some chemical fertilizer. Also, pasture abandonement in the project area
has not been experimenced. However, because of the diversity of soils and
topography in the Colombia's Amazon Basin, we cannot generalize the Caqueta
experience and the search for technologies for a rational utilization of
tropical lands must continue. Further, since the project areas, both in
Phase I and II, excluded the piedmont of the Andes and areas of lighter soils
on the hills, the above experience relates only to a relatively flat plains
lying between the piedmont of the Andes and the Orteguaza river. It is
important that future projects in this area incorporate existing technologies
for conservation of all slopes and river banks and not await the outcome of
long-term project-sponsored research. If the forests are cleared from such
sites, heavy rainfall will cause changes to the quantities and periodicity of
surface water runoff being discharged into rivers, creating over the Amazon
Basin a twin potential threat of floods alternating with water shortages.
10.08     It is difficult to apply a rigorous assessment concerning certain
aspects of a settlement project like Caqueta Rural settlement, Phase II. Two
important aspects, the lack of malaria control and loss of valuable wood,
during clearing, could not be incorporated in the cost stream for lack of
reliable data and clear guide lines for such analysis. It would be useful if
future settlement projects in this area could consider these aspects.



- 19 -
ANNEX 1
CDLOMBIA
CAQUETA RURAL SETTLUL'ENT PROJECT (PHASE II)
(Loan 1118-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Allocation of Loan Funds
(US$)
First          Second
Reallocation   Reallocation
Category                   (11/29/77)       (7/9/80)      Disbursed a/
1. Long-term credit (Part A.1
of the Project)                  7,100,000       6,825,000     6,762,000
2. Cattle fattening (Part A.2
of the Project)                    150,000          87,000        41,000
3.  Road construction                5,910,000       9,025,000     8,884,000
4. Construction of schools,
health facilities, adminis-
trative and other buildings        620,000         773,000       612,000
5. Construction of water supply
and sewer system                   200,000         605,000       300,000
6.  Vehicles, equipment and anti-
malaria products                 1,240,000       1,418,000     1,301,000
7. Education, forestry and
erosion control and technical
assistance program               1,000,000         767,000       600,000
8.  Unallocated                      3,280,000           - 0 -          - 0 -
19,500,000     19,500,000    18,500,000
a/ US$1.0 million was cancelled on June 1, 1983.
Source: Bank Supervision Mission and final disbursement report.



- 20 -
ANNEX 2
CDLONBIA
CAQUETA RURAL SETTLEMENT PROJECT (PHASE II)
(Loan 1118-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
rhysical Targets
Appraisal              Results
Estimates           at Completion
(Feb. 1975)              (1982)
No. of Subloans
Breeding Cattle                 2,850                  2,326
Fattening Cattle                  800                     37
Infrastructure
Roads (km)                        200                    192.9
Schools (no)                       30                     27
Health Centers (no)                 2                      2
Health Clinics (no)                 10                     8
Road Maintenance (km)           1,000                  1,050



- 21 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
CAQUETA RURAL SETTLEMENT PROJECT (PHASE II)
(Loan 1118-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Loan Agreement (Schedule 2) - Description of the Project
The project is the continuation of the borrower's colonization
program in the project area.
The project consists of:
Part A.   Leading Program (amended)
1.   Not less than 2,700 long-term loans to settlers for livestock
production; and
2.   Not less than 30 medium-term loans for cattle fattening.
Part B.   Road Construction and Maintenance (no change)
1.   Design and construction of about 200 kms of roads; and
2.  Maintenance and upgrading of about 1,000 km of roads in the project
area.
Part C.   Education Services (no change)
1.   Construction, furnishing and equipping 30 primary schools; and
2.   Provision of teaching P_d reading materials for about 500 primary
schools and provision for about 60 short adult training courses.
Part D.   Health Ser'Tices (no change)
1.   Construction, furnishing and equipment of about two health centers
and 10 health posts; and
2.   A program of malaria eradication and improvement of water and
sewerage condition in rural centers.
Part E. Forestry and Erosion Control (1 and 3 amended)
1.   Campaigns of publicity and extension concerning erosion control and
tree planting.



- 22 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
2.  Experimentation to determine the species that are better suited to
contain erosion in river banks and to replace natural forest for
commercial exploitation.
3.  Plantation of about 150 hectares of trees.
Part F.  Technical Assistance (no change)
Extension services to settlers with not more than 200 hectares
each, especially on animal husbandry and pasture management.
Part G.  Stores and Offices (Amended)
1.   Construction of three office buildings; and
2.   Acquisition and use of vehicles and equipment for the project.



- 23 -
AM= 4
orTA
caq& WEAK. 9no III& (-CD II)
EAD        OMIM  REPC
osr TARB
Acm as Z
Apprsa EsYt  k:lAcw  b/                     oE App aLlslc
rol$         USS         GA$        US$
t~~~~~~~~~~~~ - -- - - - - - -00 -- -- -- -- - --
Iogterm credit                  556,300     17,439      481.700    10,825            87
Cattle fatteinrg                   5,900        185        2,400        54.           41
Rod
- Constructimn and desigp       332,800     10,433      641,900    14,425           193
- Maintenae                      20,300        636       78,600     1,766           387
-  ea  equipment                 29,900        937       25,000       562            83
Subtotal                     383,000     12,006      745,500    16,753           194
Education
- Gbnstructionx of schools       11,500        360       24,700       555           214
- Sdhool 8eqipment                2,600         81          Wm          1            26
- Teaching material              14,500        454        2,500        56            17
Subtotal                      28.600        896       27,90D       626            97
Health
- Hospitals                       4,000        125        9,000       202           225
- Rural clinics                   6,600        207        8,900       200           134
- Malaria eradication            19,300        605       85,800     1,928           444
- Sanitary engneering (includlng
water and sewage)            12,100        379       58,900      1,324          486
Subtotal                      42,000      1,316      162,600     3,654           387
Researdi and Technical Assistance
- Adaptive research              20,300        636        7,600       171            37
- Extension                       9,000        282       33,300       748           370
-Forestry research and reservs   17,600        552        7,200       162            40
Subtotal                      46,900      1,470       48,100     1,081           102
Project Adndnistraticx
- Admirdstration                104,900      3 U-,      310,500     6,978           295
- Adinistrative constuction       5,700        j79        7,800       175           136
- Vehicles and equipment          9,300        291       10,500       235           112
Subtotal                     119,900      3,759      328,800     7,389           274
Total                     1,182,600    37,071    1,797,000    40,382           151
a/ Average exdhnge rate used at appraisal US$1 - Col$ 31.9018
!/ Average exchn  rate &irig loan dis uarent US$1 - ColS 44.5
c/ Pecentages were calalated bsed on ColS amnmts.



- 24 -
ANNEX 5
COLOMBIA
CAQUETA RURAL SETTLEMENT PROJECT (PHASE II)
(Loan 1118-CO)
Project Completion Report
Distribution of Farm Size 1982
Hectares                 No.                    _
0 -  50                 55                 21.73
50 - 100                108                 42.68
100 - 150                 34                 13.43
150 - 200                 39                 15.41
200 - 250                  6                  2.37
250 - 300                  8                   3.16
300 - 350                  1                  0.39
No Response                2                   0.79
100.00



- 25 -
ANEX 6
CMLGSIA
CAOIErA RUIL £TILBENf POJECr tRII   11)
EUMiliC CAM FLAW
EconoFiC       On Fa.                                                               Adds
uf its       oelopment    Livestod                                    He"lth      Telcal    Total    Net Cash
Yers       Fsi LveIl        Costs       Fattening     Roads 1    Edcatlhn 2/   A Wetsr 3/   Assistant    Costs       Flow
1975             -              -          -           17,315           -              -            -     (17,315)   (17.315)
1976         t,693          7.437          -           11,499           -            766        9,802     (2,504t    t2,811)
1977         8,930         29,146        891           12.133          627         4,274       11,960     L9i,031)   (50,101)
1978         15.265         19.510        60            8.311          730         9.42        17,506     C5,545)   (40.20)
1979         25,42%        34,8t0          -            4,494          383         6,760       15.092     (61,534)   (1,110)
1980        35,108         38.567          -            2.960          526         7,253       16,644     (66,M0)   (30,962)
1981         41,592        49,25B          16           5,330          826         1,585       15,7       (72,292    (24,70D)
1982        58,153         38,314          -            4,915          327         2,264       14,150     (59,970)    (1,816)
983          66,915        30,077          -               -            -             -             -      30,077     36.83B
1984        73,985         33,055          -               -            -              -            -      33,055     40,931
1985         79,811        31,998          -               -            -             -             -      31,998     47,814
1986         86,048        32,950          -               -            -             -             -      32,950     53,098
1967         91,85S        35S,2           -               -            -              -            -      35,229     5.631
1988         97,957        40,393          -               -            -              -            -      40,393     57,554
1s8         100,777        38,717          -               -            -              -            -      38,717     62,060
1990        108,865        43,029          -               -            -             -             -      43,029     65,836
1991        115,730        44,703          -               -            -              -            -      44,703     71,oz7
1992        125,552        50,362          -               -            -              -            -      50,362     75,200
1993        1i,555         45,552          -               -            -             -             -      45,552     81,040
1994        134.851        46,283          -               -            -              -            -      46,283     S8,568
Economlc rats of return: 11l
/  Roed costs allocated to project are 25S of total road coasts
2/ Education costs allocated to project are 509 of total educatIon asts.
3/  Health cost ae 755 of total health cots.
.



- 26 -
ANNEX 7
Comaents Received from the Colombian Agricultural Research Institute
November 21, 1984
E-519/85
Spanish
OED
JCB:mac
ZCZC DIST1887 RCA8852
OEDOD
REF : TCP MET
RCA8B52
248423 WORLDBANK
44309 ICATE Co
BOGOTA NOV.1-84,
TX.193.
YUKINORI WATANABE
INTBAFRAD
WASHINGTON, D.C.
Have received PCR Caqueta Settlement Project.  Version you sent
satisfactory to ICA.
Regards, Fernando Gomez Moncayo, General Manager, ICA.
248423 WORLDBA1[K
44309 ICATE CO. . .
.11012001
=11011506
ALT RTD FROM:OEDM
NMN



-27 -                     ANNEX 8
E-533/85 November 21, 1984
Spanish (Colombia)
OED    JCB:jb
Comments Recelved from the Borrower's Rural Roads Agency
Translation of incoming telex
ZCZC DIST9564 RCA1897
OEDOD
REF : TCP D.S.
RCA1897
t    248423 WORLDBANK
BOGOTA, November 16, 1984
TELEX DG-506
Mr. Yukinori Watanabe
Director, OED
World Bank
Wpshington, DC
Inform you PCR Caqueta Rural Settlement Project, Stage II (Loan 1118 CO) is to
our satisfaction.
Regards,
Edgar Alberto Urrea Perez
Director General, CAVECINALES
248423WORLDBANK
=11162131
=11170802
ALT RTD FROM: OEDM
NNNN



-28 -                            A!NEX 9
Page 1
E-579/85 December 10. 1984
Spanish (Colombia)
OED    DRJB:jb
Comments Received from the Borrower's Institute of Agrarian Reform
INSTITUTE OF AGRARIAN REFORM
COLOMBIA
( INC ORA )
Bogota
October 24, 1984
Mr. Yukinori Watanabe
Director, Operations Evaluation Department
IBRD
Washington, D.C.
Subject: IBRD Loan 1118/CO
Dear Sir:
Regarding the Completion Report on the Caqueta Rural Settlement
Project (Phase II), I should like to indicate that I consider it gives an
objective assessment of final results, of constraints on the implementation
process, and, in general, of the positive and negative aspects of the goals
and agricultural impact achieved.
Nevertheless, the contents of the Report also lead me to make a
number of observations on experience gained during the execution process, with
a view to improved preparation and implementation of similar projects in the
future:
Maintenance of road system: In addition to the difficulties discussed in the
Report, it should be noted that, for budgetary reasons, the roads built with



ANNEX 9
-29 -                            Page 2
project funds could not be handed over to the entity (the Rural Roads Agency)
which was to be responsible for their maintenance.
Inspection and evaluation: As a means of improving project evaluation
capability, it would be wise to keep up the regional Project Evaluation and
Monitoring Unit and to have officials associated with actual development of a
project take part in writing the Completion Report, which should be the work
of an interdisciplinary group. In fact, INCORA, drawing its own lesson from
the project, has begun organizing such a Unit in each region.
Purchasing: Imports of necessary goods would be facilitated if the costs of
bringing them into the country were to be included in project financing
arrangements.
Cost overruns: Although increases in the cost of labor and materials,
difficulties in forecasting the inflation rate, and fluctuations in the
exchange rate all lie behind the difference between estimated and actual
costs, a further factor was delay in the actual execution of investments.
Institutional development: Requests for disbursements against loans made
directly to the central government go through a procedure set up by the
Treasury, so that the speed with which it produces results does not depend on
INCORA.
I trust that the above observations, besides leading to improved
project preparation and implementation in the future, will be of use to you in
drawing up the final version of the Report.
Yours, etc.
/s/ Ernesto Muinoz Orozco
General Manager
cc   Planning Division



COLOMBIA                                                                                 //                                                                             La C. a         VrSenve
CAQUETA RURAL SETTLEMENT PROJECT (PH4SE U)                                                                                     (, / >  (¾                                                                                                  n  deCorun
PROJECT AREA                                                             -           /   r                                              EAguda(K<6  
/                  -)AguIl  K-16                                                                  \
Prolect Area                                 EXISTiNG  ROADS                          r              e(
PROJECT ROADS                      -         Moan Roads                           / f  /                                     I t /                 "'--                       . m
Phase I                                                                                /@Ddr   ?Od   !\ S   _   /     /PDRico:7;                                            g      *    E    ............. 
Ph 2se I                                                                                                                                        o Secondary Rood,  /
Phoases I & 2                        .       Coriauls in Meters                      / ...
l       Project Year of Constrccian        - - -   Departmeni Boundore                                                                           La Es  
A-13    Road Reference Poi,r                          Rivers                                                                                               d                                      I i
Project Bridge                     ---   'nrernar,onal Baurdar            //"(      ;j..     /          1                                                        .
4ert    Plarned und   I D a Financed Project                                  .   /           /  /    \             ' '                                                                             e
I    /  O_l_ZD ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ /]/                        Z{ ¢ 0 4%/   ///j X                                                       )~   Grcrdo               7        / t 0                  t\!
\1                     Or ~~0.      1          FLO~fNCI                                                                                                       -
\  ,c.;*)     **   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~    Ove~0carecia                                        El Po..jI
v  L)A~~~~~~0  >    ;f                           taserra               V~~~~~~~~~~~~Ill Nelly
$  7<                                        to  err  amelia ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       L~~as Juntos 
3'  -U                         '0       \  lE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kAL PUert La                                  Is
C-6~~~~~~~~~
~~~~                                [ Mi~~~~~~~~~~ ldn                            .jx
0% Pndra                                                                                                                     laloo,~oRstrc  al0-
11_6                    T ~~~~MIT~ 
SarsAawonic        -          .                      ~~~~~~~~~~~Pelagode Bafrra
r~~~...   -                    La~ 0_1                        C,in                                         OET12int- 
m                                                                                    'Alf.101~.r '  msrilr       .
La Cm   ~           AY                                                                           sq io






