                                                                                               OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                                                                        GEF/R2004-0004/1

                                                                                                               March 30, 2004




                                                                                    Streamlined Procedure
                                                                                          For meeting of
                                                                             Board: Thursday, April 15, 2004



FROM: Vice President and Corporate Secretary


        China: Hai Basin Integrated Water and Environment Management Project

                                         Global Environment Facility Grant

                                             Project Appraisal Document



         Attached is the Project Appraisal Document regarding a proposed grant from the Global
Environment Facility Trust Fund to the People's Republic of China for a Hai Basin Integrated
Water and Environment Management Project. (GEF/R2004-0004). This project will be taken up
at a meeting of the Executive Directors on Thursday, April 15, 2004 under the Streamlined
Procedure.




Distribution:

  Executive Directors and Alternates
  President
  Bank Group Senior Management
  Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC and MIGA
  Directors and Department Heads, Bank, IFC and MIGA




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank Group authorization.

                                              Document of
                                          The World Bank

                                      FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                     ReportNo: 26636




                                 PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                  ONA

                                  PROPOSED GRANT FROM THE
                             GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTFACILITY (GEF)

                               INTHE AMOUNT OF US17 MILLION

                                                TO THE
                                  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA




                                               FOR THE

      HA1BASININTEGRATEDWATER AND ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT

                                           MARCH 19,2004




Rural Development and Natural ResourcesUnit
East Asia and Pacific Region




This documenthas a restricteddistributionandmay be usedby recipientsonly inthe performanceoftheir
official duties. Its contentsmav not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                  (ExchangeRateEffectiveMarch 2004)

                                    Currency Unit = RenminbiYuan (RMBY)
                                          RMBY1 = USS0.12
                                             US$1 = RMB Y 8.28

                                             FISCALYEAR
                                         January 1 -- December31

                                 ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS
BCC    Basin Coordinating Committee                 MOF        Ministryo f Finance
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy                  MWR        Ministryof Water Resources
CDD    Community Driven Development                 NPS        Non Point Source
CPMO   Central Project ManagementOffice             O&M        Operation & Maintenance
CWRAS  China Country Water Resources Assistance     PCU        Project Coordination Unit
       Strategy                                     PEMSEA     Partnerships for the Environmental Protection
EA     Environmental Assessment                                and Management o f Asian Seas
EMP    Environmental Management Plan                PIP        Project Implementation Plan
EPB    Environmental Protection Bureau              PMO        Project ManagementOffice
ET     Evapotranspiration                           RBC        River Basin Commissions
ESSF   Environmental Social SafeguardsFramework     RS         Remote Sensing
FECO   Foreign Economic Cooperation Office          SA         Social Assessment
FY     Financial Year                               S A P      Strategic Action Plan
GEF    Global Environment Facility                  SEPA       State Environmental Protection
GIS    Geographic InformationSystem                            Administration
GPA    Global Programme o f Action                  SNWT       South North Water Transfer
HBC    Hai Basin Commission                         SOA        State Oceanic Administration
IWEM   Integrated Water and Environment Management  ss         Strategic Studies
IWEMP  Integrated Water and Environment Management  TUDEPZ     Tianjin Urban Development and Environment
       Planning                                                Project
KM     Knowledge Management                         TVE        Township and Village Enterprises
MEPL   Marine Environmental Protection Law          WCP        Water Conservation Project
MIS    Monitoring Information System                WRB        Water Resources Bureau
M O A  MinistryofAgriculture                        WUA        Water User Association
MOC    Ministryof Construction                      WWTP       Waste Water Treatment Plant
                                                    YSLME      Yellow Sea Large Marine Ecosystem




                                   Vice President:     Jemal-ud-dinKassum, EAPVP
                                 Country Director:     YukonHuang,EACCF
                                   Sector Director:    Mark D.Wilson, EASRD
              Task TeamLeadedTask Manager:             DouglasOlson, EASRD

                                                                      FOROFFICIAL USEONLY



                                                     CHINA
        HA1BASININTEGRATEDWATER AND ENVIRONMENTMANAGEMENTPROJECT


                                                   CONTENTS




     A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page

        1. Project development objective                                                       2
        2. Key performance indicators                                                          2

     B. Strategic Context

        1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
        2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
        3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices                   8

     C. Project Description Summary

        1. Project components                                                                  9
        2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       13
        3. Benefits and target population                                                      14
        4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       15

     D.Project Rationale

        1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           16
        2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank andor other development agencies         16
        3. Lessons learned and reflectedinthe project design                                   17
        4. Indications of borrower andrecipient commitment and ownership                       19
        5. Value added o f Bank and Global support inthis project                              19

     E. Summary Project Analysis

        1. Economic                                                                            20
        2. Financial                                                                           20
        3. Technical                                                                           20
        4. Institutional                                                                       21
        5. Environmental                                                                       23
        6. Social                                                                              25
        7. SafeguardPolicies                                                                   27


 This document has a restricted distributionand may be used by recipients only in

Iwithout World Bank authorization.
 the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed

F. Sustainability and Risks

   1. Sustainability                                                28
   2. Critical risks                                                29
   3. Possible controversial aspects                                29


G. Main Grant Conditions

   1. Effectiveness Condition                                       30
   2. Other                                                         30

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                      34

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                        34



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                     35
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                               41
Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs                                     54
Annex 4: IncrementalCost Analysis                                   58
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                          66
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                               71
           (B) Financial Management andDisbursement Arrangements    77
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                85
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                               86
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                            87
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                       91
Annex 11: STAP Roster Technical Review                              93
Annex 12: Implementation Chart for Project Components               100
Annex 13: Social Assessment                                         101




MAP(S)
Project Map: IBRD 32710

                                                                CHINA
                                    Hai Basin IntegratedWater and EnvironmentManagement Project

                                                 ProjectAppraisalDocument
                                                      East Asia and Pacific Region
                                                                EASRD


Date: March 19,2004                                              Team Leader: Douglas C. Olson
Sector Managermirector: Mark D.Wilson                            Sector(s): General water, sanitation and flood protection
Country Managermirector: Yukon Huang                             sector (50%), Irrigation and drainage (50%)
Project ID: PO75035                                              Theme(s): Water resource management (P),
Focal Area: I International Waters
                       -                                         Environmental policies and institutions (P), Pollution


 [ ] Loan                [ ] Credit  [XI Grant      [ ]Guarantee         [ ]Other:




 Responsibleagency: MOF, MWR, SEPA, BEIJING& TIANJIN MUNICIPALITIES & HEBEIPRO
Ministryof Water Resources
 State EnvironmentalProtection Agency
 Municipalities of Beijingand Tianjin
 Province of Hebei

 Contact Person: Mr.LiuBin- M W R and Ms.LiPei -SEPA
 Address: Ministry of Water Resources, Baiguang Road, Beijing, China

 Tel: (8610) 6320-2127 - MWR; (8610) 6615-3366 - SEPA
 Fax: (8610) 6320-2027 - MWR; (8610) 6615-1932 - SEPA




FCS FAD Form Rev March 2000

A. Project Development Objective

1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The overall objective i s to catalyze an integrated approach to water resource management and pollution
control in the Hai Basin in order to improve the Bohai Sea environment. Specifically, the Project will (i)
improve integrated water and environment planning and management in the Hai Basin, (ii)support
institutional aspects related to effective local, municipal/provincial, and basin-wide water and environment
planning and management, (iii)enhance capacity building in water and environment knowledge
management and implementation, and (iv) reduce wastewater discharges from small cities along the rim o f
the Bohai Sea. The Project is intended to demonstrate new technologies and management approaches, with
the lessons learned appliedthroughout the HaiBasin and other basinsboarding the Bohai andYellow Seas.
The Project will also serve as a complement and link to, water and environmental management issues for
two on-going World Bank-financed operations in the Hai Basin: Second Tianjin Urban Development and
Environment Project (TUDEP2       - FY03)   and the Water Conservation Project (WCP - FYO1).

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)

Keyperformance indicators are:

   1. Establishment o f a functioning inter-agency committee at the county level, resulting in improved
      cooperation and integration o f Water ResourceManagement (WRM) and pollution control activities
      with support from upper levels (prefectures, provinces, Hai Basin Commission (HBC),
      Zhangweinan, Minis@ o f Water Resources (MWR), and State Environmental Protection
      Administration (SEPA));
  11. Achieve   the adoption of improved WRM and pollution control approaches at the county level by
      institutions implementing Integrated Water and Environment Management (IWEM), including
      evapotranspiration (ET) management and knowledge management (ISM), water rights and well
      permit administration, and discharge control, with support from upper levels (prefectures, provinces,

 ...  HBC, Zhangweinan, MWR and SEPA);
 111. Implementation o f improved small city wastewater management approaches in Tianjin coastal
      counties, including collection, industrial pre-treatment, wastewater treatment, and wastewater reuse;
 iv. Reduce discharge pollutionloadby 10%inpilot counties and coastal counties;
  V.  Reduce groundwater overdraft for irrigation purposed by 10% inpilot counties;
 vi. Reduction of pollution loading to Bohai Sea from at least one Tianjin small city by 10,000 tons of
      COD and 500 tons o f NH4 annually; and
 vii. Disposal of 2.2 million cubic meters o f contaminated sediment from the Dagu canal in an
      environmentally safe manner, and achieve a one time reduction o f 10,000 tons o f oil, 2,000 tons o f
      zinc, and 5,000 tons o f total nitrogen.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 25141             Date of latest CAS discussion: December 19, 2002

The proposed Project is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for China. The
sector related goal is the sustainable development and management o f water and other natural resources.
The Strategy includes environmental protection objectives, strengthening o f institutions and tools for
improved environmental management, and financing o f environment-related investments that will produce
rapid benefits. The proposed Project will contribute towards these objectives and actions by promoting a

more integrated approach to water resourcemanagement inthe Hai Basin, providing technical and financial
assistance for wastewater management in small cities and canal clean up (financed by TUDEP2), and
funding pre-investment studies for innovative projects including pollution prevention and wastewater
treatment and reuseldisposal. The proposed Project was mentioned in the CAS as a project to support
environmentally sustainable development, and specifically in the area o f improving water resources
management.

la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
The proposed Project falls under the GEF International Waters Focal Area, and specifically under
Operational Program Number 10: Contaminant-Based Program. The Project has direct relevance for the
Global Programme o f Action (GPA) for the Protection o f the Marine Environment from Land-based
Activities. The Project directly responds to the needs o f the GPA by seeking to reduce pollutant loadings to
the Bohai Sea through integrated water and environment management. The Bohai Sea is a semi-enclosed
sea with globally important ecological resources that provide significant fishery benefits to China, North
and South Korea, and Japan. The GEF Operational Program objective o f the Project is to improve'water
resourcesmanagement and reduce land-based sources o f pollutionto the coastal and marine environment o f
the Bohai Sea. Furthermore the Project will also consider the need for environmental flows inrivers, flood
plains, wetlands, and into coastal and estuary waters.

The integrated framework proposed by the Project will allow better understanding of important
surface-subsurface and water quantity-quality interactions, and facilitate important new management
approaches. Consistent with Par. 10.5 for OP 10, the Project will "play a catalytic role in demonstrating
ways to overcome barriers to the adoption o f best practices limitingcontamination o f international waters."
OP 10 is also the only International Waters program which does not require the Project to be tied to a
multi-country collaborative effort. The global benefits are the improvements of the Bohai Sea coastal and
marine environment, and the demonstration-dissemination-replication nation-wide and region-wide of
compliance with the GPA. Close cooperation with on-going GEF-financed efforts, such as the Yellow Sea
Large Marine Ecosystem (YSLME) Project and the Partnerships for the Environmental Protection and
Management of Asian Seas (PEMSEA) / Bohai Sea Project, will be maintained during Project
implementation. During Project preparation, linkages have already been established between the Project
management offices and periodic interactions will take place during implementation. The long-term
objective o f the former Project is ecosystem-based,by supporting environmentally-sustainable management
and use of the Yellow Sea. The proposed Project will contribute to YSLME Project's long-term objective
and to PEMSEA's objective to control land-based sources o f pollution o f the Bohai Sea and to establish
inter-jurisdictional coordinatingmechanisms to address environmental issuesinthe Bohai Sea.

The Project also supports the objectives o f the Convention on Biodiversity, insofar as one o f the
components focuses on environmental needs for water (see Annex 2). This will include specific studies on
requirements for reduced pollution and increased flows to the Bohai Sea in order to enhance marine
ecology, and other studies to determine minimum ecological flows for water courses and wetlands in the
Hai Basin.

In the Hai Basin (as elsewhere) the poor are the first and most seriously affected by the deteriorating
environment. This can lead to social instability, which i s a global concem. Water pollution negatively
affects water sources for domestic and irrigation purposes impacting on health and livelihoods. Untreated
wastewater i s used for irrigation when other water sources are not available. Water table drawdown affects
the poor directly because their wells are normally shallow and dry up sooner. The need to drill deeper
wells, install more powerful pumps and consume more electricity i s a continuous burden on poor farmers,



                                                    - 3 -

many of which end up without irrigation water which has a major effect on their livelihood, and forces them
to use often polluted surface water for domestic and irrigation purposes. The Project will support
integrated water and environment management in rural and peri-urban areas and will involve farmers to
participate inthe definition o f viable alternatives to improve the water resource conditions and use pattems.
Community Driven Development (CDD) will be piloted in one of the demonstration projects to build in
more participation and ownership.

The Project is also consistent with the Bank's 2001 Environment Strategy, its 1993 Water Resources
Management Policy and its 2003 Water Resources Sector Strategy. The Environment Strategy emphasizes
the need to improve the quality o f growth, reduce environmental health risks, improve the institutional
framework for environmental management, and protect regional and global commons--all key elements of
the proposed Project. The Water Resource Policy stresses the importance o f managing water in a
comprehensive and integrated manner, which is one o f the primary objectives o f the Project. The Water
Resources Sector Strategy emphasizes the importance dedicating more effort to integrated water resources
management actions in water rights administration, discharge control, water conservation, pricing,
institutional strengthening combined with infrastructure investments and poverty alleviation. The Project
will support the management part o f this equation linked to major ongoing infrastructure investment
programs.

Finally, the proposed Hai Basin Project also is in line with the World Bank's China Country Water
Resources Assistance Strategy (CWRAS), which is an outgrowth o f the Water Resources Sector Strategy.
The CWRAS addresses the important issues and provided a good foundation for future Bank assistanceto
China in water resources management issues. One of the important messages in the CWRAS is that
integrated water resources management is both a top down and a bottom up set o f activities. It i s not
possible to achieve integrated water resources management only by establishing laws, policies, regulations
standards, and water allocations from the top down. Implementationneeds to be bottom up. InChina that
means that the counties (and the townships, villages, and individual water users) need to be directly
involved in planning and implementing integrated water resources management actions, including water
rights and well permit administration, and enforcement, discharge control, industrial restructuring, "real"
water savings measures, wastewater treatment, treated effluent reuse, etc. The Project addresses many o f
the important issues discussed in the CWRAS including a strong emphasis on top-down bottom-up water
resources management.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Degradation of the Bohai Sea

The Bohai Sea, located in the northwest corner o f the Yellow Sea, is one o f the world's ecologically
important, and stressed, bodies o f water. The fishery resources are important to China, Japan, and North
and South Korea. More than 40 rivers discharge into the Bohai Sea, of which the Yellow (Huang), Hai, and
Liao rivers are the most significant. From an ecological perspective, the Bohai Sea is a large, shallow
embayment o f the Yellow Sea. The Yellow Sea, in turn, is a shallow continental sea o f the northwest
Pacific Ocean. These relationships are important becauseo f the physical and biological links between these
systems. In particular, fish and shellfish stocks in the Yellow Sea are dependent on the Bohai Sea as a
reproduction and nursery area.

The open water environment in the Bohai Sea supports diverse marine life including invertebrates, fishes,
marine mammals and birds. In the past, a major source o f larvae and juveniles for the East China Seas
came from the Bohai Sea, but this function has steadily diminished. Therefore, the ecological condition o f



                                                       - 4 -

the Bohai Sea is critically important for maintaining fishery stocks and biodiversity in northwest Pacific
Ocean fisheries. It is generally accepted that over-fishing, pollution, reduction o f freshwater inflows and
habitat loss have combined to reduce these ecosystemfunctions.

The Bohai Sea has historically been an important fishing area due to its location adjacent to major
population centers, and its role as a seasonal spawning and nursery ground for the larger and more
productive Yellow Sea fishery. The history o f Bohai Sea fisheries is one o f boom andbust scenarios, with
the major impact being the introduction of motorized fishing vessels in the 1960s, and new types of fishing
gear such as fine-mesh nets for prawns that also caught all kinds ofjuvenile and larval fish. In 1988, prawn
trawling was banned, and has beenreplaced now by thousands o f kilometers o f drift and set gill nets, which
also have a negative impact on juvenile and larval fish. A major paradox o f the Bohai Sea fishery is that
despite its damaged condition, it is still attracting increasing numbers of fishermen due to lack of alternative
employment inthe region for many people. Today, the Bohai Sea is very heavily fished, with almost 90,000
registered fishing vessels inthe provinces/municipalities surrounding the Sea.

Incontrast to the decline in the natural aquatic systems, aquaculture has grown rapidly, and the Bohai Sea
and northem Yellow Sea now account for almost two-thirds o f the PRC's total production. The major
species cultivated are prawns, oysters, clams, mussels, cockles, abalone, and seaweed. Pollution, both from
external sources and self-production, as well as diseases are increasingly affecting aquaculture production,
and the threat o f human disease and toxic contaminants are putting pressure on the government and the
industry to clean uppollutionproblems.

The Bohai Sea is subject to heavy land-based pollution from domestic, industrial, agricultural, and
livestock sources. The Bohai Sea is subject to one-third o f the wastewater and half o f the pollutant loading
discharged into seas bordering China. This amounts to 3 billion m' o f wastewater and 700,000 tons o f
pollutants per year. The areas where pollutant concentrations exceed the national standards in the Bohai
Sea, mainly for inorganic nitrogen and phosphorous, has been expanding and in 1997 it covered 43,000
km2,accounting for half o f the total sea area. The most seriously affected areas include the estuaries and
coastal shallows. Pollution has led to mass mortalities o f aquaculture species and contributes to an
increasing frequency o f harmful algal blooms, commonly known as "red tides."           In 1989 a "red tide"
covering 1,300 km2 formed in the Bohai Sea off the coast of Hebei; an even more massive "red tide"
extending over 3,000 km2appearedinthe Liaodung Gulfo f the Bohai Sea in 1998.

Water Pollution

Surface and groundwater quality in China has been seriously degraded due to lack o f effective pollution
control, combined with rising population and industrial operations. Sixty-eight percent o f the total river
length in the north China plains is classified as polluted (Le., unsuitable as raw water sources for drinking
water), and large amounts o f the groundwater resource is also polluted. Hai River is one o f the most
polluted river systems with more than 80% o f the river reaches classified as polluted. Much o f this is at or
above Class V (worst pollution category). Hai River discharges into the Bohai Sea and i s a major
contributor to its pollution loadings.

The Chinese Government is beginning to address the serious water pollution problem inthe Bohai Sea and
the Hai Basin, both o f which have been identified as priority areas in the 9th National Five Year Plan
(1995-2000). The State Environmental Protection Administration (SEPA) has prepared the "Bohai Blue
Sea Action Plan" and the "Water Pollution Prevention Program o f Hai River Basin." Both plans include
components of pollution control. The Govemment's efforts to control pollution has been focused on large



                                                        - 5 -

municipal and industrial sources, with the major cities of Beijing, Tianjin, and Shijiazhuang having
embarked on large-scale wastewater treatment plant construction programs. Despite considerable reduction
o f pollution generated from these large point sources, water quality has continued to decline. This trend
suggests that many other sources are contributing to water pollution. Reducing pollution from secondary
cities and towns and suburban industries is essential to improving water quality in the Hai Basin and the
environment o f the Bohai Sea. Although information on the impact on water quality from these areas is
limited, it is estimated that -together with surrounding rural areas -they account for more than half of the
total pollution generated in the Hai Basin. However, pollution from these peri-urban and rural areas is
largely uncontrolled. Almost none of the secondary cities and towns have wastewater treatment facilities.
Township and Village Enterprises (TVE) and other small industries located in and around these cities and
towns have very little pollutioncontrol infrastructure.

In2001, SEPA formulated the 10thFiveYear PlanofWater Pollution Prevention andTreatment inthe Hai
Basin, briefly named the Hai River Plan. The Hai River Plan is based on a Program o f Water Pollution
Prevention in the Hai Basin, approved by the State Council in March 1999. In this plan, the programmed
water quality goals o f some river reaches were revised, a control target index of gross amount o f pollutant
for 2005, COD and NH3-Nwere added, and some necessary water pollution treatment items were
supplemented.The Hai RiverPlan identifiedthat the key needs are to substantially reduce the gross amount
o f pollutant discharge in Hai Basin, to guarantee drinkingwater source areas reach standards, to address
cross-provincial water quality disputes, and to establish a control system for the gross amount o f NH3-N
pollutant.

Water Scarcity and Groundwater Mining

Water resources in China are unevenly distributed. While water resources are quite abundant in the south,
water availability inthe north is very limited.Inthe Hai Basin, water availability is only 305 m3per capita
which is about 14% o f the national average and about 4% of the World average. A 2001 study sponsored
by the World Bank, "Agenda for Water Sector Strategy for North China" estimates current economic losses
from water shortages of approximately US$7.3 billion per year in the three major river basins in North
China: the Hai, Huai, and Huang (Yellow River). Total abstraction o f groundwater in the Hai Basin i s
estimated to be around 26 bcmper year, which is approximately 9 bcmmore than the sustainable yield.

The Government has started to take measures to address water scarcity problems, including improving
irrigation efficiency, increasing the price o f piped water to encourage conservation and improve the
finances o f public water utilities, and encouraging wastewater reuse. One o f the most ambitious measures
i s the proposed "South-North Water Transfer Project" (SNWT Project). This Project, when completed, will
transfer 20 bcm o f water from the Yangtze River system to North China, including the Hai Basin, at an
estimated cost o f around US$ 10-15 billion.

China's leadership, in particular former Premier Zhu Rongji, has made a point o f emphasizing the need to
combine the construction o f the SNWT Project with redoubled efforts on water management and water use
efficiency, pollution clean-up and prevention, and appropriate (i.e,, higher) pricing. The official slogan
emerging from the high-level study session in October 2000, where it was decided to go ahead with the
Eastern and Central Routes o f the SNWT Project is "first save water, then transfer water; first treat
pollution, then move water; first protect the environment, thenuse water."

In order to safeguard sustainable development of the social economy in the capital city o f Beijing and
surrounding areas, the Capital Water Resources and Sustainable Utilization Plan for 2001-2005 for the



                                                     - 6 -

Early Part o f 21st Century, was approved by the State Council. The water consumption in Beijing has
exceeded bearing capacity o f the water resources and the ecological system due to rapid population and
economic growth and the high speed of urbanization. Therefore, inview of the water ecological system, the
planemphasized the needfor coordinated attention to population, resources, and the environment. The Plan
aims to achieve a general balance o f water resources supply and demand in terms o f the water supply
systems and the configuration o f water resources in local region, in order to guarantee sustainable
development o f the social economy in Beijing and surrounding areas. The Plan will include integrated
policies such as water conservation, water recycling, utilization of rainfall and flood waters, conjunctive
use o f surface water and groundwater, water resources protection, and adjustments inwater pricing.

Water and EnvironmentalManagement Institutions

The complex and interrelated nature o f water pollution, water scarcity, groundwater overdraft, and flooding
in the Hai Basin calls for an integrated approach to water and environmental management. An integrated
approach will lead to better understanding o f important surfacelsubsurface and water quality interactions,
and facilitate new management techniques. However, integrated water and environmental management
techniques are problematic because of difficulties in inter-jurisdictional and inter-administrative
cooperation along several dimensions.

Water and environment management involves many central-level ministries and agencies: Ministry o f
Water Resources (MWR), SEPA, Ministry o f Construction (MOC), Ministry o f Agriculture (MOA), and
others. MWR has the primary responsibility for overall management o f the nation's water resources, and
SEPA has overall responsibility for pollution control. There are considerable overlapping jurisdiction
problems between these agencies and with other ministries and agencies concerning urban water supply,
water pollution control, groundwater management, and irrigated agriculture. Much o f this problem has its
foundation in Chinese law that applies to water resources (Water Law) and pollution control (Water
Pollution and Prevention Control Law --WPPC) in which mandates are not clear, with overlapping
responsibilities, and poorly defined planning linkages between the two ministries. Laws are traditionally
drafted to give ministries power, not to share power. The new Water Law passed in October 2002 has
partially clarified the division o f responsibilities between MWR and SEPA. The Project will provide a
powerful demonstration effect and an incentive to break through these horizontal institutional barriers.

The management role of central ministries is further limited by the increasing powers of provinces
following the decentralization process. According to the official government structure, local and provincial
agencies have vertical technical interaction with central ministries. However, the local and provincial
agencies report and depend on provincial and lower-level governments, especially in relation to
administration o f laws and most importantly for funding. Well-meaning principles (such as water allocation
at the basin level or polluter-pays-principle) are often in conflict with the economic interests o f the
provinces and lower-level governments which have limited legal obligation to downstream jurisdictions
under current Chinese laws. Administrative bodies -- whose financial viability depends on provincial
budgets -- empowered by laws to enforce regulations at the local level are often under pressureto act inthe
interest of local governments to the detriment of sound overall water or environmental resource
management. This has implications not only at the planning level, but also in critical areas such as
pollution enforcement. The Project will provide a powerful demonstration effect and an incentive to break
through these vertical institutional barriers.

China also has a number o f River Basin Commissions (RBCs) for its major river basins. The RBCs are
part o f the MWR and, while they have been established for many years, are unrepresentative of basin
stakeholders, have no separate governing board or corporate status, and have a major focus on basin


                                                      - 7 -

planning, hydraulic infrastructure construction and operation and flood control. It is difficult for the RBCs
to enforce provisions of basin plans on other sector ministries and provincial governments, and the
functions they perform overlap with activities undertaken at the provincial and local level. In principle,
RBCs prepare basin development and operating plans in full consultation with the provinces, sectoral
ministries, and other stakeholders. Inpractice, there are few formal consultation mechanisms, and the main
directives affecting RBC activities are received vertically from MWR. A further factor is that SEPA has no
institutionaUoperationa1presence at the basin level.

3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Land-Based Sources of Pollution to Bohai Sea: An important Project focus will be on water pollution
from coastal small cities in Tianjin Municipality for two reasons. First, the large urban areas in the Hai
Basin such as Beijing, Tianjin, and Shijiazhuang are already investing in large wastewater treatment plants
(WWTP); yet more than half o f the population and pollutant loading comes from outside the large urban
areas. Second, since Tianjin borders on the Bohai Sea, interventions to reduce wastewater flows should
have an immediate beneficial localized impact on water quality in the Sea. The GEF grant will finance
technical assistance to address complex water pollution control problems in the Tianjian coastal area,
including industrial pollution control, remediation o f contaminated canals that flow into the Bohai Sea, and
small city wastewater management institutional and financial issues. The Grant will also be used to pilot an
output-based financing mechanism for wastewater management inthe coastal areas. These activities will be
carried out in close coordination with the World Bank's FY03 TUDEPZ, which provides financing for the
rehabilitation o f the Dagu canal and small city wastewater investments.

Left on their own, the secondary cities and towns in the Hai Basin are unlikely to invest in comprehensive
wastewater management systems for several reasons. One is that the financial constraints facing secondary
cities and towns, and rural areas are severe. The fiscal position o f many small city govemments is weak
and many have heavy debt burdens. Another reason is that the massive national effort to control water
pollution i s mainly focused on point industrial sources and large urban areas (with populations over
500,000 inhabitants). Since national and provincial resources are major sources of financing for water
sector projects, the gap in planning seriously limits the development o f comprehensive wastewater
management in secondarycities towns.

China is beginning to recognize the importance o f peri-urban and rural non-point sources o f pollution,
especially animal wastes. SEPA is currently developing comprehensive regulations on this subject and part
o f the output o f the Project will be in defining the types and relative impacts o f non-point sources in the
Tianjin area as a basis for developing county policies on Non-Point Source (NPS) management.

Water and Environmental Management: The Project will finance the formulation and implementationo f
"Integrated Water and Environmental Management Plans" (IWEMP) in Tianjin Municipality and 10
counties throughout the Hai Basin. Pre-investment studies for priority infrastructure will also be
undertaken, with future financing coming from either local or intemational sources, including a possible
World Bank-financed follow-up project. The plans will consider both water quantity and quality issues,
with special emphasis on controlling pollution, treating wastewater, controlling groundwater overdraft, and
wastewater reuse. Although the area covered under the Project is only a small percentage o f the Hai Basin
(less than lo%), it i s expected that the plans will serve as powerful examples for other counties and
municipalities. The strategic choice was made to focus water resource planning based on administrative
boundaries at the county level rather than strict hydrological boundaries because existingjurisdictions have
the political authority and control the implementing agencies. Moreover, both Tianjin and the selected
counties in Hebei and Beijing are involved in on-going Bank operations (TUDEP2 and WCP) that are



                                                     - 8 -

already dealing, in a limited capacity, with some water resource management issues. However, in
recognition o f the importance of carrying out water and environment planning and implementation within
hydrologic boundaries, the Project will select one key subbasin (ZhangWeiNan) which will cover several
counties for development and initial implementationo f an IWEM Strategic Action Plan (SAP).

The Project will facilitate the development of new institutional arrangements for integrated water and
environmental management at the local, municipal, and basin level, and also provide policy support at the
various levels. At the local and municipal level, municipal and county coordinating mechanisms with
multiple agency participation for water and environmental management and organized by the local
governments will be established to coordinate all water resource related activities within the respective
jurisdiction. For the key subbasin (Zhangweinan) institutional cross-county arrangements for integrated
water and environment management will be explored. At the Basin level, new institutional arrangements
for basin-wide policy, planning, and management will be investigated and, hopefully, lead to the
establishment o f a high-level, multi-sectoral coordinating committee. During Project implementation a
high-level Project coordinating committee and high-level steering committees ledby MWR and SEPA will
provide the institutional and coordinating support for basin wide IWEM. The mandate, functions, and
authority o f the existing Hai Basin Commission (HBC) in relation to a possible Basin Coordinating
Committee will also be examined. The Project will also help the HBC improve its Knowledge Management
(KM)program, which includes activities such as measurement,monitoring, modeling, databases, planning,
and information dissemination related to water and environmental management.

C. Project Description Summary
1. Projectcomponents (see Annex 2 for a detailed description andAnnex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):

The Project will support the development of top-down and bottom-up mechanisms for integrated water and
environment management in the Hai Basin, based to the extent possible on existing institutional
mechanisms. The Project will also promote development of new coordination approaches at all levels that
will adopt practical and pragmatic methods to overcome current institutional bamers to integrated water
and environment management. The key aspect is that the Project needs to have maximum incorporation o f
horizontal and vertical integration.    Horizontal integration includes cross-sectoral cooperation and
coordination o f actions between water resources and environmental protection ministrieshureaus, as well
as others including agriculture and construction ministrieshureaus. Vertical integration includes direct
linking and constant interaction between the Central and Hai Basin component activities and the smaller
jurisdictions o f Zhangweinan subbasin, Tianjin municipality, and Beijingmebei counties components. The
Project will be implemented intwo phases (see Annex 12). The two phasedapproach will permit a process
o f good planning followed by specific actions to affect real change. Paralleldemonstration projects will test
and demonstrate high priority actions that are clearly needed throughout the basin. The Project includes
four components:

Component 1: IntegratedWater and EnvironmentManagement IWEM(US$14.70 million)
                                                                      -
This component will finance consultant services, training, goods and small works. The IWEM will be
dividedinto 3 subcomponents: (a) Strategic Studies at the central and Hai Basin levels; (b) integrated water
and environment management planning; and (c) demonstration projects. All three o f these subcomponents
are very closely interrelated. The strategic studies will support and provide guidance to IWEMPs and to
the demonstration projects. The demonstration projects will provide important practical input into the
IWEMPs. There will be constant interaction between these subcomponents to ensure that they are all
working together in an integratedmanner.



                                                    - 9 -

Subcomponent 1A Strategic Studies (US$2.15 million)
                     -                    -

The eight strategic studies focus on four primary areas of concem at the Hai Basin level: policy, legal and
institutional issues;   environmental needs for water including the Bohai-Hai linkages;       water quantity
management; and pollution management. The eight strategic studies are:              - prepared under Central
MWWSEPA Project Management Offices (PMOS) - (a) Policy and Legal Framework and Institutional
Arrangement; (b) Bohai Sea Linkage;        -  prepared under Hai Basin PMO - (c) Countermeasures for the
Protection and Measurement o f the Water Ecological System; (d) Water Savings and High Efficiency
Water Utilization; (e) Administration o f Water Rights and Well Permits, and Sustainable Groundwater
Exploitation; (9 Wastewater Reuse; (g) Water Pollution Planning and Management; and prepared under
Beijing PMO (h) Rationalization of Beijing Water Resources. These will provide both the substantive
                -                                                                            -

framework for the entire Project as well as guidance for the IWEMPs. The time frame for the strategic
studies allows both for horizontal linkages between the studies and with the IWEMP planning process.

Subcomponent 1B Integrated Water and Environment Management Planning
                      -                                                                  - IWEMP     (US$9.19
million)

The IWEMP subcomponent is the core of the Project. It will provide an example of the methods and
benefits o f this approach to China and to the receiving environment o f the Bohai Sea. The subcomponent
will provide the context within law, policy, institutional arrangements, and operational practices, for the
development o f practical approaches to IWEM at the basin, sub-basin, and county levels. The IWEM
planning process for selected counties in Beijing and Hebei, and for Tianjin municipality will utilize the
outputs o f the strategic studies as a basis for developing specific IWEMPs for their respectivejurisdictions.
The demonstration projects (see below) will provide examples of how, in practice, specific aspects of the
IWEMPs can be implemented. This subcomponent will be carried out in 2 phases, the first phase will take
about 2 years and will involve the preparation o f the plans and the secondphase will take about 3 years and
will include initial implementation of the IWEMPs. The main purposes of the subcomponent will be to
improve the capacity o f local governments and water and environment management entities to carry out
IWEM, andto achieve specific andsustainableimprovements inwater and environmental outcomes.

The subcomponent will support the formulation of an IWEM Strategic Action Plan (SAP) for the selected
subbasin (Zhangweinan) prepared and implemented under the Zhangweinan PMO. The primary focus o f
the Zhangweinan SAP will be on water pollution, but water quantity aspects will also play an important
role insofar as quality and quantity management intersect invirtually all aspects o f pollution management.
The subcomponent will also support the preparation of IWEMPs in 5 counties in Beijing prepared and
implementedunder the Beijing PMO, in 5 counties in Hebei prepared and implemented under the Hebei
PMO and in all o f Tianjin prepared and implemented under the Tianjin PMO. These plans will: (a)
evaluate present surface and groundwater conditions in terms o f both quantity and quality; (b) establish
target objectives for improvements in water quantity and quality management including the definition of
monitoring indicators and monitoring and evaluation requirements for tracking improvements; (c) prepare
detailed plans for reaching targets using a 10 and 15 year horizon; and (d) define a set o f initial actions to
be implemented during the second phase of the Project. In the second phase o f the Project, the
subcomponentwill support implementationo f actions definedin the first phase which will include activities
such as preparation o f feasibility studies and designs, training an capacity building, and implementation o f
small civil works in activities which could include installation o f measuring devices and monitoring
stations, onfarm irrigation system improvements, land leveling, changes in agriculture practices,
groundwater recharge, wells, wastewater collection and treatment, and environmental restoration. The
subcomponent will facilitate the establishment o f institutional coordinating mechanisms for IWEM in the


                                                      - 1 0 -

Beijingand Hebeipilot counties and inTianjin. The intention is to help to improve, develop, and implement
a set o f policies, and legal, administrative and institutional instruments at the county and municipal level.
A basin-wide IWEM SAP will be prepared under the Hai Basin PMO for the entire Hai Basin during the
second phase o f Project implementation after the strategic studies and the county and municipal IWEMPs
have been prepared, and based on lessons leamed from them, with focus on capacity building and basin
integrated management, on the basis o f the natural characteristics o f the basin, the existing Bohai Action
Plan, and the 10th Five Year Plan o f Water Resources Protection and Water Pollution Prevention in Hai
Basin.

Subcomponent I C Demonstration Projects (US$3.36 million)
                       -

This subcomponent will finance demonstration projects preparedand implementedunderthe Beijing, Hebei
and Zhangweinan PMOSthat will serve as experimental units to carry out the IWEMPs. The demonstration
projects will be carried out in selected counties will address: (i)  effective control of wastewater discharge,
(ii)pollutioncontrol combined with environmental improvements, (iii) water saving and (iv) effective
                                                                           l'real''
management o f water rights and well permits.        These are all critical areas common to all Hai Basin
counties and they will provide powerful examples on how to address these complicated issues in an
effective manner at the county level. As these demonstration projects progress, they will provide guidance
to the counties and municipality for how to address these issues in the IWEMPs. The demonstration
projects will include an initial design phase which will take about 1 year. Annual action plans will be
developed for each demonstration project basedon the concept o f refiningand improving the demonstration
projects based on the previous year's experience.

Component 2: KnowledgeManagement KM(UB5.85)  -
This component will finance consultant services, training and goods and will be implementedunder the Hai
Basin PMO. The KM component will have 2 subcomponents: (a) KM Development; and (b) Remote
Sensingand Evapotranspiration (ET) management systems. These subcomponents are very interrelated and
need to be prepared and implemented in a coordinated manner. KM is the technical basis through which
the Project will be implementedand all KMactivities at all levels are grouped together inthis component.
Further, to ensure that this remains a needs-driven and not technology-dmen component, significant
attention will be given to the managementof the component.

Subcomponent 2A Knowledge Management KM (US$4.25 million)
                      -                           -

This subcomponent will provide a service function for all users and clients within the Project and will
provide hardware and software tools to help Project participants to address their specific issues. The
subcomponent will improve data management, common information system platforms, standardized data
transfer and security protocols, decision-support requirements, data acquisition including remote sensing,
and purpose-specific systems such as water use and pollution discharge permitting and tracking. A key
initial activity i s a GIS-based approach for integrating the two different water function zone systems to
allow MWR and SEPA data systems to communicate and to managewater and the water environment in an
holistic manner. KM activities are essential for improving basin-wide water quality monitoring and
modeling systems, water ecological environment monitoring systems for river reaches and other water
bodies in the Basin, including a coastal water quality model; basin-wide network o f flow monitoring
stations coupled with a simulation model for real-time reservoir management and water allocation; regional
groundwater models; GIS mapping; satellite imagery for improvedresources management, etc. Inaddition,
KMactivities will strongly support the KMneeds of Project pilot counties in Beijingand Hebei, Tianjin
municipality and Zhangweinan subbasin.         This will include hardware, soflware and training aspects


                                                     - 11 -

concentrating on GIS systems, data sharing and management, monitoring, modeling, remote sensing and
water and environment planning.

The development of the KM system will depend on the close collaboration between the MWR and SEPA,
as well as other units at all levels related to the use and conservation of water resources in the Hai Basin.
The systemwill taken into consideration both differences with present managementmethods of the various
units and the practical needs for sharedKM.DuringProject preparation, this collaborationproceededwell
resulting in a significant breakthrough in MWWSEPA cooperation, which has been poor in the past. The
Kh4subcomponent will bejointly managedby MWRand SEPA through the Project KMGroup inorder to
ensure integration.

Subcomponent 2B Establishment of Remote Sensing (RS) Evapotranspiration (ET) Management
                            -
System (US$1.60 million)

This subcomponent will support improvements in the conservation of water resources and the water
environment, in order to achieve a rational water balance and its sustainablemanagement, basedon a focus
on ET management. ET management i s the principal innovative international cutting edge approach being
introduced under the Project. The key to sustainable water quantity management in the Hai Basin is to
reduce present amounts o f ET to sustainable levels (Le., reducing ET throughout the basin in order to
eliminate groundwater overdraft and provide more surface water for ecological purposes including
enhancing outflow to the Bohai Sea), and then, in the future, to manage ET within the basin to remain at
these sustainable amounts. Many o f the Project activities needto be solidly based on the ET management
concepts including: (i)         high-efficiency water utilization and "real" water savings, (ii)                    administration o f
water rights and well permits, and (iii)              water quantity management within the IWEMPs in Tianjin and in
the Beijing and Hebei counties. Utilizing remote sensing techniques, the sub-component will evaluate basin
wide existing ET and existing ET for all o f the counties within the Hai Basin. Then the amount that
basin-wide ET would need to be reduced in order to achieve sustainableuse will be determined and a target
ET reduction will be assigned to each Project county involved in IWEM. The sub-component will then
support remote sensing and GIS techniques to develop county level ET reduction plans that will become an
integral part o f water quantity management within the IWEMPs. The "real" water savings demonstration
project will develop practicalapproaches at the county level for remote sensingbasedET management.

Component3: TianjinCoastalWastewater Management(UW4.13 million)*

The component will be implemented under the Tianjin PMO and will assist Tianjin address critical water
pollution control issues in the coastal area by supporting two activities under the World Bank-financed
Second Tianjin Urban Development and Environment Project (TUDEP2): i)wastewater infrastructure to
about two small cities inthe coastal districts of Tianjin; and ii)renovation o f the Dagu Canal system. The
total cost for the first activity is estimated at US$43.10 million, with Hangu as the priority small city, and
the second city will be identified during project implementation. Under the GEF project, Small City
Wastewater Management Studies will cover institutional, financial, and technical studies for wastewater
management programs in Hangu, and the second small city. The Project will also fund a Small Cities
Financial Support Program to help the two small cities meet their financial obligations. Instead o f
providingconstruction subsidies, the basic concept is to provide output-based aide duringthe early years o f
wastewater treatment plant operation. In order to receive these subsidies, however, the small cities must
demonstrate they have: i)a well-performing wastewater treatment plant, ii)a comprehensive collection
system network; and iii)an industrial pollutionpre-treatment program within the network collection area.

*) Togetherwith the associatedparallel financingthroughthe TUDEP2 the costof this componenttotals about USS102.38 million.




                                                                 - 1 2 -

 The Dagu Canal Technical Assistance activity will assist the TUDEP2 on technical aspects related to the
 renovation o f the 83 km-long Dagu Canal system. The Canal has served as the main wastewater canal for
 Tianjin City for four decades, is filled with contaminated sediment, and discharges directly into the Bohai
 Sea. The total cost for the Dagu Canal renovation is estimated at US$55.15 million, which will be financed
 under the TUDEP2. The key technical issues are how to safely treat and dispose the large quantity of
 contaminated sediment. The Dagu Catchment Industrial Pollution Control program will support an
 industrial pollution control and pre-treatment study, and improve monitoring and enforcement of discharges
 into Dagu canal. Control o f industrial pollution is essential for the successful renovation of Dagu canal,
 and the proper operation o f municipal collection and treatment systems.

 Component4: ProjectManagement,MonitoringandEvaluation, and Training(US$8.64 million)

 This component will finance consultant services, training and goods. Hai Basin Project management will
 support coordinated and integrated actions by the MinistriesIBureaus o f environmental protection and water
 resources at the various levels. All Project Management Offices (PMOs) will have Joint Expert Groups to
 assist the PMOs in coordination, review, supervision and in some cases execution o f technical activities
 under the Project. The Central PMOs will be supported by an international expert panel with broad
 experience in water quality and quantity management, water and environment planning and knowledge
 management. The PMOs will also arrange international and domestic study tours and intemational and
 domestic training on a variety o f topics related to IWEM, river basin management, knowledge management,
 "real" water savings and ET management, pollution control, water rights and well permits, wastewater
 treatment, wastewater canal clean up, wastewater reuse, ecological restoration, etc. The Project will also
 support PMO operations, monitoring and evaluation and other Project management aspects mainly through
 counterpart funding.

                                                                                                Yo of                    Yo of


 1. IntegratedWater and Environment                       1     14.70       44.1      0.00
 Management
 2. KnowledgeManagement                                          5.85        17.6     0.00         0.0        2.32       13.6
 3. Tianjin Coastal Wastewater Management                        4.13        12.4     0.00         0.0        3.74       22.0
 4. Project Management, Monitoring and                           8.64       25.9      0.00         0.0        3.83       22.5
 Evaluation, and Training
                                  Total Project Costs     I     33.32      100.0      0.00         0.0        17.00      100.0
                                         Front-endfee                         0.0     0.00         0.0        0.00         0.0
                           Total FinancingRequired                         100.0      0.00         0.0        17.00      100.0

Note:  1. Inthis table, component costs include contingencies.
       2. An additional cost of US$98.25 million for the Tianjin Coastal Wastewater Management component i s included in TUDEP2.

 2. Key policyandinstitutionalreformssupportedby the project:
 The following reforms will be promoted under the Project:

       i.Establishment of Institutional CoordinatingMechanisms in Tianjin, Zhangweinan, and the
           selected Pilot Counties: Water coordinating committees or other institutional coordinating
           mechanisms will be established to coordinate all water resource related activities within the
           respective jurisdiction. This is necessary because water quality i s usually regulated by the
           Environment Protection Bureaus (EPBs); the Water Resources Bureaus (WRBs) typically manage
           water allocations and flood control; and there are weak linkages between the public water and



                                                             - 1 3 -

         wastewater utilities, and the environmental and water resource bureaus. In a situation of extreme
         water scarcity, extensive water pollution, and unsustainable groundwater mining, a coordinating
         body with jurisdiction over the various bureaustagencies i s required to achieve the necessary
         integrated management of the resource.

     11. Establishment of a High-Level Hai Basin Coordinating Mechanisms: The same problems that
         exist at the county and municipal level also exist at the basin level. New institutional arrangements
         for basin-wide policy, planning, and management will be explored and, hopefully, lead to the
         establishment o f a high-level, multi-sectoral coordinating committee for the Hai Basin. The
         mandate, functions, and authority of the existing HBC in relation to the Basin Coordinating
         Committee (BCC) will also examined.

    111. Policies for Controlling Groundwater Mining: Groundwater overdraft i s a
     ...                                                                                  huge problem in the
         Hai Basin, yet the administrative and regulatory structures for groundwater management are
         mostly ill-defined and poorly implemented. The Project will help improve the legal, policy, and
         regulatory framework for actions such as: defining aquifers and safe yields, creating groundwater
         management plans, permittingwells, licensing drillers, groundwater pollution control, etc.
     iv. Policies for Water Pollution Control: Improving water quality throughout China, and particularly
         in the Bohai Sea, will require more than just treating wastewater from large urban areas and
         industries. It will also require dealing with domestic and industrial wastes from towns and villages,
         and rural pollution such as livestock and agricultural run-off. The Project will help establish a
         broad water quality management framework for these issues and begin to address rural and small
         cityltown pollution on a pilot basis. Inaddition, the Project will explore different financing and cost
         recovery options for investments inwater pollutioncontrol insmall cities and rural areas.

3. Benefitsand target population:
One set o f benefits revolves around improved public health, healthier ecosystems, and environmental
aesthetics. Public health benefits stem from reduced use o f untreated wastewater for irrigation, which
endangers both the irrigators and the people who consume vegetables and other sensitive crops. Public
health benefits will also accrue from reduced contamination o f mariculture and capture fisheries, such as
prawns, oysters, clams, mussels, cockles, abalone, and seaweedcultivated inthe Bohai Sea. Pollution, both
from external sources and self-production, as well as diseases are increasingly affecting mariculture
production, and the threat o f human disease and toxic contaminants are serious problems. The clean-up o f
polluted sewage canals will also improve environmental aesthetics, including odors, and raise property
values alongside canals.

Economic benefits will also be generated from improved productivity of mariculture, and better
management o f water resources. Groundwater overdraft and pollution is threatening the sustainable use o f
aquifers which are valuable water storage reservoirs. Control o f groundwater overdraft will lower pumping
costs and preserve water for the future, thereby avoiding a "tragedy of the commons", with its
well-documented economic inefficiencies. Control o f groundwater pollution will also preserve valuable
water storage reservoirs for drinking water purposes, where the alternative o f building new storage
reservoirs or conveying water from large distances is generally prohibitively expensive for local use. Used
o f reclaimed wastewater will create valuable new water supplies for irrigation and non-potable municipal
and industrial use. Better water allocation more closely related to the economic value of water, including
managed reallocation o f water away from agriculture (without necessarily reducing agricultural yields) and
towards high value municipal and industrial uses. Finally, economic benefits at the farm level enhance
social stability which is o f great importance inthe Chinese system.




                                                      - 1 4 -

The China-GEF Hai Basin Integrated Water and Environment Project will significantly promote IWEM
with the long-term objective to make sustainable the use of water resources in the basin, where the water
crisis has become increasingly severe. Inachieving its objective, the Project will also exert great influences
on local socioeconomic development and people's livelihood. Development and implementation o f the
IWEMPs will include participation o f water users through water user associations and other mechanisms.
The water rights and well permits Demonstration Project will also introduce CDD concepts to ensure
maximum ownership by the water users and the community in addressing and implementing the difficult
choices necessaryto achieve sustainable use o f water resources.

The Hai Basin covers the Beijingmunicipality, Tianjin municipality and Hebei province and parts of other
provinces in and around the North China Plain. People living in this area have seriously suffered from
water shortage and water pollution - especially those in the rural areas outside Beijing and Tianjin who
account for the majority o f the population under the Project in the provinces. Control o f water use and
pollution in the basin, supported by the Project will lead to improvement inpeople's living conditions and
rehabilitation o f their production sustainability. The Project will also require changes in their water use
behavior that further lead to multiple interaction between their economic activities and water and
environment management. As the Project beneficiary, therefore, local people's understanding, participation,
and collaborationwill be pursued to ensure Project success.

A social assessment was conducted for the Project to ensure that the different needs and aspirations of the
Project beneficiaries and impacted people were taken into account. In terms o f promoting IWEM, the
participation o f women and men in Project activities as well as benefit sharing is pursued. The Project also
encourages the organization o f Water User Associations (WUAs), in which women and men farmers
participate and are empowered. Female members in the WUAs` leadership are encouraged. The enabling
environment for gender equality in the Project area is good (e.g., existing legal and regulatory framework
that promotes equality; adaption o f international conventions and commitments; an extended network of
individuals, universities and research institutes, and NGOs that promote gender equality).

4. Institutionalandimplementation arrangements:
The implementation arrangementswill buildupon the existing management structures for the TUDEP2 and
the Water Conservation Project (WCP). The following agencies will have involvement in Project
implementation.

   0    Ministry o f Water Resources (MWR)
   0    State EnvironmentalProtection Agency (SEPA)
   a    Ministry of Construction (MOC)
   0    State Oceanic Administration (SOA)
   0    MinistryofAgriculture (MOA)
   0    Ministry of Finance (MOF)
   0    BeijingMunicipality
   0    Tianjin Municipality
   a    Hebei Province
   0    Hai Basin Commission (HBC) (under the MWR)

A Project Coordinating Committee ledby MOF and with participation from MWR, SEPA, Beijing, Hebei
and Tianjin will be responsible for coordinating the smooth implementation o f the Project. High-level
Steering Committees headed by Vice Ministers and Project Management Offices in MWR and SEPA will
be responsible for implementing their parts o f the Project in coordination with each other, and with the



                                                     - 15-

Project provinces/municipalities, counties and sub-basin. Leading groups and Project Management Offices
will be responsible for their parts o f the Project in Tianjin, Beijing, Hebei, Hai Basin Commission,
ZhangWeiNan and in each o f the Beijingand Hebei pilot counties, all in coordination with each other, and
with the central level PMOS.

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives consideredand reasons for rejection:
A project that would only support those aspects of water and environment management under the
responsibility o f MWR and the provincial and county water bureaus was considered. This alternative
would be much easier to implement than the proposed Project because it would not require coordination
between different government entities, but would not be able to support the Project objective of promoting
integrated water and environment managementwhich requires the involvement o f MWRand SEPA andthe
respective provincial and county water resources and environmental protection bureaus, as well as
participation from MOF, MOA, MOC, and others and their correspondent provincial and county level
entities. In particular, the Project would not be able to include the water environment which i s under the
jurisdiction o f SEPA andfor which MWR does not have responsibility.

A project that would only involve the county and municipal levels and not address Hai Basin or Central
level water and environmental management issues was considered. This alternative would also be easier to
implement and would address many bottom-up issues, but was rejected because it would not support basin
and central level policy, strategy, and institutional issues that are essential for integrated water and
environmental management.

The development of a complete Hai Basin IWEMP was considered as an additional Project activity, but
was rejected, because insufficient institutional mechanisms presently exist to effectively develop and
implement such a plan. With the successful implementation of the Project, a second phase could be
prepared and implementedthat would include a Hai Basin IWEMP.

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoingand planned).
                                                                                 Latest Supervision
               Sector Issue                            Project                      (PSR) Ratings
                                                                             (Bank-finance projects only)
                                                                            Implementation   Development
 Bank-financed                                                                Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)

 Wastewater treatment, sewage system BeijingEnvironment Project 2                  S              S
 development, drainage company
 strengthening
 Water supply, wastewater treatment,       HebeiUrbanEnvironment                   S              S
 institutional strengthening               Project
 Wastewater treatment, sewage system       Huai River Basin Pollution              S              S
 development, institutional strengthening Control Project
 Wastewater treatment, institutional       Liao River Basin Project                S              S
 strengthening
 Irrigated agriculture system              Water Conservation Project              S              S
 improvements and water conservation,
 self-financing irrigation and drainage



                                                   - 1 6 -

 districts and groundwater management
 Irrigated agriculture system               Tarim Basin Project 2
 improvements and water conservation,
 self-financing irrigation and drainage
 districts and river basin management
 Wastewater treatment, sewage system        ShandongEnvironmentProject
 development, institutional strengthening
 Irrigated agriculture system               Yangtze Basin Water Resource:
 improvements and water conservation, Project
 self-financing irrigation and drainage
 districts and river basin management
 Wastewater treatment, sewage system        Guangxi Urban Environment
 development, river basinmanagement         Project
 Irrigated agriculture system               IrrigatedAgriculture
 improvements and water conservation, Intensification Project 2
 andself-financing irrigation and
 drainage districts
 Coastal zone planning andmanagement Sustainable Coastal Resources
 improvements, marine aquaculture           Development Project
Other development agencies
 ADB                                        "Transjurisdictional
 Transjurisdictional water pollution        EnvironmentalManagement
                                            Project"

 River basin management                     Yellow RiverLaw Project
                                                                                                I
lPlD0 Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), t (Highly Unsatisfactory)

3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Bank has assisted in financing 17 water resources and irrigation projects inChina and numerous water
supply and sanitation projects over the last 15 years. Generally, these projects have been implemented
efficiently, and time and cost overruns have not been excessive despite periods o f sharp price escalation. In
recent years the Bank has been supporting institutional aspects o f water and environmental management:
(a) at the Basin level inthe Yangtze Basin Water ResourcesProject, the Tarim Basin I1Project, the Guanxi
Urban Environment Project and the Liao Basin Environment Project; and (b) at the system level through
self-financing irrigation and drainage districts and water supply and sanitation corporations in numerous
projects. Key lessons from previous Bank-financed water resourcesprojects in China are that:

     i.detailed organizational and staff arrangements should be formulated and agreed before
         implementation;
     ii.counterpartfundingshouldbecommittedbeforeimplementation,includingthedirectparticipation
    ...  of the Provincial PlanningCommissions and Finance Bureaus;
    111. projects should include institutional development support for the strengthening o f provincial and
         localbureaus;
    iv. water and environmental management needs to have both bottom-up and top-down aspects;
         bottom-up activities need to have strong involvement by existing political/administrative entities
         (townships,    counties,  prefectures,    municipalities,    provinces)  including    their    respective
         technical/administrative bureaus (water, environmental protection, agriculture, construction, etc.)
         because these are the entities with direct line responsibility for management; top-down activities


                                                      - 17-

         should be concentrated at the river-basin level and should establish the enabling policy and
         strategic environment for cross-sectoral and cross-administrative boundary coordination;
    v. participation of water users inwater resourcesmanagement especially inthe lower-level bottom-up
         aspects is crucial; and
    vi. data and knowledge management activities are critical to water and environment management and
         needto be widely sharedand compatible.

Experience with institutional development Project indicates that strong government support i s necessaryfor
its success, and that specialized TA during early implementation i s important to help promote, teach, and
establish institutional reforms before full implementation begins.

The 1993 World Bank Policy Paper on Water Resources Management and Chinese Government policy are
compatible and emphasize the following principles: (a) water resources should be managed and developed
in a comprehensive integrated manner and consider cross-sectoral issues with the goal of ensuring the
sustainability o f the water environment for multiple uses as an integral part o f the country's economic
development process; (b) water resources planning and management should be carried out considering the
interrelationships between water, land and human resources with the objective o f enhancing economic
growth and development in an environmentally sustainable manner; (c) water is an economic resource and
therefore should be managed in an economically efficient manner; (d) the river basin should be the basic
unit for planning and managing water resources; (e) water users should participate directly in water
resources management and development; and (9 water use should be efficient and environmentally
sustainable.

Cooperation between SEPA and MWR has been difficult to achieve in previous Bank supported projects.
To achieve good cooperation, projects should be implemented in the high priority areas with strong
emphasis for cooperation by high Chinese government leadership; SEPA and MWR should agree up front
to supporting cooperation at all levels of government within a project and mechanisms should be included
in projects to ensure this cooperation; and to the extent possible laws should clearly define the
responsibilities o f the different agencies. The Hai Basin and the Bohai Sea are identified as critical
high-priority areas for improved water and environment management in the last two five-year plans and the
priority has been elevated even higher in consideration o f the 2008 Olympics to be held in Beijing. SEPA
and MWR have been directed by the highest levels o f the Chinese Government to cooperate inIWEMinthe
Hai Basin. DuringProject preparation, Leading Groups, PMOS,and Joint Expert Groups were established
that required and have resulted in close cooperation between SEPA and MWR and between their
counterparts at lower levels. The October 2002 Chinese Water Law has brought more clarity to the role o f
MWR and SEPA inwater and environment management.




                                                    - 1 8 -

4. Indicationsof borrower and recipientcommitmentand ownership:
The Chinese government, at all levels, i s committed to improving the ecological health of its coastal waters
and better management of its water resources. An important policy milestone was reached in July, 2000
when     the representatives from the         State Oceanic Administration       (SOA)     and the coastal
provinceslmunicipalities signed the "Bohai Declaration" which outlines the principles and objectives for
saving the Bohai, and commits their agencies to specific actions to achieve these goals. In 1999 the Marine
Environmental Protection Law (MEPL) was amended to better protect and improve the marine
environment, conserve marine resources, abate pollution, and ensure sustainable coastal and marine
development. O fparticular importance for the proposed Project is Article 3 o f the MEPL which calls "total
quantity control" o f pollutants basedon the measured carrying capacity o f the coastal waters. SEPA is held
responsible for the prevention andcontrol o f land-basedpollutionthat impacts the marine environment, and
in 1999 introduced the "Blue Sea Action Program." The State Council has also ratified the "Blue Sea
Action Program" which presents a suggested investment program o f around US$7.2 billion for reducing
land-based sources o f marine pollution. State Council Circular 37 [2000]         promotes the concept o f
integrated water resources management, water pollution control, and water conservation. Finally, both the
9th [1995-20001 and 10th [2000-20051 National Five Year Plans agreed by multiple ministries stress the
needfor integrated water and environmental management, with the HaiBasin identifiedas highpriority.

Government commitment to improve water management inthe Hai Basin and the Bohai Sea environment is
also demonstrated by the on-going investments in wastewater collection and treatment in the large cities
(Beijing and Tianjin) and agricultural water conservation infrastructure, such as the Bank-financed Water
Conservation Project (WCP). For secondary towns in Tianjin, the townslcounties must finance the
wastewater treatment works either through loans or self-financing covering all investmentcosts.

MWR, SEPA, Tianjin Municipality, Beijing Municipality and Hebei Province all participated in the
preparation o f the GEF Concept Note and GEF PDF-B Grant request and the two preparation missions o f
the Project, and strongly support the Project, having utilized to a great extent their own human and
financial resources to undertaken Project preparation activities. MOF, MWR, SEPA Tianjin, Beijing and
Hebei have made commitments to provide counterpart financing during Project implementation.                The
catalyzing effect of this Project is enormous and there is strong awareness by all o f the entities involved in
Project preparation that the Project is key to carrying out integrated water and environment management in
China. The incremental cost analysis (Annex 4) shows that billions o f dollars will be expended in near
future to try to solve these huge water quantity and water quality problems innorthern China. The Project
will contribute greatly to enhancing the benefits of these investments.

5. Value addedof Bank and Globalsupport in this project:
The Bank is helping the Chinese Government to develop and implement an integrated cross-sectoral
approach to water and environment management. The Project will address an important missing link in
efforts to improve water and environment management in the Hai Basin and the Bohai Sea environment.
Other GEF and Chinese initiatives are addressing the marine and coastal issues (PEMSEA and the Yellow
Sea MarineEcosystem Project). Large Chinese cities, such as Beijingand Tianjin, often with partial World
Bank financing, are beginning to construct wastewater treatment systems to reduce land-based sources of
pollution into the Bohai Sea. The proposed Project will complement these efforts by financing IWEM
activities at the county and municipal level in rural and peri-urban areas (see Annex 2 for more detail).
More than half o f the pollutant loading into the Bohai Sea comes from secondary cities andtowns and rural
areas. The general approach taken will be to develop an IWEM framework, which deals with water
scarcity, groundwater mining, and water pollution. Management improvements will take place fi-om the
bottom-up with pilot counties, at the middle administrative levels through Tianjin, and from the top-down


                                                     - 19-

at the basin and national levels.

The Project builds upon, fills in the gaps, and links two Bank-financed projects, the WCP and TUDEP2,
and fits into the overall framework for improving the Bohai Sea environment. It will also help provide the
management framework for integrated water resources management in the Hai Basin, which i s
indispensable for a long-term, sustainable approach to rescuing the Bohai Sea. Reducing pollution into the
Bohai Sea is best done within an integrated water resources framework. Although government policy calls
for an integrated framework, inter-jurisdictional and inter-administrative cooperation often proves difficult
in practice, and the Project will provide an incentive and approach to break through institutional barriers
and provide a powefil demonstration effect. The Bank is helping to provide international expertise to
provide Chinese counterparts with a broad range of management experiences and instruments to draw
upon.

E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessmentsare intheproject file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Costbenefit          NPV=US$ million; ERR= % (see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0 IncrementalCost
0Other(specify)

Per GEF requirements, a project-specific analysis on GEF incremental costs has been prepared and
included as Annex 4. IWEMPs, which will be prepared during the first phase o f Project implementation
will carry out costbenefit analyses o f alternatives in order to determine the best plans from an economic
standpoint. Social and environmental aspects will also be considered in selecting the activities for the
IWEMPs.

2. Financial(see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)

Financial analyses will be carried out as a part o f the preparation o f IWEMPs. These will evaluate the
financial feasibility o f different options. IWEMPs will also include financing plans that indicate the
schedule and sources o f financing for implementingthe actions defined in the IWEMPs. The Project will
provide only limitedfinancing for IWEMP implementation during the secondphase. Government and other
resourceswill be requiredto implement these plans, and the Project counties and Tianjin have committed to
work to line up these financing needs. The use of higher water charges in both irrigated agriculture and
water supply and sanitation will also be an important sources o f financing and financial sustainability.
These aspects will be defined during the preparation o f the IWEMPs.

Fiscal Impact:
3. Technical:

The Project will introduce a new practical approach to water savings in irrigated agriculture using remote
sensing and ET management rather than only focusing on imgation systems efficiency improvements,
which has been the approach in China in the past. Improving irrigation system efficiencies does not
necessarily save water and in fact can often increase the amount o f consumptive use (ET) o f irrigated
agriculture by eliminating leakages which were returning to the surface or groundwater systems and
utilizing that water for more crop production. "Real" water savings focuses on reduction in ET which can


                                                    - 20 -

be accomplished through a combination of irrigation technology, agriculture and management measures.
The objective is to reduce the ET at the county level to target levels and then maximize the production and
value o f production per unit of ET. There is a wide range o f water productivities (YieldET) for each crop
type depending on irrigation, agriculture and management practices. The Project will assist the counties in
evaluating the rangeo f water productivities inthe county for each crop type and to develop a planthat will
assist the farmers in moving from lower to higher water productivity practices, always keeping the target
ET for the county as the goal. Remote sensing combined with landuse information andcrop yields can be
usedto carry out this analysis for eachparceldown to sizes of 30 by 30 m. The Project will provide strong
technical support to the counties form the Hai Basin Commission and the Project KM Group to learn and
implement this innovative practicalapproach.

River reach files and coding systems will be developed in a platform where both MWR and SEPA and the
lower level water resourcesand environmental protectionbureaus will be able to share data and utilize it in
their water function zones and water environment function zones, respectively. This will greatly improve
the ability o f both entities to carry out their water and environment management functions. This will be an
important break through in information sharing.

Comprehensive wastewater management involves the collection, treatment, and safe disposal o f domestic
and industrial wastewater. Coastal cities in Tianjin are under intense pressure to adhere to national policy
and construct wastewater treatment plants, but they are facing a number o f constraints. First, the combined
drainage and wastewater networks are underdeveloped, and much o f the wastewater is not collected.
Second, many industries do not have pre-treatment and directly discharge toxic and hazardous wastewater,
which degrades the collection network and disrupts treatment plants. Finally, most small cities do not have
access to capital to investment in treatment plants and must enter into build-own-operate (BOT) contracts
with companies, resulting in dramatic tariff increases. The Project will address all three issues by funding
institutional and financial studies, technical assistance, and piloting a financing mechanism that provides
incentives for small cities to develop comprehensive wastewater managementprograms.

The Dagu canal system inTianjin s filled with approximately 2.2 million cubic meters of sediment,most of
it contaminated according to Chinese environmental standards. Dredging, dewatering, treatment, and safe
disposal o f the contaminated sediment is a complex and highly technical task. The Dagu canal cleanup i s
one o f the largest and most ambitious sediment remediation project undertaken in China, and the
experiences gained under the Project will be useful for addressing the hundredso f similar canals throughout
the country. The Project will finance intemational technical assistance to help local engineers address
complex technical and environmental issues.

4. Institutional:

During Project preparation and implementation, development and strengthening o f institutional mechanisms
for coordination and integration o f activities, carried out by different bureaus (water, environmental
protection, agriculture, construction, etc.) at the municipal and county levels, and by different ministries
and provinces at the Hai Basin level, will be a key element. At the municipal and county levels establishing
coordinating mechanisms i s considered to be feasible with the strong support from the governments. At the
Central level the Project Coordination Committee chaired by MOF will play an important role in the
coordination and integration of activities both at the central and Hai Basin levels. Establishment o f a
high-level    Hai    Basin     Committee      with    representation  from   the  various    ministries  and
provinces/municipalities will require high-level government commitment, and may not be feasible during
the Project implementationperiod. Project management mechanisms including the Coordination Committee



                                                       -21 -

and the Steering committees established in MWR and SEPA should provide adequate institutional
management support during Project implementation. One o f the Strategic Studies will address institutional
mechanisms at the Hai Basin level and make recommendations adopting new mechanisms that will ensure
the adequate participation o f the different ministries and provinces. The existing river basin commissions
are essentially departments o f the Ministry o f Water Resources and lack the authority to coordinate and
integrate water and environment management activities in the basins, and for this reason new institutional
mechanisms are needed.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The executing agencieswill be MWR and SEPA at the central level, and Beijingand Tianjin Municipalities
and HebeiProvince at the provincial level.
4.2 Project management:
A Project Coordinating Committee ledby MOF and with participation from MWR, SEPA, Beijing, Hebei
and Tianjin will be responsible for coordinating the smooth implementation o f the Project. High-level
Steering Committees headed by Vice Ministers and Project Management Offices in MWR and SEPA will
be responsible for implementing their parts of the Project in coordination with each other, and with the
Project provinces/municipalities, counties and sub-basin. Leading groups and Project Management Offices
will be responsible for their parts of the Project in Tianjin, Beijing, Hebei, Hai Basin Commission,
Zhangweinan and in each o f the Beijing and Hebei pilot counties, all in coordination with each other, and
with the central level PMOs. All PMOs will have Joint Expert Groups to assist the PMOs incoordination,
review, supervision and in some cases execution o f technical activities under the Project. The Central
PMOs will be supported by an international expert panel with broad experience in water quality and
quantity management, water and environment planning and knowledge management. These project
management arrangements are considered to be adequate.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement under the Project is expected to be straightforward, as most o f the procurement activities will
involve hiringconsultants; arrangements for training, seminars and study tours; and purchase o f computer,
office, and monitoring equipment. There will also be some small works that are yet to be defined. They
will be defined during their first and second year o f the Project when the demonstration projects and
IWEMPs will be planned. These works will be in activities such as installation of measuring devices
and monitoring stations, onfarm irrigation system improvements, land leveling, changes in
agriculture practices, groundwater recharge, wells, wastewater collection and treatment, and
environmental restoration. Civil works procurement activities relative to the Tianjin Coastal Wastewater
Management component will be carried out under TUDEP2. A procurement capacity assessment and
action plan and a first year procurement plan have been prepared. The Procurement capacity assessment
concludes that there is significant capacity available in the PMOs because o f work on other Bank projects
including particularly the WCP and TUDEP2. Some procurement training will be required. The MIS
developed and functioning under the WCP will be adapted and utilized for the present Project.
4.4 Financialmanagement issues:
Financial Management under the Project is expected to be straightforward. A Financial Management
Assessment Report has been prepared. The Financial Management Assessment Report concludes that there
is significant capacity available in the PMOs because o f work on other Bank projects including particularly
the WCP and TUDEP2. Some financial management training will be required. The MIS developed and
functioning underthe WCP will be adapted and utilized for the present Project.




                                                     - 22 -

5. Environmental:                            Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Specific actions to be included in the demonstration projects and IWEMPs will be defined during the first
and second year o f Project implementation. It is not possible at this time to specifically determine these
actions, but their overall purpose will be to improve water and environment management in the counties
where they will be implemented. The TORs for the IWEMPs and the demonstration projects will require
that alternatives are evaluated in terms o f economic, environmental, and social considerations with
extensive stakeholder participation. These activities will include some small civil works for actions such
as installation of measuring devices and monitoring stations, onfarm irrigation system
improvements, land leveling, changes in agriculture practices, groundwater recharge, wells,
wastewater collection and treatment, and environmental restoration. These actions will be very small
with probable negligible environmental impact, normally costing less than $50,000 per action. Eventhough
these activities are not likely to lead to significant negative environmental issues, an EA and an EMP, that
addresses steps that will be taken to ensure that adequateenvironmental protection and mitigation measures
are taken during the design and implementation o f these works, has been prepared and will apply.
Resettlement and land acquisition i s also not anticipated under the Project. However, in case such
resettlement or land acquisition would occur during Project implementation, the RPF that has been
prepared would apply.

During the initial phase of Project implementation, IWEMPs for about 10 counties, the Tianjin
Municipality, and a key subbasin (Zhangweinan) will be prepared and demonstration projects will be
designed in detail. The TORs for these IWEMPs and demonstration projects that were prepared during
Project preparation include requirements for consultation and participation. These activities will include
consultation with stakeholders through surveys and working sessions to ensure their adequate involvement
and input. Implementation of the IWEMPs and demonstration projects will require significant participation,
which will be defined in the IWEMPs and design o f the demonstration projects. The IWEMPs will be
designed to take into account all the different water uses and the entire range o f threats to water quality
including point and diffuse pollution sources. IWEM and demonstration projects will include involvement
by existing politicaliadministrative entities (townships, counties, prefectures, municipalities, provinces,
ministries) including their respective technical/administrative bureaus (water, environmental protection,
agriculture, construction, etc.), the entities with direct line responsibility for management. Participation o f
water users and polluters inwater resourcesmanagement is also important.
5.2 What are the main features o f the EMP and are they adequate?
A brief EMP was prepared. It summarizes how the Project will improve IWEM in the Hai Basin. The
EMP also addresses how small civil works will be implemented inorder to ensure environmental protection
and mitigation o f possible negative impacts. In general these impacts are considered to be small or
nonexistent. Because the Project is in fact a project to improve environmental management in the Hai
Basin, the entire PIP for the Project could be considered to be an overall EMP. The IWEMPs that will be
prepared during the initial phase o f Project implementation will be similar to EMPs for water resources
management for the counties, for Tianjin Municipality, and for the Zhangweinan subbasin. The EMP for
the TUDEP2 will cover activities related to the Tianjin Coastal Wastewater Management component.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                     Date o f receipt o f final draft: 11/15/2003



                                                       - 23 -

5.4 How have stakeholdersbeen consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draR EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
During the preparation of the EA water users and other stakeholders were consulted through a survey
carried out in the pilot and demonstration counties.          TORS for the preparation o f IWEMPs and
demonstration projects are being prepared during Project preparation. These TORSinclude requirements
for consultation and participation o f water users and other stakeholders to ensure that relevant viewpoints
are taken into account during the preparation o f these activities during Project implementation. As a part o f
the social assessment process, during Project preparation a detailed consultation process was undertakenin
two o f the Project pilot counties that are representative o f typical plain area and mountain area counties.
This consultation involved identification of water resources, water environment, agriculture and income
aspects. A specific problems analysis of water and environment conditions was undertaken in these
counties and potential solutions were discussedwith stakeholders. This consultation and problems analysis
i s illustrative o f what will be done in each IWEMP county during the initial stages o f IWEMP preparation.
5.5 What mechanisms have been establishedto monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP?
The overall objective of the Project is to catalyze an integrated approach to water resource management
and pollution control in the Hai Basin. The extent to which the Project will achieve actual reductions in
pollution and reductions inwater consumption are dependentupon the details and time o f the IWEMPs and
demonstration projects that will be prepared and designed during the first years o f Project implementation.
Each IWEMP and demonstration project will include a monitoring and evaluation component that will
specifically address the implementationand effectiveness o f the IWEMPs and demonstration projects. The
monitoring and evaluation plans for these activities will be prepared during the first phase o f Project
implementation and will identify monitoring sites, parameters and targets. IWEMPs and demonstration
projects will include baseline surveyslinventories o f surface and groundwater quantity and quality
conditions, uses and trends and establish specific objectives, timelines and indicators for IWEMP and
demonstration project implementation both during the life of the Hai Basin Project and beyond. The PIP
for the Project will includes a monitoring and evaluation plan which will monitor overall Project
implementation inaccordance with the PIP.

DuringProject preparation and specifically at the time of the appraisal mission, a special SEPMMWR
team was set up and given the responsibility to come up with preliminary estimates on the amounts o f
pollution loading and groundwater overexploitationpresently occurring ineach of the 10 IWEMP counties,
in the 3 demonstration counties in the Zhangweinan subbasin, and in the 3 counties in Tianjin that were
selected on a preliminary basis for second-phase implementation o f the Tianjin IWEMP. The team carried
out consultations with each o f the counties and preliminary estimates were made based on existing data.
From this analysis, total existing annual COD loading, NH4 loading and groundwater overexploitation for
all of these counties are estimated to be about 164,000 tons, 19,000 tons and 420,000,000 m3,respectively.


On a very preliminary basis it i s estimated that about 60% o f these pollution loadings actually make it into
rivers and eventually discharge into the Bohai Sea; much o f the pollution accumulates behind checks, in
reservoirs and in river sediments, and the discharge to the Bohai Sea occurs mainly as a result of
extraordinary flooding events that wash the pollution to the Sea. The Project objectives are to put in place
the mechanisms necessary to eliminate groundwater overexploitation and substantially reduce pollution
loading, over an approximate 10-year timeframe. Achieving these reductions will require much more
investment and effort outside the Project but within its framework. Actual reductions, directly attributable



                                                    - 24 -

to Project actions and during the 5-year Project implementation period were preliminarily estimated by the
SEPAIMWR team and by the Project counties to average about lo%, in terms o f both pollution loading
and groundwater overexploitation. These preliminary estimates will be refined and revisedduring Project
implementation as describedbelow.

The first phase o f the IWEMPs and Demonstration Projects, including the baseline surveys will refine and
detail these estimates, indicators and reduction objectives. The baseline surveys will be camed in the first
year o f project implementation. For water quantity, the baseline survey will include evaluation o f existing
data on groundwater levels and extraction. A water balance analysis will be carried out that will include
estimates o f recharge, extraction, and overexploitation based on the data. The total groundwater
overexploitation for each county will be revised based on this analysis. For water quality, the baseline
survey will include evaluation o f existing data on water quality, discharge to rivers, lakes, canals, and
groundwater. Additional data will be collected where data gaps exist. The total pollution loading for
selectedparameters will be revised based on this analysis for each county. The IWEMPs will be prepared
during the first and second years of Project implementation and will include year-by-year estimated
reductions in ground water exploitation and pollution loadings for their implementation periods.
Implementation o f the IWEMPs will begin inthe third year and the year-by-year reductions determined in
the plans will be usedas milestones duringthe secondphase ofProject implementation.

Inaddition, pollutioninto the Bohai seawill bereducedby activities under the Tianjin Coastal Component,
For each small city, starting with Hangu, these are estimated to result in annual reductions in pollution
loadings into the Bohai Sea o f 10,000 tons o f COD and 500 tons o f NH4. The Dagu canal has about 2.2
million cubic meters o f contaminated sediment. The pollution reduction will come from removing the
contaminated sediment from the canal, and disposing of it in an environmentally safe, contained landfill
site. According to preliminary sampling, oil and zinc are the two major pollutants o f concern in the Dagu
sediments. Based on pollutant concentrations in the sediment, there will be an estimated one-time reduction
o f approximately 5,000 tons o f nitrogen (as total N), 10,000 tons o f oil and grease, and 2,000 tons o f zinc
from the Dagu canal cleanup. The Dagu canal estimates are the amount o f pollution presently stored in
canal sediments that would eventually be washed into the Bohai Sea if the canal were not cleaned up.
Present discharge o f wastewater to the Bohai Sea through the Dagu Canal, estimated at 61,000 tons o f
COD and 9,400 tons of NH4 annually, will be eliminated due to other actions being taken by the Tianjin
government, outside the purview o f this Project. These estimates for pollution reductions for both Hangu
and the Dagu canal were based on feasibility studies carried out for these Tianjin Coastal Component
activities.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
As mentioned earlier, water and environmental management requires the involvement of existing
politicalladministrative entities and their respective technicaliadministrative bureaus, since these are the
entities with direct line responsibility for management. Participation o f water users and polluters in water
resources management is also important. Information management and sharing are also needed aspects o f
water and environment management. During the initial phase o f Project implementation IWEMPs for 10
counties (in Hebei and Beijing), the Tianjin Municipality and a key subbasin (Zhangweinan) and
demonstration projects in Hebei, Beijing and Zhangweinan will be prepared. This will include consultation
with water users, polluters and other stakeholders. These activities will take place through surveys and
working sessions to ensure their adequate involvement and input. Implementation o f the IWEMPs and
demonstration projects will also require significant participation, which will be defined in the IWEMPs and
demonstration projects designs.


                                                    - 25 -

The preparation of a Social Assessment (SA) assistedthe proposed Project to set up its social development
and poverty alleviation objectives and incorporate them into the Project strategic objectives as a whole, that
is, equitable allocation o f water to industrial and agricultural uses in the urban and rural areas, and
satisfaction o f the needs for water quantity and quality by groups o f people in various social strata with
different economic incomes; as well as sustainable development o f integrated water management systems in
terms o f legal, institutional, and local capacity building. Through the SA exercise, the Project i s able to
directly address the stakeholders and their needs and roles in Project activities, especially the primary
stakeholder, local farmers, in their varied productive situations; and to grasp the complex social diversities
and different gender roles inthe Project context.

Participation of the Project beneficiaries and participatory capacity building o f poor people will be
important aspects in the Hai Basin Project. With detailed case studies and surveys in the typical project
areas, studies as a part o f the social assessment have helped to understand how the socio-economic,
political, and institutional contexts influence the Project outcomes, and to detecting potential social risks or
adverse impact the Project may bringabout to local society.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating inthe project?
Preparation o f IWEMPs, demonstration projects, KM systems and strategic studies will include
consultation o f stakeholders to ensure that relevant viewpoints are taken into consideration.


The IWEMPs and demonstration projects will include a significant amount o f capacity building for
farmers.   The ET management, "real" water savings and groundwater management aspects will include
comparisons o f irrigatiodagriculturelonfarm management practices by different farmers, and those with
better practices will be heldup as examples to those with poor practices. There will also be a considerable
amount o f awareness raising o f farmers and other water users in regard to the sharing o f limited water
resources and the need to use them ina sustainablemanner interms o f both quantity and quality.

6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaborationwith NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Farmers associations and cooperatives, as well as business and social groups will be consulted as a part o f
IWEMP preparation during the first phase o f Project implementation. Mechanisms for their participation
during IWEMP implementationwill be defined inthe IWEMPs. To the extent possible farmer Water User
Associations (WUAs) will be established to facilitate preparation and implementation o f the irrigated
agriculture aspects o f IWEMPs.
6.4 What institutional arrangementshave beenprovided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The institutional mechanisms that will be designed and implemented at the county and municipal level will
include mechanisms for ensuring the involvement o f water users and other stakeholders in water and
environment management activities. The demonstration project on water rights and well permits will
include a pilot CDD component in order to introduce CDD concepts to ensure maximum ownership by the
water users and the community in addressing and implementingthe difficult choices necessary to achieve
sustainable use of water resources. To the extent possible WUAs will be established to enhance farmer
participation.




                                                     - 26 -

6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms o f social development outcomes?
The PIP will include a monitoring and evaluation plan which will include mechanisms for monitoring and
measuring the performance o f the Project in terms o f social development outcomes.

7. Safeguard Policies:




7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguardpolicies.
Although the Project has been determinedto be a Category C, because the small civil works will have very
limited environmental impacts, an Environmental Assessment (EA), Environmental Management Plan
(EMP), and Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) has been prepared, in order to ensure that any such
impacts would be avoided, minimized, or mitigated. No resettlement and land acquisition is anticipated
under the Project. However, in case such resettlement would occur duringProject implementation, the RPF
would apply. The Project will further provide technical assistance for activities related to the TUDEP2,
such as Dagu Canal rehabilitation and Small Cities wastewater management. The Small Cities Financial
Incentives Program under Component 3 (Tianjin Coastal Wastewater Management), will provide output
based (i.e., operational) financial support to about two small cities associated with TUDEP2, with Hangu
selected as the priority city and a second city to be identified during implementation. The TUDEP2 will
finance the construction o f wastewater collection and treatment facilities for the small cities, and the civil
works for the Dagu Canal rehabilitation. The TUDEP2 was approved by the World Bank Board in FY03
and the loan will become effective in early 2004. Since the TUDEP2 finances civil works for Dagu Canal
and the small city wastewater projects, social and environmental issues will be covered under the EA, the
EMP, and the RPF o f TUDEP2. Moreover, the World Bank TUDEP2 task team i s integrated into the
World Bank's GEF Hai Basin Task Team, ensuring close coordination between the two projects. No
significant resettlement issues are anticipated for either the Daguor small city wastewater projects.
While no cultural properties to be affected by Project activities have been identified, an appropriate clause
will be included inall works contracts regarding the procedures to be followed in the event of chance finds
o f culturally significant sites during Project activities.




                                                        - 27 -

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:

Counties and municipalities participating in the Project will establish institutional mechanisms to
coordinate across sectors to prepare and implement IWEMPs. Implementation o f the IWEMPs will
continue after Project completion and the IWEMPs will include financing plans for their implementation.
Successful preparation and initial implementation o f IWEMPs under the Project with sound institutional
mechanisms will be a powerful incentive for sustainability and also for replicability in other counties and
municipalities inthe basin and throughout China. Successful implementationo f KM systems including data
sharing mechanisms and particularly the coding and river reach file systems under the Project will be
adopted by MWR and SEPA and utilized throughout the basin and elsewhere in China.                     Having
Government budgeting for Project activities including KM and ET management through counterpart
funding will help to ensuretheir sustainable funding after Project completion.

Investments in wastewater infrastructure for small cities under the Project will be financed through a
combination of self-financing, IBRDloans, and GEF grants (the terms and conditions of the GEF grant will
be determined). Financial management and operational development plans are a condition for financing and
will be monitored during Project implementation.

The Chinese government has provided assurances about the priority nature of this Project and their
commitment to ensure adequate government support including financial resources for sustainability after
the Project is completed o f the successful Project actions.


la. Replicability:
The Project is designed to be highly replicable. The development of demonstration projects and IWEMPs at
the county level provides an excellent opportunity for replicability because first the water and environment
issues in most o f the Hai Basin counties are very similar to the Project pilot counties and second the
governmental set up in all Chinese counties is highly uniform. Successful demonstration projects and
IWEMPs will therefore be very replicable. The Chinese government has provided assurances that they will
take full advantage o f successful results o f the Project and promote broad replication. The Project will
include a good deal o f interaction between the Project pilot counties in the form o f study tours and
workshops to the different Project counties so that they can leam from each other. Once successful
experiences have been achieved other counties form the Hai Basin and from elsewhere in China will be
invited to visit and to leam. At the Basin level the experiences learned will be highly replicable to other
China basins (such as the Liao) with similar water scarcity and water pollution issues. In addition the
practical integrated water and environment approaches implemented in the Project address problems o f
water scarcity and pollution that are common in many parts o f the world. Therefore the potential for
replicability is very large.




                                                    - 28 -

2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found in the fourth column o f Annex 1):
                    Risk                           Risk Ratina      1            Risk Mitiaation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Bottom-up water resourcesmanagement                      M           The Chinese Government is committedto
at the county andmunicipal level will not                            strongly support replication of successful
be replicable and won't contribute to                                IWEMP.
IWEMat the basin level.
An improvedpolicy environment at the                     S           The Project is designedto plan and implement
central level will not contribute to                                 Project activities at grass roots level in
improved IWEM andplanning.                                           accordance with policies and improvedpolicies.
Improvements inKMandET                                   M           The KMand ET management subcomponents
management will not contribute to better                             have been designedto provide direct service to
IWEM.                                                                IWEMat the county, municipal and sub-basin
                                                                     levels.
Wastewater Treatment Plants will not                     M           Project will include technical assistanceto
operate as planned.                                                  ensure that adequate financial andoperational
                                                                     aspects are addressedduringthe planningphase.
From Components to Outputs
Counterpart funding will not be adequate                 M           Assuranceswere providedprior to negotiations
and not available on time.                                           that counterpart funding will be adequate and
                                                                     available on time.
County and municipal governments don't                   S           Assuranceswere provided prior to negotiations
support IWEMPs andtheir                                              that support for the Project and new
implementation, as well as new                                       coordinating mechanisms, from all levels o f
institutional coordinatingmechanisms.                                local Governments, will be provided.
Hai Basin Commission does not exercise                   S           Assurances were providedprior to negotiations
strong ownership inKMdesignand                                       that the Hai Basin Commissionwill provide
improvements and does not provide                                    strong support to Project activities andexercises
necessary support to other components.                               strong ownership inKMdesign.
Politicalwill is inadequate to support                   S           Initial steps inthe Tianjin small cities and the
program o f Integrated Wastewater                                    Dagu Canalrehabilitation support that are
Management Measures.                                                 undertakenunderthe TUDEP2 will demonstrate
                                                                     commitment.
 Project management is not adequateand                   S           Assurances were provided prior to negotiations
there is no cooperation betweenthe                                   that the cooperation between agencies will be
various agencies.                                                    strong; Project preparation was camed out with
                                                                     various agenciesandjoint management,
                                                                     working, and implementation groups were
                                                                     established.
Overall Risk Rating                                      S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Ris , M (Modest Risk), N(Negligib1e or Low Risk)


3. PossibleControversialAspects:
None.



                                                       - 29 -

G. Main Conditions
1. EffectivenessCondition
(1)       Standard Covenants.

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the LegalAgreements.]

LegalCovenants

(1)       StandardCovenants.

(2)       Project Management Organizations.      Maintain throughout the period o f Project implementation
organizations with composition and staffing acceptable to the Bank, including: (a) Central Level: the
Project Coordinating Group led by MOF, and the Project Steering Committees and PMOs in MWR and
SEPA; (b) River Basin Level: the Project Leading Group and the PMO in Hai Basin Commission, the
Project Leading Group led by SEPA and Joint PMO for Zhangweinan sub-basin; (c) Provincial Level: a
Project Coordination Group led by the Finance Bureau, Joint PMO o f WRB and EPB and Joint Expert
Group in Hebei Province and Beijing Municipality respectively; a Project Coordination Group led by the
Finance Bureau, PMO in Tianjin Construction Commission and Joint PMO o f WRB and EPB in Tianjin;
and (d) County Level: a Project Coordination Group led by the Finance Bureau, the Joint PMO o f WRB,
EPB and Agriculture Bureau and Joint Expert Group in Counties namely Chengan, Guantao, Feixiang,
Linzhang and Shexian respectively in Hebei Province; a Project Coordination Group led by the Finance
Bureau, Joint PMO o f WRB, EPB and Agriculture Bureau in Counties or Districts namely Tongzhou,
Daxing, Fangshan, Miyun and Pinggu respectively in Beijing Municipality; a Project Coordination Group
led by the Finance Bureau, Joint PMO of WRB and EPB in Counties namely Hangu, Baodi and Ninghe
respectively in Tianjin Municipality; a Project Coordination Group led by the Finance Bureau, PMO in
Lucheng County of Shanxi Province, in Xinxiang County o f Henan Province; and in Dezhou City o f
ShandongProvince.

( 3 )     Cooperation between Water Department and Environment Department. MWR, SEPA,
Beijing and Tianjin municipal governments and Hebei provincial government, under coordinationo f MOF,
shall ensure, through the institutional cooperative mechanisms established under the Project, the close
cooperation between water department and environment department at central level, river basin level,
provincial level and county level for Project management and implementation, especially during the process
o f integrated water and environment management planning and implementation. The mechanisms and
management structure developed and tested under this Project shall be promoted gradually through MWR
and SEPA in the non-Project areas o f Hai Basin during Project implementation and after Project
completion. MWFUSEPA PMO shall prepared and issue an official document satisfactory to the Bank on
"Institutional Cooperative Mechanisms" to the PMOs at all levels for project management and
implementation no later than June 30, 2004; and the "Institutional Cooperative Mechanisms" shall be
reviewed and improved jointly by Water Resources Department o f MWR and Pollution Control
Department o f SEPA once a year satisfactory to the Bank throughout the project implementation period.
Prior to October 31, 2005, the PMOs will review how well the cooperation is proceeding andmake special
arrangementsfor ensuringthat any deficiencies are remedied.

(4)      Joint Expert Groups. Maintain throughout the period of Project implementation, the Joint Expert
Groups at central, river basin, provincial and county levels for providing technical assistance to the PMOs
at various levels as above-mentioned, with composition and staffing acceptable to the Bank. The Joint


                                                   -30 -

Expert Group at all levels except for the county level shall carry out internal supervision missions at the
field level twice a year and prepare an independent technical report from the Semi-Annual Progress Report
prepared by PMO, which shall include review and evaluation o f the effectiveness o f project managementI
coordination 1 integration activities. The independent technical report shall be submitted to the related
Project CoordinationILeading Groups, MWWSEPA PMOs, MWR and SEPA Steering Committees and the
Bank for review upon arrival o f the Bank Supervision Mission.

(5)     Meetings. The following meetings shall be heldtwice a year after the Bank supervision mission on
the key issues and problems identifiedand related to project management and implementation throughout
the project implementation period. Minutes for each o f the meetings shall be prepared for necessary
follow-up actions and submitted to the related Project CoordinatiodLeading Groups, M W R and SEPA
Steering Committees and the Bank for review: (a) Meetings o f the MWR and SEPA Steering committees;
(b) a Joint Meeting o f the MWR and SEPA Central PMOs with participation of the responsible Deputy
Directors o f Water Resources Department o f MWR and Pollution Control Department o f SEPA; (c)
Meetings held respectively by Project Coordination I Leading Group o f Hai Basin Commission,
Zhangweinan Sub-basin, BeijingMunicipality, Tianjin Municipality and Hebei Province.

(6)      Zhangweinan Coordinator. The Project Coordination Group at Zhangweinan Sub-basin shall
appoint an experienced Coordinator. The Coordinator should start to work on behalf o f the Project
Coordination Group before June 30, 2004. This Coordinator shall be contracted andpaid equally by SEPA
and MWR under project financing, and work together with the Zhangweinan Sub-basin PMO and the Joint
Expert Group in Dezhou City o f Shandong Province at least one week per month throughout the project
implementation period, and the monthly report should be prepared by the Coordinator and submitted to
Zhangweinan Sub-basin Project Coordination Group, SEPAIMWR PMO, and SEPAIMWR Steering
Committees for review and comments;

(7)      Project Workshops. The Central PMOs o f MWR and o f SEPA, under the leadership o f Steering
Committees o f MWR and o f SEPA and coordination o f the Project Coordination Group led by MOF in
cooperation with all the PMOs at various levels, shall take primary responsibility for maximum
incorporation of horizontal and vertical integration into the Project activities by maintaining constant
communications and organizing four workshops a year throughout the period of Project implementation.
Horizontal integration includes cross-sectoral cooperation and coordination o f actions between water
resources and environmental protection ministrieshureaus, as well as others including agriculture and
construction ministrieshureaus. Vertical integration includes direct linking and constant interaction
between the Central and Hai Basin component activities and the Zhangweinan sub-basin, Tianjin
municipality and BeijingiHebeicounties components.

(8)
Group, consisting o f both professional staff and individual consultants , shall be established officially
         Sustainability of Remote Sensing-Based ET Technology Application. A RS-ET Working

within the Hai Basin Water and Information Network Center o f the Hai Basin Commission to be
responsible for application o f RS-based ET Management technology in Hai Basin before June 30, 2004.
The Ministry o f Water Resources and Hai Basin Commission shall approve the necessary staff quota for
transferring at least three professional staff  into the Water and Information Network Center with
qualification and TOR acceptable to the Bank by December 31, 2007. The Hai Basin Commission shall
provide sufficient funds for O&M o f Remote Sensing-Based ET Technology Application after project
completion.




                                                  -31 -

(9)      Sustainable Use of Groundwater Resources. For the two demonstration projects in Chengan
and Guantao Counties of Hebei Provinces, and the one demonstration project inDaxing, Pinggu and Miyun
Counties o f Beijing Municipality, the zero-balance o f groundwater use shall be reached in the project areas
prior to completion o f the Project in 2009, which shall provide good examples for the other groundwater
overdraft areas in Hebei Province and Beijing Municipality to reach the objective o f sustainable use o f
groundwater by 2020.

(10)     Annual Plans. Annual Project implementationplans shall be preparedand submitted to the Bank
by January 31st o f each year during Project implementation. The plan shall be prepared by the PMOs of
Hai Basin Commission, Zhangweinan Sub-basin, Hebei, Beijing and Tianjin respectively and consolidated
by MWR and SEPA PMOs at Central level. Inaddition to the annual plans prepared for the entire Project,
specific annual plans should be prepared in detail for the five demonstration projects (2 for Zhangweinan
Sub-basin, 1 for Beijing and 2 for Hebei) that shall be rsubmittedto the Bank by January 31st o f each year.

(11)     Management InformationSystem. Maintainthroughout the period of Project implementationthe
MIS installed and operated within all the PMOs to facilitate Project management and implementation, and
monitoring and evaluation. The MIS software and hardware installation at all PMOs as well as the first
MIS training shall be completed and the MIS should be put into normal operation to facilitate project
management and implementation and M&E no later than September 30,2004.

(12)     Project Progress Report. The semi-annual Project progress report including analysis of project
status shall be prepared attached with the MIS tables by the PMOs o f Hai Basin Commission,
Zhangweinan Sub-basin, Hebei, Beijing and Tianjin respectively and consolidated by MWR and SEPA
PMOs at Central level, and submittedto the Bank supervision mission for review.

(13)     Training and Study Tours. Domestic and overseas training and study tours shall be carried out
under their respective part of the Project in accordance with the related Chapter o f PIP for training and
study tours.    An individual plan including objectives, study contents, name list, invitation letter, and
finalized itinerary for each overseas study tour shall be submittedto the Bank for its review and approval
together with the Project's annual work plan.

(14)     Monitoring and Evaluation. Monitor and evaluate Project implementation on an ongoing basis
facilitated by MIS, in accordancewith the key indicators inAnnex 1 and in Chapter 5 and Annex 8 o f PIP.
The M&E report shall be prepared annually including baseline survey in 2004 by the PMOs o f Hai Basin
Commission, Zhangweinan Sub-basin, Hebei, Beijingand Tianjin respectively and consolidated by MWR
and SEPA PMOs at Central level. In addition, a thematic M&E report shall be prepared in detail for each
o f the demonstration projects. The annual M&E reports and thematic M&E reports, which incorporate the
collected data and criteria, and analyzed and evaluated results o f Project implementation, shall be
completed by June 30 o f the next year and submittedto the Bank for review.

(15)     Water User Association (WUA) Development.Inorder for the W A Sto participate inthe whole
planning and implementation process o f the integrated water and environment planning and management,
during the first three years of Project implementation from 2004 to 2006, at least one pilot WUA shall be
planned and established in selectedtownships o f the project counties, namely Chengan, Guantao, Feixiang,
Linzhang and Shexian respectively in Hebei Province, in each township o f the project counties, namely
Tongzhou, Daxin, Fangshan, Miyunand Pinggu respectively in Beijing Municipality, and ineach township
o f Baodi County and Ninghe County respectively in Tianjin Municipality. An annual WUA extension plan
should be prepared and implementedin each o f the above-mentioned counties starting in2007 to the end o f



                                                   - 32 -

the Project.

(16)     Community Driven Development (CDD). Guantao and Chengan county governments of Hebei
province shall strongly support the bottom-up approach to the demonstration programs for effective
management o f water-rights and well permits by providing counterpart funding and making institutional
arrangements for community driven development in the demonstration pilot sites o f the two counties.
BeijingandTianjinmunicipal and Hebeiprovincial governments, learning from the demonstration program,
shall promote CDD approach to all the other irrigated agricultural areas o f all the Project counties or
districts inBeijing, Tianjin and Hebei.

(17)     Counterpart Funding. MWR, SEPA, Beijing, and Tianjin municipal Governments and Hebei
provincial government shall ensure availability o f the counterpart funding in a timelymannerduringProject
implementation as planned inthe Project COSTAB attachedto PIP during the Project implementingperiod.


(18)     Environmental Monitoring Plan. MWR, SEPA, Beijing and Tianjin municipalities and Hebei
province shall: (a) ensure that all activities under its respective part o f the Project shall conform to
environmental standards and guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, including the environmental regulations
and guidelines issued by the SEPA o f PRC and said Project province or municipality Environmental
Protection Bureau; and (b) to that end, implement the part o f the Environmental Monitoring Plan
applicable to its respective part o f the Project, ina manner satisfactory to the Bank;

(19)     Replicabilityof ProjectApproaches. MWR, SEPA, Beijingand Tianjin municipal governments
and Hebei provincial government shall replicate the following approaches and concepts developed and
implemented under the Project into other areas o f Hai Basin during Project implementation and after
Project completion: (a) integrated bottom-up and top-down approach for water and environment
management planning supported by KM; (b) concept of ET management for sustainable planning and use
o f water resources; (c) concept o f real water savings (reduction o f ET) for irrigated agricultural water
savings in resources water shortage areas; (d) application o f RS-based ET technology in River Basin
Planning and Management; (e) application o f RS-based ET Technology in Irrigated Agricultural Water
Savings; (f) integrated planning for both water quality and quantity control; (g) approaches for non-point
source pollution control; (h) ET based groundwater management with linkage between withdraw permits
and groundwater availability; (i)Monitoring and Evaluation o f activities; and ('j)application o f MIS in
Project managementand implementation.

(20)     Stakeholder Involvement. MWR, SEPA, Beijing and Tianjin municipal governments and Hebei
provincial government shall organize and mobilize the stakeholder involvement in the whole process o f the
integrated bottom-up and top-down water and environment management planning and implementation
through various workshops, training, public consultation, WUAs and CDD approaches during Project
implementation.

(21)     Cooperationwith other Programs. MOF, SEPA and MWR shall strengthencooperation between
this Project and PEMSEA Bohai Sea Management Project administered by State Oceanic Administration,
Yellow Sea Large Marine Ecosystem by UNDP, and have meetings and exchanging results and views with
the PMO for PEMSEA Bohai Sea Management Project and Yellow Sea Large Marine Ecosystem Project
as well as with ongoing SEPA and MWR related programs such as the Bohai Blue Sea Action Plan, the
Water Pollution Prevention Program for the Hai Basin andthe South North Transfer Programs.




                                                      - 33 -

(22)      Data and InformationManagement. To assist inthe management, sharing and dissemination o f
water and environment related data and information as needed to effectively implement the Project, each
Project entity (Hai Basin Commission, Zhangweinan, Tianjin, Beijing, Hebei, and all project counties) will
set up, not later than June 30, 2004, knowledge management            groups with membership and terms o f
reference agreed with the Bank.

(23)      Tianjin Small Cities FinancialIncentivesProgram. Tianjin shall prepare a manual (Small City
Incentive Program Manual), acceptable to the Bank, goveming the implementation o f the program,
including but not limited to: i)eligibility requirements; ii)disbursements amounts and mechanisms; iii)
performance verification procedures; and iv) auditing arrangements.

H. Readiness for Implementation
    1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
         ofproject implementation.
    1.b) Not applicable.

iXi 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete andready for the start of
       project implementation.
iXi 3. The Project Implementation Planhas been appraised and found to be realistic and o fsatisfactory
       quality.
Ci 4. The following items are lackingand are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):



I. Compliance with Bank Policies
    1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
   2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
       all other applicable Bank policies.




                   c*o*
-_
DouglasC. Olson                           Marir D.Wilson
Team Leader                               Sector ManagerlDirector                 Country ManagedDimctor




                                                   - 34 -

                                  Annex 1: Project Design Summary
             CHINA: Hai Basin Integrated Water and Environment Management Project

                         ve
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                from Goal to Bank Mission)

Sustainable development and                                             Sustainable management will
nanagement o f water and                                                ,educepoverty
ither natural resources
5EF Operational Program:

4chieve environmentally                                                 zontinued national
iustainable management and                                              :ommitment to the regional
ise o f the Yellow Sea Large                                            irogram;
i4arine Ecosystem (including   COD Loading 164,000                      Support o f national agencies;
he Bohai Sea) and its          tonsiyear; NH4 Loading                   3road stakeholder
watershed                      19,000 tondyear)                         iarticipation;
                               Disposal o f 2.2 million                 mprovements inwater and
                               cubic meters o f                         mvironmental planning and
                               contaminated sediment in                 nanagement will result in
                               Dagu Canal in an                         sustainable management of
                               environmentally safe                     Mater resources
                               manner
                               Reduced pollution loading
                               to Bohai Sea from at least
                               one Tianjin small city by
                               10,000 tons o f COD and
                               500 tons o fNH4 annually
                               Development o f replicable
                               practical approaches to
                               reducing pollution to the
                               Bohai Sea that can be used
                               throughout the Hai Basin
                               and in other Chinese basins
5lobal Objective:                                                       [fromObjective to Goal)

mprove integrated water and                                             Zontinued national
mvironmental management                                                 Zommitment to the regional
nterms o fwater quantity and                                            xogram;
water quality in the Hai Basin                                          Support o f national agencies;
mdreduce land-based sources                                             Broad stakeholder
)fpollutionto the coastal and                                           ?articipation;
narine environment o f the                                              Improvements inwater and
3ohai Sea                                                               :nvironmental planning and
                                                                        nanagement will result in
                                                                        sustainable management o f
                                                                        water resources




                                                        -35 -

Output from each
Component:
1. IntegratedWater and
Environment Management
(IWEM)
  0  IWEMPs for 10 counties   IIWEMPs prepared and          0 Semi-annual reports on  0 Bottom-up water resources
     and the Tianjin           initial implementation         physical and financial    management at the county,
     Municipality              started by 0313112007          progress                  subbasin and municipal
  0  Improved institutional    Institutional coordination   0 Annual monitoring and     level will be replicable and



                                                        - 36 -

   coordinatingmechanisms   mechanisms for IWEM           evaluationreports        contribute to IWEM at the
   for IWEM                 established and functional    BanWGEF supervision      basinlevel
                            by 1213112004.                missionreports           An improvedpolicy
 0 Strategic studies:       Strategic studies prepared                             environment at the central
   1. Policy and legal      andpreliminary findings                                level will contributeto
   framework and            integratedinto IWEMPsby                                improvedIWEMand
   institutional             1213112006                                            planning
   arrangements;
   2. Bohai Sea Linkage;
   3. Countermeasuresfor
   the Protectionand
   Measurementof the
   Water EcologicalSystem
   4. Water Savings
   5. Water Rights and Well
   Permits, and Sustainable
   Groundwater
   exploitation;
   6. Wastewater Reuse
   7. Water Pollution and
   planning
   8. Beijing Water
   ResourcesRationalizatior Zhangweinan SAP prepared
 0 SAP for Hai Basinand     and initial implementation
   for ZhangWeiNan          has started by 1213112006,
   subbasin                 Hai Basin SAP preparedby
                             1213112008
                            Demonstrationprojects
                            prepared, implementation
 0 DemonstrationProjects:   begun, and findings
   1. RealWater Savings     integratedinto IWEMPsby
   2. Managementof Water     12/31/2006
   Rights and Well Permits
   3. Control of Wastewater
   Discharge
   4. Pollution Control and
   Water Environmental      Policies, mechanismsand
   Improvements             instruments are defined and
 0 Policies, mechanisms,    implemented
   and instruments
   supportingIWEM


,.KnowledgeManagement
0  IntegratedWater          IntegratedWater Resource- Semi-annual reportson        Improvementsin KMand
   Resource-Water Quality   Water Quality Information     physical and financial   ET managementwill
   Information Management   Management System             progress                 contribute to improved
   System                   created, tested,              Annual monitoring and    IWEM
                            implemented, and              evaluationreports
0  Application Systems for  functional by 1213112006      BanWGEF supervision
   the former               Application System            missionreports
                            developed, established, and
0  ET ManagementSystem      functional by 1213112007
                            ET Management System



                                                    - 37 -

                                established, tested, and
  0 Mechanisms for the          functional by 12131/2006
    continuationof above        Mechanisms for making
    systems after the Projects  permanent KMand ET
    finalization                systems established, tested,
                                and functional by
                                12131/2008

1.Tianjin Coastal Wastewater
danagement
  0 TA for the renovation       Technical assistance           Semi-annual reports on    Wastewater Treatment
    and remediation o f the     provided, and the first        physical and financial    Plants will operate as
    Dagu Canal                  stretch o f Dagu Canal up to   progress                  planned
                                Jugezhuang Pump Station i s    Annual monitoring and
                                successfully rehabilitated by  evaluation reports
                                12/31/2008                     BanWGEF supervision
  0 Dagu Catchment              Industrial Pollution Control   mission reports
    Industrial Pollution        study for Dagucanal
    Control                     catchment completed,
                                implementation o f action
                                plan underway, and
                                preliminary study results
                                integrated into Tianjin
                                Municipal IWEMPby
                                1213112006
  0 Comprehensive               Comprehensive wastewater
    Wastewater Management       management studies for two
    Study                       small cities completed,
                                prepared, and
                                implementation o f
                                recommendations started by
                                12/31/2005
  0 Small Cities Financial      Small city financial
    Incentives                  incentives mechanisms
                                tested and functioning for at
                                least one small city by
                                12/31/2007


1. Project Management,
donitoring and Evaluation,
md Training
  0 Joint Expert Groups         Expert Groups including        Semi-annual reports on    An improvedpolicy
                                International Expert Panel     physical and financial    environment at the central
                                functional by 9/30/2004        progress                  level will contribute to
  0 Conduct Training,           Training, Workshops, and       Annual monitoring and     improved IWEM
    Workshops and Study         Study Tours are included in    evaluation reports        Project management setup
    Tours                       annual training plans and      BanWGEF supervision       can guide water and
                                carried out inaccordance       mission reports           environmental planning and
                                with these plans                                         management in the Basin
  0 Monitoring and              Project-wide Monitoring
    Evaluation, specifically of and Evaluation (M&E)
    IWEMPs and                  system inplace by



                                                         - 38 -

    DemonstrationProjects     1213112004
                              Management Information
                              System(MIS) operational
                              by 913Ol2004



Jroject Components I         iputs: (budget for each         roject reports:         'rom Components to
jub-components:              omponent)                                               htputs)

I.IntegratedWater and         Support formulation of         Semi-annual reportson    Counterpartfunding will be
hvironment Management         County IntegratedWater         physical andfinancial    adequateand on time
IWEM)                         and EnvironmentalPlans         progress                 County and municipal
                              (IWEMPs)                       Annual monitoring and    governments strongly
                              Support preparationof          evaluationreports        support IWEMPs and their
                              pre-investmentstudies and                               implementationas well as
                              implementationof some                                   new institutional
                              plannedactions                                          coordinating mechanisms
                              Support establishment of
                              institutional coordinating
                              mechanisms for IWEM
                              Support formulation of SAP
                              for ZhangWeiNansubbasin
                              Support formulation of SAP
                              for Tianjin Municipality
                             rota1budget:US$14.70
                             iillion)

!.KnowledgeManagement         Support strategic planning     Semi-annualreports on    Hai Basin Commissionwill
                              and technical investigations   physical andfinancial    exercise strong ownership in
                              at the basinlevel through      progress                 knowledgemanagement
                              improveddata collections,      Annual monitoring and    designand improvements
                              GIS, river reach data          evaluationreports        andprovide necessary
                              systems, river basinmodels,                             support to other components
                              ET management and other
                              KMapplications
                              Support formulation of
                              County IWEMPs through
                              improveddata collections,
                              GIs, river reach data
                              systems, models, ET
                             management, and other KM
                             applications
                             rota1budget: US$5.85
                             killion)

;.Tianjin Coastal Wastewater Support establishment of        Semi-annual reports on   Political will exists to
danagement                   institutional coordinating      physical andfinancial    support programof
                             mechanisms for IWEM             progress                 IntegratedWastewater
                             (ConstructionCommission,        Annual monitoring and    ManagementMeasures
                             EnvironmentalProtection         evaluationreports
                             Bureau, Water Bureau)
                             Support formulation of a
                             Municipal IWEMP



                                                       - 39 -

                             ~ -.
                              Support preparation of
                              pre-investment studies and
                              implementation o f some
                              planned actions
                              Support the rehabilitation of
                              the Dagu Canal
                              Support small city
                              wastewater management
                             rota1budget: US4.13 and
                              S$98.25 million associated
                             xrallel financing through
                             UDEP2)

.. Project Management and     Support the development of    Semi-annual reports on    Project management at all
'raining                      policy, legal and             physical and financial    levels will be adequate and
                              administrative mechanisms     progress                  involve good cooperation
                              and instruments for           Annual monitoring and     between the,various
                              improving IWEM                evaluation reports        agencies
                              Support Project
                              Management, Monitoring
                              and Evaluation
                              Provide Training
                             rota1budget: US8.64
                             iillion)




                                                       -40-

                                 Annex 2: DetailedProject Description
          CHINA: Hai Basin IntegratedWater and Environment Management Project
The Project has the goal o f achieving real improvements and important progress in Integrated Water and
Environment Management (IWEM) in the Hai Basin, and achieving real reductions in pollution to the Bo
Hai Sea. In addition the Project has the objective o f contributing to the reversal of existing trends in
deteriorating water quality and worsening overexploitation o f surface and groundwater resources. The
Project will be implemented in two phases (see Annex 12). The two phased approach will permit (i)             a
process o f good planning, followed by (ii)   specific actions to affect real change. Parallel demonstration
projects will test and demonstrate high priority actions that are clearly needed throughout the basin. The
key aspect o f the GEF Hai Basin Project is that it will have maximum incorporation of horizontal and
vertical integration. Horizontal integration includes cross-sectoral cooperation and coordination o f actions
between water resources and environmental protection ministrieshureaus, as well as others including
agriculture and construction ministrieshureaus. Vertical integration includes direct linking and constant
interaction between the Central and Hai Basin component activities and the ZhangWeiNan subbasin,
Tainjin municipality, and Beijing/Hebei counties components.

The Project (estimated total cost: US$33.32 million) will be divided into 4 interrelated components: (a)
Integrated Water and Environment Management; (b) Knowledge Management; (c) Tianjin Coastal
Wastewater Management; and (d) Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Training. Main
products will include: (i) Seven strategic study reports (two reports at national level, five reports at Hai
Basin level); (ii)Integrated Water and Environment Management Plans (IWEMP) for five key counties in
Beijing, five key counties in Hebei Province, and Tianjin Municipality; (iii)  Strategic Action Plans (SAP)
on IWEM for the Hai Basin and the ZhangWeiNan sub-Basin; (iv) Four demonstration projects; (v) A
Knowledge Management (KM) system based on sharing between water conservancy institutions and
environmental protection institutions and a Evapotranspiration (ET) management system based on satellite
Remote Sensing technologies; and (vi) The promotion and technical support of wastewater treatment in
small citiesltowns inthe coastal areas o f Tianjin municipality, and technical support for the clean up o f the
Dagu Wastewater Canal in cooperation with the Tianjin Urban Environment Development Project
(TUDEP2) Project.

By Component:

Project Component 1:Integrated Water and Environment Management US$14.70 million
                                                                        -
The IWEMis divided into 3 subcomponents: (a) Strategic Studies (SS) at the central and Hai Basin levels;
(b) Integrated Water and Environment Management (IWEM); and (c) Demonstration Projects. As can be
seen in Figure 1, all three o f these subcomponents are very closely interrelated. The SS will support and
provide guidance to IWEM planning and to the demonstration projects. The demonstration projects will
provide important practical input into the IWEMplanning. There will be constant interaction between these
subcomponents to ensure integration. There will also be an important link, with continuous feedback and
information updating, to the Knowledge Management (KM)component of the Project.

Subcomponent 1A Strategic Studies (SS)
                     -

Policy and Legal Framework and Institutional Arrangement (SS 1): The evolution o f the legal and policy
environment in China has been very rapid, however it still tends to reflect a command and control,
top-down approach to social, economic, and environmental development. In the water sector, this has
created severe institutional problems due to ambiguities in the law, and lack of effective coordination
mechanisms. For water resource management and water pollution control, the legal, policy and institutional




                                                    -41 -

framework has created particularly serious coordination problems with the result that there is duplication
and competition between the Ministry o f Water Resources (MWR) and the State Environmental Protection
Administration (SEPA) in many areas o f water management. These problems are reflected down to the
local level. In particular, the fact that river basin organizations are part o f MWR, and that SEPA has no
presence at the basin level, makes IWEM especially difficult. The SS will examine the legal, policy and
institutional framework within the context o f the Hai Basin with the purpose o f identifying barriers that can
be overcome by practical measures that will achieve a level of coordination between the two ministries to
allow and support IWEM both at the basin and local levels. The study will further elaborate upon how
institutions must respond and possibly modify themselves through stronger cooperation - and in certain
cases integration - in order to meet the challenges driven forward by technical, economic, and financial
innovations inthe field o fbothwater resource management and water pollutioncontrol. There i s a desire on
the part o f MWR and SEPA to achieve the practical benefits of improved institutional coordination, but
without sacrificing the authorities provided to each ministry in the Water Law and the Water Pollution
Prevention and Control Law, and their respective Implementing Rules. This study will provide the context
within law and policy for practical approaches to operational coordination between the two ministries, and
the GEF Project as a whole will catalyze the entire integrationprocess.

Bohai SeaLinkage (SS 2): The main objective i s to provide the linkage between environmental condition o f
the Bohai Sea and of Bohai Bay which receives the runoff from the Hai Basin. The main issues to be
researched are: (i) identify and assess regulations and laws on environmental quality o f the Bohai Sea
                     to
that have implications for land-based actions that may be included in the Hai Basin SAP; (ii)        to assess
pollutant load reductions and water volume increases from the Hai Basin that will have meaningful
consequences for the Bohai Sea and Bohai Bay; (iii)      to recommend spatial and temporal pollutant control
actions that will maximize beneficial effects on the Bohai Sea; and (iv) to provide guidance to the
development o f the Hai Basin SAP that will reflect the actions that will be requiredto maximize ecological
benefits in the receiving marine environment. The SS will also create the linkages with other institutions
andprograms inthe Bohai Sea such as the Bohai Sea EnvironmentalManagement Project that is sponsored
under the PEMSEA program of the GEF, and the UnitedNations Programme of Action for Protection o f
the Marine Environment from Land-Based Activities. The objective is to maximize the benefit o f these
studies for the purpose o f the SAP, and to provide input into ongoing research and management programs
focusing on the marine environment.

Countermeasures for the Protection and Measurement of the Water Ecological System (SS 3): The
natural aquatic environment, including wetlands, has been all but destroyed inthe Hai Basin due to the high
levels o f pollution and reduction o f flow volumes in all rivers that has dried out most wetlands. An integral
part o f the IWEMP process is to factor into the planning process the minimum flows, the scheduling o f
these flow, and water quality requirements that are needed to maintain the environmental functions o f
important wetlands. The study will capture the existing information base for important wetlands and river
courses in the basin and, including coastal wetlands as a basis for making decisions on priorities for the
balance o f the study. In addition to technical and financial considerations, socio-economic implications will
also be assessed. Important outputs will be to: (i)assess the nature o f ecological functions in order to
develop priorities for follow-up actions, (ii)examine the technical options and feasibility for ecological
maintenance and their costs, and (iii)   determine minimumflows and their scheduling to maintain ecological
functions. A conservation planwill be proposed for inclusion inthe Hai Basin IWEMP and implementation
plans will be developed for several key areas. The study o f coastal wetlands will be a key linkage to the
Bohai Sea insofar as water volume enhancement targets have not been established for the Bohai Sea under
any o f the national or international Bohai Sea programs. Therefore, as a first approximation, flow required
to maintain coastal wetlands will provide guidance to drafters o f the basin IWEMP on flow adjustment
requirements that will also have beneficial effects on Bohai Bay.


                                                      - 42 -

                                       GEF IWEM Project

    KEY ISSUES -b                 IWEM PLANNING



             *                                            DEM0NSTRATIONS


              STRATEGIC STUDIES (SS)                      IWEM IMPLEMENTATlON

           Key Issues in Achieving IWEM                                                           *I
           in the Hai River Basin
             Laws, policies, institutions                               IWEM PLANS
                                                                Hai River Basin

             BeijingWater Resources                             Tianjin
             Rationalization(SS 8)                              Zhangweinan Sub-basin
                                                                Beijing Key Counties
                                                                Hebei Key Counties


                                                            c   Strategic Action Plans


           Efficient Water Utilization
             Water Savings and Efficient
             Water Use (SS4)                                           f
             Water Rights,Well Permits, and                         DEMONSTRATION
             SustainableGroundwater                                         PROJECTS
              Exploitation(SS5)                                Focusingon key
             Wastewater Reuse (SS6)                            implementationissues on all
                                                              strategic aspects for
           Pollution Control                                  effective IWEM.
             Water Pollution Planning (SS7)
                                                               1  i " f X > k $ j K P I rr+:.;trtt3;im
                                                                  Real water savings
                                                                  Water rights,well permits
                                                                  Pollution control

    Figure 1. Project IWEM logic and linkages. The clusters of strategic studies are noted.


Water Savings and High EfJiciency Water Utilization in the Hai Basin (SS 4): The aim i s to change the
water balance in the Hai Basin into a water balance that supports a sustainable river-aquifer system.



                                              - 43 -

Present amounts o f ET in the basin far exceed this sustainable balance resulting in groundwater overdraft
and inadequate environmental flows. Thus the overall goal is to reduce ET to levels that will achieve a
sustainable water balance. With the objective o f achieving this water balance an target ET annual quota
amount will be assigned to each county in the basin. This SS will help the counties in achieving their ET
reductions. The likely attainable ET reductions for each land use class will be assessed. Some limitedfield
experiments will be carried out, to verify the expected results, before they will be applied in the
Demonstration Projects and IWEMPs. The Project will also inventory Chinese and international success
stories in reducing ET. Groundwater table declinations will also be investigated. Groundwater and ET are
coupled through percolation processes and groundwater extractions. Analytical relationships between
rainfall, groundwater irrigation, and ET will be worked out to better understandat which threshold levels o f
irrigation, ET will actually start to diminish. At the same time, the impact on crop yield will be paid
attention to, because the Project aims to enhancerather to negatively impact farmers incomes.

Administration of Water Rights and Well Permits, and Sustainable Groundwater Exploitation in the Hai
Basin (SS 5): This study will analyze the reasons why existing water rights and well permit systems have
not been effective in controlling the use o f water to sustainable levels and how this has resulted in
groundwater overdraft.        The study will evaluate laws, regulations and processes and make
recommendations on how the can be directly linkedto the control and managemento f water resource use to
sustainable levels. This will include a detailed analysis of measuring and monitoring requirements. The
study will also analyze how to improve the knowledge base of the groundwater system of the Hai Basin.
Relevant data is scattered among various institutes. The aim is therefore to describe the groundwater
behavior o f the entire Hai Basin using as much as possible field and satellite data that becomes available
during the execution of the Project. A good understandingof the exchangeprocessesbetween the saturated
and unsaturated zone is of importance to make groundwater use quantitative. Currently, the extractions are
only marginally known, because there is no control on the volume individual farmers pump out from the
aquifers. The Project intends to compute the Net Groundwater Use from a novel combination of
precipitation and ET data. Net Groundwater Use is basically the sink from the groundwater system, which
together with the fluctuations o f the hydraulic head will yield to first order assessments o f lateral
groundwater movements across the basin (i.e., simple GIS basedgroundwater model).

The Hai Basin Wastewater Reuse (SS 6): The main objectives are to provide recommendations on
wastewater treatment (in order to increase suitability for various uses) and prepare strategic level
wastewater reuse plans in 8 cities (Beijing, Tianjin, Shijiazhuang, Baoding, Tangshang, Datong, Xinxiang
and Dezhou city). Specific attention will be paid to: (i)   investigate current water pollution sources; (ii)
demand and supply aspects o f renovated water; (iii)  analysis o f plans for seweragetreatment; (iv) sewerage
water renovation and use; and (v) analysis o f the benefits o f sewerage renovation and utilization including
mechanisms for encouraging wastewater reuse. In addition the Project will promote wastewater utilization
technologies and experiencesacross the Hai Basin beyondthe 8 specified cities.

Water Pollution Planning and Management (SS 7): One o f the significant failures o f the 8th and 9th Five
Year Plans has been the inability to reduce pollution levels in most rivers in China, particularly ambient
water quality. During this 10 year period inthe Hai Basin, the water quality has been declining to the point
where most o f the surface water i s now Class V+ (worst water quality without any functional use). This
failure is due to a variety o f reasons, including the planning framework, lack o f investment, inadequate
management tools, and by the poor coordination between MWR and SEPA in both planning and
operations. The recent announcement o f the intention to implementthe Eastern Route o f the South to North
Water transfer scheme, which will flow through the lower and most polluted part o f the Hai Basin, has
direct implications for both ministries because failure will compromise this enormous investment. This
study will examine the reasons for past failures and, using this as a basis for taking corrective actions, to


                                                    - 44 -

develop a detailed, realistic, and implementable plan for basin-wide pollution control. In addition to
institutional coordination issues, the study will develop pollution load reduction targets through a total load
control process that has not yet been widely adopted in China. The study will evaluate the types of
management tools that are required to more effectively manage the day-to-day operations o f pollution
control such as discharge permittingand tracking systems. A review and evaluation o f wider application o f
policy instruments for water pollution control will made, including economic instruments such as permit
trading. Problems o f enforcement o f discharge regulations is a major problem in China for political and
economic reasons, and will be examined to determine what measures can be implemented to ensure
compliance o f industry to their permitteddischarge, andto ensure accountability o f local EPBs inenforcing
the law. As an integrated part o f the pollution control study, reviews and discussions of options will be
made on how pollution control and cleaner production could be further enhanced within the framework of
an industrial adjustment policy for the Hai Basin. The output o f these activities will be a basin-wide action
plan for pollution control, with realistic targets, development and application o f management tools,
assessment o f economic options and incentives, capacity development, linkages to industrial adjustment
programs, and operational issues involving coordination between the two ministries. More particularly,
plans will be developed for key areas and for protection of the Bohai Sea.

Rationalization of Beijing Water Resources (SS 8): Beijing Municipality has the most critical water
overexploitationproblem inthe Hai Basin. This strategic study will review and analyze existing and future
water use (municipal, industrial, agricultural, environmental) and develop a plan to limit water usage to
available amounts and control water quality taking into account the South-North water Transfer Project
and future development and growth needs.          The study will utilize Project approaches including ET
management, KMmanagement, water rights administration, discharge administration, as well as economic
and environmental considerations to develop an optimizedrationalized planfor water utilization inBeijing.

Subcomponent 1B Integrated Water and Environment Management Planning (IWEMP)
                    -
IWEMPs are one o f the primary vehicles for achieving real on-ground change inthis Project. As such they
are principal clients for the results o f the Basin wide SS, KM, remote sensing o f ET, and demonstration
sub-projects (see Figure 1). The Plans will address the endemic problems o f water use exceeding
sustainable levels o f groundwater and surface water supply, as well as improving the water quality
situation where much of the surface water exceeds level 5 (the worst) quality standard. Interactions
between water quality and quantity will also be addressedso that the optimal integrated Plan is produced.
The primary objectives of these Plans is to improve the capacity of management entities to carry out
IWEMandto achieve specific and sustainableimprovements inwater and environmental outcomes.

IWEMPs will be developed in a two Phase approach during this Project. Phase one, during the first two
years, will involve Plan preparation. The second Phase will involve initial IWEMP implementation during
years 3-5 (Annex 12). IWEMPs will be developed in five counties in both Beijing and five counties in
Hebei Province, and an overall IWEMP is to be developed for the Tianjin Municipality which will include
four, more detailed County/District level Plans. The Tianjin component will also include special studies
dealing with water quantity, water quality, rural and urban non-point source pollution, aquatic ecology,
agriculturalreuse and groundwater management.

Strategic Action Plans (SAP) will be prepared for the Hai Basin andZhangweinan sub-basin. The scope of
SAPs is less comprehensive than the IWEMP, and focuses more on specific issues. For example, the
Zhangweinan SAP will focus primarily on water pollution control. The Hai Basin SAP will be formulated
near the end of the Project, consolidate the lessons leamed under the Project, and provide guidance for the
next steps in Hai Basin water and environment management. All IWEMPs and SAPs will provide a plan o f



                                                    - 45 -

action which will guide government investment well beyond the five year term of the Project and into the
next 10-15 years.

The Plans will: (i)identify actions aiming to balance water consumption as measuredby ET; (ii) reduce
                                                                                                   to
water pollution to levels more consistent with the assimilative capacity of river function zones; (iii)   to
improve institutional arrangements by integrating management responsibilities horizontally (between
agencies at the same level o f government) as well as vertically (between the different levels of government
and stakeholders); and (iv) to establish improved water management arrangementslocally, including Water
User Associations water permits, and volumetric basedwater pricing.

Inthe second phase of the Project, initial priority actions defined in the first phase will be implemented,
which will include activities such as preparation o f feasibility studies and designs, training an capacity
building,and implementationo f small civil works inactivities which could include installation ofmeasuring
devices and monitoring stations, onfarm irrigation system improvements, land leveling, changes in
agriculture practices, groundwater recharge, wells, wastewater collection and treatment, and environmental
restoration.

The subcomponent will facilitate the establishment of institutional coordinating mechanisms for IWEM
in the Beijingand Hebei pilot counties and in Tianjin. The intention is to help to improve, develop, and
implement a set o f policies, and legal, administrative and institutional instruments at the county and
municipal level. The PMOs, joint expert groups and leading groups at the different levels will provide the
foundation for these coordinating mechanisms.

Subcomponent 1C Demonstration Projects
                    -
The demonstration projects will play a very important role in evaluating and testing practical measures to
implement different aspects o f integrated water and environment management at the county level. Because
the demonstration projects will need to have considerable learning by doing, they need to be flexible and
adjustments need to be made as they are implemented. All demonstration projects will have the full
involvement o f local officials and experts and will contain outreach components to ensure that lessons
learned are made available to other counties. After in-depth coordination efforts between CPMO and
basin-level provincial (municipal) PMOs, four main topics for demonstration projects, in different areas o f
the Bohai Basin, were selected:
0   The "Rea1"Water Savings demonstration project for irrigating agriculture, will be carried out inDaxing
    County, Tongzhou District, and Pinggu District o f Beijing. These counties are also included in the
    WCP, so there i s already considerable knowledge in "real" water savings approaches.                This
    Demonstration Project will be based on the bottom-up approach, where farmer user groups will be
    involved in achieving ET reductions @e., "real" water savings). The Project i s planned to be action
    driven and aims at reducing the comprehensive ET in the counties selected for water savings by 10%
    between 2003 to 2008. This approach can only become successful if farmers agree to cooperate.
    Farmers have not applied "real" water savings on a large scale (partially because the practical
    guidelines are absent), so substantial attention will be givento make the water users aware that water is
    a limited resource, and that their help is unavoidable to improve their local water resources
    sustainability as well as the basin wide situation. The work will largely rely on the development o f
    software tools that will help water policy makers at various levels understandwhat "real" water savings
    means and where in the counties the reductions of ET can potentially be achieved. The operational
    aspects o f reducing irrigation water will be assisted by the application o f quotas. Sound and robust
    calculation procedures that quantify the allowable groundwater irrigation amounts in relation to ET
    quota will be developed and tested. A farmers-training-farmers program will be launched.


                                                     - 46 -

0 The demonstration projects of "Effective Management of Water Rights and Well Permits" at county
  level, which targets the World Bank Water Saving & Irrigation Project Zones in Cheng-an County and
  Guantao County, both in Hebei Province. This Demonstration Project aims at reducing groundwater
  use through a legal system o f laws, permits, and water rights. It is an effort to boost the concepts of
  sustainability and to prevent the groundwater table from falling at a pace o f over 1 m/yr in the
  Southern part o f the Hebei Province. The overall objective is to get pilot areas where it has been
  feasible to stop the groundwater table declination. The regulations on water right management is based
  upon the general concept o f local sustainability, i.e., the groundwater extractions should be inbalance
  with the replenishment. Such an approach can be worked out exploring the Net Ground Water use data
  that will be provided by the Strategic Study on groundwater.
  Both Cheng-an and Guantao are typical in that they have serious shortage o f surface and groundwater,
  while heavily relying on use o f both shallow and deep ground water for domestic and irrigation
  purposes for more than a dozen years. The DemonstrationProject will use a CDD approach, based on
  the fact that people depend on groundwater for agricultural and industrial production as well as for
  domestic purposes. Water shortage seriously constrains their economic development. To achieve the
  overall Project objectives, it is obvious that there won't be a sustainable use o f the water resources
  unless the users want to do so; and there won't be sustainable socio-economic development unless its
  beneficiaries participate in the development process with a sense of ownership. The CDD approach is
  adopted for purpose to promote local participation and ownership.

0 The county-level demonstration projects on "Effective Control of Wastewater Discharge" into the two
  major tributaries of the upper Zhangweinan Canal; locations are Lucheng City in the upper Zhang
  River, Shangxi Province, and the Xinxiang City in the upper Wei River, Henan Province. The
  demonstration project will include improvements o f capacity o f local and basin managers to control
  waste discharges and the implementation o f control measures such as a total load approach to pollution
  management. The range o f management tools required will be determinedduring an initial phase and
  implemented thereafter. The demonstration project will also focus on waste discharge control and
  protection o f water sources in two different locations: one in Xinxiang County, and one in Lucheng
  City being two o f the most polluted upstream parts o f the Sub-basin. Control o f upstream pollution
  and protection o f water sourceswill be a key element inthe demonstration project.
  The "Pollution Control and Water Environmental Improvements" demonstration project is selectedin
  parts o f the Zhangweixin River in the Dezhou City, Shangdong Province, which i s an important part of
  the lower ZhagnWeiNan Canal. The Project will be focusing on pollution control for enhancing water
  environment and will take place in Dezhou City in the downstream part o f the sub-basin. It has, as a
  major objective, the restoration o f surface water environmental conditions through a program o f control
  o f sources, improved management o f groundwater, implementing improved treatment processes,
  application o f a range o f management tools such as integrated management of sluice gates, permitting
  systems, etc., while developing a greening landscaping along the Dezhou Section o f the South Canal.
  The Project will be closely linked to an overall plan for improving the water environment and
  ecological restoration along the Wei River and Wei and South Canal from Xinxiang County to Dezhou
  City now being shapedby authorities inthe Hai Basin.




                                                  - 47 -

Project Component 2: Knowledge Management US$5.85 million
                                                -
The KM component will have 2 subcomponents: (a) KM Development; and (b) Remote Sensing and
Evapotranspiration (ET) management systems. These subcomponents are interrelated and will be prepared
and implemented ina coordinated manner.

Subcomponent2A Knowledge Management (KM)
                       -

KMwill play a key role and will provide tools, information, technical support, and linkages to IWEMand
planning at all levels (central Hai Basin, ZhangWeiNan Subbasin, Tianjin Municipality, Beijingand Hebei
counties). The four primary goals o f this Hai Basin KM component will be to: (1) develop a truly
integrated Basin-level water resources-water quality information management system; (2) develop
integrated application systems at the Basin and local levels; (3) provide direct support for ET-based water
management, and (4) develop an integrated water management system that will continue to be sustained
after this Project i s over.

Both H B C M W R and SEPA have developed significant basic information management systems that will
form the foundation for the integrated water management systems in the Hai Basin. Both organizations
have implemented some vertical integration mechanisms, working at provincial and other levels to collect
and manage water data. A very important development is that both organizations have enthusiastically
embraced the concept o f joining together to provide horizontal integration o f water quantity and water
quality management. The development o f this working relationship between these two organizations is an
extremely important development for the GEF Project. Without this working relationship, the integration of
water resources management and pollution control/water environment management would be almost
impossible to achieve inthe Hai Basin. An agreement has been reached to freely share data as well as share
inthe development ofintegrated databasesand applications.

The component design provides for nine major tasks: (i) management; (ii) Assessment and
                                                           Project                   Status
Requirements Analysis; (iii)   Implementation Plan and System Design; (iv) Data and Software Standards
Development; (v) Additional Data Collection, primarily for support o f ET; (vi) Basin-Wide Fundamental
Platform; (vii) Applications for Water Resources and Water Environment Management; (viii) System
Maintenance andOperation; and (ix) Staff Training.

Subcomponent2B Remote Sensing and Evapotranspiration (ET)Data Systems
                       -

ET management is the principal innovative international cutting edge approach being introducedunder the
Hai Basin Project. The key to sustainable water quantity management inthe Hai Basin i s to reduce present
amounts o f ET to sustainable levels (Le., reducing ET throughout the basin in order to eliminate
groundwater overdraft and provide more surface water for ecological purposes including enhancing outflow
to the Bo Hai Sea), and then, in the future, to manage ET within the basin to remain at these sustainable
amounts. Many of the Project activities need to be solidly based on the ET management concepts including:
high-efficiency water utilizationand real water savings, administrationo f water rights and well permits and
water quantity management within the integrated water and environment management plans in Tianjin and
inthe BeijingandHebeicounties.

The Project will introduce a new practical approach to water savings in irrigated agriculture usingremote
sensing and ET management rather than only focusing on irrigation systems efficiency improvements,



                                                   -48-

which has been the approach in China in the past. Improving irrigation system efficiencies does not
necessarily save water and in fact can often increase the amount o f consumptive use (ET) o f irrigated
agriculture by eliminating leakages which were returning to the surface or groundwater systems and
utilizing that water for more crop production. "Real" water savings focuses on reduction inET which can
be accomplished through a combination o f irrigation technology, agriculture and managementmeasures.

The innovative aspect is that spatially distributed ET information based on satellite remote sensing data
will be usedfor strategic planning of ET at the basin level, as well as for the "real" water savings at county
level. The only feasible way to increase basin outflow and reduce groundwater overexploitation is the
reduction o f the comprehensive ET. Although this is a simple hydrological fact, it is not straightforward to
implement a large scale ET reduction program. One o f the largest problems in ET management is the
determination o f the ET value. Although there are several field scale measurementtechniques, none of these
techniques provides insight inthe spatial distribution o f ET across vast areas.

The work plan foresees the generation of a continuous time series of ET data between 2003 to 2008. The
data will have a 1000 m resolution for the basin wide studies and has a 30 m resolution for the
demonstration projects in the various counties. To facilitate the ET reduction process and allocate areas
that are potentially suitable for reducing ET, remote sensing maps o f ET will be combined with digital
maps o f land use and cropping patterns. Furthermore, this Project will provide technical assistance on
quantifying the ET quota and implementing these quota through a water rights and well permits program
that will be designed through the execution o f Strategic Studies and Demonstration Projects. The objective
i s to reduce the ET at the county level to target levels and then maximize the production and value o f
production per unit o f ET. There is a wide range o f water productivities (Yield/ET) for each crop type
depending on irrigation, agriculture and management practices. The Project will assist the counties in
evaluating the range o f water productivities inthe county for each crop type and to develop a plan that will
assist the farmers in moving from lower to higher water productivity practices, always keeping the target
ET for the county as the goal. Remote sensing combined with land use information and crop yields can be
usedto carry out this analysis for eachparcel down to sizes o f 30 by 30 m. The Project will provide strong
technical support to the counties form the Hai Basin Commission and the Project Kh4 Group to learn and
implement this innovative practical approach. It is recognized that an early stage involvement o f several
authorities and stakeholders is a prerequisite to successful implementation o f an ET driven water resources
managementplan.

Project Component 3: Tianjin Coastal Wastewater Management* US$4.13 million        -
The component will focus exclusively on the Tianjin coastal area for two reasons. First, wastewater
management for small cities and industries along the coastal area will directly address GEF Operational
Program #10 by demonstrating ways to reduce land based-sources o f marine pollution, in this case to the
Bohai Sea. Second, the component will leverage GEF funds by supporting infrastructure investments
financed under the TUDEP2. The TUDEP2 plans to provide financial support to about two small city
waste projects in the coastal area, with an estimated cost o f around US$43.1 million. Hangu has been
selected as the priority city, and a second small city will be identified during project implementation.
TUDEP2 is also financing the renovation of the Dagu Canal, with an estimated cost o f around USS55.15
million. The proposed GEF-financed project will support the following TUDEP2-relatedactivities:

*)Togetherwith the associatedparallel financingthroughthe TUDEP2 the cost ofthis componenttotals about US$102.38 million.




                                                                - 49 -

     Small City Wastewater Management Studies: The project will finance comprehensive wastewater
     management studies in Hangu, and at least one other small city. The studies will cover institutional,
     financial, and technical issues, and look at appropriate private sector options for improving efficiency,
     lowering costs, and raising capital.

     Small Cities Financial Support: Controlling water pollution from small cities is a major challenge in
     China due to their limited technical and financial resources. Pollution from small cities accounts for
     approximately half o f the pollution generatedinTianjin municipality, and only one small city inTianjin
     treats its wastewater. The GEF grant will provide financial support to Hangu, and one other small city
     project financed under TUDEP2. Instead o f providing construction subsidies, however, the basic
     concept is to provide output based aide to small cities during the early years o f operation. The exact
     nature o f the financial support will be presented in an "Operational Manual" which will be developed
     during the first year of project implementation. The output basedaide could potentially take the form
     o f payments based on tons o f pollution treated @e., a unit cost o f a ton o f COD) or partial payments
     for a private sector management contract. If successful, the output based subsidy model could be
     expanded to cover other small cities in Tianjin, or other provinces/municipalities inthe Hai Basin and
     elsewhere inChina.

     Dagu Canal Technical Assistance: The Dagu canal system is filled with approximately 2.2 million
     cubic meters of sediment, most o f it contaminated according to Chinese environmental standards.
     Dredging, dewatering, treatment, and safe disposal of the contaminated sediment is a complex and
     highly technical task. The Dagu canal cleanup is the largest and most ambitious sediment remediation
     project undertaken in China, and the experiences gained under the Project will be useful for addressing
     the hundreds o f similar canals throughout the country.

     Dagu Catchment Industrial Pollution Control: Although most of the collected municipal wastewater
     will go to treatment plants inthe future, there are still many industries that discharge directly into Dagu
     Canal (or into municipal systems) without adequate treatment. The GEF program will find an
     industrial pollution control and pre-treatment study, and improve monitoring and enforcement o f
     discharges into Dagu canal. Control o f industrial pollution is essential for the successful renovation o f
     Dagu canal, and the proper operation o f municipal collection and treatment systems.

     Component- Wide Activities: There are many issues which span all four activities above, and require a
     component wide approach. International and domestic program advisors will guide the implementation
     o f the activities and ensure coordinated and best practice approaches are taken, so that the component
     can fulfill its GEF objective o f serving as a demonstration model for integrated wastewater
     management. Seminars, workshops, and reports for small cities throughout the Hai Basin and along the
     rim of the Bohai Sea, will be organized. High priority pollution testing equipment and
     computedsoftware will be procured for district construction and environmental bureaus, and the
     municipal EPB.

Project Component 4: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Training US$8.64 million
                                                                                         -
Hai Basin Project management will support coordinated and integrated actions by the Ministries/Bureaus
o f environmental protection and water resources at the various levels. Central Project Management Offices
(CPMOs) have been established in MWR and SEPA which will be supported by a Joint Expert Group o f
water, environment and other national experts to assist the PMOSin coordination, review, supervision and
in some cases execution of technical activities under the Project. The central Joint Expert Group will be
key to Project success, because the will work to ensure the technical vertical and horizontal integration of
Project activities. The CPMOs will also be supported by international experts with broad experience in


                                                     - 50 -

water quality and quantity management, water and environment planning and knowledge management.
These experts will provide guidance and make detailed recommendations intechnical aspects of the Project
and will visit China 2 to 4 times a year for periods of 2 to 6 weeks each time to provide periodic guidance
and assistance. This approach will ensure Chinese ownership of actions because the international experts
will not be directly responsible for Project activities but instead for providing assistance and on-the-job
training in technical aspects related to the Project. The CPMOs will also be responsible for arranging
internationaland domestic study tours and international and domestic training on a variety o f topics related
to IWEM, river basin management, knowledge management, "real" water savings and ET management,
pollution control, water rights and well permits, wastewater treatment, wastewater canal clean up,
wastewater reuse, ecological restoration, etc. The Project will also support CPMO operations, monitoring
and evaluation and other Project management aspects mainly through counterpart funding. The Project
will support Project management, joint expert groups and training and the other Project areas including
Tianjin, Beijing, Hebei, Hai Basin Commission, ZhangWeiNan and in each o f the Beijing, Hebei and
ZhangWeiNan pilot counties. Domestic training will be an important aspect o f the Project which will
include quarterly workshops held in different Project counties and areas to learn from each other,
interchange ideas andreceive guidance from experts.

Project monitoring and evaluation will be carried out by Project PMOS. Annual monitoring and evaluation
reports will be prepared that detail the Project implementation progress o f activities and finances for each
subcomponent and the performance indicators. This will be tracked inthe Project MIS system. Inaddition
each IWEMP and demonstration project will include a monitoring and evaluation component that will
specifically address the implementation and effectiveness o f the IWEMPs and demonstration projects. The
monitoring and evaluation plans for these activities will be prepared during the first phase o f Project
implementation. IWEMPs and demonstration projects will include baseline surveyshnventories o f surface
and groundwater quantity and quality conditions, uses and trends and establish specific objectives,
timelines and indicators for IWEMP and demonstration Project implementation both during the life o f the
Hai Basin Project andbeyond.

Monitoring and evaluation o f Component 3: Tianjin coastal Wastewater Management will include both
activities financed with the GEF Grant and counterpart hding and with TUDEP2. Monitoring and
evaluation reports for Component 3 will review progress and effectiveness, andmake recommendations for
improved implementation o f the entire component.

During Project preparation and specifically at the time of the appraisal mission, a special SEPNMWR
team was set up and given the responsibility to come up with preliminary estimates on the amounts o f
pollution loading and groundwater overexploitationpresently occurring in each o f the 10 IWEMP counties,
in the 3 demonstration counties in the Zhangweinan subbasin, and in the 3 counties in Tianjin that were
selected on a preliminary basis for second-phaseimplementationo f the Tianjin IWEMP. The team carried
out consultations with each o f the counties and preliminary estimates were made based on existing data.
From this analysis, total existing annual COD loading, NH4 loading, and groundwater overexploitation for
all o f these counties are estimated to be about 164,000 tons, 19,000 tons and 420,000,000 m3,respectively.
A breakdown for each of counties is provided inthe following table.

On a very preliminary basis it i s estimated that about 60% o f these pollution loadings actually make it into
rivers and eventually discharge into the Bohai Sea; much o f the pollution accumulates behind checks, in
reservoirs and in river sediments, and the discharge to the Bo Hai Sea occurs mainly as a result o f
extraordinary flooding events that wash the pollution to the Sea. The Project objectives are to put in place
the mechanisms necessary to eliminate groundwater overexploitation and substantially reduce pollution



                                                    - 51 -

Provinces/Municipalit        Counties            COD Loading          NH4 Loading            Groundwater
         ies                                        inTons                inTons           Overexploitation
                                                                                             inmillionm'
     Beijing
I                     1      Mivun          I             4290    I              310    I                14.0 I




   Note (1): Hanguestimates are also included inthe Tianjin Coastal Component

   The first phase of the IWEMPs and DemonstrationProjects, including the baseline surveys will refine and
   detail these estimates, indicators and reduction objectives. The baseline surveys will be carried in the first
   year of project implementation. For water quantity, the baseline survey will include evaluation o f existing
   data on groundwater levels and extraction. A water balance analysis will be carried out that will include
   estimates of recharge, extraction, and overexploitation based on the data. The total groundwater
   overexploitation for each county will be revised based on this analysis. For water quality, the baseline
   survey will include evaluation of existing data on water quality, discharge to rivers, lakes, canals, and
   groundwater. Additional data will be collected where data gaps exist. The total pollution loading for
   selected parameters will be revised based on this analysis for each county. The IWEMPs will be prepared
   during the first and second years o f Project implementation and will include year-by-year estimated
   reductions in ground water exploitation and pollution loadings for their implementation periods.
   Implementationo f the IWEMPs will begin in the third year and the year-by-year reductions determined in
   the plans will be used as milestones during the secondphase o f Project implementation.



                                                       - 52 -

Inaddition, pollution into the Bohai seawillbe reducedby activities underthe TianjinCoastal Component.
For each small city, starting with Hangu, these are estimated to result in annual reductions in pollution
loadings into the Bohai Sea o f 10,000 tons o f COD and 500 tons of NH4. The Dagu canal has about 2.2
million cubic meter o f contaminated sediment. The pollution reduction will come from removing the
contaminated sediment from the canal, and disposing o f it in an environmentally safe, contained landfill
site. According to preliminary sampling, oil and zinc are the two major pollutants o f concern in the Dagu
sediments. Based on pollutant concentrations inthe sediment, there will be an estimated one-time reduction
o f approximately 5,000 tons o f nitrogen (as total N), 10,000 tons o f oil and grease, and 2,000 tons of zinc
from the Dagu canal cleanup. The Dagu canal estimates are the amount o f pollution presently stored in
canal sediments that would eventually be washed into the Bohai Sea ifthe canal were not cleanedup. These
estimates will be refined during implementation as more sampling is undertaken and more sophisticated
estimation methodologies are used. Present discharge of wastewater to the Bohai Sea through the Dagu
Canal, estimated at 61,000 tons o f COD and 9,400 tons o f NH4 annually, will be eliminated due to other
actions being taken by the Tianjin government, outside the purview of this Project. These estimates for
pollution reductions for both Hangu and the Dagu canal were based on feasibility studies carried out for
these Tianjin Coastal Component activities.




                                                    - 53 -

                               Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
      CHINA: Hai Basin Integrated Water and Environment Management Project



A. Integrated Water andEnvironmentManagement                  9,157.6    4,759.2   13,916.8
    1. Strategic Studies                                      1,287.0      858.0   2,145.0
    2. Integrated Water and Environment MgmtPlanning          5,654.8    2,946.0    8,600.8
    3. DemonstrationProjects                                  2,215.8      955.2   3,171.0
B.Knowledge Management                                        3,410.7    2,443.3   5,854.0
    1. KMDevelopment                                          2,66 1.7   1,588.3   4,250.0
    2. Remote Sensing and ET Data Systems                       749.0      855.0    1,604.0
C. Tianjin Coastal Wastewater Management                      2,547.8    1,577.7   4,125.5
    1. Small Cities Wastewater Management Studies               180.3      220.2     400.5
    2. DaguCanal Technical Assistance                            80.0      720.0      800.0
    3. DaguCatchment IndustrialPollution Control                242.5      107.5      350.0
    4. Small Cities Financial Support                         2,045.0      530.0    2,575.0
D. ProjectManagement, Monitoring& Evaluation, and Training    4,532.8    4,096.2    8,629.0
    1. Project Management Support                             1,007.2      878.9    1,886.1
   2. International Expert Panel                                 73.6      662.4      736.0
    3. WUA Establishment                                        192.2      117.8      3 10.0
   4. Training                                                1,326.3    1,708.4    3,034.7
   5. PMO Operation, Management, and M&E                      1,933.5      728.7    2,662.2

Total BaselineCost                                          19,648.9    12,876.4   32,525.3
Physical Contingencies                                          218.8       76.8      295.6
Price Contingencies                                             458.5       38.2      496.7
                             Total ProiectCosts1            20,326.2    12,991.4   33,317.6

                       Total FinancingRequired              20,326.2    12,991.4   33,317.6




                                             - 54 -

                                                                                                                 usTotal000
                                                                                                                     $'
   A. Goods                                                                        2,943.9            2,036.0        4,979.9
   B. Works                                                                        3,137.6              784.4        3,922.0
   C. Consultant Services                                                          8,462.8            7,621.1      16,083.9
   D. Training and Study Tours                                                     1,363.3            1,741.4        3,104.7
   E. Project Management Expenses                                                  1,741.3               193.5       1,934.8
   F. Financial Incentives                                                         2,000.0              500.0        2,500.0

   Total Baseline Cost                                                            19,648.9           12,876.4      32,525.3
    PhysicalContingencies                                                            218.8                76.8         295.6
    Price Contingencies                                                              458.5                38.2         496.7
                                                     Total Project Costs     '1   20,326.2    1      12,991.4      33,317.6

                                              Total Financing Required        I   20.326.2   I       12.991.4      33.317.6
li An additional cost of US$98.25 million for the Tianjin Coastal Wastewater Managementcomponent is includedinTUDEP2.




                                                             - 55 -

Project cost has been estimated basedon information obtained inJuly 2003 and updated in December 2003.
Project cost was derived from technical discussions to reflect the up-to-date project designs. Project base
cost is expressed in end 2003 prices and the exchange rate used to convert base cost and physical
contingencies i s 8.26 yuan to US$1. The total project implementation period i s expected to be 5 years. In
addition, some project activities under retroactive financing are expected to be implemented in 2004. Total
project cost includes bothphysical and price contingencies.




                                                     - 56 -

Physical contingencies are assumed at 5% o f the project base cost for civil works and selectedgoods. Price
contingencies for costs incurred in foreign exchange are estimated based on an annual international price
index o f -0.4 percent for 2004, 1.5 percent for 2005, 0.7 percent for 2006, 0.7 percent for 2007, 1.1
percent for 2008 and 1.0 percent for 2009. Price contingencies for costs incurred in RMB are based on an
annual domestic price index of 2.0 percent for 2004, 3.0 percent for 2005, 3.5 percent for 2006, and 3.6
percent for 2007-2009.

An additional cost of USS98.25 million for the Tianjin Coastal Wastewater Management component is
included in TUDEP2.




                                                  - 57 -

                                   Annex 4: IncrementalCost Analysis
         CHINA: Hai Basin Integrated Water and Environment Management Project

Overview

The overall objective o f the GEF alternative is to catalyze a more integrated approach to water resource
management and pollution control in the Hai Basin in order to improve the Bohai Sea environment.
Specifically, the Project would: Improve integrated water and environment planning and managementinthe
Hai Basin; Support institutional aspects related to effective local, municipal/provincial, and basin-wide
water and environment planning and management; and support reduction of wastewater discharges from
small cities along the rim o f the Bohai Sea. Specific Project components, all interrelated include: (i)
Integrated Water and Environment Management (IWEM); (ii)       Knowledge Management (KM); (iii)      Tianjin
Coastal Wastewater Management; and (iv) Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Training.
The GEF Altemative intends to achieve these outputs at a total incremental cost o f US$131.57 million and
focuses on high-priority issues for the Chinese government and intemational environment protection.

BroadDevelopmentGoals

The Hai Basin, home to over 117 million people and accounting for 15 percent of China's GDP, is spread
over four provinces and the municipalities of Beijing and Tianjin. The area that would be covered by the
Project is one o f the country's most important river basins and one o f the most important industrial and
agricultural regions o f China. Water has played a pivotal role in the development o f the Basin, and
sustainable development is heavily dependent on water resource management. Like many other areas in
China, the Hai Basin i s facing serious water-related problems, including water pollution, water scarcity,
and flooding. Over-exploitation o f groundwater, estimated by some to be 9 Billion cubic meters annually,
and overuse o f surface water resulting in inadequate environmental flows, along with increasing
groundwater and surface water pollution, are contributing to the decline and deterioration o f water
resources and damage to freshwater and in coastal environments in the Hai Basin. Present water use
patterns in the Hai Basin are not sustainable and continued rapid economic growth is jeopardized.

The Basin discharges into the Bohai Sea and is a major contributor to pollutant loadings. The sea is an
important eco-system and fishery resource, reflecting its role as a seasonal spawning and nursery ground
for the larger and more productive Yellow Sea. However, heavy land-based pollution from urban,
industrial, agricultural, and other sources in the Hai Basin, combined with over-fishing, reduction o f
freshwater inflows, and habitat loss, threatens the fishery and has steadily diminished many o f the Bohai
Sea's eco-system functions.

The Chinese Govemment is committed to corrective action. China's 9th Five Year Plan (1995-2000)
includedprovisions for improving water resourcemanagement in the Hai Basin and restoring the Bohai Sea
- notably pollution control measures. Other measures include greater efficiency in water use, water
diversions from the Yellow River to the Hai Basin, and improved flood control measures. While these
initiatives are vital, they address problems of immediate concern and insufficiently provide for longer-term
challenges. The south north transfer o f water from the Yangtze River to northern China includingthe Hai
Basin is a more long-term solution, but would still be inadequate to meet demands without major
improvements inwater resourcesmanagement.




                                                   - 58 -

Baseline Scenario

This scenario comprises previously agreed plans and initiatives of the Chinese Government to address
water related problems at national and local levels. It reflects the likely situation concerning the Hai Basin
and Bohai Sea in the absence o f GEF support. There are various national programs and more detailed
investment programs, generally formulated by sector management agencies and local governments, to
implementthe national plans. It has to be taken into account that these national plans are highlyambitious
and are sometimes not fully realized. The related activities are often carried through to the next planning
period and tend to be large scale investments, leaving out the medium to small scale investment level.
Another important issue is the institutional fragmentation o f water resource management as it involves
amongst others, the following agencies: the Ministry o f Water Resources (MWR), the State Environment
Protection Administration (SEPA), the Ministry o f Construction (MOC) and the Ministry o f Agriculture
(MOA). Each agency has its own planning process, frequently leading to overlapping and/or inconsistent
plans and programs.

NationalPlans
    9th National Five Year Plan (1995-2000): China's environmental improvement priorities were defined
    as: three rivers (Huai, Hai, and Liao), three lakes (Tai, Cao, and Dianchi Lake), two air quality issues
    (SO2 and acidrain), one municipality (Beijing), and one marine area (Bohai Sea). (Planned Investment:
    US$ 22.2 billion)

    10th National Five Year Plan (2000-2005): Emphasizes the need for sustainablemanagement and use
    o f water resources, especially intensifying agricultural water-saving and wastewater reuse efforts.
    (Planned Investment: US$ 30.5 billion)

    China    Trans-Century Green Program: Emphasizes construction o f urban environmental
    infrastructure. The Program has three phases, spanning 15 years. Formulated through joint efforts o f
    SEPA, The State Development Reform Commission (SDRC), and the State Economic and Trade
    Commission, it i s an umbrella program for all pollution control initiatives in China, including water
    pollution control o f the Hai Basin. (Planned Investment: component o fNational Five Year Plan)

    The South-North Water Transfer Project (SNWT Project): This proposed Project would address the
    serious water scarcity problems inNorth China, including the Hai Basin. The intention i s to transfer 20
    bcmwater from the Yangtze River system to North China. (Planned Investment: US$lO-15 billion)

    Bohai Blue Sea Action Plan: The plan seeks to influence urban development, the economic structure,
    and the adoption o f clean production technologies. Highpriority i s given to the control and prevention
    o f land-basedpollution. The intention is to invest innew and improve existing sewage treatment plants,
    recycling and reuse o f waste, and the adoption o f various "clean" technologies. (Planned Investment:
    USS7.2 billion)

    Water Pollution Prevention Program of Hai Basin: The Program endeavors to ensure that all
    industries abide by national discharge standards and improve water quality. (Planned Investment:
    US$5.3 billion for water pollutioncontrol)

    Hai Basin Comprehensive Management Plan: The Plan incorporates flood control, water resource
    management, and soil and water conservation. (Planned Investment: US$1.5billion)




                                                    - 59 -

0   National Irrigated Agriculture Water-Saving Program: The Program endeavors to rehabilitate
    irrigation systems and improve irrigation technologies in 300 counties, identified as demonstration
    sites. (Planned Investment:US$5.2 billion)

BeijingMunicipality
0   Plan for Sustainable Use of Water Resources in the Capital in the 21st Century (2001-2005): It
    focuses on the development and protection o f water resources. By 2005, Beijing Municipality plans to
    achieve water savings o f 790 million cbm, reuse of 645 million cbm o f treated wastewater, supply o f
    150 cbm of water from rain and flood sources, achieve groundwater balance inthe city, andensure that
    the water quality o f the city suburbs reachesnational standards. (Planned Investment: US$3 billion)

TianjinMunicipality
    Hai Basin Tianjin Municipality Wastewater Treatment Project: The Project will complete the
    Municipality's 1958 Sewerage and Drainage Master Plan, which designates six drainage zones, a
    WWTP ineach zone, and separate sanitary and storm sewers. (Planned Investment:US$274 million)

HebeiProvince
    The Hebei Provincial Government has outlined an ambitious environment protection plan for the
    province up to the year 2010 to be implemented in three phases. The plan i s consistent with national
    environmental plans including the Trans-century Green Engineering Plan and the Hai River Pollution
    Control andPrevention Plan, which are mentioned above. (Planned Investment: TBD)

            RelatedProjectsfinancedby the World Bank andthe Asian DevelopmentBank
    Water Conservation Project
    2nd Tianjin Urban Environment Project
    2nd BeijingUrbanEnvironment Project
    FYOlHebeiUrbanEnvironment Project
    Agenda for Water Sector Strategy for North China
    Tianjin Wastewater Treatment and Water Resources Protection Project
    Coastal Resource Conservation and Environment Management Project for the Bohai Sea

The cumulative effect of the Government's initiatives outlined above will be considerable, particularly with
regards to reduction o f pollution o f water resources inthe Hai Basin. COD loadings from major sources in
the Hai Basin are estimated to be reduced by 17 and 25 percent in 2010 and 2020, respectively, compared
with the 2000 levels. However, reductions in loads will not be sufficient to improve water quality to the
extent needed for public health, environmental needs, and restoration o f the marine environment of the
Bohai Sea.

GlobalEnvironmentalObjectives
Success in managing the Hai Basin and restoring and protecting the environment o f the Bohai Sea i s o f
global importance, becausethe trans-boundary effects o f water pollution are severe. The Bohai Sea and the
Yellow Sea are a single large marine ecosystem and interdependent fishery. Approximately 600 million
people live in the basins that drain into the Yellow Sea. Many depend on it as a source o f livelihood.
Damage to the Bohai Sea's function as a nursery area for fish and shellfish stocks damages the resource
wealth of the Yellow Sea. The implications are even more widespread, for pollution o f the Bohai Sea
ultimately affects the East China Sea. The Bohai Sea, the Yellow Sea, and the East China Sea are
connected, forming a continuous circulation system.




                                                     - 60 -

The deterioration o fthe water resourcesinthe Hai Basin is severely impacting the quality of life ofmillions
o f people in a river basin with major population, industrial production and agriculture production. Water
pollution and water scarcity impact on agricultural production and human and environmental health.
Deterioration o f the environment is also hamperingpoverty reduction, the most seriously impacted are often
the most vulnerable.



                                                       1997       2000   2010        2020
              ~            ~~                        ~~         ~

               UrbanIndustry                           2,289      2,213  1,435       1,225
               Urbanmunicipal                            401        488    656         713
               Rural industry                          1,623      1,607  1,266         858
               Livestock                                 643        663    130         848
               Rural municipal                           239        254    276         292

               Total COD                               5,195      5,225  4,361       3,935

                       BaselineScenario: 1000tonslyear (Agenda Water Sector
                       Strategy for NorthChina, April 2, 2001)


The GEF Alternative Project will assist China to significantly improve its water resource management
practices. From a global perspective, this improvement would result inthe following benefits:

e    It would help improvingthe Bohai Sea environment, contributing thereby to maintaining fishery stocks
     and biodiversity o f the Yellow Sea and the East China Sea more generally;
e    Poverty reduction enhances social stability which, if not addressed, has national and potential
     internationalimplications;
e    An integrated approach to water resources management in the Hai Basin would provide a model for
     wider application inChina;
e    Success inChina would encourageother developing countries to draw upon the lessonslearned.

GEFAlternative

The proposed GEF Program for the Hai Basin and Bohai Sea will encourage a more comprehensive
integrated water resource management approach than outlined under the baseline scenario. This will help
give direction to and ensure that various plans of the agencies involved in the Hai Basin are coordinated
and properly integrated. The central focus of the GEF alternative would be the support o f the formulation
of Integrated Water Resource Management Plans (IWEMPs) in pilot counties and at the sub-basin and
basin levels. Attempts to improve water resources management in China have been very top down, with
strong laws, policies, regulations and large investments, but with insufficient bottom up implementation at
the grass roots level. The purpose of the IWEMPs is to address integrated planning and to implement
practical bottom up actions that translate top down initiatives into bottom up results. The IWEMPs will
include water user participation and local government ownership in the development of plans that address:
(i) qualitymanagementaspects,concentrating onpointandnon-pointsourcesofpollutionthrough
    water
the implementation o f discharge controls, industrial restructuring to clean industries, wastewater treatment
in small cities, industrial wastewater treatment, and agricultural and livestock production related pollution
controls, (ii)reuse o f treated wastewater, (iii)
                                                improvements in water use efficiencies that result in "real"



                                                       -61 -

water savings by reducing non-recoverable losses particularly evapotranspiration (ET), (iv) implementation
of effective water rights and well permits systems, (v) increasing water pricing combined with volumetric
measurement, (vi) conjunctive use o f surface run-off and groundwater, and (vii) ecological restoration.

The IWEMPs would also, where appropriate, provide revisions to laws, regulations, standards, and other
factors related to water quality and water quantity management at basin and local levels. In addition,
DemonstrationProjects would be implementedinselectedcounties to deepen experience inkey complicated
areas including: (i) "real" water savings, (ii)administration o f water rights and well permits, (iii)
                                                                                                     pollution
control, and (iv) ecological restoration. Strategic Studies at the basin level would address important basin
policies, programs and approaches in order to ensure adequate governmental support to the lower levels to
implement to plan and implement the IWEMPs and demonstration projects. Lessons learned from the pilot
counties and demonstration areas would be shared with other counties throughout the Hai Basin and
elsewhere in China. An integrated approach would furthermore lead to a better understandingo f important
surfacelsubsurface andwater quality interactions, and facilitate new management techniques.

Without GEF support, integrated water resource management at the county level is unlikely to be achieved
because o f the already mentioned difficulties in inter-jurisdictional and inter-administrative cooperation and
inadequate programs to implement government policies at the grass roots level. Each agency has its own
programs with generally ineffective bottom up implementation and inadequatecoordinationbecauseo f lack
o f adequate vertical and horizontal integration o f activities. Water resource management involves many
agencies. While the MWR has the primary responsibility for overall management o f the nation's water
resources, and SEPA has overall responsibility for pollution control. There are considerable overlapping
jurisdiction problems between these agencies and with other ministries and agencies concerning urban
water supply, water pollution control, groundwater management, and irrigated agriculture. MWR's and
SEPA's management role is further limited by the increasing powers o f provinces following the
decentralization process. The GEF Program would provide a powerful demonstration effect and an
incentive to break through institutional barriers.

The GEF alternative has already resulted in a breakthrough during Project preparation whereby Project
related cooperative mechanisms have been established between MWR and SEPA. The Project would
include an integrated program to improve basin-wide measurement,monitoring, modeling. and data sharing
that will greatly enhance water resourcesmanagement. River reach files with a common coding systemwill
be developed and implemented that will allow for the sharing of information that will satisfy both SEPA
and MWR needs, as well as the lower-level needs at the county level. Applications will also be developed
that support the needs o f integrated water resources management for the different entities. These activities
under the Project are referred to as Knowledge Management (KM). KMimprovements are neededbecause
an adequate system o f data collection and analysis is critical to integrated water resources management.
Monitoring is another serious problem inthe Hai Basin. Without effective monitoring and enforcement, it is
impossible to have an adequatesystemo fwater rights administrationor volumetric pricing.

This is the first GEF initiative of this kind. A further global benefit, therefore, is the important
demonstration effect of solving problems related to water resources through adopting a comprehensive
integrated management approach for a globally important river basin. The Project would help to provide
the management framework for integrated water resources management, which i s indispensable for a
long-term sustainable approach to water use in the Hai Basin and to reducing pollution into the Bohai Sea.
Although government policy calls for an integrated framework,                    experience has shown that
inter-jurisdictional, and inter-administrative cooperation often proves difficult. The GEF grant would
provide an incentive to break through institutional barriers and intendsto provide a powerful demonstration
effect. The Project would help to provide international expertise to provide Chinese counterparts with a



                                                     - 62 -

broadrange o f management experiences and instrumentsto draw upon.

The rationale for GEF involvement is that, without support, the Government tends to focus on measures
that are visible and with immediate effect, thus geared towards investment in infrastructure rather than
management activities and research (see baseline scenario). The Government and research institutes have
limited practical experience in designing integrated water resources management instruments resulting in
sustainable use o f water resources and environmental protectiodrestoration. The international expertise
that accompanies GEF Projects would provide Chinese authorities with a broad range o f management
experiencesand instruments to draw from.

In addition to the global benefits described above, the Project would also generate significant
supplementary benefits for China. The IWEMPs formulated under the Program will enable government
agencies at various levels to better manage and use water resources in the Hai Basin. The improved
knowledge management system, including ET management, for the Hai Basin will help government
agencies to formulate efficient and sustainable water resources policies and ensure effective enforcement o f
water pollutionregulations and laws. These benefits are not in the baseline scenario because of inadequacy
o f financing and institutional capacity limitations. ET management using remote sensing is a principal
innovative intemational cutting edge approach being introduced under the Hai Basin Project. The key to
sustainable water quantity management inthe Hai Basin is to reduce present amounts o f ET to sustainable
levels, and the Project provides a practical feasible approach for achieving this objective. Eventually
reducing ET to sustainable levels will result in stabilization o f groundwater systems and the long-term
provision o f water for environmental purposes including delivery of fresh water to the Bohai Sea.

The wastewater management for small cities and industries along the coastal area (component 3) will
directly address GEF's Operational Program # 10 by demonstrating ways to reduce land based-sources of
marine pollution, inthis case to the Bohai Sea. China presently pays very little attention to small cities and
suburban industrial pollution, concentrating almost exclusively on pollution control in large urban areas.
The Project would attempt to leverage GEF funds by supporting infrastructure investments in small cities
and suburban areas financed under the World Bank-financed TianjinUrban Environment and Development
Project (TUDEP2). In addition this component will support cleanup o f the Dagu Canal system which has
served as the main wastewater canal for Tianjin City for four decades and which discharges directly into
the Bohai Sea. China has many of these large sewerage discharge canals that needto be renovated and the
Project will provide a demonstration on technically and environmentally sound approaches for this.
Success o f this component will provide powerful demonstrations o f how to begin to address these huge and
presently largely un-addressedpollutionproblems.

Although the scope of the proposed GEF Program is small compared to the enormity o f reducing pollution
o f the Bohai Sea, it will provide important demonstration effects. It will support technical assistance to
control pollution from secondary cities, and suburban and rural areas, which account for more than half the
pollution loadings entering the Bohai Sea. The global benefit, therefore, will be laying the groundwork for
substantial reduction o f pollution o f the Bohai Sea and an improved marine environment. This, inturn, will
contribute to sustainable management o f the Bohai Sea and maintaining fish stocks and the biodiversity o f
the Yellow Sea andEast China Sea.

Related GEF Projects

The proposed GEF Project builds upon, fills ingaps, andcomplements other related initiatives inthe region
that are supported by GEF. By contributing to improvement o f the Bohai Sea environment, the Program
addresses an important missing link in the China/GEF relationship. China is a participating state in two



                                                     - 63 -

GEF/UNDP Projects for improvement o f the Bohai Sea environment: "Building Partnerships for the
Environmental Protection and Management o f Asian Seas" (PEMSEA); and "Reducing Environmental
Stress in the Yellow Sea Large Marine Ecosystem" (YSLME). The proposed GEF alternative also
complements initiatives supported by other international agencies. Some o f these projects are listed above.
The PEMSEA Project is designed to assist the East Asia Sea Regionto collectively protect andmanage the
coastal and marine environment through intergovernmental and inter-sectoral partnerships. It involves ten
countries in Asia, including China. A key element i s to facilitate development o f institutional capacity,
management strategies and action plans to deal with land-based pollution. The Bohai Sea is identified as a
sub-regional sea under stress and a pollution "hot spot". A demonstration site has been established to
reduce waste discharges and to address environmental problems common to adjacent provinces and
municipalities. The proposed GEF Program for the Hai Basin and Bohai Sea complements the PEMSEA
Project intwo important ways:
     Itwill contribute to PEMSEA's objective to control land-based sources ofpollution o fthe Bohai Sea;
     It will complement PEMSEA's efforts to establish inter-jurisdiction coordinating mechanisms to
     address environmental issues in the Bohai Sea by promoting integrated water resource management in
     the Hai Basin.

The YSLME Project i s a regional effort involving China and the Republic o f Korea to formulate and
implement a regional Strategic Action Program (SAP). The Democratic People's Republic o f Korea has
also been invited to participate in the Project, although it has so far declined formal involvement. The
long-term objective of the Project i s ecosystem-based, by supporting environmentally-sustainable
management and use o f the Yellow Sea. As mentioned earlier, the Bohai Sea is critical to maintaining the
fish stocks andbiodiversity o fthe Yellow Sea. The Hai, Liao, and Yellow Rivers have important effects on
salinity in the western Yellow Sea. Therefore, the SAP must involve the Bohai Sea and the Hai Basin. The
proposed GEF alternative will contribute to YSLME Project's long-term objective and support the
formulation and implementation o f the SAP.

IncrementalCosts

As discussed in the Baseline Scenario section above, the Government o f China has plans or is in the
process o f implementingbillions o f dollars in investments that will result inimprovements inwater quantity
and water quality conditions in the Hai Basin with consequent improvements to the Bohai Sea. These
investments will not appreciably contribute to the Project objectives o f moving towards integrated water
resources management inthe Hai Basin and small city and suburban wastewater treatment. For the purpose
o f this incremental cost analysis it was decided to only include in the Baseline Scenario those investments
related to the closely-linked TUDEP2 and Water Conservation Project (WCP), that would contribute to the
Project objective of integrated water and environment management. In this regard, using data from
TUDEP2 and WCP, the total cost o fthe Baseline Scenario is US206.95 million, including Government o f
China expenditures o f US$118.72 million and IBRD financing o f US$88.23 million. (Note: The Baseline
Scenario included all o f WCP and only the Water Reuse and Institutional Development components of
TUDEP2). For the GEF Alternative, the total cost is U S 1 31.57 million, includingUS$73.72 million from
the Chinese government (US57.40 million under TUDEP2 and US$16.32 million direct), US$40.85
million o f IBRD loans under TUDEP2, and the GEF grant o f US$17 million. (Note: The Dagu Canal
Rehabilitation and Suburban Sewerage components o f TUDEP2 were included in the GEF Alternative
because their successful implementation is dependent upon the GEF Project.) All o f these funds would be
incremental to the baseline scenario. Table 2 shows the incremental cost distribution according to Project
component.



                                                    - 64 -

                                       Table 2: Incremental Cost Matrix
   Component        cost     US$ Millior     Domestic Environmental Benefit           Global Environmental Benefit
                  Category
i. Integrated   3aseline          187.8! (i) Water conservation in irrigation       Some improvement of Bohai Sea
Water and                                agriculture and reduction in surface and    marine and coastal environment
invironment                              groundwateroveruse.                        and protection of fish stocks and
vlanagement                                                                          biodbersity.
IWEM)           Nith GEF          202.1! (i) Demonstrationeffect of adopting         Demonstration effect of adopting
                4iternative              integrated water management measures integrated water and environment
                                         to control water pollution and deal with    management measures to control
                                         water shortage and other related           water pollution and deal with
                                         problems; (ii) Reduction of marine         water shortages. Further
                                         pollution caused by land-based sources, improvement of Bohai Sea
                                         especially pollution from secondary         marine and coastal environment
                                         towns and their associated industries (iii) and greater protection of fish
                                         Improvement of public health because of stocks and biodiversity.
                                         better water quality and pollution
                                         reduction; (iv) Improvementof the
                                         environment of the Hai Basin; (v)
                                         Protection of fish stocks and biodiversity
                                         (vi) Enhanced habitat& species
                                         protection.
                ncrement           14.7(
?.Knowledge     3aseline            3.8: Improved Knowledge Managementin
vlanagement                              Water Conservation and Pollution
                                         Control.
                Nith GEF           10.3: Improved IntegratedKnowledge                Demonstration effect of adopting
                4lternative              Management System for the Hai Basin         integrated water management
                                         and improvements in the conservation oi measures to control water
                                         water resourcesand the water                pollution and deal with water
                                         environment.                                shortage and other related
                                                                                     oroblems.
                ncrement            5.8!
3.Nastewater
   Small Cities 3aseline            0.01
                Nith GEF                                                             Reduction of marine and coastal
rreatment                         102.31 Improvement of the water quality of the
                4lternative              Hai Basin and improvement of public         pollution caused by land-based
support                                  health because of better water quality      sources, especially pollution from
                                         and pollution reduction.                    secondary towns and their
                                                                                     associated industries.
                ncrement          102.31
1. Project      3aseline           15.21 Improved Public Sector capacity for
vlanagement                              water conservation and pollution control.
and Training    Nith GEF           21.41 Increased public sector capacity for
                4lternative              Integrated Water and Environmental
                                         Management and improved institutional
                                         arrangement for integratedwater
                                         resource planning and management.
                ncrement            8.64
rOTAL           3aseline                                    206.95
                Nith GEF Alternative                        338.52
                ncrement                                    131.57




                                                 - 65 -

                           Financing Year
                             Retroactive  Year 1     Year 2   Year 3  Year 4  Year 5




                            Retroactive
                           Financing Year Year 1     Year 2   Year 3  Year 4  Year 5




ITotalFinancing                291.96      230.01      214.10  345.12  279.87  255.37 I
 Financing
   GEF                         155.43      122.45      113.98  183.74  149.00   135.9
                                                                                    5
   Government                  136.53      107.56      100.12  161.39  130.87  119.42
       MWR                     136.53      107.56      100.12  161.39  130.87  119.42
       SEPA
       ProvinciallMunicipal
       Prefecture
       CountylDistrict
 Total Project Financing       291.96      230.01      214.10  345.12  279.87  255.37


                                                 - 66 -

                             Table Annex 5-2: FinancingPlanof SEPA II


                                        IMPLEMENTATIONPERIOD(in US%'000)
                            Retroactive
                          Financing Year Year 1      Year 2   Year 3    Year 4  Year 5




Total Financing               291.96       230.01      214.10   345.12   279.87  255.37
Financing
   GEF                        155.52       122.53      114.05    183.84  149.08  136.03
   Government                 136.44       107.48      100.05    161.28  130.79  119.34
      MWR
      SEPA                    136.44       107.48      100.05    161.28  130.79  119.34
      ProvinciallMunicipal
      Prefecture
      CountylDistrict
Total Project Financing       291.96       230.01      214.10   345.12   279.87  255.37




                           Retroactive
                          FinancingYear  Year 1      Year 2   Year 3    Year 4  Year 5

Required
Project Costs
  Investment Costs            932.68     2,652.88    1,888.07  ,441.67   911.63  868.17
 Recurrent Costs                22.12       22.12       21.59    21.59    21.59   21.59
Total Project Costs           954.80     2,675.00    1,909.66  ,463.26   933.22  889.76

Total Financing               954.80     2.675.00    1.909.66  1.463.26  933.22  889.76
Financing
  GEF                         370.90     1,039.13      741.82   568.41   362.51  345.63
  Government                  583.90     1,635.87    1,167.84   894.85   570.70  544.13
      MWR                     413.06     1,157.25      826.15   633.03   403.73  384.93
      SEPA                    170.84       478.62      341.69   261.81   166.98  159.20
      ProvinciallMunicipal
      Prefecture
      CountylDistrict
Total Project Financing       954.80     2,675.00    1,909.66  1,463.26  933.22  889.76




                                                 - 67 -

                          Table Annex 5-4: FinancingPlan of Zhangweinan $1




                          Financing Year
                            Retroactive  Year 1       Year 2    Year 3     Year 4   Year 5
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
  Investment Costs            294.13      486.80      1,126.31  1,322.33    854.32   447.56
 Recurrent Costs                13.60       33.60        34.70    34.70      32.70    28.70
Total Project Costs           307.73      520.40      1,161.01  1,357.03    887.02   476.26

Total Financing               307.73      520.40      1,161.01  1,357.03    887.02   476.26
Financing
  GEF                         127.42      215.49        480.73   561.89     367.28   197.20
  Government                  180.31      304.92        680.28   795.13     5 19.74  279.06
      MWR                       22.59       38.20        85.21    99.60      65.11    34.96
      SEPA                      45.17       76.39       170.44    199.21    130.21    69.91
      ProvinciallMunicipal
      Prefecture                41.20       69.67       155.42    181.66    118.74    63.76
      CountylDistrict           71.36      120.67       269.21   314.66     205.68   110.43
Total Project Financing       307.73       520.40     1,161.01  1.357.03    887.02   476.26




                            Retroactive
                          Financing Year Year 1       Year 2    Year 3     Year 4   Year 5




Total Financing               382.42      765.24        646.93    509.80    498.62   360.28
Financing
  GEF                         223.65      447.54        378.35   298.15     291.61   210.71
  Government                  158.77       317.70       268.58   211.65     207.01   149.58
      MWR
      SEPA
      ProvinciallMunicipal    158.77       3 17.70      268.58   211.65     207.01   149.58
      Prefecture
      CountylDistrict
Total Project Financing       382.42      765.24        646.93    509.80    498.62   360.28




                                                  - 68 -

                        Table Annex 5-6: Financing Planof Tianjin Coastal I I


                                         IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD(inUS%'000)

                          Financing Year
                            Retroactive   Year 1      Year 2    Year 3       Year 4  Year 5

Required
 Project Costs
  Investment Costs            468.62       499.88     1,079.87  1,029.88      879.75  697.00
 Recurrent Costs                14.00        14.00       14.00      14.00      11.50
Total Project Costs           482.62        513.88    1,093.87  1,043.88      891.25  697.00

Total Financing               482.62        513.88    1,093.87  1,043.88      891.25  697.00
Financing
  GEF                         424.12       451.58       961.27    917.33      783.20  612.50
   Government                   58.51       62.30       132.61    126.55      108.05   84.50
      MWR
      SEPA
      ProvinciallMunicipal      46.56       49.58       105.53    100.71       85.99   67.25
      Prefecture
      CountylDistrict           11.95        12.72       27.07      25.84      22.06   17.25
Total Project Financing       482.62        513.88    1,093.87  1,043.88      891.25  697.00

                            Table Annex 5-7: Financing Plan of Beijing



                           Retroactive
                          Financing Year  Year 1      Year 2    Year 3       Year 4  Year 5
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
  Investment Costs            535.33      1,032.50      840.04    824.01      638.71  297.72
 Recurrent Costs                85.00        85.00       72.25      72.25      77.25   80.25
Total Project Costs           620.33      1,117.50      912.29    896.26      715.96  377.97

Total Financing               620.33      1,117.50      912.29    896.26      715.96  377.97
Financing
  GEF                         260.68       469.61       383.37    376.64      300.87  158.83
  Government                  359.65       647.89       528.92    519.62      415.09  219.14
      MWR
      SEPA
      ProvinciallMunicipal    359.65       647.89       528.92    519.62      415.09  219.14
      Prefecture
      CountylDistrict
Total Project Financing       620.33      1.117.50      912.29    896.26      715.96  377.97




                                                  - 69 -

                                 Table Annex 5-8: FinancingPlanofHebeiII

                                            IMPLEMENTATIONPERIOD(in US$' 000)
                               Retroactive
                              Financing Year Year 1        Year 2      Year 3       Year 4      Year 5
 Total Financing
 Required
   Project Costs
    Investment Costs              395.59        653.83       859.56      813.56       652.67       480.3 1
   Recurrent Costs                 29.40         29.40        27.30       27.30        27.30        27.30
 Total Project Costs              424.99        683.23       886.86      840.86       679.97       507.61

 Total Financing                  424.99        683.23       886.86      840.86       679.97       507.61
  -1nancing
  -.
    GEF                           205.97        331.13       429.82     407.52        329.55      246.01
    Government                    219.02        352.10       457.04     433.34        350.42      261.60
        MWR
        SEPA
        ProvinciallMunicipal       38.03         61.13        79.35        75.24       60.83       45.42
        Prefecture                 25.77         41.43        53.78        50.99       41.25       30.78
        CountylDistrict           155.22        249.54       323.91      307.11       248.34      185.40
I Total Project Financing         424.99        683.23       886.86      840.86       679.97      507.61



Financing plan is based on total Project cost by year including contingencies. The GEF grant h d o f US$17
million would cover about 51.O% of the total financing requirement for the Project. The remaining US$16.32
million or 49.0% o f the total Project cost will be financed by counterpart funds from govemment sources at
 central (23.9%), provincial/municipal (14.5%), prefecture (2.6%) and county/district (8.0%) levels. Required
counterpart fund for Tianjin Coastal Wastewater Management component will be provided by Tianjin
municipal government. GEF grant fund will finance eligible cost under all expenditure categories except those
 for Project monitoring and evaluation, Project operating and management fee and other expenditures under
non-GEF-financing arrangement which will be financed entirely by counterpart funds. During project
 implementation, the PMOS may propose and the Bank will consider non-GEF-financing (in kind) o f other
project costs.

Additional financing o f US$98.25 million for the Tianjin Coastal Wastewater Management component is
included in TUDEP2, this includes US$40.85 million IBRD and US$57.40 million from the Chinese
government.




                                                       - 70 -

                                Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
        CHINA: Hai Basin Integrated Water and Environment Management Project

Procurement

The Bank's Guidelines. "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (January 1995,
revisedJanuary, August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999, Guidelines)and "Guidelines: Selection
and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997 revised September 1997,
January 1999 and May 2002, Consultant Guidelines) will be followed for all Bank-financed procurement.
Bank-approved Chinese Model BiddingDocuments (MBD) and the Standard Bid Evaluation Form will be
revised to ensure consistency with changes that have been incorporated into the Bank's SBDs. The Bank's
SBDs will be used where no relevant model document exists. EachPMO will manageits own procurement.
In addition, the Central PMO will establish a procurement team with the following responsibilities (i)
providing overall procurement related guidance and supervision to other PMOs, (ii) o f international
                                                                                        hiring
consultant services and technical assistance for the Project, (iii)  coordinating Project-wide research and
study plans, and (iv) organizing training for managerial personnel, overseas training and study tours. The
detailed procurement management and arrangementhave been finalized at project appraisal and included in
respective Project implementationplan.

Summary of Procurement Capacity Assessment of the Implementation Agencies: The implementation
agencieswill be the government line ministries of MOF, MWR and SEPA at the central level, Governments
of Beijing and Tianjin Municipalities and Hebei Province at the provincial level, Hai Basin Commission
(HBC) and Zhangweinan sub-basin Administration Bureau (ZWNA) at river basidsub-basin level and 13
county governments at county level. The governments have established 22 project offices under the Project.
The implementation agencies in MWR, SEPA, Beijing, Tianjin and Hebei have experience in other
projects financed by Bank, GEF or ADB, while implementation agencies in HBC, ZWNA and 3 counties
inShanxi, Henanand Shandonghave less experience inBank financed procurement. Most PMOs' capacity
in selection of consultants are weak, particularly the new agencies in HBC, ZWNA and 3 counties in
Shanxi, Henan and Shandong. The training workshop on Bank procurement for consultant services, goods
and works were conducted in August, November and December 2003 by the Bank procurement specialists
in the World Bank Office in Beijing during project preparation and more training, study tours and
workshops will be conducted at the project launch and during the implementation stage. Implementation
agencies have hired experienced consultants and experts by the central PMO, for advice and preparing o f
the procurement plans and drafting TORS. A procurement management manual has been drafted by the
central PMO and distributed to other PMOs. Six provincial/river basin PMOs also drafted their detailed
procurement manual based on the procurement manual drafted by the central PMO. The eligibility and
conflict o f interest issues for hiringconsultants will be closely monitored during implementation. An action
plan to fiuther strengthen procurement management capacity was prepared and discussed during the
pre-appraisal mission. Special attention was paid to new agencies. PMOs in HBC and ZWNA should
recruit staff or hire consultants or experts experienced in the Bank financed procurement, or send staff to
work with experienced PMOs for hands-on training. NCB mandatory provisions have beenincludedinboth
Grant Agreement and Project Agreement which waive the differences betweenthe Bank Guidelinesand the
Law on Tendering and Bidding o f the People's Republic o f China and other central local procurement
regulations. The waivers will also require for mandatory use for NCB procurement o f the Chinese Model
Bidding Documents, NCB Guidelines issued and revised by MOF. Procurement risk of not following
Bank's guidelines are low in central PMOs, average in Beijing, Hebei and Tianjin, but high in HBC and
ZWBA. The general risk is average for the Project as a whole.




                                                      - 71 -

Procurement methods (Table A)

Procurement Arrangements.A detailed procurement plan for the first 18 months has been discussedand
finalized in accordance with the Project's two-phase implementation plan. A set o f procurement packages
for the first 18 months implementation have been prepared by the central PMO and reviewed by the Bank
at Project appraisal. Bidding documents for these procurements are under preparation. Procurement plans
for other implementation years have been discussed and will be submitted for the Bank's review and
approval on an annual basis. The anticipated procurement profile is shown inAnnex 6 Table A.
Works. A total of about US$4.49 million worth of works would be required. These works would be
scattered over 13 Project counties in six provinces/municipalities and carried out over a period o f five
years.

(i)   National CompetitiveBidding (NCB).NCB procedures could be used for contracts estimated to cost
       less than US$15 million each. However, an aggregate of only about US0.64 million worth o f works
       contracts procured under NCB procedures is planned under the Project. These contracts would
      basically include the works for implementation o f strategic action plan in the second phase o f the
       Project under Zhangweinan. Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 o f the Bank's Procurement Guidelines will
       apply.

(ii)  Small Works. The Project will finance about US$3.20 million worth of minor works, costing less
      than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract and consisting o f small-sized works related to
       demonstration projects under Zhangweinan (US$1.29 million) and in Hebei (USS0.37 million),
       integrated water and environment management planning in key counties o f Tianjin IWEM(USS0.18
      million), Beijing (US$0.57 million) and Hebei (US$0.79 million). These works would be suitable for
       lump-sum and fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three
       qualified domestic contractors inresponse to a written invitation.

(iii) Non-GEF Financing (NGF). About US$0.65 million worth of works would be non-GEF financed.
      These works are related to implementation o f strategic action plan inthe second phase o f the Project
      underZhangweinan.

Goods. A total of USS5.11 million worth of goods would be procured for the Project. To the extent
practical, contracts for goods would be grouped into bidpackages estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO equivalent
or more to attract competition.
      International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Although not anticipated, any contract for goods costing
      US$500,000 equivalent or more would be awarded through ICB procedures. A margino f preference
      equal to 15 percent o f the CIF or CIP price o f imported goods or the actual customs duties and taxes,
      whichever is lower, would be allowed to qualified domestically manufactured goods under ICB
      procedures.

      National Competitive Bidding. NCB procedures would be used for procurement of goods costing
      US$lOO,OOO equivalent or more per contract with an aggregated amount o f US$1.12 million. These
      goods are related to purchase o f computer and software (US$0.21 million) for KM development in
      Hai Basin and office equipment (USS0.9 1million) for integrated water and environment management
      planning under Tianjin IWEM.




                                                   - 72 -

(iii)  Shopping. Other goods, worth US$2.90 million equivalent, would be procured using shopping
       procedures with contracts under US$lOO,OOO equivalent each. These goods would include office
       equipment for MWR and SEPA PMOs (US$O.O9 million), Hai Basin (US$0.28 million),
       Zhangweinan (US$O.10 million), Tianjin IWEM (US$O. 11 million), Tianjin Coastal (USS0.03
       million), and Hebei (US$O.14 million); water measurement devices for Tianjin IWEM (US$0.02
       million), Beijing (US$O.O 1 million) and Hebei (US$0.03 million); ET related data collection and
       equipment (US$O.11 million) and KM platform development software (US$0.30 million) for Hai
       Basin; capacity buildingand monitoring equipment (US$0.25 million) for Zhangweinan; equipment
       required to cany out integrated water and environment management planning in key counties for
       Beijing (US$0.63 million) and Hebei (USS0.51 million); waste water equipment and software
       (US$O.lO million) and sampling and analysis (US$0.20 million) for Tianjin Coastal; two passenger
       vehicles (US$0.09 million) for MWR and SEPA PMOs. They will be procuredin small batches from
       local markets and suppliers.All shopping contracts will require at least three price quotations.

(iv)   Non-GEF Financing. About US$1.09 million worth of goods would be non-GEF financed including
       a server, software and miscellaneous data collection for Hai Basin (US$0.77 million), passenger
       vehicles to be procured for Zhangweinan (USS0.04 million), Beijing (US$0.20 million), and Hebei
       (US$0.08 million).

Consultant Services. A total of US$16.25 million worth of consultant services equivalent to about 42.1
percent o f total Project cost, would be provided. The majority o f consultants would be selected under
QCBS (US$6.02 million). Consultants to provide technical assistance for Tianjin Coastal (USS0.75
million) would be hired through QBS procedures. Consultants for numerous other assignments, very small
under USS100,000 each, would be hired through CQ procedures (US$5.40 million). The Project's
demonstration activities require analysis o f satellite imagery using a specialized computer-based algorithm
to determine spatially defined and time-sequenced actual ET estimates for the entire Hai Basin and a
selected subbasin using low-resolution images and for specified counties, one municipality within the Hai
Basin usinghigh-resolution images. Waterwatch, a Netherlands-based private company, has developed and
i s the intellectual owner o f the SEBAL that i s required for this assignment. Therefore, consultant services
through Waterwatch for RS based ET processing system and production o f ET data include training inthe
use o f unique complex software for estimating ET from satellite imagery will be provided through single
source selection procedures (US$0.46 million). This is justified that in accordance with section 3.8 o f the
consultant guidelines, the single source selection of Waterwatch is an exceptional case in the overall
interest o f the client and the project and in accordance with 3.9 (d), Waterwatch is the only firm qualified
and with the experience for this assignment. A number o f consultants are expected to be individuals
(USS3.05 million). The individual consultants would be selected through comparison of at least three
candidates. All consulting assignments over US$200,000 would be advertised in Development Business o f
the United Nations and "dgmarket" in addition to a national newspaper which will be required for all
contracts above US$lOO,OOO procured through QCBS/QBS procedures. Short list o f only national
consultants is eligible for the contract less than USS300,OOO. About USS0.58 million worth consultant
services will be non-GEF financed under Hai Basin.

Training and Study Tours. Various training programs and study tour activities have been discussed for
the Project. Training and study tours would be reimbursedbased on programs agreedwith the Bank. About
US$1.35 million was budgeted for overseas training and study tours and about US$1.30 million was
budgeted for domestic training and study tours.




                                                      - 73 -

Miscellaneous. About US$4.36 million worth o f miscellaneous costs are required for the Project. These
 costs include Project monitoring and evaluation (US$0.32 million), Project management and operation for
 PMOS(US$1.29 million), KM system operation and maintenance for Hai Basin (US$0.25 million), and
 small cities financial incentives (US$2.50 million) for Tianjin Coastal.



                          Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                            (US$ million equivalent)




5. Financial Incentives 31                  0.00                 0.00          2.50               0.00          2.50
                                            (0.00)               (0.00)       (2.50)            (0.00)         (2.50)
6. Project Management                       0.00                 0.00          0.00               1.86          1.86
Expenses 41                                 (0.00)               (0.00)       (0.00)            (0.00)         (0.00)
   Total                                    0.00                  1.76        26.93               4.63         33.32
                                           (0.00)                (1.44)       (15.56)            (0.00)        (17.00)

 ''Including civil works and goods to be procuredthrough shopping, consultingservices, services of contractedstaff
   of the project managementoffice, training, technical assistance services.
31 For small cities under Tianjin Coastal Wastewater Management component.
41 Including incrementaloperatingcosts relatedto Projectmonitoring and evaluation, Projectmanagement and
operation, KMsystem operationand maintenancefor Hai Basin.




                                                      - 74  -

                       Table A I: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
                                          (US$ million equivalent)




A. Firms




I\Including contingencies

           Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
                 QBS = Quality-based Selection
                 SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
                 LCS = Least-Cost Selection
                 CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
                 Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines) and Single
                 source selection.
                 N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
                 Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
The Bank's prior review would include:

(i)   All works contractsequal to or greater than US$500,000;
(ii)  All Goods contractsequal to or greater thanUS$200,000;
(iii) All contractsfor consultant services in excess of USS200,OOO for firms andUS$50,000 for
      individuals;
(iv)  All contracts for consultant services through single source selection;
(v)   The first contract procuredthrough eachprocurementmethods of NCB (for works and goods),
      Shopping, Small Works, QCBS, QBS, CQ andIndividualConsultantfrom eachPMOS.

All overseastraining andstudy tour planswill be includedinproject annualworkplan to bereviewedby the
Bank.

A prior review ratio of about 20 percent (one inevery five contracts) is expected. All other contracts would
be subject to ex-post review by the Bank's supervision missions with a sampling ratio of one in five
contracts. The post review requirements will be revisitedregularly basedon the performance of the PMOS.
Annex 6 Table B indicatesthe thresholdsfor prior review.




                                                   - 75 -

                Table B:  iresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'



    Expenditure Category


1 '*                                                               contracts = or > 500
    Works


                          =or >lo0
 2. Goods



                                                                   each PMO and all
                                                                   contracts = or > 200 for
                                                                   firms
                                                                   The first contract for
                                                                   each PMO and all
                           = or >lo0        QBS                    contracts                     0.75
                                                                             = or > 200 for
 3. Consultant Services                                             firms
                                                                   The first contract for
                           <loo             CQ                      eachPMO                       0.32

                                                                   The first contract for
                                                                    each PMO and all
I                         NIA               Individual              contracts = or > 50 for       0.33


                          NIA              I Single Source       II individuals
                                                                    AHcontracts                   0.46




              Total value of contracts subject to prior review: 6.98
                      Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:      Average
      Frequencyof procurementsupervisionmissionsproposed: One at Project launch, then one every six
                                                                months (includes special procurement
                                                                supervision for post-review/audits)




                                              - 76 -

             Annex 6(B): Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
          CHINA: Hai Basin Integrated Water and Environment Management Project

FinancialManagement
1. Summary ofthe FinancialManagementAssessment
The task team has conducted an assessmento f the adequacy of the project financial management system of
the GEF-Hai Basin Integrated Water and Environment Management Project. The assessment, based on
guidelines issued by the Financial Management Sector Board on June 30, 2001, has concluded that the
Project meets minimum Bank financial management requirements, as stipulated in BP/OP 10.02. In the
team's opinion, the Project will have in place an adequate project financial management system that can
provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status o f the Project in the
reporting format agreedwith the Project andas requiredby the Bank.

The following risks with corresponding mitigating measures have been identified during assessment
processes:

  /Risk                        Risk Rating    Mitigating Measures
   I. risk
     Inherent                   Moderate      2 Ministries and 6 provinces involved inthe Project;
                                              close monitoring by the task team, MWR (Ministryo f
                                              Water Resources), SEPA (State Environmental
                                              Protection Bureau) and related government authorities
                                              is extremely important and critical to successful
                                              imdementation
  111.Control risk           I               I
   a. Implementingentity           High       Since 2 Ministries involved inthe Project, the
                                              coordinationat all levels is essentialto the
                                              implementationo f the Project.
   b. Fundflows                  Moderate     Periodic supervision mission, annual audit and a
                                              feedback channel for implementingagencies to report
                                                                                                   ~
                                              when funds are not received on a timely basis
   c. Staffing                   Moderate     Adequate and qualified Project staff inposition prior to
                                              effectiveness; periodic check by task team on Project
                                              staffinn Dlan or issues
   d. Accounting policies and      Low       Accounting policies and procedures are already inplace
   procedures
   e. Internal audit             Moderate    Although some agencies' have their own internal audit
                                                     -          -
                                             divisions, more supervisions from task team, MWR and

   f.Externalaudit                           1SEPA will be reauired.
                                             The external auditors, the China National Audit Office
                                             and its local offices have extensive audit experience with
                                             Bank Proiects
   g. Reportingand                           Format o f financial statements and frequency o f
   monitoring                      Low       submission have beenclearly definedby the Bank and
                                             MOF
  h.Information system          Moderate     More intensive checking by the task team at the early
                                             implementation stage to ensure correct setup, followed
                                             upbyregular supervision missions



                                                  - 77 -

In order to facilitate financial management work, the task team has recommended that a Project Financial
Management Manual (Manual) be prepared. The role and responsibility o f the financial/accounting staff at
each level, as well as operational procedures, such as withdrawal applications and preparation o f financial
statements, shouldbe clearly defined and recorded inthe Manual. A draft manual has beenprepared by the
PMOSand submitted to the Bank. After reviewing the manual, the Bank task team recommended that
some modifications should be made, such as the disbursement procedures and the practical accounting
regulation shouldbe included inthe Manual to make the Manual more useful and practical.

Though most of financial staff possessedthe experiences in the Bank's projects, some o f the financial or
accounting staff identifiedfor the Project nonetheless lack direct experience in Bank projects. To ensure
that staff recruited for the Project will have good understanding of Bank's policy and requirements, it has
been W h e r agreed that a well-designed and focused training program will be provided by PMO prior to
effectiveness to all staff concerned. The training programwill includebut not limited to the following:

    0    Bank's procurement and disbursement procedures
    0    Project financial management manual
    0    Project financial statements
    0    Project audit arrangement

Considering the complexity o f the Project and the volume o f the grant, the Project has been recommended
and agreed by the related agencies that the administration, accounting and reporting of the Project will be
set up in accordance with the following circular issued by MOF, although this i s GEF grant and MOF has
issued accounting regulation for TF projects.

    Circular #13: "Accounting Regulations for World Bank Financed Projects" issued in January 2000 by
    MOF. The circular provides in-depth instructions of accounting treatment o f Project activities and
    covers the following:

    ---- Chart o f account
         Detailedaccounting instructions for each Project account
         Standard set o f Project financial statements
         Instructions on the preparation of Project financial statements

    The standard set o f Project financial statements mentioned above has been agreed to between the Bank
    and MOF and applies to all Bank projects appraised after July 1, 1998 and includes the following:

    --   Balance sheet
    -    Statemento f source and use o f fund
         Statement of implementation o f credit'loadgrant agreement
    -    Statement of special account

Each Project province/municipal (Hebei, Beijing and Tianjin) will prepare its own consolidated Project
financial statements. Hai Basin Commission and Zhangweinan will prepare their own Project financial
statements respectively and submit their financial statements to the central PMO consisting o f staff from
MWR and SEPA, the central PMO will prepare consolidated financial statements based on the financial
statements prepared by MWR, SEPA, Hai Basin Commission and Zhangweinan separately.




                                                     - 78 -

The format and content o f the following Project financial statements represent the standard project
reporting package agreed to between the Bank and MOF, and have been discussed and agreed with all
parties concerned. The Project consolidated financial statements will be submittedas part of the Financial
Monitoring Report to the Bank for review and comment on a semi-annual basis (prior to August 15 and
February 15 o f the subsequentyear) and include the following four statements:

    0    Balance Sheet;
    0    Summary o f Sources and Uses o f Fundsby Project Component;
    0    Statement of Implementationo f Grant Agreement; and
    0    Statement o f Special Account

The following proposed time-bound actions that have no major impact on Project preparation or Board
presentation, but should be adequately addressedby the Project:


                  Action                       Responsibility                 Target Date

     1. Draft FinancialManagement         MWR and SEPA              By the end of October, 2003
     Manual for Bank's review and
     comment
     2. Finalize and issue the Financial MWR and SEPA              Prior to negotiations
     Management Manual to concerned
     staff
     3. Provide training to financial or World Bank, MWR and       Prior to negotiations
     accounting staff                    SEPA

2. Audit Arrangements
The Bank requires that Project financial statements be audited in accordance with standards acceptable to
the Bank. In line with Bank financed projects in China, the Project will be audited inaccordancewith the
Government Auditing Standards of the People's Republic o f China (the 1997 edition). The Foreign Funds
Application Audit Department o f the China National Audit Office (CNAO) andprovincial audit bureaus in
each participating provinces have been identified as auditors for the Project. For the portions directly
implementedby the participatingprovinces (Beijing, Tianjin and Hebei), the audit reports will be issued by
respective provincial audit bureaus; For the portion executed by the central level (MOWR and SEPA), the
audit report will be issued by CNAO. The Bank currently accepts audit reports issued by CNAO or
provincial audit bureaus for which CNAO is ultimately responsible. Four Audit reports on annual Project
financial statements will be due to the Bank within 6 months o f the end o f each calendar year. Details are
includedinthe table below.

   I ComDonent                        1 Submitted bv                  /Duedate                           I
     SEPA, MWR, Hai Basin              Central PMO                    June 30
     Commission and Zhangweinan
    Beijing                            Beijing PMO                    June 30
    Tianjin                            TianjinPMO                     June 30
    Hebei                              HebeiPMO                       June 30




                                                   - 79 -

3. DisbursementArrangements
Disbursement Arrangement. Disbursement arrangements for the Project are summarized below in Table
C "Allocation o f Loan Proceeds." Disbursement for works would be at 50% of total expenditures.
Disbursement for goods would be at 100% o f foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 75% o f expenditures for other goods procured locally. Standard Disbursement Percentage(91%)
for technical assistance and consultant services for China would be used for international consultants.
Disbursementfor domestic consultants would be at 41% of eligible expenses. Disbursement for overseas
training and study tours would be at 70% and disbursementfor domestic training and study tours would be
at 50%. The financial incentive funds would be disbursed from the GEF Grant proceeds 100% o f the
amount o f small city sub-grants disbursed.

Retroactive Financing. The Bank's requirements for retroactive financing have been discussed with all
PPMOs during Project preparation. The following project activities, costing about US$1.44 million with an
estimated GEF financing o f about US0.96 million (about 6 percent of the proposed GEF amount), have
been requested by the PPMOs and agreed by the Bank for retroactive financing by GEF Grant funds: (i)
procurement of office equipment, (ii) of consultant services, (iii)
                                       hiring                           domestic training and study tours,
(iv) MIS development and (v) technical assistance for Tianjin Coastal Wastewater Management
sub-project. These Project activities covering all eight PPMOs are expected to start after December 8,
2003.

Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)




                                                  - 80 -

                 Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds for the Project (Aggregated)

     Expenditure Category         Amount in US$'000                    FinancingPercentage
;A.Works                                1,920.24        50% o f expenditures
'B.Goods                                3,368.99         100% o f foreign expenditures, 100% o f local
                                                        expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 75% for other
                                                        items procured locally
C. Consultant Services                  7,613.42        91% o f expenditures for intemational consultants,
                                                        41YOo f expenditures for domestic consultants
'D.Training and Study Tours   ,         1,597.35        70% o f expenditures for overseas training and study
                                                        ,tours and 50% o f expenditures for domestic training




                         Table C1: Allocation of Grant Proceeds for MWR

I    Expenditure Category     I   Amountin USS'OOO      I               FinancingPercentage
A. Works                                  0.00          50% o f expenditures
B. Goods                                 67.40          100% o f foreign expenditures, 100% o f local
                                                        expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 75% for other
                                                        items procured locally
C. Consultant Services                  614.40          91% o f expenditures for intemational consultants,
                                                        41% o f expenditures for domestic consultants
D. Training and Study Tours             178.75          70% o f expenditures for overseas training and study
                                                        tours and 50% o f expenditures for domestic training
                                                        and study tours
E. Financial Incentives                   0.00          100% o f the amount o f the Small City Sub-grants
                                                        disbursed
              Total                     860.55

                         Table C2: Allocation o f Grant Proceeds for SEPA




                                                        tours and 50% o f expenditures for domestic training



                              I
              Total                     861.05




                                                -81 -

                        Table C3: Allocation o f Grant Proceeds for H a i Basin

     Expenditure Category      I   AmountinUS$'OOO       I              FinancingPercentage
A. Works                                  0.00           50% o f expenditures
B. Goods                                 610.29          100% o f foreign expenditures, 100% o f local
                                                         expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 75% for other
                                                         items procured locally
C. Consultant Services                  2,498.86         91% o f expenditures for intemational consultants,
                                                         41% o f expenditures for domestic consultants
D. Training and Study Tours              319.25          70% o f expenditures for overseas training and study
                                                         tours and 50% o f expenditures for domestic training
                                                         and study tours
E. Financial Incentives                   0.00           100% o f the amount o fthe Small City Sub-grants
                                                         disbursed
              Total                     3,428.40




     Expenditure Category      I   AmountinUS$'000       I              Financing Percentage                   1
                                                                                                               I
A. Works                                 966.26          50% o f expenditures
B. Goods                                 259.45          100% o f foreign expenditures, 100% o f local
                                                         expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 75% for other
                                                         items procured locally
C. Consultant Services                   425.49          91% o f expenditures for intemational consultants,
                                                         41% o f expenditures for domestic consultants
D. Training and Study Tours              298.80          70% o f expenditures for overseas training and study
                                                         tours and 50% o f expenditures for domestic training
                                                         and study tours
E. Financial Incentives                   0.00           100% o f the amount o f the Small City Sub-grants
                                                         disbursed
              Total                     1,950.00

                      Table C5: Allocation o f Grant Proceeds for Tianjin IWEM




                                                         41% o f expenditures for domestic consultants
ID.Training and Study Tours   I          168.50          70% o f expenditures for overseas training and study
                                                         /tours and 50% o f expenditures for domestic training

E.FinancialIncentives                     0.00           1100% o f the amount o f the Small City Sub-grants

              Total                     1,850.00




                                                 - 82 -

                      Table C6: Allocation o f Grant Proceeds for Tianjin Coastal
                               1                         I
I    Expenditure Category          AmountinUSS'000                      Financing Percentage
A. Works                                   0.00          (50%of expenditures
B. Goods                                 360.00          1100%of foreignexpenditures, 100%of local
                                                          expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 75% for other
                                                                       1 -




                                                          items procuredlocally
C. Consultant Services                   1,224.75         91% of expenditures for internationalconsultants,
                                                          41% of expenditures for domestic consultants
D. Training and Study Tours               65.25           70% of expenditures for overseas training andstudy
                                                          tours and 50% of expenditures for domestic training
                                                          and study tours
E. Financial Incentives                    0.00           100%o fthe amount ofthe Small City Sub-grants
                                                          disbursed
              Total                     4.150.00

                         Table C7: Allocation o f Grant Proceeds for Beijing

     Expenditure Category      1   AmountinUSS'000       I              Financing Percentage                 I
                                                                                                             i
A. Works                                 284.61           50% of expenditures
B. Goods                                 483.82           100%of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
                                                          expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 75% for other
                                                          items procuredlocally
C. Consultant Services                   1,027.17         91% of expenditures for internationalconsultants,
                                                          41% of expenditures for domestic consultants
D. Training and Study Tours              154.40           70% of expenditures for overseas training and study
                                                          tours and 50% of expenditures for domestic training
                                                          and study tours
E. Financial Incentives                    0.00           100%of the amount of the Small City Sub-grants
                                                          disbursed
              Total                     1.950.00

                          Table C8: Allocation o f Grant Proceeds for Hebei
I    ExpenditureCategory           Amountin USS'OOO      I
IA. Works                     II                                        Financing Percentage
/B.                                      578.36          150% of exDenditures
                                         507.07           100%of foreign expenditures, 100%of local
   Goods                                                  expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 75% for other
                                                          items procuredlocally
C. Consultant Services                   630.92           91% of expendituresfor international consultants,
                                                         41% of expenditures for domestic consultants
D. Training and Study Tours              233.65           70% of expenditures for overseas training and study
                                                         tours and 50% of expenditures for domestic training
                                                          and study tours
E. Financial Incentives                   0.00            100%of the amount ofthe Small City Sub-grants
                                                          disbursed
              Total                     1,950.00




                                                 - a3 -

Use of statements of expenditures(SOEs):
SOEs will be used for disbursements against: (i)    contracts for works under US$500,000; (ii)  contracts for
goods under US$200,000; (iii)      training and study tour expenses; (iv) contracts for consultant services
underUS$200,000 for firms andunderUS$50,000 for individuals. Supporting documents for SOEs will be
retained by respective PMOSand made available for review by Bank's supervision missions. In the case o f
contracts for goods, works and consultant services above these thresholds, disbursements would be made
against full documentation o f the contracts and other supporting documents.

Special account:
To facilitate disbursement, one Special Account (SA) each in U S dollars to be operated by Ministry o f
Finance (MOF), Bureau o f Finances (BOFs) in Tianjin municipality, Beijing municipality and Hebei
province will be established in banks with terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. MOF will be
responsible for the management, monitoring, maintenance and reconciliation o f the special account
activities o f MWR, SEPA, Hai Basin and Zhangweinan. BOFs will be responsible for their respective SA
activities o f the Project. The authorized allocation o f special account is proposed not to exceed US0.45
million, US$0.40 million, USSO.12 million, US$O.12 million equivalent for MOF, Tianjin, Beijing and
Hebei respectively. Applications for replenishment, supported by appropriate documentation, will be
submitted monthly or when the amounts withdrawn equal 50% of the authorized allocation, whichever
comes first. The Project is expectedto be completed by December 31,2009 and closed on June 30,2010.




                                                    - 84 -

                            Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
       CHINA: Hai Basin IntegratedWater and Environment Management Project




Negotiations                                          0211612004                   0211712004
Planned Date of Effectiveness                         0711512004

Prepared by:
Ministry of Finance (MOF), State Environmental Protection Administration (SEPA), Ministry of
Water Resources (MWR), BeijingMunicipality, Tianjin Municipality, HebeiProvince


Preparation assistance:
GEF Grant

Bank staff who worked on the oroiect included:
                               . .
         Name                                         Speciality
Braedt, Oliver                        Natural ResourceManagementSpecialist
Broadfield, Robin                     Sr. Regional Coordinator
Browder, Greg                         Sr. Water Resources Specialist
Dong, Yi                              Financial ManagementSpecialist
Jiang, Liping                         Sr. IrrigationEngineer
Lin,Zong-Cheng                        SocialDevelopment Specialist
Nguyen, Hoi-Chan                      Sr. Counsel
Nygard, Jostein                       Sr. Environmental Specialist
O'Leary, Robert                       Sr. FinanceOfficer
Olson, Douglas                        Task Team Leader, Principal Water ResourcesEngineer
Png, Margaret                         Sr. Counsel
Reyes, Arlene                         ProgramAssistant
Sun, Chongwu                          Sr. Environmental Specialist
Yang, Dawei                           ProcurementSpecialist
Zhou, Weiguo                          OperationsOfficer




                                               - a5 -

                            Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
       CHINA: Hai Basin Integrated Water and Environment Management Project


A. Project ImplementationPlan
1.Environmental Assessment
2. Environmental Management Plan
3. Resettlement Policy Framework

B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Procurement Capacity Assessment Report
2. Financial Management Assessment Report

C. Other
1. Global Environmental facility (GEF) Executive Summary
2. Global Environmental facility (GEF) Project Brief


*Includingelectronic files




                                                 - 86 -

                                            Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                 CHINA: Hai BasinIntegratedWater and Environment Management Project
                                                            16-Mar-2004
                                                                                                                      Difference between expected
                                                                                                                               and actual
                                                                 Original Amount in US$ Millions                             disbursements'
 Project ID   FY    Purpose                                  IBRD         IDA                  GEF    Cancel.  Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO65463      2004 CN  - JiangxiIntegratedAgric. Modern        100.00       0.00                 0.00     0.00    100.00        1.50      0.00
PO65035      2004 CN-Gansu8 Xinjiang Pastoral Development      66.27       0.00                 0.00     0.00    65.61         4.53      0.00
P066955      2004 CN-ZhejiangUrban Envmt                      133.00       0.00                 0.00     0.00    133.00        0.00      0.00
PO73002      2004 CN-Basic Education in Western Areas         100.00       0.00                 0.00     0.00    100.00        0.00      0.00
PO77615      2004 CN-GEF-Gansua Xinjiang Pastoral Develop       0.00       0.00                 10.50    0.00    10.50         0.80      0.00
PO67337      2003 CN-2ndGEF Energy Conservation                 0.00       0.00                 26.00    0.00     14.60       16.57      0.00
P040599      2003 CN-TIANJIN URB DEV II                       150.00       0.00                 0.00     0.00    148.50       -1.50      0.00
P058847      2003 CN-3rd Xinjiang Hwy Project                 150.00       0.00                 0.00     0.00    106.13        9.47      0.00
P068058      2003 CN-YixingPumpedStorage Project              145.00       0.00                 0.00     0.00    140.95        2.13      0.00
PO76714      2003 CN-AnhuiHwy 2                               250.00       0.00                 0.00     0.00   250.00        15.33      0.00
PO70441      2003 CN-HubeiXiaogan Xiangfan Hwy                250.00       0.00                 0.00     0.00    156.78      -20.56      0.00
PO70191      2003 CN-SHANGHAIURB ENVMTAPLI                    200.00       0.00                 0.00     0.00    198.00       -2.00      0.00
PO64729      2002 CN-SUSTAINABLEFORESTRYDEV PROJECT            93.90       0.00                 0.00     0.00    76.07         1.58      0.00
PO58846      2002 CN-Natl RailwayProject                      160.00       0.00                 0.00     0.00     37.04        0.37      0.00
PO71147      2002 CN-TuberculosisControl Project              104.00       0.00                 0.00     0.00     92.67      -11.33      0.00
PO60029      2002 CN-Sustain ForestryDev(Natura1Forest)         0.00       0.00                 16.00    0.00     14.11        3.00      0.00
PO70459      2002 CN-InnerMongoliaHwy Project                 100.00       0.00                 0.00     0.00     88.82        6.49      0.00
PO68049      2002 CN-Hubei HydropowerDev in PoorAreas         105.00       0.00                 0.00     0.00     87.68       12.84      0.00
PO58845      2001 Jiangxi II Hwy                              200.00       0.00                 0.00     0.00    133.42        8.75      0.00
PO56199      2001 CN-3rd InlandWaterways                      100.00       0.00                 0.00     0.00     80.46        5.96      0.00
PO56516      2001 CN .WATER CONSERVATION                       74.00       0.00                 0.00     0.00     40.44        9.01      0.00
PO56596      2001 CN-ShijiazhuangUrbanTransport               100.00       0.00                 0.00     0.00     85.41       52.47      0.00
PO47345      2001 CN-HUAIRIVERPOLLUTIONCONTROL                105.50       0.00                 0.00     0.00     89.85      -15.65      0.00
PO51859      2001 CN-LIAO RIVER BASIN                         100.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00     74.72       32.02      0.00
PO45915      2001 CN-Urumqi UrbanTransport                    100.00       0.00                 0.00     0.00     52.54       47.34      0.00
PO45910      200c CN-HEBEIURBANENVIRONMENT                    150.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00    119.36       46.36      0.00
PO49436      2000 CN-CHONGQINGURBANENVMT                      200.00       0.00                  0.00    3.70    156.40       64.06      0.00
PO56424      2000 TONGBAI PUMPEDSTOW                          320.00       0.00                  0.00   100.00   155.85       96.19      0.00
PO45264      2000 CN-SMALLHLDRCATTLE DEV                       93.50       0.00                  0.00    0.00     12.84        6.87      0.00
PO42109      2000 CN-BEIJINGENVIRONMENTII                     349.00       0.00                 25.00    0.00    286.54      160.67      0.00
PO58844      2000 3rd HenanProv Hwy                           150.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00     61.19       26.86      0.00
PO58843      2000 GuangxiHighway                              200.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00    102.57       46.57      0.00
PO64924      zoo0 CH-GEF-BEIJINGENVMT II                        0.00       0.00                 25.00    0.00     25.87       18.84      2.86
PO64730      2000 CN  .Yangtze  Dike StrengtheningProject     210.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00    111.52       95.52      0.00
PO50036      1999 Anhui ProvincialHwy                         200.00       0.00                  0.00     9.60    34.96       34.16      0.00
PO51705      1999 Fujian II Highway                           200.00       0.00                  0.00     0.00    65.73       63.07      0.00
PO51856      1999 ACCOUNTING REFORM        a DEVELOPMENT       27.40       5.60                  0.00     0.00    17.89       17.84      0.00
PO41268      1999 CN-Nat Hwy4/Hubei-Hunan                     350.00       0.00                  0.00     0.00    59.72       37.72      0.00
PO57352      1999 CN-RURAL WATER IV                            16.00       30.00                 0.00     0.00    21.81       15.87       8.72
P058308      1999 CN-PENSIONREFORMPJT                           0.00        5.00                 0.00     0.00     1.77        1.75      0.00
PO56216      1999 CN - LOESSPLATEAU      II                   100.00      50.00                  0.00     0.00    24.54       26.67       0.00
PO60270      1999 CN-ENTERPRISEREFORMLN                         0.00       5.00                  0.00     0.00     2.71        4.29      4.07
PO38121      1999 CN-GEF-RENEWABLEENERGYDEVELOPMENT             0.00       0.00                 35.00     0.00    28.91       27.18       7.95
PO51888      1999 CN - GUANZHONGIRRIGATION                     80.00      20.00                  0.00     0.00    32.26       25.50       0.00
PO49665      1999 CN-ANNINGVALLEY AG DEV                       90.00      30.00                  0.00     0.00    19.19       10.38       0.00
PO46051      1999 CN-HIGHER EDUC REFORM                        20.00      50.00                  0.00     0.00     5.70        7.31       0.00
PO43933      1999 CN-SICHUANURBAN ENVMT                       150.00       2.00                  0.00     0.00    91.74       78.60      24.15
P042299      1999 TEC COOP CREDITIV                            10.00      35.00                  0.00     0.00    36.03      -11.40       0.00
PO41690      1999 CN-LiaoningUrbanTransport                   150.00       0.00                  0.00     0.00    36.96       36.96       0.00
PO36953      1999 CN-HEALTHIX                                  10.00      50.00                  0.00    0.00     36.85       22.30       0.00
PO03653      1999 CN-ContainerTransport                        71.00       0.00                  0.00    18.61     3.62       22.20       0.79
PO46829      1999 RENEWABLEENERGY DEVELOPMENT                 100.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00     12.87       99.87       8.23
PO46564      1999 CN .GansuaInner    MongoliaPovertyRed        60.00      100.00                 0.00    13.30    44.87       34.07      -6.75




                                                               - 87 -

                                                                                                                          Differencebetween expected
                                                                                                                                   and actual
                                                                      Original Amount in US$ Millions                            disbursements"
Project ID  FY    Purpose                                       iBRD           iDA                     GEF  Cancel. Undisb.        Orig  Frm Rev'd

PO03614     1998 CN-GuangzhouCity Transport                        200.00        0.00                  0.00   20.00  100.31      120.31     100.31
P003606     1998 ENERGY CONSERVATION                                63.00        0.00                22.00     0.00   35.87       18.81       0.00
P035698     1998 HUNAN POWER DEVELOP                               300.00        0.00                  0.00  145.00   31.45      173.45      -18.46
P049700     1998 CN. IAlL-2                                        300.00        0.00                  0.00    0.00    3.97        3.97       0.66
P037859     1998 CN-GEF Energy Conservation                          0.00        0.00                22.00     0.00    0.71       22.06       0.00
PO03619     1998 CN-2nd InlandWatetways                             123.00       0.00                  0.00   37.00   19.18       54.54       6.46
PO40185     1998 CN-SHANDONGENVIRONMENT                             95.00        0.00                  0.00    1.40   20.07       21.47        1.58
PO03566     1998 CN-BASICHEALTH(HLTH8)                               0.00       85.00                  0.00    0.00   38.40       23.65        0.00
PO46563     1998 CN  - TARIM BASIN II                               90.00       60.00                  0.00    2.67   14.78       16.88        0.00
PO45788     1998 Tri-Provincial Hwy                                230.00        0.00                  0.00    0.00   19.18       16.12        0.00
PO03539     1998 CN .SUSTAINABLE COASTAL RESOURCESDE                100.00       0.00                  0.00    2.06   46.65       45.38       35.83
PO51736     1998 E CHINNJIANGSU PWR                                250.00        0.00                  0.00   86.00   50.31      136.31       13.22
P046952     1998 CN -FOREST DEV POORAR                             100.00      100.00                  0.00    0.00   29.62      -71.61        9.25
P036949     1998 CN-Nat Hwy3-Hubei                                 250.00        0.00                  0.00    0.00   21.15       21.15        0.00
PO36414     1998 CN-GUANGXIURBANENVMT                               72.00       20.00                  0.00    0.00   71.56       66.02       25.79
PO03637     1997 CN-NAT'L RURALWATER 3                               0.00       70.00                  0.00    0.00    0.56        3.77        3.35
PO03590     1997 CN  - QINBA MOUNTAINSPOVERTY REDUCTIO              30.00      150.00                  0.00    0.00   13.16       16.34       -0.95
P035693     1997 FUELEFFICIENTIND                                    0.00        0.00                32.80     0.00    6.81       32.81        0.00
PO03654     1997 Nat HwyZ/Hunan-Guangdong                          400.00        0.00                  0.00    0.00   48.52       48.52       20.68
P003650     1997 TUOKETUOPOWEWINNER                                400.00        0.00                  0.00  102.50   37.37      139.87       27.63
?038988     1997 CN  .HEILONGJIANGADP                               120.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00    7.72        7.72        4.54
P044485     1997 SHANGHAIWAIGAOQIAO                                400.00        0.00                  0.00    0.00   84.49       56.03       44.04
P036405     1997 CN  - WANJlAZHAl  WATER TRA                       400.00        0.00                  0.00   75.00   22.58       97.58       10.00
P003602     1996 CN-HUBEIURBANENVIRONMENT                           125.00      25.00                  0.00   28.32   39.72       70.08       32.41
PO03599     1996 CN-YUNNANENVMT                                     125.00      25.00                  0.00   19.48   35.68       56.92        7.10
PO40513     1996 2nd Henan Prov Hwy                                210.00        0.00                  0.00   19.00   16.69       35.69       23.69
P003594     1996 CN  - GANSUHEXI   CORRIDOR                         60.00       90.00                  0.00    0.00   73.92       58.83        0.00
P003589     1996 CN-DISEASEPREVENTION(HLTH7)                         0.00      100.00                  0.00    0.00    1.97       10.99        0.00
PO34618     1996 CN-LABORMARKET DEV                                  10.00      20.00                  0.00    0.00    5.66        7.75        0.00
PO03648     1996 CN-SHANGHAISEWERAGEII                             250.00        0.00                  0.00    0.00   39.94       39.94        4.81
PO03571     1995 CN-7th Railways                                   400.00        0.00                  0.00  119.00   10.28      129.28       20.28
P003639     1995 CN-SOUTHWESTPOVERTYREDUCTIONPROJE                  47.50      200.00                  0.00    0.01    1.21       25.36       25.36
PO03647     1995 China Economic Law Reform-LEGEA                     0.00       10.00                  0.00    0.00    0.50        0.83        0.00
PO03603     1995 CN-ENTHOUSING& SSR                                275.00       75.00                  0.00   57.46   38.52       93.86        2.17
PO03596     1995 CN-Yangtze Basin Water Resources Proiect          100.00      110.00                  0.00    1.92    0.34        4.75        4.75
PO03540     1994 CN-LOESSPLATEAU                                     0.00      150.00                  0.00    0.00    1.12        0.50        0.00
PO03632     1993 CN-ENVIRONMENTTECH ASS                              0.00       50.00                  0.00    0.00    1.11         1.73       1.41

                                                         Total:  11719.07    1722.60               214.30    862.02  4978.64    2923.07     455.95




                                                                     - 88 -

                                             CHINA
                                     STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                  Heldand DisbursedPortfolio
                                        Feb 29   - 2004
                                      InMillions US Dollars

                                                       Committed                   Disbursed
                                                     IFC                         IFC
FY Approval    Company                         Loan   Equity Quasi  Partic Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
2001           Peak Pacific                     0.00    0.00 25.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00
2003           SAIC                            12.00    0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00
2004           SBTS                             0.00    0.08  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00
2000           SSIF                             0.00    4.50  0.00   0.00   0.00    1.02   0.00  0.00
1998           Shanghai Krupp                  27.50    0.00  0.00  61.43  27.50   0.00    0.00  61.43
1999           Shanghai Midway                  0.00   16.02  0.00  0.00    0.00   16.02   0.00  0.00
1993           Shanxi                          15.36    0.00  0.00   0.00  12.81   0.00    0.00   0.00
2002           ShenzhenPCCP                     3.76    0.00  0.00   0.00   3.76   0.00    0.00   0.00
2001           Sin0 Gold                        0.00    4.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   4.00    0.00   0.00
1995           Sino-Forest                     23.33    0.00  0.00   0.00  18.33   0.00    0.00   0.00
2000           Suzhou PVC                       0.00    2.48  0.00   0.00   0.00   2.48    0.00   0.00
1996           Wanjie Hospital                 13.64    0.00  0.00   0.00  13.64   0.00    0.00   0.00
2004           Weihai Weidongri                 1.06    0.00  0.00   0.00   1.06   0.00    0.00   0.00
2003           Wumart                           0.00    6.48  0.00   0.00   0.00   6.48    0.00   0.00
1993           XACB                             0.00   19.93  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2003           Yantai Cement                    4.73    0.00  0.00   0.00   4.73   0.00    0.00   0.00
2002           Zhengye-ADC                     15.00    0.00  0.00   7.00   2.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
2003           ASIMCO                           0.00   10.00  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
2003           Anjia                            0.00    2.00  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
1999lOOlO2     BCIB                             0.00    0.00  11.60  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
2002           Bank of Shanghai                 0.00   24.67  0.00   0.00   0.00   24.67   0.00   0.00
2003           CDH China Fund                   0.00   15.17  0.00   0.00   0.00    2.09   0.00   0.00
2004           CSMC                             0.00   12.00  0.00   0.00   0.00    7.20   0.00   0.00
1998           CUNA Mutual                      0.00   12.00  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
1998           ChengduHuarong                   6.28    3.20  0.00   7.04   6.28    3.20   0.00   7.04
1992           Chengxin-IBCA                    0.00    0.36  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.36   0.00   0.00
2004           China Bicycles                   4.50    0.00  0.00   0.00   4.50    0.00   0.00   0.00
1994           China Re Life                    0.00   15.41  0.00   0.00   0.00   15.29   0.00   0.00
1995           China Walden Mgt                 0.00    0.01  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.01   0.00   0.00
1994           Dupont Suzhou                    7.79    0.00  0.00   0.00   7.79    0.00   0.00   0.00
2003           DynamicFund                      0.00    8.05  0.00   0.00   0.00    6.40   0.00   0.00
1999           Great Infotech                   0.00    3.50  0.00   0.00   0.00    2.10   0.00   0.00
2002           Hansom                           0.00    0.08  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.08   0.00   0.00
2004           HuarongAMC                       9.00    3.00  0.00   0.00   9.00    0.49   0.00   0.00
2002           JB                               0.00   52.18  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.19   0.00   0.00
1998           IEC                             20.00    0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
2001           LeshanScana                      5.21    1.35  0.00   0.00   3.61    1.35   0.00   0.00
2001           Maanshan Carbon                  9.00    2.00  0.00   0.00   9.00    2.00   0.00   0.00
2001           MinshengBank                     0.00   23.50  0.00   0.00   0.00   23.50   0.00   0.00
1996           NCCB                             0.00   26.58  0.00   0.00   0.00   26.46   0.00   0.00
2001           NanjingKumho                     0.00    3.81  0.00   0.00   0.00    3.81   0.00   0.00
1995           New China Life                   0.00   30.70  0.00   0.00   0.00   23.32   0.00   0.00
1997           NewbridgeInv.                    0.00    1.95  0.00   0.00   0.00    1.95   0.00   0.00
               Orient Finance                   6.67    0.00  0.00   8.33   6.67    0.00   0.00   8.33
                     Total Portfolio:         184.83  306.97  36.60 83.80  130.68  174.50   0.00  76.80




                                              -89  -

                                             Auurovals Pending Commitment
FY Approval    Company                      Loan     Equity     Quasi    Partic
2002          ASIMCO                        0.00       0.01      0.00     0.00
2004          CCB-MS NPL                    0.00       0.00      0.00     0.00
2003          Cellon                        0.00       0.00      0.01     0.00
2002          Darong                        0.01       0.00      0.00     0.01
2002          HuarongAMC                    0.02       0.00      0.00     0.00
2002          IEC                           0.00       0.01      0.00     0.00
2002          KHIT                          0.00       0.00      0.00     0.00
2004          NCFL                          0.00       0.00      0.02     0.00
2004          Nanjing Kumho Ex              0.03       0.00      0.01     0.00
2003          Peak Pacific 2                0.00       0.00      0.01     0.00
2004          SIBFI                         0.00       0.00      0.00     0.00
2002          SML                           0.00       0.00      0.00     0.00
2002          Sino Mining                   0.01       0.00      0.00     0.01
2004          Vetroamedo                    0.01       0.00      0.00     0.00
2002          Zhong Chen                    0.03       0.00      0.00     0.03

              Total PendingCommitment:      0.10       0.01      0.05     0.05




                                        -90 -

                                               Annex 10: Country at a Glance
            CHINA: Hai Basin Integrated Water and Environment Management Project
                                                                  East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Asia B  middle-
                                                        China   Pacific income       Developmentdiamond'
2002
Population,mid-year (millions)                          1,281.0  1,838    2,411                     Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlasmethod, US$)                          950     950    1,390
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                        1,219.1  1,740    3,352
                                                                                    '
Average annualgrowth, 1996-02                                                                              T
                                                                                    I
Population (%)                                             0.8     1.o      1.o
Laborforce (%)                                             0.9     1.2      1.2      GNI                                 Gross
                                                                                                                        primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                capita                            nrollment
Poverty (% of populationbelownationalpovertyline)            5
Urban population(% of totalpopulation)                      38      38       49                            i
Life expectancyat birth (years)                             71      69       69                            1
Infant mortality(per 1,000livebirths)                       30      33       30
Child malnutrition (% of children under5)                   10      15       11           Access to improvedwater source
Accessto an improvedwater source (% of population)          75      76       81     1
Illiteracy (% of populationage 15+)                         14      13       13        -
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-agepopulationl        106     106      111                China
    Male                                                   105     105      111        ___ Lower-middle-incomegroup
    Female                                                 108     106      110

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                  I982    1992    2001    2002       Economicratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                221.5  454.6  1,167.1 1,232.7
Gross domesticinvestmenffGDP                       33.2   36.2    38.5     41.0
Exportsof goods and serviceslGDP                    8.9   19.5    25.5     29.5                          Trade

Gross domesticsavingslGDP                          34.0   37.7    40.9     44.0
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                          35.1   38.0    40.0     43.8                            T
CurrentaccountbalancelGDP                           2.4    1.9     1.5      2.9      Domestic     c.
InterestpaymentslGDP                                0.2    0.6     0.5      0.5      savings                         Investment
Total debUGDP                                       3.8   15.9    14.6     12.6
Total debt serviceiexports                          8.0    8.6     7.7      6.1                            1
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                          14.1
Presentvalue of debffexports                                      51.8                                Indebtedness
                                       1982-92 1992-02    2001    2002  2002-06
(average annualgrowth)                                                                  -
GDP                                        9.7      9.0    7.5     8.0      7.5                  Chtna

GDP percaDita                              8.1      8.0    6.7     7.2      6.6                 Lower-mtddle-incomegroup


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY

(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                        33.3   21.8                      1                                           I
Industry                                          45.0    43.9
   Manufacturing                                   37.3   33.1    34.2     44.5
Services                                           21.7   34.3    34.1     33.7
Privateconsumption                                 50.7   49.2    45.7     42.5      " a,            98    99    00   o,     i*
Generalgovernment consumption                      14.5   13.1    13.4     13.5
Importsof goods and services                        7.3   18.0    23.1     26.5                 -GDI            *GDP


                                               1982-92 1992-02    2001    2002
(average annualgrowth)
Agriculture                                        4.6     3.7     2.8      2.9
Industry                                           11.6   11.3     8.4      9.9
  Manufacturing                                    11.2   10.4     9.0      8.1
Services                                           11.7    8.4     8.4      7.3
Privateconsumption                                11.4     8.1     2.8      1.9
Generalgovernment consumption                      9.9     8.4    10.5      7.0
Gross domesticinvestment                           9.5     9.7    13.9             1
                                                                          27.5
                                                                           14.9             ---Exports
Importsof goods and services                       9.7    12.8    10.8          '                              -O-lmports       I


                                                               -91 -

                                                                                                                         China

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                           1982     1992     2001     2002
Domesticprices                                                                   Inflation (%)                                 I
(% change)                                                                       10 T


Consumer prices                              6.0      6.4       0.7     -0.8
Implicit GDP deflator                        -0.2     7.9       1.2     -2.6

Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                             22.9     14.7     17.1     17.9
Current budget balance                                          1.I 0.0
                                                      -1.o
                                                      2.0
Overall surplus/deficit                      -0.3              -4.7    -3.0              -GDP       deflator   +CPI            I
                                                                             ~1
TRADE
                                           1982     1992     2001     2002
(US$ millions)                                                                   Export and Import levels (US$ mlll.)

Total exports (fob)                       22,321  84,940   266,155  325,565
  Food                                     2,908   8,309    12,780   14,623
  Fuel                                     5,314   4,693     8,420    8,372     300,000
 Manufactures                             12,271  67,936   239,802  297,085
Total imports (cif)                       19,285  80,585   243,610  295,203     200,000

  Food                                    4,201    3,146     4,980    5,237
  Fuel and energy                            183   3,570    17,495   19,285      100,000

 Capital goods                             3,204  31,312   107,040  137,030
Export price index (1995=100)                 41       85       83       78               96   97   98     99    00    01

Import price index (1995=100)                 71       95       91       86                    Exports           Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     58       89       91       90

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                           1982     1992     2001     2002
(US$ millions)                                                                   Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services             24,906  94,198   299,409  365,395
Imports of goods and services                                                    5 T
                                          20,555  86,752   271,325  328,013
Resource balance                          4,350    7,446    28,084   37,383

Net income                                   376      249  -19,174  -14,945
Net current transfers                       486     1,155    8,492   12.984

Current account balance                    5,212   8,850    17,401   35,422
Financing items (net)                      -995   .10.952   30,046   40,085
Changes in net reserves                   -4,217   2,102   -47,447  -75,507     1      96   97   98     99     00    01     02

Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)            24,842   220,051  297,721
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$J             2.4      5.9      8.3       8.3

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                           1982     1992     2001     2002
(US$millions)                                                                     Composition of 2002 debt (US$ mlll.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      8,358   72,428   170,110  155,678
  IBRD                                         0   3,752    11,550   12,051
  IDA                                           1  4,287     8,654    8,729                               A 12,051

Total debt service                        2,125    8,618    24,297   23,688
  IBRD                                         0     460     1,550    1,631
  IDA                                          0       30      151      175
Composition of net resourceflows
  Official grants                             47     327       240
  Official creditors                        657    2,343     2,156    -839
  Private creditors                        -122    8,949    -4,017  -13,593
  Foreign direct investment                 430   11,156    44,241   49,308
  Portfolio equity                             0   1,243     3,015    2,286                       F 62.103
World Bank program
  Commitments                               330    1,865       782      563       4 . IBRD                        E Bilateral
  Disbursements                                1   1,331     1,791    1,733       3 . IDA    D Other multilateral
                                                                                              -                   F Private
                                                                                                                   --
  Principal repayments                         0      197     904     1,157       2 . IMF                         G -Short-term
  Net flows                                    1   1,134      887       576
  Interest payments                            0     293      797       649
  Net transfers                                1     841        90      -73

ueveiopmenr tconomics                                                                                                    BIZYIU3




                                                          - 92 -

                     Additional Annex 11: STAP Roster Technical Review
         CHINA: Hai Basin Integrated Water and Environment Management Project

HA1BASININTEGRATEDWATER AND ENVIRONMENTMANAGEMENTPROJECT
World BanMGEF: International Waters, OP 10 Project: Contaminant-Based Program


STAPRoster Expert Review
undertaken by

D r Gunilla Bjorklund
Marmow. IdA
SE-752 44 Uppsala, SWEDEN
                                  ....................................
Overallimpression

The Hai River is one o f the most significant rivers discharging into the Bohai Sea, China, inthe north east
part o f the Yellow Sea. The river basin area i s about 265 000 km2 and includes the counties o f Beijing,
Tianjin, almost all o f Heibei, parts of Nei Mongol in the north, o f Shanxi in the west, and o f Henan and
Shandong in the south and southeast. The Bohai Sea i s a reproductionand nursery area for parts o f the fish
and shellfish stocks of the Yellow Sea. The population of the area is more than 117 million with a density
o f 500 - 1000 peoplehi2 and several mega cities but also several secondary cities. The region is one o f the
countries most important industrial and agricultural regions accounting for 15 percent o f China's GDP.
Over-exploitation of surface and groundwater inthe semiarid-subhumid area has resulted in that the annual
water availability per capita is only 305 m3 and that the total groundwater abstraction per year in the Hai
Basin i s around 26 billion m3, approximately 9 billion m3 more than the sustainable yield. As only parts o f
the mega cities today have any wastewater treatment, 68 percent of the rivers innorth China are polluted. In
the Hai River system more than 80 percent o f the surface water and 50 percent o f the ground water is
classified as polluted and unsuitable as raw resources for drinkingwater.

Both the reduction o f freshwater inflows and the increasing pollution from the discharging Hai river system
has a detrimentaleffect on the fish stocks and biodiversity o f the East China Seas as well as the ecosystem
functions of the Bohai Seas. And the attempts to address these issues have been hampered by a lack of
coordination between the different agencies involved.

The GEF Hai Basin Integrated Water and Environment Management Project aims at addressing the current
threats by (i)improving integrated water and environmental planning and management inthe Hai Basin, (ii)
supporting institutional aspects related to effective local, municipal/provincial, and basin-wide water and
environment planning and management, (iii)    addressingthe issue o f declining amount o f available water by
"real" water saving, and (iv) reducing wastewater discharges from small cities along the rim o f the Bohai
Sea. The project will enhance capacity building in water and environment knowledge management and
implementation, including by demonstrate new technologies and management approaches. The project
intends thus to contribute to the objectives under OP 10 and "play a catalytic role in demonstrating ways to
overcome barriers to the adoption o fbest practices limitingcontamination o f internationalwaters".

The overall impression of the project is very good. It clearly demonstrates the need to build an integrated
management framework to water management inthe area. Cooperation between agencies with responsibility
for different aspects o f water use having an impact on water quantity and on water quality and on the



                                                    - 93 -

environment is absolutely necessary to achieve any sustainable results. The project is clearly demonstrating
ways to overcome existinginstitutional barriers by addressingbothhorizontal cross-sectoral integrationand
vertical bottom-up and top-down integration. The approach to decreasing accessible water quantity is
innovative but is most o f all providing means to address these problems more sustainably. As the secondary
towns, having no wastewater treatment, are the main contributors to pollution o f surface and groundwater,
the prioritisation o f pollution control by wastewater treatment is a logical first step, a step that will needto
be followed by addressing other sources of pollution such as agriculture. This would be initiated within the
framework o f the different demonstration projects, which also will serve to develop capacity at the
implementing agenciesto deal with the problems at differentlevels.

1.       Scientific and technical soundness of the project

The project brief is describing the approach to work with Integrated Water and Environment Management,
IWEM, including developing and implementing policies, and legal, administrative and institutional
instruments at different levels. It i s further describing measures to within such a framework achieve water
quantity management, water savings inirrigated agriculture, by developing Evapotranspiration management
systems including high-efficient water utilisation and different techniques for water savings, and
administration o f water rights and permits. These techniques are new and innovative for the region and are
based in a qualified scientific and technical knowledge. The wastewater management technique i s not
described in detail but such methodologies are well tried and needed. Wastewater treatment techniques are
also used inWorld Bank supported projects inthe region.

1.1      Sufficient information and knowledge to carry out theproject

Information and knowledge to carry out the project has to sufficient extent been secured by including
relevant institutions in the area inthe preparation for the project and in that the project buildsupon, fills in
the gaps and links to two World Bank-financed project inthe region.

1.2      Appropriateness of approach to collect relevant information on sections of society and
economy and on different aspects of the environment, water management and ecosystems

The available information presented is to a very large extent collected by local experts, through local
institutions or through the World Bank projects, which would secure best possible access to such
information. A Social Assessment o f the project has been undertaken by a local consultant.

1.3      Sectoral changes needed to achieve thegoals of theproject

The project brief clearly identify the need to identify the stakeholders and their behaviour and roles in
relation to the project as crucial for project success. It further following the Social Assessment recommends
the piloting o f the community-driven development approach to achieve a win-win situation on the integrated
water and environment management including natural resources management and local socio-economic
growth and will thereby secure necessarystakeholder participation.

1.4      The issue of inter-comparability of data

The data collected through the Ministry for Water Resources, MWR, and through the State Environmental
Protection Administration, SEPA, are not always compatible or comparable. As they are both key agencies
in water management for the region and will be implementing parts of the project this could be a critical
issue. The Knowledge Management subcomponent o f the program i s requiringclose collaboration between


                                                       - 94 -

the two agencies, including on data management, common information system platforms, standardiseddata
transfer and security protocols etc. The development of the component during project preparation resulted
according to the project brief in a significant breakthrough in MWWSEPA cooperation. The river reach
files and coding systems i s going to be developed into a platform where the two agencies will be able to
share data and utilise it in their water fknction and water environment function zones, which should ensure
inter-comparability  .

1.5      The interlinkages between water-related environmental issues and root causes behind the
different environmentalproblems

The different environmental problems in the region are, as is described in the Overall Impression, mainly
water related but with an adverse effect not only on the Bohai Sea and the East China Sea and its
biodiversity and ecosystem and their functioning but also on the living conditions for the people and the
economic system. The degradation o f the Bohai Sea is resulting from Land-based Sources o f Pollution, by
non-treated or insufficiently treated wastewater mainly from secondary or small cities, and by agriculture,
discharging through the Hai River,which is heavily polluted. The decreasing amount o f freshwater reaching
the Bohai Sea is partly a result o f over-extraction o f surface and groundwater, mainly for irrigated
agriculture. These issues are to be addressed by the project, where in particularly measures to address the
decreasing water quantity (by evapotranspiration management) will address the root causes, while pollution
control by wastewater treatment can be seen as a remedy.

1.6      Tools and methodologyfor TDA and SAP in theproject

The project is not identifying any Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis, TDA, for the project as that is not
required for projects that are not developed ina transboundary cooperation but which are addressing causes
to environmental degradation in a transboundary sea, here the Bohai Sea. Strategic Action Plans are going
to be developed in different areas but not with the same focus as for this project. This makes it difficult to
see whether some aspects o f relevance to the project will be missinginthe SAPS.

1.7      Technologiesadapted and their relation to the regional socio-economicprofire

Itis assumedthat the projectwill contribute to the local socioeconomic development andpeople's livelihood
including by possibilities to use reclaimed wastewater as new water supplies for irrigation and non-potable
municipal and industrial use. Further, evapotranspiration ET, management will contribute to better and
more efficient water use in irrigated agriculture, an important economic sector inthe area.

1.8      Doproposed technologiespose environmental threats?

As the proposed technologies will result in an increased amount of water available in the area, by
application o f ET management, not only the socio-economic sectorsbut also the environment should benefit
from that. However, if measures to address pollution in the region, such as wastewater treatment, are only
applied in the most downstream parts, the resulting consequences for the environment in upstream areas
might still be less advantage then anticipated. Such issues needto be addressedinthe IntegratedWater and
Environment Management framework as need the necessity of not exceed the ecological carrying capacity
for the region.




                                                     - 95 -

1.9       Technological innovations applied to support theproject

The methodology for evapotranspiration, ET, managementthat is to be applied for the region is innovative
and well suited for an agriculture region where applied methodologies for large scale water saving have
failed. For it to be successful a participatory approach needs to be applied, where the individual farmers as
well as the sectoral organisations are informed and involved. There is thus a need for a strong component o f
capacity buildingand knowledge management.

1.10       Institutional arrangements including their scientific capacity

The project will according to the documentation ensure for Joint Expert Groups at central, river basin,
provincial and county levels for providing technical assistance to the Project Management Offices at the
different levels. A majority o f these experts will be regional experts with only few international experts.

1.11       Are the choices of demonstration sites representativeand appropriate?

The demonstration sites have been chosen to address issues o f effective control o f wastewater discharge,
pollution control combined with environmental improvements, "real" water savings (application o f ET
management), and effective management o f water rights and well permits. As these issues are crucial for
project implementation the choice o f demonstration sites to be able to demonstrate such techniques are
essential.

1.12       Problems overlooked

The project documentation and plan is addressingthe problematic and water and environment issues of the
area within an Integrated Water and Environment Management framework, including water quality as well
as water quantity aspects and their linkages to socio-economic aspects and factors, all important for the
scientific base o f the project. There are some referencesto Monitoring and Evaluation, M&E, of the project
andthe project documentation is including a presentation ofKey Performance Indicatorsthat mightbe used
in such a process. There is, however, no plan for the Monitoring and Evaluation process. Such a process
needsto be initiated early on inthe project process and an M&E planneeds to be incorporated inthe project
documentation, including inthe Project Brief.

1.13       Issues of conflict

No issues o f conflict between different types of water use or between different water users have been
identified in the documentation. The earlier lack of cooperation between the Ministry for Water Resources,
MWR, and the State Environmental ProtectionAdministration, SEPA, had it not changed into cooperation
during the project preparation, could have resultedin a conflict between water use sectors. An assessment
o f different risk and presentation o f different mitigation measures to meet these risks is presented in the
documentation. Some o f those risks, should they not be addressed, might o f course develop into a conflict
and it is essentialthat proper mitigationmeasures are taken.

2.        The global environmental benefits of the project and its contribution to the IW focal area
goals.




                                                       - 96 -

2.1      Does theproject address issues that will result in global environmental benefits?

The project, although the project area, the Hai River Basin, i s situated within one country, China, will
contribute to global benefits in an International Waters area, the Bohai Sea, where the Hai River is
discharging, and further the East China Sea. The project should result in improvement of the Bohai Sea
environment and protection of the fish stocks and biodiversity o f the Yellow Sea and the East China Sea by
reduction o f marine pollution causedby landbased sources, including secondary towns and their industries.
Application o f ET management should have an effect on the total water budget o f the region including on
the International Waters where Hai River is discharging.

2.2      Are any negative environmental effects anticipated?

No negative environmental effects are anticipated should the project activities be undertaken within the
Integrated Water and Environment Management framework, identifiedrisks be mitigated and any emerging
new riskbe addressedby the cooperating institutional structure to implementthe project.

2.3      Will theproject be able to strategically meet the incremental costs of
a)      Assisting the country to better understand the environmental concern of the Bohai Sea and
subsequently the Yellow Sea and the East ChinaSea?

In cooperating with local stakeholders, including with farmers on the ET management andwith municipal
stakeholders on wastewater treatment and reuse, awareness, training and capacity building should be
important issues. The documentation does not clearly describe how this critical aspect will be addressed
although it clearly demonstrates the needto involve all groups.

b)       Building the capacity of existing institutions?

Many o f the different institutions were involved in the project preparations and would, based on the
experiences from that be aware o f what is needed from them. All the different Project Management Offices
would have Joint Expert Groups to assist the PMOs in various steps to implementactivities. The PMOs are
responsible for differentaspects o f international and domestic training. The project documentation does not,
however, specify how such training should be organised and how the different PMOs themselves should be
trained in order to ensure compatibility not only in data and methodology but also in the approach to
problem-solving.

c)      Implement measures that addressthepriority transbounday concerns?

Meeting incremental costs to address priority transboundary concerns might be an issue in applying the
integrated approach to Water and Environment Management for the Hai River Basin as such an approach
should also include addressing issues o f the Hai River discharging into the Bohai Sea. In doing this,
contacts for information exchange and, where appropriate, cooperation should be made with other relevant
projects in the region, including the two GEFKJNDP-projects for improvement o f the Bohai Sea
environment. The project documentation is referringto such exchange as beingrelevant.

3.      The project's replicabilityand regionalcontext

The project approach, to within an Integrated Water and Environment Management system apply measures
to improve water quality and quantity and thus the discharging water into the International Water o f Bohai,
Yellow Sea and subsequently East China Sea, development o f relevant demonstration sub-projects, and


                                                     - 97 -

application o f innovative technology would make it highly replicable inparticularly for areas with the same
climatic and socio-economic conditions as the HaiBasin.

3.1      Scopefor replication of approaches in other international water bodies

The demonstration projects and the Integrated Water and Environment Management structure have been
developed to be possible to replicate in other counties in the river basin and are thus seen as highly
replicable. The Chinese government has ensured a broad replication should the project be successful.
Particular parts, such as the ET management technology, would be applicable also to other river basins,
should the physical and socio-economic conditions be favourable.

3.2      The regional scope of theproject

The project intends to be implemented in a densely populated, water scarce and highly water polluted river
basin inChina discharing into the InternationalWaters o f Bohai and the Yellow Sea LME, which makes the
region very relevant for this type o fproject.

3.3      The innovativenessof theproject

The project is introducing a new and innovative approach to water savings, which focuses on reduction in
evapotranspiration through a combination o f irrigation technology, agriculture and management, building
on water productivities for different crops etc. Although the methodology is site and crop specific in its
application the system as such can be applied to other areas and i s very interesting.

4.       Linkages to other focal areas, programmes, action plans etc.

4.1      Linkages to other GEFfocal areas

The project falls under the GEF IW Focal Area, specifically under the OP 10: Contaminant-Based
Programme but it is also contributing to the objectives under the Biodiversity focal area 2 "Coastal, Marine
and Freshwater ecosystems" as the intention is that it will include specific studies on requirements for
reduced pollution and increased flows to the Bohai Sea whereby it should enhance marine ecology. It will
further determine minimumecological flows for watercoursesand wetlands inthe HaiBasin.

4.2      Relevant conventions/programs consideredand taken into account

Objectives under the Biodiversity convention will be supported. The project will also respond to what is
stated in the Global Programme o f Action to Protect the Marine Environment from Land-based sources o f
Pollution by seeking to reduce pollution o f water discharging into the Bohai Sea by the different activities
under the project.

4.3      Consistencybetweenproposed activities and existing National Plans

The project documentation is identifying existing plans such as the 10th National Five Year Plan
(2000-2005), Bohai Blue Sea Action Plan, Hai Basin Comprehensive Management Plan, etc. municipality
plans etc. and their emphasis on the needfor water-saving, reduction and prevention o f pollution etc. It thus
seems to be good consistency between proposed activities and existingplans.




                                                    - 98 -

5.       Degreeof involvementof stakeholders inthe project

The project has, according to the project documentation, been designed to involve stakeholders. Detailed
case studies and surveys in typical project areas have shown the necessity to involve stakeholders in the
preparation o f the different steps o f the project implementation. The demonstration project on water rights
and well permit will include components to ensure maximum ownership by water users, and mechanisms
for farmers' participation during the implementation o f the integrated agriculture aspects o f Integrated
Water and Environment Management, IWEM, plans will according to the project brief be ensured. Detailed
plans for such participation will need to be worked out and spelledout in the IWEMplans.

5.1      Will national and regional institutions be able to contribute to the achievement of the project
objectives?

Farmers associations and cooperatives as well as business and social groups will according to the
documentation be consulted as part of the IWEM preparation. At project policy level the documentation
describes the need to examine possible new institutional arrangements for basin-wide policy, planning and
management for establishing a high-level, multi-sectoral coordinating committee. Otherwise the
implementation arrangements will build on existing institutional structure, which to a large extent has been
involved inthe project preparation, thereby enhancing cooperating abilities. Insuch cooperative efforts they
would be able to contribute towards the project objectives.

5.2      Capacity building

As part o fthe project the Joint Expert Group that will support the CentralProjectManagement Offices will
provide assistance and training and the project shall according to the documentation include quarterly
workshops in different areas to exchange experiences. The documentation does not provide information
about capacity building of different stakeholders such as water users and farmers. Such capacity is
essential and would need to be ensuredto secure project sustainability.

6.       Conclusions

The project is a very well designed and developed project with a strong governmental ownership and
commitment by the Chinese government. The project approach, to develop an IWEMframework and within
that develop and implement measures to deal with water scarcity (by applying new and innovative
methodologies), groundwater miningandpollution, i s scientifically and regionally appropriate and viable. A
strong national and regional institutional arrangement is inplace and as project preparations has resulted in
increased cooperation efforts it is likely that this arrangements will provide a good bases for project
implementation. To achieve long-term sustainability the project also intends to include participation of
different water users, although the project is not providing any information on how it intend to enhance the
capacity among different water users for them to contribute towards successful project implementationand
sustainability. Furthermore, a detailed plan for Monitoring and Evaluation, that needs to be initiated early
inthe project, has not been provided. With these two aspects remediated, Iwould strongly recommend the
project for approval by the GEF Council, and am convinced that implementation o f this project would lead
to beneficialresults for the region and the global environment.

Uppsala 22 August 2003
Gunilla Bjiivklund




                                                      - 99 -

 AdditionalAnnex 12: Implementation Chart for Project Components
CHINA: Hai Basin Integrated Water and Environment Management Project




                            w!




                            H




                                  -100-

                               Additional Annex 13: Social Assesment
        CHINA: Hai Basin integrated Water and Environment Management Project

The China-GEF Hai Basin Integrated Water and Environment Project will cover the whole basin or a total
318,000 square km, includingBeijing, the national capital, Tianjin municipality, Hebei and several parts o f
five other provinces, with a population of 117 million people, about 9 percent of the Chinese population.
For more than a dozen years, over-exploitation o f the surface water and overdraft o f groundwater for
domestic, industrial and agriculture uses inthe densely populated basin has resulted in a severe water crisis
with water resources shortage and environmental pollution. This situation has seriously affected people's
lives and health, and constrained local socio-economic productivity development.

This Project will support promotion o f integrated water and environment management in the Hai Basin,
with the long-term objective to realize a more rational distribution o f water resources, increase water use
efficiency and rehabilitate environmental quality and ecological systems. To counter the deteriorated
situation water resources in the Hai Basin, strict control o f water use and pollution would lead to
improvement o f the people's living conditions and rehabilitation o f their production sustainability. At the
same time there is a need for major changes in their water use behavior that firher lead to multiple
interactions between their economic activities and the water control management. As the Project
beneficiaries, the local people's understanding, participation and collaboration will be an important aspect
o f Project success.

A social assessment (SA) was recommended and undertaken in the Project preparation to address the
Project impact on behavioral change among the local population under integrated water and environment
management, to detect any potential social risks and possible social costs that the Project may bring about
on local society, and to promote community participation and empowerment in the programs o f ground
water management and water right management in the Demonstration Projects. According to the Project
contents and the socio-economic characteristics of the Hai Basin, the SA was particularly focused on the
rural areas outside Beijing and Tianjin municipalities where about 80-90 percent o f the Project population
intherelatedprovinces livewhile lacking effective measuresto protect themselves from water shortageand
pollution. Such focus o f the SA made it more pointed and meaningful in steering the Project design.

The SA was commissioned to a qualified sociologist from the China Agricultural University as SA. In
accordance with the Bank requirements, including methods and contents o f social analysis (Social Analysis
Sourcebook), the SA consultant prepared a work guideline and first did a desk review, collecting and
analyzing the secondary data and information o f the Basin socio-economic background, water related crisis
and current anti-crisis activities, legal and policy environment, as well as the potential Project stakeholders
at various levels and their interests in comparison with the proposed Project concept. Based on this initial
review, the SA fieldwork was designed and conducted through exemplary qualitative data gathering using
the participatory approach and quantitative data collection with appropriate sampling methods. As the
culminating activities o f the SA, stakeholders workshops were carried out at village, township, county and
municipality levels for validating, verifying and communicating the SA concerns and results. A SA report
was completed and attached to the draft Project ImplementationPlan (PIP).

The Project areas were exemplified with two typical counties inHebei Province, Cheng-an and Shexian, for
the SA field surveys and case studies, where water was extremely short and severely polluted, which has
affected local economic production. Moreover, in terms o f the topographic features and groundwater
quality, these places were also demarcated into some plain and mountainous areas with different irrigation
schemes, and some brackish and fresh groundwater zones facing different water usability constraints.



                                                     -101  -

 These represented the multiple characteristics of the Project coverage and reflected the complex
 socio-economic diversities in the Hai Basin for the SA to analyze. Table 1 (below) summarizes the basic
 conditions of water resources and quality and the related socio-economic situations in the Project areas in
 Hebei Province.

                                                      Table 1
           Basic M ter Conditions and Socio-Economic Si iations inHebei's Five Key Counti               3
                         Plain area(Cheng-an, Guantao,
                                           - -                  Mountainous area (Shexian County)
                        Linzhang and Feixiang Counties)
Water resources     Very little or almost no surface water,    Highproportionofsurfacewater,
Surface water       "all rivers driedup, and all water         mainly used for irrigation;
                    polluted".                                 More conservancy engineering works
                                                               (middle - small scales mainly).
Underground water   Deficient inshallow layer o f freshwater   More water resourceinvolume,
                    with low quality;                          freshwater, unevendistribution, with
                    Large area o f shallow brackish water,     difficulties.
                    requiring the use of deep layer freshwater
                    for drinkingand irrigation;
                    Severe deficiency due to long term over
                    exploitation.
Industryand         Low percentageof industrialuse, more       Highuse degree, with large proportion
agriculture use     than 85% by agriculture.                   and concentrateddistribution o f
                                                               industry use.
Fluorine and Iodint There are highfluorine concentrate areas
                                 -                             Better water quality, lack o f iodine in
                    with different degrees.                    some areas
Water               Area pollution by chemical fertilisers and
environment         pesticides exists extensively and can be
Agricultural        quite serious, esp. nitrogen and
pollution           phosphorousto shallow underground
                    freshwater (mainly inthe plain areas);
                    Causedsecondary salinization o f arable
                    land soil (dain areal
Industriallliving   Very limited wastewater treatment for
pollution           industrial and domestic wastewater, more
                    severe in mountainarea (Shexian
                    County).
Crossboundary       More serious than mountain areas.          Enteringsurfacewater deteriorated
pollution                                                      in quality, the pollution concentration
                                                               increased.
Agriculture         Wheat and corn as the maincrops;           Wheat and corn as the main crops;
                    More cotton and vegetable production       more fruit production;
                    compared with the mountainous area;        More structure adjustment was made
                    More difficult to adjust cropping pattern  with more water and soil conservation
                    due to market factors.                     and converting cultivation to forestry.
Farmers'            Pig rearing is the principal animal        Small sized and scatteredanimal
Ron-landincome     husbandry production;                       rearing;
sources
Ruralindustry      More out-migration as wage labour,          More TVEs o f construction material
rtructure          construction, trade, etc.                   and mining. more local wage labours.




                                                      -102-

Each o f the items andthe related fmdings inthe table were detailed and elaborated inthe SA analyseso f the
sampling cases. Inthe plain area, most agricultural and industrial water uses, as well as the domestic water
uses, relied on groundwater; while in the mountainous area, irrigation districts were served mostly with the
surface water. Different water resources resulted in differentiation o f community livelihoods but all water
resources were significantly polluted. In the plain area, the groundwater was drawn from the shallow layer
inthe freshwater zone andfrom the deep layer inthe shallow brackish water zone (brackish water inthis
zone is generally not suitable for drinking or irrigation). With overdraft, however, the freshwater in the
shallow layer became almost exhausted while the deep groundwater has very limited recharge resulting in
very rapid drawdown. Local people, from county leaders to farmers, were well aware o f the water
problems, and they were even panicking about their deteriorating situation, andhence very keen to change.

Beilangpu village in Cheng-an county, for example, had 100 wells irrigating its 450 ha o f farmland. The
wells were deployed muchmore densely (about one per 2 ha of land) thanthey were supposedto be (about
one per 7 ha) becauseo f competition in irrigation without unifiedmanagement and cooperation. As a result,
in most cases no more water could be drawn from one well if two neighboring wells being pumped
simultaneously. Still worse, farmers might have to enlarge the wells andbuy bigger pumpsmore frequently
(almost every year in the worst cases) due to rapid water table lowering (in some cases by about 2 meters
annually and it was presently as deep as 42 meter in the fresh shallow layer zone) They also had to take
more andmore time andpay for more and more electricity to irrigate the same land. Farmers said, with this
tendency, it would not take too long that all the 100wells might have to be abandonedbecausethe expense
installing deeper wells and larger pumps was too high. Farmers hence wanted to save water in order to
stabilize their livelihoods and secure their future. Infact, they had some ideas to do so, such as usingpipe
irrigation, cultivating dry crops, and organizing themselves under a unified irrigation management systems
for better cooperation. They practiced some o f the ideas, such that they cultivated 4000 muo f cotton taking
about 60 percent of the village land. Yet this was not good enough for either water saving or increasing
their incomes, and they wanted to do more. So when they heard o f this proposed Project, they were very
enthusiastic andparticipatedenergetically inthe discussions.

The SA found that there were some other local projects going on for natural resource rehabilitation, such as
the programs of Returning Unarable Farmlandto Forestry, Integrated Watershed Management, etc. But for
most o f the Projects as well as the local development planning in general, decisions were usually made
top-down and communities and farmers had not much say but merely collected-funds and provided labor
inputs. Evenvillage leadersrarely hadvoices inProject choices and decision-making processes. As a result,
the rehabilitation measures were limited. The World Bank supported Water Conservation Project was also
implementing in some o f these areas with significant bottom-up aspects. WCP pays great attention to
institutional management reform as one o f its three major measures for "real" water saving (the other two
measure are improvement of irrigation systems and improved agricultural techniques), by encouraging
farmers' participation in local irrigation management through organizing Water User Associations
(WAS).The WUA as an effective participatory means was hence also introduced and adopted inthis Hai
Basin Project design, based on the rich experience from WCP and other Bank aided rural development
projects nationwide. With a systematical review o f the rehabilitation effectiveness on the basis o f local
community and farmer consultation, the SA synthesized some potentialrehabilitation measures as shown in
the table below, incomparison with other ongoing development programs.




                                                    - 103 -

                              Local Rehabilitation N asures Synthetic Analysis
      Identifiedmeasures        I    WBWCP                            GEF Proiect                  Local




environment awareness
Establish coordination and             *                                    *
management mechanism
among the relevant agencies
Formulate and implement                                    Formulate plans for integrated
plans for integrated                                       management o f water resource and
management o f water                                       environment
resource and environment
Scheme o f integrated                   *
management o f surface water
Scheme of well irrigation
management with quota o f              *
well amount and water
volume
                                                           Improve or establish and operate
                                                           monitoring system for underground




                                                           o f underground water exdoration
                                                           Prevention o f agric. Pollution    I
                                                           Management o f water use right and

Formulate necessary local                *                 admission o f diggingwell
                                                                             *
regulations and water rights
svstems
Raise relevant agencies'                                   Capacity buildingo f water resource
abilities o f administrative                               and environment management
midance and technical service
Improve the techniques and                                 Engineering work for polluted wate
equipment of enterprises to                                re-collection andre-use
save water and treat Dollution
Improve engineering works o f Undergroundpipe              Works and devices to prevent        1
irrigation systems               project, drip irrigation  leakage
Establish or improve irrigation Water Users'               Organise WUAs
management system                Associations
Adjust croppingpattern and       Agronomic measures        Water saving techniques             Convert unarable
adopt water saving techniques (plastic film, returning                                         farmland to
                                 straw to filed, etc.)                                         forestry
Convert cultivation to                                                                   ~~     Integrated
forestry, prevention of erosion                                                                 watershed
                                                                                                management
Note:  * mark means that activities would be included inthis area.




                                                        - 104 -

To undertake these rehabilitation measures, the SA stressed a bottom-up approach to the Project design and
implementation. For the Project objectives, it was obvious that there would not be a sustainable use o f the
water resources unless the users wanted to do so; and there would not be a sustainable socio-economic
development unless its beneficiaries participated inthe development processwith a sense o f ownership. For
this purpose, the SA recommended the pilotingofthe community-drivendevelopment (CDD) approach as a
good way to achieve a win-win situation o f both natural resource management and local socio-economic
growth inthe Project context.

The primary objective of the CDD approach to be adopted would be to enhance the capacities of
communities (especially the poor) to implement development programs of their own choice while improving
their access to social and productive services, resources and infrastructure. Through household interviews,
focus group meetings and stakeholder workshops on various levels, both the Project and local people
confirmed to each other the significant roles o f community participationand empowerment inimprovement
o f the local situation. The SA actually dida pre-survey and information dissemination for some CDD pilots
under the Project's demonstration project o f water resources management and water rightmanagement; and
particularly highlighted the commitment and capacity building o f community participation in these
programs at current stage, especially for those poor and vulnerable groups. Following the SA survey and
analysis, the Project will prepare and plan for the CDD adaptation to the demonstration pilot sites in the
following aspects:

       Understanding o f the objectives o f the CDD exercise in the Project context (links to intended social
       and economic development outcomes and impacts o f the Project), the needs and meanings of
       incorporation o f CDD into the demonstration projects, from both the perspectives of local
       communities and the Project desigdmanagement;
       Investigation o f the pilot's situations o f water crisis, local socio-economic conditions, natural
       resources, demographic information, social diversity and gender, important contingencies, and legal,
       regulatory and policy environment; identification o f stakeholders and analysis o f their behavior and
       roles inrelation with the ProjecKDD activities;
       Institutional capacity assurance and capacity building for the CDD approach (from the village to
       county levels); creation o f enabling environment for stakeholder participation (with different gender
       roles); technical training framework on community level;
       Community mobilization and involvement through PRA (participatory rural appraisal), including
       community members in all social strata and especially those in the poor and vulnerable groups;
       farmers' commitment and capacity building (including training programs and leaning by doing),
       participation mechanism establishment;
       Communityivillage (or ina township scope ifpreferred) development plan- its contents and drawing
       proceduresbasedon the PRA outcomes; combination o fwater resourcemanagement with community
       socio-economic development action plan - to be made with a bottom-up approach involving and
       ensuring communities themselves in all aspects of the development activities' design, financing,
       management, implementation, monitoring and evaluation;
       CDD budget estimation, implementationtactic framework and timetable;
       CDD participatory monitoring and evaluation mechanism; clear accountability (to local
       people/farmers and authorities) and aligned incentives through transparent and flexible processes;
       and
       CDD outcomes expected.




                                                    - 105-

Inthe SA exercise, CDD was thus determined to be an effective means to either achieve Project goals or
avoid/minimize potential social and cultural risks, though there still is a good deal o f work necessary to
prepare and implement a successful CDD demonstration pilot in its adaptation to a Chinese society where
there was no previous experience of this kind. More trainings in this regard was proposed as well.
Moreover, because o f the SA was a reiterative process during the Project life cycle, it also set forth the
monitoring and evaluation indicators for future assessment o f the CDD participatory nature in particular
andthe Project achievements ingeneral.

On the whole, as an integrated method to incorporate participation and social analysis into Project design
and implementation work, the SA helped to ensure the Project social development objectives were well set
and the proposed means to achieve them were appropriate, in light that this Project proved to be eagerly
expected and strongly supported by local communities and farmers as its primary beneficiaies. As an
integral part o f its overall strategic objectives, this Project was set to demonstrate a win-win achievement o f
both sustainable use of water resources through the integrated water and environment management, and
sustainedcommunity livelihooddevelopment via local institutional andparticipatory capacity building.




                                                        -106  -

