Updated Project Information Document (PID)
Report No: AB454
Project Name                CHINA - Hai Basin Integrated Water and Environment Management Project
Region                      East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                      General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (50%); Irrigation and
drainage (50%)
Theme                       Water resource management (P); Enviromnental policies and institutions (P);
Pollution management and environmental health (P)
Project                     P075035
Borrower(s)                 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Implementing Agency(ies)    MOF, MWR, SEPA, BEIJING & TIANJIN MUNICIPALITIES & HEBEI PRO
Ministry of Water Resources
State Environmental Protection Agency
Municipalities of Beijing and Tianjin
Province of Hebei
Address: Ministry of Water Resources, Baiguang Road, Beijing, China
Contact Person: Mr. Liu Bin - MWR and Ms. Li Pei -SEPA
Tel: (8610) 6320-2127 - MWR; (8610) 6615-3366 - SEPA  Fax: (8610)
6320-2027 - MWR; (8610) 6615-1932 - SEPA     Email: nfb@mwr.gov.cn
Environment Category        C (Not Required)
Date PID Prepared           November 7, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date         September 10, 2003
Bank Approval Date          April 15, 2004
1. Country and Sector Background
The Bohai Sea, located in the northwest corner of the Yellow Sea, is one of the world's ecologically
imnportant, and stressed, bodies of water. The fishery resources are important to China, Japan, and North
and South Korea. More than 40 rivers discharge into the Bohai Sea, of which the Yellow (Huang), Hai, and
Liao rivers are the most significant. From an ecological perspective, the Bohai Sea is a large, shallow
embayment of the Yellow Sea. The Yellow Sea, in turn, is a shallow continental sea of the northwest
Pacific Ocean. These relationships are important because of the physical and biological links between these
systems. In particular, fish and shellfish stocks in the Yellow Sea are dependent on the Bohai Sea as a
reproduction and nursery area.
The open water environment in the Bohai Sea supports diverse marine life including invertebrates, fishes,
marine mammals and birds. In the past, a major soturce of larvae and juveniles for the East China Seas
came from the Bohai Sea, but this fiumction has steadily diminished. Therefore, the ecological condition of
the Bohai Sea is critically important for maintaining fishery stocks and biodiversity in northwest Pacific
Ocean fisheries. It is generally accepted that over-fishing, pollution, reduction of freshwater inflows and
habitat loss have combined to reduce these ecosystem ftunctions.
The Bohai Sea is subject to heavy land-based pollution from domestic, industrial, agricultural, and
livestock sources. The Bohai Sea is subject to one-third of the wastewater and half of the pollutant loading
discharged into seas bordering China. This amounts to 3 billion m of wastewater and 700,000 tons of
pollutants per year. The areas where pollutant concentrations exceed the national standards in the Bohai
Sea, mainly for inorganic nitrogen and phosphorous, has been expanding and in 1997 it covered 43,000 km
,accounting for half of the total sea area. The most seriously affected areas include the estuaries and



2
PID
coastal shallows. Pollution has led to mass mortalities of aquaculture species and contributes to an
increasing frequency of harnful algal blooms, commonly known as "red tides." In 1989 a "red tide"
covering 1,300 km' fonned in the Bohai Sea off the coast of Hebei; an even more massive "red tide"
extending over 3,000 kmn appeared in the Liaodung Gulf of the Bohai Sea in 1998.
Surface and groundwater quality in China has been seriously degraded due to lack of effective pollution
control, combined with rising population and industrial operations. Sixty-eight percent of the total river
length in the north China plains is classified as polluted (i.e., unsuitable as raw water sources for drinking
water), and large amounts of the groundwater resource is also polluted. Hai River is one of the most
polluted river systems with more than 80% of the river reaches classified as polluted. Much of this is at or
above Class V (worst pollution category). Hai River discharges into the Bohai Sea and is a major
contributor to its pollution loadings.
Water resources in China are unevenly distributed. While water resources are quite abundant in the south,
water availability in the north is very limited. In the Hai Basin, water availability is only 305 mi per capita
which is about 14% of the national average and about 4% of the World average. A 2001 study sponsored
by the World Bank, "Agenda for Water Sector Strategy for North China" estimates current economic losses
from water shortages of approximately US$7.3 billion per year in the three major river basins in North
China: the Hai, Huai, and Huang (Yellow River). Total abstraction of groundwater in the Hai Basin is
estimated to be around 26 bcm per year, which is approximately 9 bcm more than the sustainable yield.
The Governunent has started to take measures to address water scarcity problems, including improving
irrigation efficiency, increasing the price of piped water to encourage conservation and improve the
finances of public water utilities, and encouraging wastewater reuse. One of the most ambitious measures
is the proposed "South-North Water Transfer Project" (SNWT Project). This project, when completed, will
transfer 20 bcm of water from the Yangtze River system to North China, including the Hai Basin, at an
estimated cost of around U.S. $10-15 billion.
The complex and interrelated nature of water pollution, water scarcity, groundwater overdraft, and flooding
in the Hai Basin calls for an integrated approach to water and environmental management. An integrated
approach will lead to better umderstanding of important surface/subsurface and water quality interactions,
and facilitate new management techniques. However, integrated water and environmental management
techniques are problematic because of difficulties in inter-jurisdictional and inter-administrative
cooperation along several dimensions.
Water and enviromnent management involves many central-level ministries and agencies: Ministry of
Water Resources (MWR), SEPA, Ministry of Construction (MOC), Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), and
others. MWR has the primary responsibility for overall management of the nation's water resources, and
SEPA has overall responsibility for pollution control. There are considerable overlapping jurisdiction
problems between these agencies and with other ministries and agencies concerning urban water supply,
water pollution control, groundwater management, and irrigated agriculture. Much of this problem has its
foundation in Chinese law that applies to water resources (Water Law) and pollution control (Water
Pollution and Prevention Control Law --WPPC) in which mandates are not clear, with overlapping
responsibilities, and poorly defined planning likages between the two ministries. Laws are traditionally
drafted to give ministries power, not to share power. The Project would provide a powerful demonstration
effect and an incentive to break through these horizontal institutional barriers.



3
PlO
2. Objectives
The overall objective is to catalyze an integrated approach to water resource management and pollution
control in the Hai River Basin in order to improve the Bohai Sea enviromnent. Specifically, the Project will
(i) improve integrated water and environment planning and management in the Hai Basin, (ii) support
institutional aspects related to effective local, municipal/provincial, and basin-wide water and environment
planning and management, (iii) enhance capacity building in water and environment knowledge
management and implementation, and (iv) reduce wastewater discharges from small cities along the rim of
the Bohai Sea. The Project is intended to demonstrate new technologies and management approaches, with
the lessons learned applied throughout the Hai Basin and other basins boarding the Bohai and Yellow Seas.
The Project will also serve as a complement and link to, water and environmental management issues for
two on-going World Bank-financed operations in the Hai Basin: Second Tianjin Urban Environment and
Development Project (TUDEP2 - FY03) and the Water Conservation Project (WCP - FY01).
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Hai River discharges into the Bohai Sea which adjoins the Yellow Sea. Both seas contain globally
important ecological resources that provide significant fishery benefits to China, North and South Korea
and Japan. The Hai River is also a major source of irrigation and drinking water for tens of millions of
people who live in its basin. However, the river and its tributaries are severely polluted (most above Class
V, the worst category), and the basin's groundwater resources are in some cases polluted and being rapidly
depleted. Addressing the river basin's twin problems of water pollution and depletion is critical to the
health and well-being of its inhlabitants and to the environmental sustainability of the Bohai and Yellow
Seas and the livelihoods of the many people who depend on their natural resources. One of the major
barriers to tackling these problems is the lack of sectorally and institutionally integrated actions to address
them.
The Bank is helping the Chinese Govermunent to develop and implement an integrated cross-sectoral
approach to water and environment management. The Project would address an important missing link in
efforts to improve water and environment management in the Hai Basin and the Bohai Sea environmnent.
Other GEF and Chinese initiatives are addressing the marine and coastal issues (Partnerships for the
Enviromnental Protection and Management of Asian Seas Project and the Yellow Sea Marine Ecosystem
Project). Large Chinese cities, such as Beijing and Tianjin, often with partial World Bank financing, are
beginning to construct wastewater treatment systems to reduce land-based sources of pollution into the
Bohai Sea. The proposed project will complement these efforts by financing Integrated Water and
Environment Management (IWEM) activities at the county and municipal level in rural and peri-urban
areas. More than half of the pollutant loading into the Bohai Sea comes from secondary cities and towns
and rural areas. The general approach taken will be to develop an IW1EM framework, which deals with
water scarcity, groundwater mining, and water pollution. Management improvements will take place from
the bottom-up with pilot counties, at the middle administrative levels through Tianjin, and from the
top-down at the basin and national levels.
The Project builds upon, fills in the gaps, and links two Bank-financed projects, the WCP and TUDEP2,
and fits into the overall framework for improving the Bohai Sea environment. It would also help provide the
management framework for integrated water resources management in the Hai Basin, which is
indispensable for a long-term, sustainable approach to rescuing the Bohai Sea. Reducing pollution into the
Bohai Sea is best done within an integrated water resources framework. Although government policy calls
for an integrated framework, inter-jurisdictional and inter-administrative cooperation often proves difficult
in practice, and the Project will provide an incentive and approach to break through institutional barriers
and provide a powerful demonstration effect. The Bank is helping to provide international expertise to
provide Chinese counterparts with a broad range of management experiences and instrunents to draw



4
PID
upon.
4. Description
The Project will support the development of top-down and bottom-up mechanisms for integrated water and
environment management in the Hai Basin, based to the extent possible on existing institutional
mechanisms. The Project will also promote development of new coordination mechanisms at all levels that
will adopt practical and pragmatic methods to overcome curTent institutional barriers to integrated water
and environment management. The key aspect is that the Project needs to have maximum incorporation of
horizontal and vertical integration.  Horizontal integration includes cross-sectoral cooperation and
coordination of actions between water resources and enviroiunental protection ministries/bureaus, as well
as others including agriculture and construction ministries/bureaus. Vertical integration includes direct
linking and constant interaction between the Central and Hai Basin component activities and the smaller
jurisdictions of ZhangWeiNan subbasin, Tianjin municipality, and Beijing/Hebei counties components. The
Project will be implemented in two phases. The two phased approach will permit a process of good
planning followed by specific actions to affect real change. Parallel demonstration projects will test and
demonstrate high priority actions that are clearly needed throughout the basin. The proposed Project
includes four components:
Component 1: Integrated Water and Environment Management - IWEM (US$14.30)
The IWEM will be divided into 3 subcomponents: (a) Strategic Studies at the central and Hai Basin levels;
(b) integrated water and enviroiunent management planing; and (c) demonstration projects. All three of
these subcomponents are very closely interTelated. The strategic studies would support and provide
guidance to IWEMPs and to the demonstration projects. The demonstration projects would provide
important practical input into the fWEMPs. There would be constant interaction between these
subcomponents to ensure that they are all working together in an integrated manner.
Component 2: Knowledge Management - KM (US$6.51)
The KM componen-t will have 2 subcomponents: (a) KM Development; and (b) Remote Sensing and
Evapotranspiration (ET) management systems. These subcomponents are very interrelated and need to be
prepared and implemented in a coordinated manner. KM is the technical basis through which the Project
will be implemented and all KM activities at all levels are grouped together in this component. Further, to
ensure that this remainls a needs-driveni and not teclnuology-driven component, significant attention will be
given to the management of the component.
Component 3: Tianjin Coastal Wastewater Management (US$4.75)
The component would assist Tianjin address a set of critical water pollution control issues in the coastal
area, particularly for activities closely related to the Bank-financed Second Tianjin Urban Development and
Enviromnent Project, which directly provides an additional US$98.25 through additional parallel
cofinancing to this component. A Coastal Wastewater Management Study will cover institutional,
financial, and technical studies for wastewater management programs. The Dagu Technical Assistance
activity would assist the TUDEP2 on teclnical aspects related to the renovation and remediation of the 83
km-long Dagu Canal system which has served as the main wastewater canal for Tianjin City for four
decades and which discharges directly into the Bohai Sea. The total cost for the Dagu Canal renovation is
estimated at US$55.15 million, which will be financed under the TUDEP2. The Dagu Catchment
Industrial Pollution Control program will support an industrial pollution control and pre-treatment stldy,
and improve monitoring and enforcement of discharges into Dagu canal. Control of industrial pollution is



5
PID
essential for the successful renovation of DagLu canal, and the proper operation of municipal collection and
treatment systems. A Small Cities Financial Incentives program will be established to assist cities in
meeting their financial obligations. Instead of providing construction subsidies, the basic concept is to
provide output based aide to small cities during the early years of their service agreements with wastewater
treatment companies. In order to receive these subsidies, however, the small cities must demonstrate they
have: i) a functional wastewater treatment plant, ii) plans to develop a comprehensive collection system
network; and iii) a comprehensive industrial pollution pre-treatment program within the network collection
area. TUDEP2 will provide an estimated US$43.10 million to finance small city wastewater treatment
facilities associated with the incentive program.
Component 4: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Training and Training
(US$6.18)
Hai Basin Project management would support coordinated and integrated actions by the Ministries/Bureaus
of enviromnental protection and water resources at the various levels. All Project Management Offices
(PMOs) would have Joint Expert Groups to assist the PMOs in coordination, review, supervision and in
some cases execution of technical activities under the Project. The Central PMOs would be supported by
an international expert panel with broad experience in water quality and quantity management, water and
environment planning and knowledge management. The PMOs will also arrange international and
domestic study tours and international and domestic training on a variety of topics related to IWEM, river
basin management, knowledge management, "real" water savings and ET management, pollution control,
water rights and well pennits, wastewater treatment, wastewater canal clean up, wastewater reuse,
ecological restorationi, etc. The Project will also support PMO operations, monitoring and evaluation and
other project management aspects mainly through counterpart funding.
5. Financing
Source (Total (US$m))
BORROWER/RECIPIENT ($14.74)
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY ($17.00)
Total Project Cost: $31.74
6. Implementation
The implementation arTangements would build upon the existing management structures for the TUDEP2
and WCP. The following agencies will have involvement in Project implementation.
*   Ministry of Water Resources (MWR)
*   State Enviromnental Protection Agency (SEPA)
*   Ministry of Construction (MOC)
*   State Oceanic Administration (SOA)
*   Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
*   Ministry of Finance (MOF)
*   Beijing Municipality
*   Tianjin Municipality
*   Hebei Province
*   Hai River Basin Coimmission (HRBC) (under the MWR)
A Project Coordinating Committee led by MOF and with participation from MWR, SEPA, Beijing, Hebei
and Tianjin will be responsible for coordinating the smooth implementation of the project. High-level
Steering Commiuittees headed by Vice Ministers and Project Management Offices in MWR and SEPA will



6
PID
be responsible for implementing their parts of the project in coordination with each other, and with the
project provinces/municipalities, counties and sub-basin. Leading groups and Project Management Offices
will be responsible for their pails of the project in Tianjin, Beijing, Hebei, Hai Basin Commission,
ZhangWeiNan and in each of the Beijing and Hebei pilot counties, all in coordination with each other, and
with the central level PMOs. All of these entities have already been formally or infonnally established and
where informal, will be formalized before negotiations.
7. Sustainability
Counties and municipalities participating in the project will establish institutional mechanisms-to coordinate
across sectors to prepare and implement IWEMPs. Implementation of the IWEMPs will continue after
project completion and the IWEMPs will include financing plans for their implementation. Successful
preparation and initial implementation of IWEMPs under the project with sound institutional mechanisms
will be a powerful incentive for sustainability and also for replicability in other counties and municipalities
in the basin and throughout China. Successful implementation of KM systems including data sharing
mechanisms and particularly the coding and river reach file systems under the project will be adopted by
MVVR and SEPA and utilized throughout the basin and elsewhere in China. Having Government budgeting
for project activities including KM and ET management through counterpart funding will help to ensure
their sustainable funding after project completion.
Investments in wastewater treatment for secondary towns under the project will be financed through a
combination of self-financing, IBRD loans, and GEF grants (tlhe tenns and conditions of the GEF grant will
be determined). Financial management and operational development plans are a condition for financing and
will be monitored during project implementation.
The Chinese govemnent has provided assurances about the priority nature of this project and their
commitment to ensure adequate goveruinent support including financial resources for sustainability after
the Project is completed of the successful Project actions.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Bank has assisted in financing 17 water resources and irrigation projects in China and numerous water
supply and sanitation projects over the last 15 years. Generally, these projects have been implemented
efficiently, and time and cost overmns have not been excessive despite periods of sharp price escalation. In
recent years the Banik has been supporting institutional aspects of water and envirornental management:
(a) at the Basin level in the Yangtze Basin Water Resources Project, the Tarim Basin II Project, the Guanxi
Urban Environment Project and the Liao Basin Environment Project; and (b) at the system level through
self-financing irrigation and drainage districts and water supply and sanitation corporations in numerous
projects. Key lessons from previous Banl-financed water resources projects in China are that:
i. detailed organizational and staff arrangements should be formulated and agreed before
implementation;
ii. counterpart funding should be committed before implementation, including the direct participation
of the Provincial Planuning Commissions and Finance Bureaus;
iii. projects should include institutional development support for the strengthening of provincial and
local bureaus;
iv. water and environmental management needs to have both bottom-up and top-down aspects;
bottom-up activities need to have strong involvement by existing political/administrative entities
(townships, cotnties, prefectures, municipalities, provinces) including their respective
technicaVadministrative bureaus (water, environmental protection, agriculture, construction, etc.)



7
PID
because these are the entities with direct line responsibility for management; top-down activities
should be concentrated at the river-basin level and should establish the enabling policy and
strategic environment for cross-sectoral and cross-administrative boundary coordination;
v. participation of water users in water resoutrces management especially in the lower-level bottom-up
aspects is crucial; and
vi. data and knowledge management activities are critical to water and environment management and
need to be widely shared and compatible.
Experience with institutional development Projects indicates that strong government support is necessary
for their success, and that specialized TA during early implementation is important to help promote, teach,
and establish institutional reforns before full implementation begins.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues  : Specific actions to be included in the demonstration projects and IWEMPs will be defined
during the first and second year of project implementation. It is not possible at this time to specifically
determine these actions will be, but their overall purpose will be to improve water and environment
management in the counties where they will be implemented. The TORs for the IWEMPs and the
demonstration project will ensure that altematives are evaluated in terms of economic, environmental and
social considerations with extensive stakeholder participation. These actions will include some small works
for activities such as installation of measuring devices and monitoring stations, onfarm irrigation
system improvements, land leveling, changes in agriculture practices, groundwater recharge,
wells, wastewater collection and treatment, and environmental restoration. An Environmental
Assessment (EA) has been prepared which includes an Environment Management Plan (EMP) that
addresses steps that will be taken to ensure adequate environmental protection and mitigation measures are
taken during the design and implementation of these works. IWEM and demonstration projects will include
involvement by existing political/administrative entities (townships, counties, prefectures, mtmicipalities,
provinces, ministries) including their respective technical/administrative bureaus (water, environmental
protection, agriculture, construction, etc.), the entities with direct line responsibility for management.
Participation of water users and polluters in water resources management is also important. Information
management and sharing are needed aspects of water and environment management. During the initial
phase of Project implementation, IWEMPs for about 10 counties, the Tianjin Municipality, and a key
subbasin (ZhangWeiNan) will be prepared and demonstration projects will be designed in detail. These
activities will include consultation with these stakeholders through surveys and working sessions to ensture
their adequate involvement and input. The TORs for these IWEMPs and demonstration projects that are
being prepared during Project preparation include requirements for consultation and participation.
Implementation of the IWEMPs and demonstration projects will also require significant participation,
which will be defined in the IWEMPs and design of the demonstration projects. The IWEMPs will be
designed to take into account all the different water uses and the entire range of threats to water quality
including point and diffuse pollution sources. No disbursements will be made under the Tianjin Coastal
Wastewater Management - Small Cities Financial Incentives Program until an Operational Manual has
been prepared that is acceptable to the Bank, which will include environmental and resettlement criteria.
10. List of factual technical documents:
Environmental Assessment
Enviromnental Management Plan
Resettlement Policy Framework



8
PID
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Douglas C. Olson
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473-9227
Fax: 202 522-1674
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Web: http:/l www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included
in the final project.



