Document of
The World Bank                   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2681-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIOI AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PXOPOSED LOAN
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
SOUTHERN IRRIGATION PROJECT
December 26, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its centents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit                                                        Tunisian Dinar (TD)
The exchange rate of the Tunisian dinar is floating. The rate used
in the staff appraisal report, which approximates the current rate, is:
US$ 1     -       TD 0.408
TD  1     -       US$ 2.45
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)              -       3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)         -       0.62 miles (mi)
1 sq. kilometer (km2)   -        0.386 sq. miles (mi2)
1 hectare (ha)           -       2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)          -       2 20 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton)    -        2,205 pounds (lbs)
Fiscal Year                                                    January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations
BNT           Banque Nationale de Tunisie (National Bank of Tunisia)
CI           Continental Intercalaire (Continental Intercalary Aquifer)
CLCM          Caisse Locale de Credit Mutuel (Mutual Credit Bank)
CNEA         Centre National des Etudes Agricoles (National Agriculture
Studies Center)
CRDA          Centre Regional de DEveloppement Agricole (Regional Agricultural
Development Agency)
CT            Complexe Terminal (Complex Terminal Aquifer)
DRES         Direction des Ressources en Eaux et en Sols (Water and Soil
Resources Agency)
FOSDA         Fonds Special de Developpement Agricole (Agriculture Development
Fund)
GR            Genie Rural (Rural Development Department of the Ministry of
Agriculture)
OEP           Office de l'Elevage et des Paturages (National Livestock and
Range Agency- Existing)
OMIVAN        Office de Mise en Valeur du Nebbana (Nebhana Development Agency -
Existing)
OMVD          Office de Mise en Valeur du Djerid (Djerid Development Agency - New)
OMVG          Office de Mise en Valeur de Gabes (Gabes Development Agency - New)
OMVL          Office de Mise en Valeur de Lakmes (Lakmes Development Agency -
Existing)
OMVVM         Office de Mise en Valeur de la VallEe de la Medjerda (Lower
Medjerda Development Agency - Existing)
OPPIJ         Office des Pgrimatres Publics Irrigues de Jendouba (Jendouba
Public Irrigation Areas Development Agency - Existing)
OTC           Office de la Tunisie Centrale (Central Tunisia Development Agency)
OTD           Office des Terres Domaniales (State Land Management Agency)
STEG          SociEtE Tunisienne de 1'Electricite et du Gaz (Tunisian Electricity
and Gas Company)
STIL          Socigte Tunisienne de l'Industrie Laitiere (Tunisian Company for
Milk Industry)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
SOUTHERN IRRIGATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Tunisia
Amount:              US$25.0 million
Term:                The loan would be repayable in 17 years, including a
6-year grace period; interest would be at 7.95 percent
per annum.
Project
Description:        The proposed project would support Government's investment
program of the Master Plan for Water Resource Development
in Southern Tunisia by developing the groundwater resources
of the region with a view to increasing the production of
dates (mostly for export), vegetables and forage, improv-
ing the living standards of the smallholders in the exist-
ing oases and providing employment opportunities for farm
labor in the new oases. It would consist of: (i) rehabi-
litation of 7 existing oases on about 3,000 ha in the
Djerid, Nefzaoua and Gabes areas; (ii) creation of 9 new
date palm plantations and date palm/forage plantations on
2,100 ha in the Djerid and Nefzaoua areas; (iii) creation
of a date processing facility; and (iv) provision of equip-
ment, facilities and personnel for agriculture services,
research and technical assistance (60 man-months). About
5,100 small holders or about 30,600 people, mostly in low-
income groups would benefit from the project. In addition,
improved income opportunities would be provided to about
1,100 permanent workers and about 114,000 man-days of
seasonal work would be created. The main risk involved in
the project would result from a gradual increase in water
salinization throughout the project areas due to the water
resource development. This would not affect agricultural
development but potable water for the local population
in certain locations might not meet acceptable drinking
standards.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                  Local      Foreign      Total
…----    US$ Million-------
Irrigation Infrastructure                    20.1        16.1        36.2
Buildings                                     1.7         1.5         3.2
Vehicles and Agricultural Equipment           0.5         0.7         1.2
Establishment of Date Palm and Forage
Perimeters                                  5.2          -          5.2
Other Investments /1                          0.3         0.3         0.6
Rehabilitation Works                          3.9          -          3.9
Operating Costs /2                            4.4          -          4.4
Technical Assistance /3                       0.1         0.6         0.7
Total Base Cost                         36.2        19.2        55.4
Physical Contingencies                        3.2         2.7         5.9
Price Contingencies                           7.8         3.4        11.2
Total Contingencies                     11.0         6.1        17.1
Total Project Cost                      47.2        25.3        72.5
Financing Plan:                                  Local      Foreign      Total
---------uS$ Million-------
IBRD                                           -         25.0        25.0
Government                                   42.3         0.3        42.6
of which:  GR                              (27.2)                  (27.2)
OMVs                           (15.1)                  (15.1)
Farmers contributions                         4.9          -          4.9
Total                                        47.2        25.3        72.5
Estimated                      Bank FY   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Disbursements:                           ---------------US$ Million-------------
Annual                                1.2    6.3    8.7    5.5    1.5    1.8
Cumulative                            1.2    7.5   16.2   21.7   23.2   25.0
Economic Rate of Return:   13 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report:    No. 2681-TUN, December 19, 1979
/1   Research on drip irrigation, office equipment, tools, etc.
/2   Operational expenses of Agricultural Development Agencies (OMVs) during
project implementation.
/3   Includes Project Preparation Facility.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA FOR A
SOUTHERN IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Tunisia for the equivalent of US$25.0 million to help
finance a Southern Irrigation Project. The loan would have a term of 17
years, including 6 years of grace, with interest at 7.95 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic mission visited Tunisia in June 1978. Its report
entitled "Economic Position and Prospects of Tunisia" (No. 2201-TUN) was
issued on November 16, 1978. This part reflects its findings and those of an
updating mission which visited Tunisia in July 1979. Country Data sheets are
attached in Annex I.
3.        Tunisia is rather poorly endowed with agricultural resources.  Much
of the country is arid or semiarid. Agricultural activity is concentrated
along the coast in the North but continues to play an important role in
Tunisia's economic structure. The main crops are wheat and olives. These
crops are subject to sharp annual output fluctuations because of irregular
rainfall in the case of wheat and a natural production cycle for olives.
Tunisia's most important raw materials are phosphates and petroleum. The
large phosphate deposits are of low quality. Known oil reserves are rela-
tively small. Industrial development, although rapid, has been hampered by
shortages of industrial entrepreneurs, the small domestic market and difficul-
ties in marketing Tunisian products abroad. The most important sector is
services; during 1970-78 it generated about half of GDP, a quarter of that
sector's contribution consisting of government services. Tourism has developed
rapidly during the 1970s. Workers' remittances have become a significant item
in the balance of payments, generating about 12 percent of current account
receipts during 1970-78.
4.        Tunisia's economy has performed remarkably well during 1970-78.
Real GDP grew at an average annual rate of 8.1 percent, nearly twice as fast
as during the 1960s. Per capita GNP in 1978 reached $998, which in real terms
is some 67 percent above its level of 1969. Tunisia was one of the few
countries in the world whose per capita GNP during 1970-76 increased at an
average annual rate of 6 percent or more.
5.        This performance was partly attributable to improved economic man-
agement, and partly to fortuitous factors. In 1969, Tunisia changed its
inward-oriented investment strategy dominated by state activities. The new
policy orientations, announced during the 1970s, resulted in a change towards
1/   Part I is updated from President's Report No. P-2592-TUN of June 18, 1979
for a Second Fisheries Project.



a more open and export-oriented economy in which private initiative could play
an increasing role. A number of decontrol measures were introduced, albeit
slowly. Overall, the new policy orientation proved beneficial for the country.
In addition, the economy benefited from favorable weather conditions resulting
in good agricultural crops while the change in world market prices during
1973/74 brought sizeable windfalls as the terms of trade improved sharply.
This allowed domestic savings to increase to 21 percent of GDP during 1970-78,
compared with 15 percent during the 1960s.  Tunisia's dependence on external
financing declined from about 32 percent of investment in 1969 to 29 percent
in 1978; the share was as low as 15 percent during 1973-76, when gains from
the terms of trade were at their peak.  The balance of payments had been in
continuous overall surplus since 1967.  But after 1975, this was no longer the
case as the terms of trade began to deteriorate while imports continued to
increase rapidly.  In 1978 there was another turnaround and reserves increased
in the wake of heavy capital inflows. However, Tunisia's debt service payments
in relation to exports of goods and non-factor services (debt service ratio)
in 1978 were still a low 10.9 percent, compared with 20 percent in 1970.
6.        Rapid economic growth allowed Tunisia to make substantial social
gains during the 1970s. By 1976, primary school enrollment had reached 100
percent and secondary enrollment 20 percent of the relevant age groups. Educa-
tion is free through university. Public health services have been expanded,
with many services provided free. A family planning program has been intro-
duced and since 1973 has met with substantial success. The birth rate declined
from 43.8 per thousand in 1966 to 32.0 per thousand in 1978 while the rate of
natural growth declined from 3.0 to 2.6 percent in the same period. Attempts
have been made to reduce regional imbalances and to improve the lot of the
poor. The share of the population living in absolute poverty declined from 30
percent in 1966 to 18 percent in 1975. However, important disparities remain
between income levels among individuals and regions. In coping with the social
aspects of development, Tunisia faces strongly increased aspirations of its
population in the face of limited natural and financial resources.
7.        The most important problem for the Tunisian economy is widespread
open and hidden unemployment. In 1978, about 13 percent of the labor force--
some 231,000 people--were unemployed and the unemployment rate has been rising.
In addition, there is considerable hidden unemployment in agriculture which
provided 39 percent of employment in 1978. If one considers that about
40 percent of this labor force does not have full time jobs, the effective
overall unemployment rate is more like 25 percent. An increasing number of
young people born during the high birth rate years are reaching working age
and a growing number of women are joining the labor force. About half of the
registered unemployed are young people seeking their first employment. These
are mostly relatively educated people whose job aspirations cannot be met.
8.        During 1970-78, agriculture provided more than 40 percent of total
employment, 25 percent of merchandise exports and 17 percent of GDP. Food
processing accounted for another 4 percent of GDP and comprised 35 percent
of value added in manufacturing. Agricultural production rose substantially,
largely as a result of favorable weather. Current policy, which emphasizes
projects that make a rapid and direct contribution to production, recognizes
various constraints on agricultural development: insecurity of land tenure;
inadequate access to agricultural credit; inadequate extension services;



-3-
insufficient agricultural education; and underutilization of irrigation
investments. Under the Fourth Plan (1973-76) about $140 million was allocated
to a rural development fund executed by the provincial administrations. These
rural development efforts are being continued under the current Plan (1977-81).
9.        During the 1960s, manufacturing production in Tunisia increased by 8
percent annually. This growth rate accelerated during 1970-78 to 10 percent
annually, due partly to record years for the olive oil processing industry and
to favorable developments in the textile and chemical industries. The early
thrust of industrialization came from large import substitution projects.
These suffered, however, from the small domestic market and shortages of
experienced staff and management. Since 1970, more emphasis has been put on
export-oriented private industries, particularly in food processing, textiles
and mechanical and electrical industries. Foreign and domestic private invest-
ment is now stimulated by a comprehensive incentive framework and facilitated
by streamlined approval procedures of the investment promotion agency. Apart
from finance, foreign investors are expected to contribute know-how and over-
seas marketing capability. Although an agreement between Tunisia and the
European Economic Community signed in April 1976 provided for duty free entry
into the Community of nearly all Tunisian industrial products, import restric-
tions on some of them were imposed in 1977 and 1978. The Government has estab-
lished a special fund to encourage growth of small industries and industrial
decentralization, and it has started a program to establish industrial estates.
10.       The development of tourism in Tunisia is relatively recent.  Foreign-
visitor arrivals reached 1.1 million in 1978, with an average annual rate
of growth during 1970-1978 of 13 percent -- sharply higher than that of the
Mediterranean tourism market as a whole. Since 1970, tourism has become a
major source of foreign exchange earnings, reaching $412 million in 1978; this
was slightly more than earnings from all manufacturing exports and was exceeded
only by petroleum exports. The rapid development of tourism in Tunisia has
created new demands on infrastructure (particularly recreational facilities),
trained manpower, and related services, which have been met only partly. The
Government is endeavoring to alleviate these constraints through a variety
of measures including revised investment incentives, increased marketing and
training efforts, codes to enforce quality standards, more stringent zoning
laws, and development of recreational facilities.
11.       The main objectives of the current Five-Year Plan (1977-81) are:
(i) full employment of the additions to the labor force; (ii) self-sufficiency
in major foodstuffs (defined as a balanced trade account for agricultural
goods); (iii) increases in the standard of living; and (iv) social stability
through incomes policies and wage and price harmonization. The Plan foresees
an average annual rate of real GDP growth of 7.3 percent. This is somewhat
below the 9.2 percent achieved during 1970-76, mainly because the fortuitous
factors prevalent during the early 1970s were not expected to continue.
Investment is projected at TD 4.2 billion ($9.8 billion) in current prices
during the Plan. In real terms, average annual investment would be 54 percent
greater during 1977-81 than during the preceding Plan. Nonetheless, the
targeted average annual rate of growth of real investment during the Fifth
Plan is only 4.1 percent, as this rate is influenced by the very high invest-
ment level achieved in the base year, 1976.



-4-
12.       The Fifth Plan's strategy emphasizes in particular export-oriented
industrial development and agricultural growth. Special attention is given to
employment creation and to balance of payments considerations. Substantial
investments are to be made in hydrocarbons, manufacturing, water development,
transport and housing. The Plan prescribes increased domestic production and
processing of Tunisia's mineral resources (phosphates, petroleum) to raise the
value-added component of exports as much as possible. Private sector initia-
tive is expected to dominate investment in textiles, mechanical and electrical
industries, and tourism. It is in these activities that the authorities
expect most employment creation to take place. Employability of the labor
force is to be increased through education and training programs. Efforts
towards regional development are to be pursued through establishing regional
planning structures, strengthening regional administration and developing
incentives for the decentralization of productive activities. The strategy
proposed for the Fifth Plan does not represent any major departure from the
strategy pursued successfully during the preceding Plan.
13.       Tunisia's existing resource base, its institutional and infrastruc-
tural framework, its good performance in the earlier part of this decade,
and the desire of the authorities to support further development with appro-
priate policy measures and institutions are fundamental factors pointing
towards continuing rapid economic growth during the Fifth Plan. The 7.3
percent growth target is in line with the possibilities of the economy. The
investment priorities formulated in the Plan are considered necessary to
support the sectoral strategies. There are, however, some less favorable
signs. Tunisia will have to rely increasingly on its own resources since
the fortuitous circumstances of the early 1970's are unlikely to be repeated.
As the resource base is relatively narrow, available resources need to be
more efficiently deployed. Achieving the Plan targets presupposes the timely
introduction and successful execution of measures to: (i) strengthen the
absorptive capacity for investment, especially for labor intensive projects;
(ii) promote exports; (iii) base economic management on an efficient price and
incentive system and improve productivity; and (iv) mobilize the resources
needed to realize the comprehensive social development targets while maintain-
ing domestic and external financial stability. The Tunisian authorities have
begun to introduce measures in these respects. To increase the absorptive
capacity for investment, institutions like the Investment Promotion Agency
(API) and the National Center for Industrial studies (CNEI) were strengthened.
The activities of the Export Promotion Center (CEPEX) were widened to include
investigations on non-traditional markets, especially in the Middle East and
Japan.
14.       Substantial efforts in domestic and external resource mobilization
in particular will be of crucial importance to finance the planned level of
investment. On the domestic side, there is a need for increased savings
and improved financial intermediation. The Government sector, in particular,
will again be called upon to contribute substantially to the saviings effort.
The Plan suggests that this should be done by prudent expenditure policies and
increased revenue collections (selective tax increases and better tax collec-
tion). Measures to this end have been taken by curtailing the growth of
budgetary expenditures, increasing taxes on real estate and luxury consumer



-5-
goods and making payment of taxes a pre-condition for obtaining administra-
tive licences of all kinds. In addition, the public enterprise sector will
have to increase substantially its contribution to public savings through
better management and especially through cost-related increases in the sale
prices of selected enterprises. Steps in this direction have been initiated
through tariff aises on water, power and port services. Externally, Tunisia
would have total financing requirements (disbursement basis) of some $3.1
billion during the Fifth Plan, of which $1.3 billion have already been obtained
during 1977-78. Given the country's creditworthiness, Tunisia should be able
to mobilize the remaining $1.8 billion of such financing without straining the
country's debt servicing capacity (para. 16).
15.       Since the early 1960s, Tunisia has obtained large amounts of offi-
cial aid. A Consultative Group chaired by the Bank provided a forum for aid-
coordination among major donors in the past. During 1970-78, annual loan
commitments from public sources averaged $395 million, or about $47 per
capita. About 50 percent of these commitments came from bilateral public
sources, chiefly from France, Canada, and the Federal Republic of Germany.
About 15 percent of the bilateral aid came from oil-producing countries, whose
share increased rapidly from 8 percent in 1970 to 29 percent in 1978. Commit-
ments from the Bank Group during 1970-78 accounted for 20 percent of total
public commitments. Most aid has been obtained on relatively soft terms; in
1978 the average terms of borrowing were 5.4 percent interest and 20 years
maturity, including 5 years of grace. During 1970-78, Tunisia also received
annually some $40 million in grants. Loan commitments from private sources
averaged $125 million a year. While direct foreign private investment has
been comparatively small, it has gained momentum since 1974 following incre-
ased activity in the petroleum sector and new incentives offered to foreign
investors in manufacturing. Net direct foreign investment increased from $19
million in 1969 to $96 million in 1978, with most of it going to the petroleum
sector.
16.       At the end of 1978, total foreign debt (disbursed and outstanding)
was estimated at about $2.4 billion, or 41 percent of GDP. The debt service
ratio in 1978 was 10.9 percent, compared with 20 percent in 1970. This sig-
nificant decline in the debt service ratio was mainly due to the sharp increase
in export earnings following the changes in world market prices in 1973/74.
External borrowing at the rate projected for 1977-81 (para. 14) would increase
debt service obligations to around 14 percent of exports of goods and non-
factor services by 1981 and 15 percent by 1986, according to current Bank
projections.  At these levels, the debt service burden would be manageable,
particularly when seen in the light of Tunisia's long record of prudent and
skillful balance of payments and external debt management. Tunisia is there-
fore considered creditworthy for further Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
17.       Since 1962, Tunisia has received a total of thirty-six loans and
eleven credits amounting respectively to $568.6 million and $70.1 million,
net of cancellations. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans,



- 6 -
IDA credits and IFC investments as of November 30, 1979, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects. While disbursements of some loans and credits
have been slower than foreseen at appraisal, on the whole project execution
has been satisfactory. In a number of sectors, important institutional
improvements have been achieved and autonomous agencies have been created or
strengthened.
18.       The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting Government
efforts to (a) increase employment, (b) encourage more balanced growth and
distribution of income among regions and income groups, (c) promote export-
oriented policies and investments, and (d) provide selective support for the
development of infrastructure and for institution building in key public
services. The main supporting feature of this lending strategy is to support
the Tunisian authorities in timely and well-coordinated preparation of
projects, with emphasis on technical assistance. The Bank is also cooperating
with the Government in its efforts to increase the mobilization of domestic
and foreign resources, in part through encouraging project cofinancing; the
latter is particularly important in view of the extent of Tunisia's external
resource needs, the large size of many priority projects and the limited
availability of Bank resources relative to the country's needs.
19.       Within this broad framework, past lending emphasized support for
long-term investments in infrastructure and social development. Lending for
urban and social development, including water supply, sewerage, education,
family planning, urban low-cost housing, and the Tunis planning and public
transport project has accounted for 33 percent of Bank/IDA commitments in
Tunisia since 1971. Lending for transport, power and tourism infrastructure
has accounted for 28 percent. Agriculture and fisheries have received 20
percent of total commitments. Industrial and hotel financing, through the
Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET), has accounted for 15
percent, and the Gafsa phosphate development project for 4 percent.
20.       A port project is being presented to the Board simultaneously to the
proposed project. In addition to these, loans for highways and gas distribu-
tion projects are expected to be presented to the Executive Directors in this
fiscal year. Projects being prepared for subsequent consideration include
those for agricultural development in the Northwest, a second population
project, vocational training, textile rehabilitation, continued assistance for
agricultural credit to small and medium farmers and agroindustries, assistance
for small-scale industrial development, and other priority urban and rural
social development projects.
21.       The Bank Group accounted for about 13 percent of total public com-
mitments to Tunisia during 1970-78. The Bank Group's share of total debt
outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1978 (including loans from private
sources) was 11 percent and of debt service during 1978 was 14 percent. The
Bank Group's share in Tunisia's disbursed external debt by 1986 is expected
to remain unchanged at about 11 percent, but its share in debt service would
decline to about 12 percent.



22.        IFC has invested in NPK Engrais (a fertilizer plant), in BDET, in
Compagnie Financiere et Touristique (COFIT, a company to promote and invest
in tourism projects), in Societe Touristique et Hoteliere RYM (a large hotel
development) and in Industries Chimiques du Fluor, which will produce alumi-
nium fluoride from local fluorspar for export, and in the Sousse-Nord inte-
grated tourism development project. IFC's net commitments in Tunisia total
$15.0 million.
PART III - AGRICULTURE IN TUNISIA
23.       Tunisia's agricultural resources are poor.  Rainfed agriculture is
hampered by differences in climatic conditions between Northern, Central and
Southern Tunisia and, within each region, by wide fluctuations around the
average rainfall. Only Northern Tunisia, where average rainfall exceeds 350
mm, grows a wide variety of rainfed crops, in particular wheat and barley. In
Central Tunisia, where rainfall averages 200-400 mm, rainfed agriculture
combines tree crops (mainly olives and almonds), marginal cereal production
and sheep grazing. In Southern Tunisia, where average rainfall is below 200
mm, dates and vegetable crops are cultivated in the oases. Regional differ-
ences in soil quality, rainfall, climate and terrain partly account for the
limited portion of Tunisia's land area devoted to agricultural production.
Of a total area of 16.4 million ha, land suitable for agriculture amounts to
9 million ha, of which 4.5 million ha are registered as cultivable; the
remainder (11.9 million ha) is rangeland suitable for extensive sheep-grazing
or covered by forests and esparto grass. But lack of water is a major con-
straint to wider and more intensive production. The maximum potential for
irrigation is about 250,000 ha of which about 150,000 ha, or 60 percent are
currently irrigated. In 1978, the irrigated areas produced about 20 percent
of the total agricultural production in value on only 3.3 percent of the
cultivable land. The main products are vegetables, forage, tree crops and
sugar beet. About 60 percent of the agricultural land (some 5.4 million ha)
is privately owned. Collective land amounts to 2.1 million ha and the remain-
ing 1.5 million ha are State-owned of which about 0.8 million ha are forests.
24.       The agriculture sector, in spite of its poor resource base, plays an
important role in Tunisia's economy. In 1978, agriculture provided about 35
percent of total employment, contributed about 15 percent of GDP and provided
some 16 percent of total value of exports. During the Fourth Development
Plan (1973-1976), agricultural production grew by 5.5 percent per year while
agricultural exports were nearly equal to food imports. Fluctuations in
agricultural output still have a significant impact on the country's economic
performance. During 1977, for example, when agricultural production declined
by 9.1 percent from its 1976 level because of bad weather, overall GDP growth
was 4.3 percent compared with 8.3 percent in 1976. Despite sizeable invest-
ments in irrigation, machinery, equipment and increased use of improved seeds
and fertilizers, Tunisia's agricultural performance is still greatly dependent
on weather conditions. Bad crop years are also reflected in the balance of
payments. The droughts of 1977 and 1978 resulted in sharp increases in
agricultural imports (mainly cereals, vegetable oils, dairy products and



sugar). In 1978 such imports were about 44 percent greater than agricultural
exports (mainly olive oil, fresh fruit, vegetables, processed agricultural
products, fish and wine).
25.       Tunisia's agricultural policy aims at raising rural incomes through
increasing productivity by facilitating access of farmers to improved produc-
tion methods and agricultural credit, strengthening agricultural institutions,
creation of the necessary infrastructure and the intensification of efforts to
control erosion, desertification and degradation of soils and forests. A
primary objective of the Fifth Plan (1977-1981) is to achieve self-sufficiency
in food by 1981 (defined as a balanced commodity trade in agricultural pro-
ducts). Quantitative targets for the agricultural sector have been set as
follows: (i) an average annual increase of 6.5 percent in agricultural
production at constant prices (during 1970-77 the value added in agriculture
grew at a compound rate of 6.8 percent per annum in real terms); (ii) invest-
ments amounting to D 500 million, which would imply that the average annual
investment in agriculture would be about 45 percent greater in real terms than
during the Fourth Plan; and (iii) the creation of about 36,000 permanent jobs
in agriculture. The Plan also envisages development of water resources for
irrigation and rural infrastructures, increased use of inputs and moderniza-
tion of technology and guaranteed minimum farm-gate prices for cereals and
other basic commodities. A major increase in the share of water development
in total agricultural investment is foreseen, from 23 percent in the Fourth
Plan to 44 percent in the Fifth Plan. Two Master Plans for water resource
development in Northern and Southern Tunisia have been prepared and a third
for Central Tunisia is under review. Significant investment increases in
livestock and fisheries are also planned.
26.       The results of the first two years of the current Plan show that the
investment program has been largely implemented on time with only some minor
delays affecting investments in tree crops, fisheries and irrigation. However,
it is not likely that the ambitious Plan target growth rate in agricultural
production would be achieved, mainly because of poor weather conditions pre-
vailing during the first two years of the Plan period, but also because of
other structural and institutional constraints which still hamper agricultural
development such as: (i) slow improvement of cultivation methods by a large
number of medium and small farmers; (ii) limited investment in rainfed areas
in the past; (iii) allocation of much of the investments to large infrastruc-
ture projects with long gestation periods, especially investments in irrigation
where they represent 72 percent of total investments, and underutilization of
some of the investments in irrigation made in preceding years; (iv) uneven
distribution of land ownership, fragmentation of farms, and slow progress in
implementation of land reform legislation in public irrigation areas; (v)
inefficiencies in extension services for small and medium size farmers due to
financial and organizational constraints; (vi) limited access to credit for
farmers in general and inadequate supply of credit to small farmers in parti-
cular; and (vii) inadequate price and subsidy policies applied to major
agricultural products, to agricultural inputs and to irrigation water.
27.       Efforts by the Tunisian Government to restructure land holdings have
been primarily concentrated on the distribution of collective and of state-
owned lands to the private sector, and on the reorganization of land tenure



-9-
in irrigation perimeters. The land reform program has generally been well
implemented except in the Medjerda Valley where the farm sizes selected by
the Government give rise to technical difficulties in the operation of farms
and to under-utilization of land and water. The owners' contributions to
investment costs have also been difficult to enforce since small farmers are
generally reluctant to develop the land at their own expense. The Government
recently has addressed these problems by creating an agency to deal with
agrarian reform operations in the public irrigation perimeters (Agence de
la reforme agraire dans les perimetres publics irrigues). Problems are more
acute in the private rainfed areas because of the excessive number of small
farms and the fragmentation of holdings which are hampering production.
28.       Prices of agriculture products in Tunisia reflect the Government's
concern with the stability of the urban cost of living. Agricultural prices
for major commodities, such as cereals, olive oil and wine are fixed by the
Government, while prices of some other commodities are regulated by import
policy and operation of state trading companies in conjunction with subsidies
from the Price Equalization Fund (for meat, for example). Most agricultural
inputs are subsidized either by supporting prices at a low artificial level or
by the granting to farmers of a purchase subsidy associated with credit. An
agreement was reached with Government that these issues would be discussed
through an agricultural sector work to be carried out by early 1980 both by
Bank and Tunisian staff. Water for irrigation is also subsidized, with its
selling price (4 to 10 millimes/m3) well below the costs of the irrigation
system for the operating and maintenance costs alone (about 20 millimes/m3).
Increases in the price of irrigation water have, however, been made recently
and studies are being prepared on cost recovery of irrigation infrastructure
investments in connection with the ongoing Sidi Salem Multipurpose project.
The proposed objective is for water users to bear the full operation and
maintenance costs of the irrigation system, and to the extent possible, at
least a reasonable part of investment costs. Further studies on cost recovery
are to be prepared under the proposed project (para. 50).
29.       Agricultural credit in Tunisia is available through the Ministry of
Agriculture's Special Fund for Agricultural Development (FOSDA), the commer-
cial banks, especially BNT, and the Mutual Credit Banks (CLCM). Short-term
credit is granted to large farmers by BNT and to a small extent by other
commercial banks. Short-term credit to small farmers is provided by the CLCMs
and by several Government agencies under specific programs (usually credit
in kind, as part of an input package for a given crop or a given region).
Despite some recent improvement in providing credit to farmers, only about
11 percent of the 326,000 Tunisian farmers have benefitted so far from agri-
cultural credit in general, while 4 percent received investment credit. Access
to credit by small farmers is hampered by stringent security requirements and
reluctance of the credit institutions, especially BNT, to engage in a program
where both costs and risks are high. By earmarking a part of its loan to small
farmers under the Second Agricultural Credit project (Loan 1340-TUN), the Bank
is inducing BNT to develop and apply a better sub-project evaluation system
and foster its credit department to expand lending to small farmers. Besides,
since that project, BNT no longer requires full title to land but only a
"Certificat de possession" as a prerequisite for access to investment credit.



- 10 -
30.       The agricultural training and schooling program which started under
the Fourth Plan resulted in a substantial increase in the number of university
graduates and technicians. The supply of higher and middle level agricultural
manpower is now in excess of the job opportunities available, and for middle
level cadres, the problem is aggravated by inadequate salaries in the private
sector. To improve this imbalance, the Government is planning to expand
job opportunities thus ensuring a closer relationship between the supply of
trained agricultural manpower and its demand. In agricultural extension, a
multiplicity of agencies is providing various services which tend to reduce
their effectiveness despite the important investment in human and financial
resources. The reorganization of the extension services planned under the
Fifth Plan has the following objectives: (i) each farmer is to be advised by
one extension agent instead of several from various specialized agencies; (ii)
a decentralized network of extension services based on extension units in each
administrative subdivision (delegation) is to be created; and (iii) extension
services in irrigation perimeters managed by Agricultural Development Agencies
(Offices de Mise en Valeur - OMVs) are to be handled exclusively by these
agencies. The Government is considering measures to overcome the financial
and organizational constraints which are hampering the implementation of these
plans.
31.       The Ministry of Agriculture has overall responsibility for agricul-
tural planning and development, including water resource development, as well
as the overall evaluation of credit needs for the sector. A large number of
autonomous and semi-autonomous agencies operate under the jurisdiction of
the Ministry. Some have responsibility for marketing, and in some cases for
providing credit for specific products (olive oil, grain, wine, livestock).
Others are responsible for the development, operation and management of large
irrigation perimeters. Certain agricultural agencies provide specialized
services, such as the hiring out of agricultural machinery and equipment.
Finally, there are several input-related agencies, mostly for seeds and
fertilizer.
Agriculture in the Oases
32.       The above mentioned issues hamper agricultural development in
Southern Tunisia in particular because of its remoteness from the main
Northern and coastal centers where main economic activities are concentrated,
and its weak potential for agricultural development compared to other areas of
Tunisia. Here, the availability and quality of groundwater resources is the
critical factor for agricultural development. About 58,800 inhabitants live
in the coastal oasis of the Gabes area (see attached maps). In the tradi-
tional oases where about 120,000 people live on about 7,000 ha, water distri-
bution for date palms, fruit trees, vegetable and forage follows centuries old
methods. Yields are low due to the high density of trees (200-300 per ha)
and inadequate irrigation and drainage systems consisting of single ditches
(seguias) accounting for water losses of over 30 percent. Palms producing
the high quality Deglat Nour date contribute only about 35 percent of total
production. Marketing and processing facilities are inadequate to cope with
existing supply. The quality and quantity of fodder supplied from the oases
to feed the existing livestock is extremely poor, especially during drought
years, resulting in chronic undernourishment of the animals. Government



- 11 -
policy in the southern parts of the country is to improve traditional sheep
production by increasing fodder yields on irrigated land as well as in the
steppe; experimentations by the Ministry of Agriculture to this effect are
underway. Tenants and smallholders belong mostly to low-income groups. While
average holdings are about 1 ha in the coastal oases, in the oases of the
hinterland they are about half of that size. Emigration towards coastal urban
centers and abroad has traditionally been high due to the limited employment
opportunities (underemployment is estimated to be between 25 and 35 percent).
New plantations in Djerid and Nefzaoua cover about 3,150 ha, of which the
Government controlled Company for Milk Industry (STIL) manages about 1,150 ha.
In the privately owned modern plantations, the density of palm trees is 125
to 160 trees per ha. The date variety cultivated in the new plantations is
mainly the Deglat Nour; few other fruit trees are grown. These plantations
are generally highly productive. Water comes exclusively from deep wells
which are either artesian or pump operated.
33.       The availability of water for agricultural development in the oases
of the interior is less serious a constraint than water quality. Groundwater
in the Djerid and Nefzaoua areas is being used at an average of 3,000 liter/
second each. The potential exploitable by the year 2000 is expected to be
between 4800-5300 1/sec. Salt content of the water pumped varies from one
area to another. In the Gabes and the Nefzaoua areas the average salinity is
currently between 2 to 3.5 gram/liter, while in the Djerid area, the salt
content is about 1.5 to 2 g/l in Tozeur and 3.2 g/l in Nefta. While these
salinity rates are high and sometimes unacceptable for human consumption, they
are not adverse for date palm production which can sustain salinity rates of
as high as 7 g/l, or for vegetable production which could tolerate salinity
of up to 4 g/l. The needs for municipal water are very low and its quality
could, if necessary, be improved by small desalinization plants, or by bring-
ing fresh water from less saline wells nearby to the consumption sites. Water
pumped from deep wells comes from the "Complexe Terminal (CT)" aquifer (100-
600 m) which is located between the deeper "Continental Intercalaire (CI)"
aquifer (1000-1700 m) and the near surface highly saline water table.
34.       To improve the standard of living of the population of the oases
and develop fully the agriculture potential of these areas, Government decided
in 1974 to prepare a Master Plan for Water and Soil Resources Development in
Southern Tunisia. Consultants were hired to help define among other things
the acceptable rate of development of water resources in this region. This
study was based on the findings of a 1968-72 UNESCO/UNDP survey of water
resources of the Northern Sahara region and on the results of simulation
models which defined for different areas the level of exploitation of the
aquifers within acceptable salinity levels. The Master Plan recognized that
any substantial water resources development in the South would be accompanied
by a lowering of the water table and an increase in groundwater salinity due
to seepage of saltier water from the overlying or underlying aquifers. In
1975, the Government promulgated a set of laws to regulate water resource
exploitation, water use and water conservation. These laws are being enforced;
the Water and Soil Resources Agency (DRES) is closely monitoring the aquifer
development to ensure that the trends in water depletion and increased
salinity are within the limits foreseen under the Master Plan.



- 12 -
35.       The Ministry of Agriculture is represented in each Governorate by
a Regional Agricultural Development Agency (CRDA) which supervises all other
technical agricultural services in the province, such as the Rural Development
Department (Genie Rural-GR) and the DRES. CRDAs are also responsible for the
coordination of all agricultural projects and for providing extension services
to farmers, except for the coastal areas where such services are under the
responsibility of a regional branch of the Medjerda Valley Development Agency
(OMVVM). Given the high fragmentation of ownership in the oases, the present
extension effort is not adequate as one agent has to advise on average some
560 farmers. Government realizes that if the oases rehabilitation program
largely built around new methods of date cultivation and vegetable/forage
inter-cropping is to succeed, the number of agents would have to be substan-
tially increased.
36.       Development Objectives.  Agriculture and to a lesser extent, tourism,
are the main sectors with development potential in the desertic hinterland of
southern Tunisia. The result of the UNESCO/UNDP survey of water resources in
the northern Sahara (para. 34) showed that for Tunisia, a water resources
development program can be implemented over 20 years, to rehabilitate up to
15,000 ha in traditional oases and to develop new irrigated perimeters of up
to about 10,000 ha. Based on the Master Plan for Water Resources Development
in southern Tunisia, the Government has decided on a long-term development
strategy to be implemented over four Five-Year Plans (1977-1996). In the
agricultural sector, the program would aim to: (i) rehabilitate about 12,000
ha of old oases; (ii) irrigate about 9,000 ha of new land; (iii) expand live-
stock development; (iv) limit desert advance; and (iv) improve municipal water
quality through desalination. In the medium-term, Government's aim is to:
(i) arrest oases decline by rehabilitating their irrigation and drainage
infrastructure; (ii) create new plantations of Deglat Nour dates; and (iii)
create additional forage perimeters for alfalfa production. To succeed, these
investments should be accompanied by the introduction of new planting and
inter-cropping methods, better provision and use of agricultural inputs and
the implementation of a land consolidation program to allow for better agri-
cultural practices. Forage cultivation in the region, although necessary to
support the livestock population, is very costly and does not necessarily lead
to improvement in the quality of the livestock because of the tendency of the
farmers to increase the number of heads rather than improve their quality.
It is, therefore, essential that the Government apply measures to limit the
number of livestock simultaneously with improving the quality of range land in
the south (para. 32).
Previous Bank Involvement in the Sector
37.       Bank Group lending for agriculture in Tunisia started in 1967.  It
focused on irrigation and credit to farmers and fisheries. To date seven
projects have been approved for a total of $114.7 million of Bank/IDA funds.
They include two irrigation projects (Irrigation Rehabilitation in the Lower
Medjerda Valley and Nebhana - Loan 1068-TUN of December 31, 1974 - and the
Sidi Salem Multipurpose project - Loan 1431 of July 5, 1977), two fisheries
projects - Credit 270-TUN of September 24, 1971 and Loan 1746-TUN of July 20,
1979, a Cooperative Farm project (Loan 484/Credit 99-TUN of February 1967 -
completed and reviewed by OED in January 1976) and two Agriculture Credit
projects - Loan 779/Credit 263-TUN of July 12, 1971 and Loan 1340-TUN of



- 13 -
December 17, 1976. The First Agricultural Credit project is completed and
was reviewed by OED in 1979; the project included a small component to finance
the foreign exchange costs of a 900 ha investment in date palm plantation by
STIL in the Djerid and Nefzaoua areas. OED report recommended that extension
services sh-ild be improved in the project area. To this effect, two offices
will be created under the project (para. 46) and more concentrated extension
efforts will be made to assist farmers in implementing far-reaching innova-
tions and improve significantly traditional farming patterns. The Bank also
supports other infrastructural and on-farm investments aiming at rural devel-
opment through a Rural Roads project (1601-TUN of July 24, 1978). The Rural
Roads project finances inter alia improvements of about 100 km of rural roads
in the Nefzaoua which will substantially facilitate communications in the
remote southwestern part of the project area and would complement the invest-
ments under the proposed Southern Irrigation project. The Irrigation Rehab-
ilitation project aims at improving the use of existing water resources.
Physical implementation is satisfactory. In 1969, the Bank made a technical
assistance grant for preparation of the Plan and acted as executing agency for
the study. The Plan envisages multipurpose development of water resources,
with priority to development of irrigation, and to potable uses. The Sidi
Salem Multipurpose project represents the first phase of execution of the
Northern Tunisia Water Master Plan in the Medjerda and Nebhana areas. Imple-
mentation is generally satisfactory. The First Fisheries project will be
completed by the end of 1979. Progress was slower than expected and the
lending channel (BNT) has been experiencing difficulties with loan recovery.
The Second Fisheries project was approved by the Board in June 1979, and is
expected to become effective early 1980. Implementation of the Second Agri-
cultural Credit project, which aims at supporting a lending program for devel-
opment of small and commercial farms, for agroindustries, and smallholder date
palm plantations is satisfactory. The project is expected to be completed by
December 31, 1980.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Description
38.       The Government has requested financing for a project which repre-
sents a part of the implementation of the Master Plan for Water Resources
Development in Southern Tunisia (para. 36). The preliminary studies of the
project were presented to the Bank in October 1977. The project was prepared
jointly by the National Agriculture Studies Center (CNEA) and the Rural
Development Department of the Ministry of Agriculture (Genie Rural - GR),
assisted by consultants financed under the Project Preparation Facility.
Project preparation was closely followed and supervised by the IBRD/FAO
Cooperative Program and by Bank missions. The project was appraised in May
1979 and negotiations were held in Washington in December 1979. The Tunisian
delegation was headed by Mr. Mestiri, Director in the Planning Ministry. The
Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2681-TUN, dated December 19, 1979) is being dis-
tributed separately to the Executive Directors. A Loan and Project Summary
is provided at the beginning of this report; a Supplementary Project Data
Sheet (Annex III) and maps showing the location of project areas are also
attached.



- 14 -
39.       Project Objectives.  The proposed project has two major objectives.
First, by developing the groundwater resources and improving agricultural
practices and services it would increase the present production of dates by
about 21,000 t, vegetables by about 31,200 t and forage by about 3,800 t,
and increase the exports of the high quality Deglat Nour dates by about
10,000 t at full development. Second, the project would provide employment
opportunities for farm labor in the new date palm plantations and improve the
living standards of the smallholders in the existing oases (paras. 51 and 52).
These objectives are in line with Government efforts to reduce its deficit in
the trade balance for food and to improve rural incomes in the poorest regions
of Tunisia. The development of groundwater would be accomplished through
rehabilitation of existing oases (upgrading their irrigation and drainage
networks) and drilling of new wells in areas with good production potential.
Better agricultural practices would be introduced by reinforcing extension
services, equipment and research.
40.       Project Description.  The proposed project would include:  (a)
rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage infrastructure in 7 existing oases
on about 3,000 ha in the Djerid, Nefzaoua and Gabes areas; (b) creation of
9 new date palm plantations and date palm/forage perimeters on 2,100 ha in
Djerid and Nefzaoua; (c) creation of a date processing facility; and (d)
provision of vehicles, equipment, facilities and personnel for agricultural
services, research in drip irrigation for date palm trees and technical
assistance. The rehabilitation of existing oasis on privately owned land is
part of an on-going program of the Government. The extent of the rehabilita-
tion to be undertaken would vary from oasis to oasis, but would generally
consist of (a) improving the water supply, where required, by sinking addi-
tional deep wells; (b) equipping the new and existing wells with pumps where
the artesian flow has diminished or disappeared; (c) changing the irrigation
network from the present irrigation ditches into cement pipes so as to limit
water losses; and (d) improving or creating drainage canals. The physical
rehabilitation of the irrigation and drainage systems would be accompanied
by extension services aimed at improving the agricultural practices of the
farmers. Four new plantations (2,100 ha) would be created on Government-owned
land and five on collective land. Investments in the new plantations would
include: (a) deep well boring and related equipment; (b) land levelling; (c)
establishment of wind breakers; (d) building of irrigation and drainage infra-
structures; (e) construction of access roads and tracks; (f) provision of
agricultural machinery and equipment; and (g) planting of date palm. The
forage area would cover about 580 ha out of the total area designated for
new plantations. The expected alfalfa production on this acreage would be
adequate to cover the urgent needs of the existing livestock in the area and
would ensure its survival during drought years.
41.       One date processing facility would be built under the project in
the Djerid.  The facility would have a capacity of 45 t/day for disinsectiza-
tion, 10 t/day for dehydration, and 12 t/day for date packing which would be
adequate for processing the additional crop till about year 15 of the project.
Two agricultural development agencies, "Offices de Mise en Valeur" (OMVs),
would be created by the Government in the project area, one in Tozeur, and
the second in Gabes. The project costs would include the project related



- 15 -
operational expenses of the OMVs during the implementation period. For each
OMV, the project would provide an office building, storage facilities for
agricultural inputs and outputs, a repair shop for vehicles and agricultural
machinery, vehicles for the staff and for the extension agents and trucks
for transport of dates, agricultural inputs and equipment. The project would
also provide for supplementary personnel for the Genie Rural (GR) during
project implementation.  The project would also include agricultural research
on (i) drip irrigation for date palms; (ii) sprinkler irrigation for forage;
and (iii) various systems of drainage. Investments for this purpose would
include land levelling of the experimental plot (12 ha), experimental irriga-
tion and drainage equipment, agricultural equipment and a small storage and
office building. The technical assistance component would consist of: (i) 48
man-months of consultants' services to assist GR in the preparation of tender
documents, bid evaluations and project supervision; and (ii) 12 man-months of
consultant services to DRES for preparation of the mathematical simulation
models discussed under para. 55.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
42.        The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at $72.5 million,
including a foreign exchange component of $25.3 million, or about 35 percent
of total cost, and taxes and duties of $7.8 million, representing 14 percent
of base costs. The estimated base costs of the project components, which are
expressed in December 1979 prices, are detailed in the Loan and Project
Summary. Physical contingencies are 15 percent for irrigation infrastructure
and 10 percent for all equipment, buildings and other investments. Price
contingencies of 7 percent per annum through 1985 for local and foreign
exchange costs are based on projected rates of inflation. Physical contin-
gencies represent 11 percent of the base costs and price contingencies 18
percent of the base cost, including physical contingencies. The cost of
consultant services, including international travel, fees and support services
is estimated at $10,000 per man-month for services provided from abroad, which
is in line with the cost of similar services in the region. The $180,000
advance under the Project Preparation Facility would be refinanced under the
proposed loan. The cost estimates for 11 perimeters are based on detailed
technical studies and designs prepared by GR with the assistance of two
consultants financed under the PPF. For the remaining 5 perimeters, pro-
visional cost estimates have been made, and the detailed technical specifica-
tions and final cost estimates are to be submitted to the Bank shortly. The
irrigation drainage systems as well as the basic infrastructure aspects have
been well studied and designed.
43.       The proposed Bank loan of $25.0 million would finance 99 percent of
the foreign exchange costs ($0.3 million would be Government contribution).
Out of the total local costs of $47.5 million equivalent, the Government would
finance $42.6 million equivalent and the oases farmers $4.9 million equivalent.
The Government's contributions would be made as allocations to the budgets of
GR, the OMVs and DRES. Assurances to this effect were obtained during nego-
tiations (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(c)). The farmers' contribution
would be for the purchase of young palm trees and rehabilitation work on their
plots. The Government would be the borrower and bear the foreign exchange



- 16 -
risk. The term of the proposed loan would be 17 years including 6 years of
grace to take into account the long maturing period of the palm trees, the
large investment costs during the first few years for the irrigation and
drainage networks, and the lack of any significant cash generation during the
first several years.
Project Implementation
44.       The project would be implemented over a period of six years (1980-
85). Construction of wells, installation of well equipment and establish-
ment of windbreaks are expected to be completed in three years, starting
in 1980. The replacement of dead trees would continue for another three
years.  Land levelling and irrigation infrastructure and drainage works would
be finalized by 1983. Planting of date palms in the new plantations would
start in 1982 and should be completed by 1984. Technical assistance to GR
would be spread over the first two years of the project. Technical assistance
to DRES would be for the simulation studies scheduled for 1983. The project
would be implemented by GR and two agencies of the Ministry of Agriculture,
Office de Mise en Valeur du Djerid (OMVD) and Office de Mise en Valeur de
Gabes (OMVG) to be created under the project. The OMVG would implement the
project works in the Nefzaoua as well as in the Gabes areas. DRES would be
responsible for the simulation studies. The coordination and control of
project implementation would be provided by the Ministry of Agriculture (draft
Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(d)).
45.       GR, a Department of the Ministry of Agriculture in charge of water
resources and rural development, would be responsible for the hydraulic and
civil works components of the project. The Department is well staffed with a
sufficient number of qualified engineers and has extensive experience in water
resources development in Tunisia (its latest accomplishement in the project
area was the rehabilitation of the large Kebili-Peninsula oasis, which, from
a technical point of view, was excellent). The Department was responsible for
the preparation of the detailed technical designs and cost estimates of the
sub-projects (oases and new plantations). It would prepare tender documents
with consultants' assistance for purchase of equipment and civil works con-
tracts and supervise the boring of wells, installation of equipment, land
levelling, construction of irrigation and drainage networks, installation of
windbreaks (which would be carried out by the local governmental forest
authorities) and the construction of all buildings and the date processing
facility. GR would also be responsible for establishing and operating the
research plot (para. 41).  Once these works are finished in a sub-project, GR
would transfer the responsibility to the OMVs (draft Loan Agreement, Section
3.01(b)). Consultants (para. 41) with qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank would be hired through
GR and DRES (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.02).
46.       The two OMVs would be created as semi-independent agencies under
the Ministry of Agriculture, with financial autonomy, legal personality and
organization like other existing irrigation offices. OMVVM, the largest
of these offices, is the executing agency for the development of the Lower
Medjerda Valley under the Sidi Salem Multipurpose project. OMIVAN is also



- 17 -
executing agency for the irrigation component (in the Nebhana) of the Bank's
financed Irrigation Rehabilitation project. These offices are generally well
managed and their structures well adapted to the responsibilities entrusted
to them. The establishment of OMVG would, in practice, be a transformation
of the local branch of OMVVM into an independent agency. Under the proposed
project, the OM.. would be responsible for the purchase of agricultural equip-
ment, planting of date palm offshoots and sowing of forage perimeters. They
would be in charge of the management and maintenance of the new plantations.
In the rehabilitated oases, the OMVs' main responsibility would be extension
work aimed at improving the date, vegetable and forage production. They would
also be responsible for maintenance and servicing of the pumping stations.
The project staff in each OMV would comprise, beside the administrative
personnel, at least six agricultural engineers and all the personnel needed
for the establishment and operation of the new plantations, and at least 20
extension agents to advise the farmers and to supervise agricultural produc-
tion in the traditional oases. The OMVs would also employ personnel needed
for maintenance of the pumping stations, irrigation equipment and network, and
agricultural machinery and equipment. Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that the proposed project would be executed and managed as discussed
above and in paras. 44 and 45 (draft Loan Agreement, Sections 3.01, 3.02 and
3.03). Establishment of the two OMVs was decided by the Government in the
spring of 1979. Government's decision has yet to be approved by Parliament,
and an organizational decree issued. Establishment of the two OMVs and
issuance of this decree would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
loan (draft Loan Agreement, Sections 6.01 and 6.02). The Government would
enter into arrangements with the two OMVs by December 31, 1980 to ensure
that they will carry out their obligations under the project (draft Loan
Agreement, Sections 3.01, 3.03).
47.       Each of the OMVs would keep independent project accounts and follow
closely the physical implementation of the project within its jurisdiction.
The accounts of the OMVs would be controlled by a financial controller of the
Ministry of Finance and also by a specialized division of the Ministry of
Agriculture (Sous-direction des Organismes Sous Tutelle) over-seeing all the
semi-independent agencies of the Ministry. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the audited project accounts and financial statements of
each OMV would be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal
year.
Procurement and Disbursements
48.       About fifty-six pumpsets with related well equipment and asbestos
cement pipes for irrigation valued at about $4.2 million and $7.1 million,
respectively, would be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines. It is expected
that three contracts would be let for the pumpsets and three contracts for the
pipes. The ICB and Bank review threshold of tender documents for pumpsets and
related equipment, and for asbestos cement pipes would be $250,000 equivalent.
Contracts for equipment below the threshold would be purchased under competi-
tive bidding advertised locally, provided that the aggregate cost of all con-
tracts procured in this manner does not exceed $750,000 (draft Loan Agreement,



- 18 -
Schedule 4, Part C, paragraph 3). The deep well boring contracts totalling
$6.4 million, net of price contingencies, would be let under competitive
bidding in accordance with local procedures, which are satisfactory to the
Bank. There are at present at least three local companies well equipped and
experienced in deep well drilling in Southern Tunisia. Under the First
Agricultural Credit project, the Bank financed contracts for drilling eighteen
deep wells in the Nefzaoua and Djerid areas. Procurement under ICB procedures
resulted in awards to local contractors. Foreign contractors have not shown
interest in bidding. In view of the remoteness of the area, the size of the
contracts spread over a four-year period, it remains unlikely that they would
do so now. Power-line connections of the pumping station estimated to cost
$0.4 million equivalent would be executed by the Tunisian Electricity Company
(STEG), a Government power company which has in the past performed success-
fully similar works (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, Part C, paragraph 1).
Procurement for vehicles and agricultural equipment will take place over
several years and would include a wide range of items. Car manufacturers
and agricultural equipment suppliers are well represented in the country and
are required by the Government to carry an adequate stock of spare parts.
Vehicles and agricultural equipment valued at $1.2 million equivalent (net of
contingencies), would be awarded through competitive bidding in accordance
with local procedures as bulk procurement under international competitive
bidding procedures would not be appropriate (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 4,
Part C, paragraph 2). The civil works under the project would be undertaken
over a period of several years. They would be widely scattered and include a
number of contracts not suitable for grouping in lots. It is, therefore,
unlikely that foreign contractors would be interested in bidding. The civil
works component totalling $20.1 million equivalent would, therefore, be
tendered through local competitive bidding procedures. It is expected that
not less than 10 contractors would participate in the execution of the works.
49.       The proposed loan would be disbursed over a period of six years
through the end of 1985 as follows: (i) 55 percent of the cost of locally
purchased vehicles and equipment and/or 100 percent of the c.i.f. cost of
imported equipment; (ii) 40 percent of total expenditures for civil works for
irrigation and drainage, land levelling, road construction and buildings; and
(iii) 100 percent of foreign cost for consultant services.
Cost Recovery
50.       The recovery of investment costs in the new date palm plantations
and date palm/forage perimeters would be the responsibility of the two OMVs
which would operate on a commercial basis. It is expected that all investment
and operating costs in new perimeters would be recovered through the revenues
accruing to the Government. In the existing oases, however, recovery would be
difficult to achieve. The water in the oases originally came from springs and
was plentiful and free. When new deep wells outside the oases were sunk, the
water supply in the springs gradually began to diminish and in some cases dis-
appeared completely. To save the existing oases, the Government sunk addi-
tional wells in the oases themselves, and channeled the newly available water
into the existing irrigation infrastructures. With the extension of some
oases and the diminishing artesian flow, pumping became necessary, in most



- 19 -
oases. The farmers (generally smallholders) were not required to contribute
towards the construction of the new wells or the investment cost in pumps, but
the Government charged the farmers not more than a token contribution towards
the pumping costs to compensate them for the decrease in the water supply in
the springs resulting from the sinking of new wells outside the oases. The
amount charged for a cubic meter is presently being increased from 4 millimes
(about US 1 cent) to 6 millimes. The actual operating and maintenance costs
of pumping is about 20 millimes. With the proposed project, the farmers would
be able to increase their contribution towards water charges gradually (para.
52). Therefore, the Government has agreed to: (i) carry out a study for the
establishment of a cost recovery system for irrigation in the project area and
review water charges to be paid by farmers; (ii) propose a plan to the Bank by
June 30, 1981 to progressively increase water charges and implement such plan
thereafter; and (iii) periodically review the adequacy of their level (draft
Loan Agreement, Section 4.04 and Schedule 5).
Benefits and Risks
51.       The proposed project is essential to the development of the semi-
desertic southern and southeastern part of Tunisia. The main benefits
would arise from the incremental production of dates, forage and vegetables
(para. 39). At full development, the project would increase by almost 50
percent the present date production of the country. The export of Deglat Nour
date variety would result in foreign exchange earnings of about $22.0 million
per year in constant 1978 prices at full development by year 2000. Produc-
tion increases in other date varieties and vegetables would mainly benefit
consumers in the project areas. The forage production would contribute
towards improving the quality of the existing livestock in the project areas
(about 150,000 sheep and goats), especially during drought years. The eco-
nomic rate of return for the project as a whole is about 13 percent over a 50
year project life. _
52.       One of the most important justifications of the project in addition
to incremental production is its social impact in view of the high incidence
of absolute poverty in southern Tunisia. The rehabilitation component of the
project would directly benefit some 5,100 families, or about 30,600 people
in the rural target population. As much of Tunisia's economic activity is
concentrated in urban centers along the coast, rural-urban migration has been
increasing rapidly over the past few years. Without the project, the situa-
tion in the existing oases would continue to deteriorate, resulting in
increased poverty of small farmers and acceleration of migration of the local
population to the urban areas where unemployment is widespread. The new date
palm plantations and date palm/forage perimeters would offer improved income
opportunities to about 1,100 permanent workers, many of whom are at present
unemployed or underemployed. In addition, about 80,000 man-days a year for
seasonal work would be created. In the date processing center to be financed
under the project, about 34,000 man-days for seasonal work are expected to be
provided each year. Increased employment (such as secondary service and
tradesmen jobs) resulting from the spread and multiplier effects of the
project in the regional economy have not been analyzed. Each permanent worker
is expected to earn about $880 for 250 days of work a year and each seasonal



- 20 -
worker about $245 for 65 days of work during the year. The estimated income
of the permanent worker is at present $440, below the absolute poverty line
in rural areas (estimated to be about $710/year for a family of 6 members).
it is expected that as a result of rehabilitation works, a typical farmer
owning 0.5 ha in an oasis of the hinterland could earn a net income of about
$1,570/year at full development. At present, his average income is estimated
to be about $780/year. In the coastal oases to be rehabilitated, where the
average farm size is 1 ha and the principal returns are from vegetable and
forage production, an average farmer is expected to earn $2,840/year at full
development. This represents a substantial improvement from his present in-
come of about $860/year. The income the farmers are expected to gain at full
project development indicates that they will be able to gradually increase
their contributions towards water charges (para. 50).
53.       The project also recognizes the important role women can play in
agricultural production by creating employment opportunities for them. Women
already play a major role in agriculture in the coastal oases. They are also
employed as seasonal workers during the date collecting and sorting season,
and the majority of the work force in the date processing and packing centers
are women. It is expected that at least 35 percent of the seasonal labor
hired for the project would be women.  The project would also result in non-
quantifiable benefits such as: (i) institution building, with the creation of
two OMVs; (ii) long-term gains from research on drip and sprinkler irrigation
and various systems of drainage; and (iii) gains from technical assistance to
the Genie Rural by consultant services financed under the project.
54.       The sensitivity tests indicate that the economic rate of return
of the new date palm/forage perimeters is rather sensitive to a decrease in
benefits or increase in total costs. To ensure the financial and economic
viability of these areas and to encourage production, the alfalfa hay produced
under the project would have to be sold at about the market price. The Gov-
ernment agreed during negotiations to periodically determine the price of
alfalfa hay produced taking into account market prices in the project area
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.03(ii)).
55.       The only significant long term risk of the project is related to the
expected gradual increase of water salinity as a result of water resources
depletion and the lowering of the water table of the CT aquifer (para. 34).
According to the UNESCO/UNDP survey and the various simulation models, the
increase in salinization would remain within acceptable limits during the life
of the project, and would not affect agricultural development. However, since
potable water for the local population in certain locations might not meet
acceptable drinking standards in the future, the Government agreed to: (i)
continue to closely monitor the variation in water salinity and the depletion
of existing and future wells throughout the project area; (ii) prepare a
report to be submitted to the Bank by April 1, 1981 summarizing the data
recorded on the evolution of aquifers taking into account water levels, water
use and water quality of existing and future wells; (iii) develop a new
simulation model for the Djerid area, carry out simulations of the evolution
of the Djerid and Nefzaoua aquifers, and submit the results to the Bank by
October 1, 1983; (iv) carry out every five years starting October 1983 new



- 21 -
simulations of the aquifer development in the project area, the results of
which should be submitted to the Bank; and (v) take any remedial action
required to limit salinity and to ensure availability of potable water for
the local population--either through water desalinization or conveyance of
fresh water from the less saline wells to the consumption sites (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 3.06).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Tunisia and the
Bank, a draft letter supplemental to the Loan Agreement, and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The
draft Loan Agreement conforms generally to the normal pattern for irrigation
rehabilitation projects. Features of the draft Loan Agreement of special
interest are referred to in the appropriate paragraphs of this Report and in
Section III of Annex III.
57.       A special condition of effectiveness is that the two OMVs will have
been established and an organizational decree issued providing the two OMVs
with resources, functions and responsibilities as set forth in Sections 3.01
and 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement (draft Loan Agreement, Sections 6.01 and
6.02).
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachment
December 26, 1979
Washington, D.C.



-22-
ANNEX 1
TABLE JA                                              Page  1  of  5
TUNISLA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TUNISIA                    REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED A'¢AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM. )                 TIA- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TQTAL            164.0                                                    SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      76.6                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       *INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GRPIUP {e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  210.0       350.0      860.0          1367.7       926.1      1748.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KIL-.RAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      190.0       261.0     456.0            838.1      730.7       1646.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       4.2         5.1        5.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 36.0         44.0       48.0            49.0        49.0        51.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        9.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         14.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. K(M.                       26.0        31.0      36.0             19.9       44.6         28.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      55.0        67.0      77.0             99.0       140.7       100.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.3        46.2      43.0             45.6       41.3         35.4
15-64 YRS.                          52.5        50.0      53.0             51.4       55.3         56.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.2          3.8       4.0              2.8        3.5          5.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.8 /f      2.0/f      2.3/k           3.0         2.4         1.7
URBAN                                ..         3.8       3.6              5.2         4.5         3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      47.0        39.0       32.0            43.7        31.1        27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      19.0        14.0       12.0            13.5         9.2         9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.1         3.4       2.2              3.2         2.2         1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        29.2      73.5
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           8.0      18.0               ..        34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1t69-71-100)          122.3        98.0      125.0            90.8       104.4       102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    86.0        93.0     102.0             99.0      105.0        120.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           54.0        63.OLI    67.4             63.6       64.4         80.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        13.0        14.OZI    20.0             16.0       23.5         31.3
CRILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      29.0        20.0       15.0            15.9         6.6         5.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    48.0         54.0      57.0             53.8       60.2         65.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER THOUSAND)  ..        135.0        ..               ..       46.7         45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-        49.0      70.0             56.4        60.8        69.4
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..             83.4       75.7         85.1
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..             34.3       40.0         43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..        ..             59.1        46.0        70.1
URBAN                                ..          ..      30.0             78.2       46.0         88.3
RURAL                                ..          ..        ..             26.4       22.5         33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          10000.0      5950.0    4800.0           3677.0     2262.4       1343.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..       730.0    1070.0           1730.6     1195.4        765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             360.0/h     410.0     410.0j.1        577.0      453.4        197.6
URBAN                                ..       280.0     230.0Lj             ..      253.1        260.2
RURAL                                ..       930.0    1040.0I7             ..     2732.4       1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED            ..        24.1        , .            21.8        22.1        17.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..         5.1 /i   6.0               5.8         5.3         4.7
URBAN                                ..         5.1 /i    5.8              5.5         5.2         4.4
RURAL                                ..         5.1 7T    6.1              6.0        5.4          5.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          3.2 /i      ..              ..         1.9         1.1
URBAN                                ..         2.7 E       ..              ..         1.6         1.2
RURAL                               ..          3.6 7       ..              ..         2.5         1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..        24.0 /i    ..              45.1        50.0        66.0
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..             67.9       71.7         85.1
RURAL                                ..          ..        ..               ..        17.3



-23 -                                              ANNEX 1
TABLE 3APae2o                                                           
TUINISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                  Page  2  of  5
TUNISIA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED A5jRAGES
TUNISIA                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  66.0        100.0     100.0             85.0        102.5       101.7
MALE                  88.0        120.0      118.0            103.7        108.6      110.0
FEMALE                43.0         79.0       81.0             66.0         97.1       92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  12.0         23.0      20.0             27.6         33.5        51.2
MALE                  19.0         33.0       26.0             39.2         38.4       56.4
FEMALE                 5.0         13.0       14.0             20.8        30.7        43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY) 24.0            12.0       17.0              4.3         11.5       18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             61.0         48.0      40.0             32.6         35.8        27.1
SECONDARY                           16.0         28.0      23.0             23.4         22.9        25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         15.5         24.0/i    55.0              41.4         64.0       86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          11.0         13.0      18.0             16.7         13.5        53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          41.0         77.0     141.0            147.9        122.7       225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.1         10.0      27.0             36.0         38.3       102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   19.0         16.0      33.0              17.9        40.0        78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0             ..        2.3              2.9          3.7        3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1400.0       1300.0/i  1700.0                 .
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     6.1          7.7       8.5              8.6         25.0        24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               56.5         49.8      43.0             43.0         43.5        28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  17.6         21.0      23.0             23.7         21.5        30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 27.0         23.7      23.7              26.7        33.5        33.8
MALE                                  50.2         44.2       44.0             46.4         48.0       51.3
FEMALE                                 3.3          3.6       4.0               5.1        16.8        16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4          1.8/i      1.4              1.8          1.4         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..      17.0             21.4         20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..      42.0             48.6         52.1        57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..       6.0               5.3          3.9        3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..       15.0            15.0         12.6        11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     204.0            201.3        270.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      97.0            134.2        183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     193.0            288.6        282.5       550.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     193.0            170.0        248.9       403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      20.0             22.9         20.5
RURAL                                 ..           ..      15.0             31.2         35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    North Africa & Middle East;   /d   Intermediate Middle Income (S551-1135 per capita, 1976);   /e  Upper Middle
Income (51136-2500 per capita, 1976);   /f  Due to emigration, population growth rate is lower than rate of
natural increase;   /g  Av. 1964-66;   /h  1962;   /i   1966;  /f  1972;   /k  Official intercensal
(1966-75) estimate;   /1  Government hospital establishments only.
May, 1979



- 24 -
TUNISIA                                              ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
Actual                 Psl-   le£t-Grt I^
1972      1976      1977       197g 1981                1996                 77!Z                  1978
1976     1981    1986      Share of MP
A. NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(Dinars millions; 1972 constant
prices)
1. Gross domestic product                1,078.0  1,396.0   1,456.5      1,572.0    1,936.8   2,655.3          6.7      6.8     6.5          100.0
2. Gains from terms of trade                 -        33.2      50.8        91.1      131.6    200.4            -        -       -             5.8
3.  Gross domestic income (142)          1,078.0  1,429.2   1,507.3      1,663.1    2,068.4   2,855.7          7.3      7.7     6.7          105.8
4.  Imports                                282.9    437.3    509.6         540.2      588.9    781.0          11.5      6.1     5.8           34.4
5. Exports-vDltmne                         270.6    310.2      327.7       328.9      413.0    570.7           3.5      5.9     6.6           20.9
6.  Exports - TT adjusted                  270.6    343.4      378.5       420.0      545.4    771.1           6.1      9.7     7.2           26.7
7.  Resource Gap - TT adjusted (4-6)        12.3      93.9    131.1        120.2       43.5        9.9          -        -       -             7.6
8.  Total Coneunption                      857.8  1,167.4   1,275.5      1,388.7    1,680.6   2,296.5          8.0      7.6     6.4           98.3
Public consumption               150.9    218.0    241.6         267.3      336.5    485.3           9.6      9.1     7.6           17.0
Private consusption              706.9    949.4  1,033.9       1,121.4    1,344.1   1,801.2         7.7       7.2     6.0           71.3
9.  Total investment                       232.5    355.7      362.9       394.6      431.3     579.1         11.2      3.9     6.9           25.1
Fixed investment                  214.0    341.9    368.3         403.2      430.0     575.0        12.4       4.7     6.0           25.6
10. National Savings                       209.4    241.9    218.2         272.5      370.8    540.1           3.7      8.9     7.8           17.3
11. Domestic Savings                       201.7    248.0    237.2         283.0      387.8     569.2          5.3      9.4     8.0           18.0
12. GDP at current prices (USS millions) 2,259.0  4,448.5   5,007.0      5,908.2    8,836.8  16,109.8         18.5     14.7    12.9
13. Fixed investment at current prices     448.4  1,296.6   1,503.5      1,814.0    2,192.9   4,596.4         29.0     10.5    15.9
(USS M)
14. Fixed investment/GDP (current)          19.8      29.1      30.0        30.7       24.8      28.5           -        -       -
B. SECTOR OUTPUT                                           (Distribution in percentages; 1972 constant prices)
1. Agriculture                              23.8     20.8       18.5        18.0       16.5      14.6          2.9      1.6     4.0
2.  Industry                                23.5      23.7      25.0        25.5       26.4      28.3          6.7      8.7     8.0
3.  Service                                 52.7      55.4      56.5        56.5       57.1      57.1          7.8      7.1     6.5
C. PRICES (1972 5 100)
1. Export price index (incl. NFS)          100.0    181.2    197.9         229.0      312.8     387.7         16.0     11.5     4.4
2.  Import price index (incl. NF5)         100.0    163.7    171.4         178.5      246.7    206.9          13.1      9.5     3.1
3.  Terms of trade index                   100.0    110.7    115.5         127.7      126.8     135.1          2.6      2.8     1.3
4. CDP deflator                             100.0    136.6    147.5        156.4      206.3    244.7           8.1      9.6     3.5
5. Average exchange rate (dinars per 5)  .4772    .4208    .429            .4162      .4034      .4034
D. SELECTED INDICATORS
(Computed at 1972 constant prices)        1973-76    1977-81    1982-86
1.  ICOR                                         3.2        3.6         3.4
2.  lmport elasticity                            1.48        1.16       0.8
3.  Average national savings rate/GDY            18.0       16.5       17.7
4. Marginsl national savings rate/GDY            9.3        20.2       21.5
5.  Imports/GDY                                 28.2        31.0       27.9
6.  Investment/CDY                              21.3        22.4       20.6
7. Resource gap/GDY                              6.6        10.8        8.0
E. PUBLIC FINANCE (General Gov't)           1972        1976       1977
(as  tof GDP at current prices)
1. Current revenue                          21.5        25.3       27.0
2. Current expenditure                      17.8        19.3       20.0
3.  Current surplus                          3.7         6.1        7.0
4.  Capital expenditure                      6.1         8.1       11.1
5. Loans and advances (net)                  2.4         2.1        4.1
F. LABOR FORCE                              1972        1976       1978
(in thousands)
1.  Total labor force                       1450        1671       1782
2. Employment                               1277        1440       1522
2.1 Agriculture                          589         593        595
2.2 Industry                             344         437        484
2.3 Services                             344         410        443
3.  Unemployment                              173        231        260 2/
I  Staff estimates
Includes 29 thousand Tunisians that left to work abroad.



- 25 -
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(Mxliio1   of US dollars: current price)                                               f 5
Actual                            Prelim.                      ProJected 1/
1969        1972          1976          1977          1978          1979          1901          1986
A.  SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTi
1.  Exports (incl. NWS)                            287.8        567.1       1,311.1       1,511.7       1,802.0       2,332.7        3,026.9       5,487.2
2.  Imports (incl. NFS)                            346.2        592.8       1,669.8       2,035.7       2,316.9       2,774.2        3,268.0       5,557.4
3.  ResDurce balance                               -58.4        -25.7        -358.7        -524.0        -514.9        -441.6         -241.1         -70.2
4.  Net factor service income                      -45.9        -22.7         -58.2         -42.9          -7.2         -55.9          -97.8        -222.6
1.  Net investment income                      -24.4        -43.0        -73.9         -93.9        -132.2        -184.9         -233.5        -369.1
2.  Workers' remittances                        21.9         62.0         143.0         168.3         216.3         235.6          264.7         354.3
3.  Net other service- income                  -43.4        -41.7       -127.3        -117.2         -91.3        -106.6          -129.0        -207.7
5.  Net current transfers                            7.9          6.1          -0.5          -0.9           -             -              -             -
6.  Balance on current account                     -96.4        -42.3        -417.4        -567.8        -522.1        -497.4         -338.9        -292.8
7.  Private direct investment                       19.0         36.7         102.6          92.3          96.1         110.0          137.5         221.4
8.  Official grants                                 43.6         37.3          53.2          47.3          38.2          40.0           38.0          30.0
Public M&LT loans
9.  Disbursements                                   92.4        139.8         224.4         643.3         636.0         599.8          537.1         714.5
10. Amortization                                    45.0         71.9          65.7          88.6         103.1         160.8          261.2        -526.8
11. Net disbursements                               47.4         67.9         158.7         554.7         532.9         439.0          275.9         187.7
12. Short-term capital and errors
and omissions                                  5.2       -22.4          59.9        -183.2        -110.1            -              -             -
13. Changes in reserves                            -18.8        -77.2          43.0          56.7         -35.0         -91.5         -112.5        -146.3
(- = increase)
14. Net foreign exchange reserves                   -4.0        192.1         304.5         247.8         282.8         374.5          545.8       1,389.4
B. GRANT AND LOAN COW4iITMENTS
1.  Official grants                                 43.6         36.7         102.6          92.3          96.1
2. Total public M&LI loans                         172.8        187.7         774.5         888.6         592.5
2.1  I8RD                                        34.4         36.0          60.0          77.5          67.0
2.2  IDA                                          8.5         10.0           4.8           -             -
2.3  Other multilateral                           -            1.0          95.8          36.4          12.3
2.4  Governments                                 71.2        106.0        454.8          341.4         251.2
2.5  of which centrally planned
2.6  Suppliers                                   23.2          7.3          16.3          69.2
2.7  Financial institutions                      29.1         27.5         118.8         364.1         262.0
2.8  Other                                        6.4          -            24.0           -
C. MEMORANDUM ITEMS
1.  Grant element of total commitients               ..          ..            34.6          23.8          18.3
2.  Average interest (percent)                       ..          ..             5.0           6.2           7.2
3.  Average maturity (years)                         ..          ..            20.8          16.4          14.1
1/ Staff estimates                                                         -  Nil or lese then half of unit shown                            EIENA CPIIB
Not available                                                   September 1979



- - 26 -
ANNEX 1
TUNISIA                                                 DEBT AND CREDITRTHIKNESS                                     Page 5 of 5 pages
Actual                                                     Prelim.
1969       1973        1974        1975         1976        1977         1978
MEDIUM AND LONG-TERM DEBT
(millions of US dollars)
1.  Total debt outstanding (DOD; snd of period)             501.6       826.4       938.9    1,038.1      1,171.9    1.774.3         2,424.5
2.  Including undiaburbad                                   768.3    1,306.3    1,518.5    1,762.6        2,430.3    3,321.9         4,015.6
3.  Public debt service                                      60.4        88.7        91.5       101.6        104.3       142.3          196.6
1.  Interest                                             15.4       27.7        30.7        35.1         38.6        53.7           93.5
DEBT BURDEN (percentage)
1.  Debt service ratio                                       21.0        12.4         7.3         7.6          8.0         9.4           10.9
2.  Debt service and diract investment inco  ratio           22.0        14.8         7.3         8.7          9.9        10.8           12.6
3.  Debt service/GOP                                          4.6         3.2         2.6         2.4          2.3         2.8            3.3
4.  Public debt service/Goverrnent revenue                   19.2        13.9        10.9         9.2          9.3        10.5
5.  Total DOD/GDP                                            37.9        29.7        26.7        24.2         26.3       35.4            41.0
TERMS (percentage)
1.  Interest on total DOD/total DOD 1/                        3.3         4.0         3.7         3.7          3.7         4.6            5.3
2.  Total debt service/total DOD 1/                          13.0        12.7        11.1        10.8         10.0        12.1           11.1
DEPENDENCY RATIOS FOR M&LT DEBT (percentage)
1.  Gross disbursements/imports (including NFS)              26.7        19.6        11.6        12.3         13.4       31.6            27.5
2.  Net transfer/imports (including NFS)                      9.2         8.2         4.2         5.8          7.2        24.6           19.0
3.  Net transfer/gross disbursements                         34.6        42.1        36.4        46.8         53.5        77.9           69.1
EXPOSURE (percentage)
1.  IBRD disbursements/Total dieburerents                     6.4        13.8        16.3        14.1         11.3         7.4            5.2
2.  Bank Group disbursements/Total disbursments              10.2        17.3        20.6        20-.7        15.2         8.3            5.3
3.  IBRO 0DD/Total D00                                        3.6         8.5         9.4        10.5         10.9         9.4            7.8
4.  Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                  6.3        12.9        13.9        15.9         16.3        13.2           10.6
5.  IBRD debt service/Total debt service                      2.6         9.1        12.0        13.7         16.0        15.0           13.6
6.  Bank Group debt service/Total debt service                2.6         9.6        12.4        14.1         16.6        17.4           13.9
EXTERNAL DEBT (disbursed only)                                                outttandiM. Dec. 31 1978
(millions of US dollars)                                                         Amount          Percent
1.  IBRD                                                                           189.4           7.8
2.  IDA                                                                             67.4           2.8
3.  Other multilateral                                                              62.6           2.6
4.  Goverrnmenta                                                                 1,214.5          50.1
5.  Suppliers                                                                      102.9           4.2
6.  Financial institutions                                                         767.3          31.6
7.  Other                                                                           20.3           0.9
8.  Total public M&LT debt                                                       2,424.5         100.0
9.  Total public M&LT debt (including undisbursed)                              4,015.6          165.6
DEBT/PROFILE
1.  Total debt service 1979-1983/Total DOD end of 1978 (percent): 86.3
1/  DOD at the end of previous year                                    -   Nil or less than half of unit shown                              EMENA CPIIB
Not available                                                    September 1979



- 27 -
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of November 30, 1979)                                                                          ANNEX II
Page 1 o-f 7
Loan or
Credit                                                                                                                                  US  $ Million
Number    Year       Borrower                                        Purpose                                                  Amount (less Cancellation)
Bank       IDA           Undis.
Thwenty-three Loans and Credits Fully Disbursed                                                                               139.4       58.5
238       1971      Republic of Tunisia                            Population                                                            4.B            2.1
270       1971      Republic of Tunisia                            Fisheries                                                              2.0           0.1
858       1972      Republic of Tunisia                             Tourism Infrastructure                                    14.0                      4.4
937       1973      Republic of Tunisia                             Urban Planning & Public
Transportation                                          11.0                      1.5
989       1974      SONEDE                                          Water Supply                                              23.0                      2.2
1029       1974      Republic of Tunisia                            Hotel Training                                               5.6                     2.3
1042       1974      Compagnie des Phosphates et
Chemin de Fer de GAFSA                      Phosphate Development                                     23.3                      4.3
1068       1974      Republic of Tunisia                             Irrigation Rehabilitation                                  12.2                     6.0
1088       1975      Republic of Tunisia                             Urban Sewerage                                            28.0                     19.3
1155       1975      Republic of Tunisia                            Education                                                   8.6                      8.4
1188       1976      Republic of Tunisia                            Highways                                                   28.0                     26.1
1189       1976      Banque de Developpement
Economique de Tunisie (BDET)               Development Finance Co.                                    20.0                       1.1
238-1    1976       Republic of Tunisia                            Population.                                                            4.8           1.1
1340       1976      Banque Nationale de Tunisie                    Agricultural Credit                                         12.0                     7.3
1355       1976      Soci6te Tunisienne de
l'Electricite et du Gaz                      Power                                                      14.5                     0.6
1431       1977      Republic of Tunisia                             Irrigation Development                                    42.0                     25.8
1445       1977      SONEDE                                         Water Supply                                               21.0                     19.7
1504       1977      BDET                                           Development Finance Co.                                    30.0                     18.3
1505       1977      Republic of Tunisia                            Small-Scale Industrial Project                               5.0                     5.0
1601       1978      Republic of Tunisia                            Rural Roads                                                32.0                     32.0
1675       1979      Republic of Tunisia                            Urban Sewerage                                             26.5                     26.5
1702       1979      Societ6 Nationale d'Exploitation d'Eau    Fifth Water Supply                                              25.0                     25.0
1705 a/   1979       Republic of Tunisia                            Second Urban Development                                   19.0                     19.0
1746 _/   1979       Republic of Tunisia                            Second Fisheries                                           28.5        _            28.5
TOTAL                                                                                                                  568.6       70.1         286.6
Of which has been repaid                                     ..                                                        58.9        4.7
Total now outstanding                                        ..                                                       509.7       65.4
Amount Sold                          14.4
of which has been repaid              6.4                                                                             8.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA b/                            ..                                                       501.7       65.4
Total Undisbursed                                                                                                     283.3        3.3          286.6
a/ Not yet effective              b/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISIA (as of November 30, 1979)
Amount in US $ Million
Year       Obligator                                                Type of Business                                          Loan       Equity         Total
1962       NPK Engrais                                              Fertilizers                                                2.0          1.5          3.5
1966       Soci6te Nationale d'Investissement                       Development Finance Co.                                                 0.6          0.6
1969       COFIT (Tourism)                                          Development Finance Co.                                    8.0          2.2         10.2
1970       Soci6te Nationale d'Investissement
(SNI) now (BDET)                                     Development Finance Co.                                                 0.6          0.6
1973       Soci6te Touristique & HDteliere RYM SA.                  Tourism                                                    1.6          0.3          1.9
1973       Soci6t6 d'Etudes & de Developpement de
Sousse-Nord                                            Tourism                                                     -          0.0           0.0
1975       Societ6 d'Etude & de Developpement de
Sousse-Nord                                            Tourism                                                    2.5         0.6           3.1
-1974       Industries Chimiques du Fluor                             Chemicals                                                              0.7          0.7
1978       BDET                                                     Development Finance Co.                                                 1.3          1.3
Total Gross commitments                                                                                                  14.1         7.8          21.9
Less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales                                                                    5.3         1.6           6.9
Total commitments now held by IFC                                                                                         8.8         6.2          15.0
Total undisbursed                                              ..                                                                     0.7           0.7



-28                          ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. 238:    Population Project; US$4.8 million credit of April 5, 1971; Date
of Effectiveness: December 29, 1971; Closing Date: (Original)
June 30, 1976; (Current) December 31, 1979.
Cr. 238-1:  Population Project:  US$4.8 million Supplemental Credit of
October 13, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: March 21, 1977;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1979.
Progress in the physical implementation of the project has been slow
since November 1977, and new delays have occurred in equipping of project
facilities. The construction of the maternity hospitals in Sousse, Tunis and
Sfax is complete; the one in Bizerte will be completed in early 1980. Twenty-
five of the 29 maternal and child health/family planning centers have been com-
pleted; three will be completed early in 1980. The center at La Hafsia may
have to be deleted because the Government has been unable to obtain a suitable
site. The closing date will be extended to December 31, 1980.
Cr. 270:    Fisheries Project; US$2 million credit of September 24, 1971; Date
of Effectiveness: May 24, 1972; Closing Date: (Original) December
31, 1976; (Current) December 31, 1979.
All the 190 boats ordered have been constructed and the remainder of
the credit has been used to finance fishing gear. About 98 percent of the
credit funds are disbursed, the balance is committed, and the project is
expected to close on schedule. The recovery of loans provided under the
project to the fishermen remains a matter of concern as the recovery rate has
been low and measures to improve the situation are only slowly succeeding. In
May 1979, agreement was reached with the Tunisian Government and BNT on a
program to bring the rates up to 80 percent by 1983.
Ln. 858: Tourism Infrastructure Project; US$14 million loan of September 28,
1972; Date of Effectiveness: June 29, 1973; Closing Date:
(Original) December 31, 1977; (Current) June 30, 1980.
The project has entered its final implementation stage. About 90-95
percent of project work is completed. The remainder is expected to be com-
pleted by the end of 1979/beginning of 1980. Total project cost, including
price escalation allowances, is still estimated at TD 31.5 million. Of the
total Bank financing of $24 million (including the fully disbursed credit
329-TUN of $10 million), 83 percent, or $20.0 million, has been disbursed.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



-29 -                          ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
Ln. 937: Tunis District Urban Planning and Public Transport Project; US$11
Cr. 432:  million loan and US$7 million credit, both of October 5, 1973; Date
of Effectiveness: September 24, 1974; Closing Date: (Original)
December 31, 1976; (Current) December 31, 1980.
The project has been completed except for construction of a bus
depot which is expected to be ready by June 1981. The project helped estab-
lish and strengthen the Tunis District, the first regional planning authority
in Tunisia. Work carried out by the District in the housing and transport
sectors has been instrumental in bringing about substantial changes in public
programs and policies, such as the adoption of measures to encourage the use
of buses and restrain the use of private cars. The project also assisted the
public transport company Societe Nationale des Transport (SNT) in renewing its
bus fleet and railway rolling stock, improving its organization and finance,
and upgrading the maintenance of its vehicles with the construction of a new
bus depot. In parallel, the city of Tunis adopted a new traffic plan with
a one-way street system, reserved bus lanes and restricted parking zones,
which contributed substantially to the improvement of bus services in Greater
Tunis. This, combined with an increase in the SNT bus fleet, and improved bus
maintenance has led to an increase in the use of SNT transport facilities
by about 27 percent above the level which would have been achieved in the
absence of the project.
Ln 989:   Third Water Supply Project; US$23 million loan of May 29, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness:  September 24, 1974; Closing Date:  (Original)
June 30, 1979, (Current) June 30, 1980.
Ln. 1445: Fourth Water Supply Project; US$21 million loan of July 5, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: January 30, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1982.
All the water production facilities programmed under the third
project are now in operation. As a result of this major increase in water
production for Greater Sfax, water supply services have substantially improved
in the city. The remaining loan amount will be disbursed for works in the
city's distribution network, which are expected to be completed by March 1980.
Good progress has also been achieved in the execution of the works included in
the fourth project. Procurement under this project is now expected to be
completed by mid-1980. Having increased the average water rates last year by
about 44 percent, the borrower's financial situation is expected to remain
good for the next two years.
Ln. 1029: Hotel Training Project; US$5.6 million loan of July 17, 1974; Date
of Effectiveness:  November 4, 1975; Closing Date:  (Original)
October 31, 1978; (Current) October 31, 1980.
The first hotel school at Hammamet is now open and the Sousse Nord
school is to open on January 1, 1980. The practice hotels attached to the
schools are both to open in early 1980. Requests for disbursements of the
remaining funds should be received by March 1980.



- 30 -                        ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Ln. 1042: Gafsa Phosphate Project; US$23.3 million loan of October 1, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness:  March 14, 1975; Closing Date:  (Original)
June 30, 1979; (Current) December 31, 1980.
Underground mining operations using the longwall method were in-
tended to supply phosphate rock to the Sehib beneficiation plant to be commis-
sioned by the end of 1979. Following the failure of the related underground
mining tests to reach satisfactory production levels, a partial reformulation
of the project is being carried out with the assistance of experienced consul-
tants vhose services are financed by the unused portion of the Bank loan.
The services include: (i) 6 months' technical assistance in further testing
the longwall method, (ii) a feasibility study for open pit mining of an
alternative deposit from which the supply of rock to the washing plant could
be supplemented, and (iii) a review of Gafsa's five-year investment program
and the design and implementation of an improved cost control system. Mean-
while, the Company is experiencing financial difficulties due mainly to high
operating costs coupled with a large investment program which has not yet
succeeded in raising production levels or reducing costs, and the accompanying
heavy debt load.
Ln. 1068: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$12.2 million loan of
December 31, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: September 18,. 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Progress in construction and rehabilitation work in the Medjerda
sub-project area continues to be satisfactory, except for water supply to
farmers on which a common decision is expected by SONEDE and OMVVM, regard-
ing the latter's contribution to the investment costs. Enforcement of the
Agrarian Reform is progressing slowly, especially in the Medjerda area.
In Nebhana, the land consolidation program is developing well and farmers have
been settled on nearly 60 percent of the total area. OMVVM continues to
encourage large owners to improve cultivation of land and marked progress has
been reported in the distribution of medium- and short-term credit. Progress
in construction and rehabilitation of irrigation, drainage and road networks
continues to be satisfactory.
Ln. 1088: First Urban Sewerage Project; US$28 million loan of February 18,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1975; Closing Date:
(Original) December 15, 1979; (Current) December 15, 1981.
The project suffered considerable delay as a result of a number
of factors, some beyond the control of the project entity, ONAS. As a result,
considerable cost escalation has occurred, chiefly in local cost components.
However, bids for most of the works have now been received and construction is
under way on all major components. The project is expected to be completed in
mid-1982. One of its major benefits will be release of land for development
around the Lake of Tunis, which until now has been impossible because of the
pollution of the lake waters by untreated sewage. Consultants financed under
the project have produced a land-use plan for the area, and acquisition of the
land has begun by Government.



_31                          A NNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Ln. 1155: Third Education Project; US$8.9 million loan of August 13, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: March 1, 1976; Closing Date: (Original)
June 30, 1980; (Amended Project) March 31, 1983.
Implementation of this project was delayed following a change in
education priorities in Tunisia.  The project was subsequently amended to
reduce the number of ITM centers to be equipped under the project, increase
the facilities to train teachers for ITM, and increase technical assistance.
The total cost of the amended project is estimated at $11.3 million and the
Bank loan has been decreased by $0.3 million to $8.6 million, representing
the full foreign exchange cost of the amended project. Implementation of
the project is proceeding satisfactorily; construction of extensions to one
teachers' college has commenced and the four other extensions are under
design. Equipment procurement for the teachers' colleges and the ITM centers
is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. 1188: Second Highways Project; US$28 million loan of January 26, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: June 16, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
Civil works of Lot 10 of the Tunis-Bizerte highway are complete and
in progress on Lot 9 on the same route. Works are behind schedule although
quality is generally satisfactory. Construction is in progress on Lot 6 in
N,abeul. Construction works of Lots 5, 7 and 11 have not started yet due to
lack of local financing and problems with expropriation. The Sfax bypass has
been deleted. The local financing issue has been discussed with the Ministries
of Public Works and Planning and the remaining items will be undertaken in
1980. The final report of the transport coordination study is behind schedule,
since the Government is still discussing some of the draft recommendations
with the consultants. The closing date will be extended shortly.
Ln. 1189: Sixth Development Finance Company Project; US$20 million loan of
January 26, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 7, 1976; Closin
Date: June 30, 1980.
Disbursements are about 6 months ahead of the schedule projected in
the appraisal report. BDET has shown consistent improvements over the past
three years in the key areas of management effectiveness, arrears recovery,
financial practices and resource mobilization. The institution plays an
increasingly important role in financing industrial development, extending
about one-third of all term credit available to the industrial sector in
Tunisia.
Ln 1340: Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$12 million loan of
November 23, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980.
About 33 percent of the loan amount is disbursed and about 55 per-
cent is committed. Subloans for small farmers are being made at an accelerated
pace. Under this small farmer category, lending to production cooperatives
which meet the revenue criteria applied to small farmers will be taken up very



32 -                        ANtEX 1--T
Page 6 of 7
soon.  Prospects are good for the commitment of funds for service cooperatives
whose members are small and medium size farmers. Commitments of funds to
commercial farmers and agro-industries are progressing satisfactorily but
subloan applications of farmer associations for the establishment of date palm
plantations have not yet been processed.
Ln. 1355: Second Power Project; US$14.5 million loan of January 12, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: May 4, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The Project has been completed and the seven gas-turbines are in
industrial operation. The consultants for the energy pricing study have been
selected. It is expected that the study will be ready by the end of 1980.
Ln. 1431: Sidi Salem Multi-purpose Project; US$42 million loan of July 5, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: July 31, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
For the project as a whole, progress in implementation continues to
be satisfactory. Implementation of the diversion scheme of the Medjerda river
during construction of the Sidi Salem dam was completed on schedule, as was
the cofferdam. Progress in implementation of the railroad substructure is
slightly behind schedule. The land reform and consolidation program is
underway.
Ln. 1504/1505: Industrial Finance Project consisting of Seventh Loan to
Banque de Developpement Economnique de Tunisie (BDET) and a Pilot
project for assistance to SSI; Loans of $30.0 million to BDET and
of $5.0 million to the Government, of January 25, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The start up of the project suffered from difficulties in finalizing
legal arrangements concerning the SSI Pilot Project component, which delayed
effectiveness by about six months. Nevertheless, commitments under the loan
to BDET have built up rapidly after effectiveness and disbursements are
in line with appraisal estimates. Under the project, BDET is giving priority
in its financing to projects which are located in the least developed regions,
sponsored by new entrepreneurs, characterized by high labor intensity or
export-orientation. Although with some delay, commitments have also begun
under the SSI pilot project showing that the commercial banks' initial reluc-
tance to utilize Bank funds for SSI financing is being overcome. Considerable
progress has been made by the Tunisian authorities toward setting up a network
of Tunisian and foreign technical assistance experts, specifically catering to
the needs of SSI, as agreed under the project.
Ln. 1601: Rural Roads Projects; US$32.0 million loan of July 24, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
The loan's effectiveness was delayed because of delayed finalizing
of the subsidiary loan agreement between Government and BNT. This has,
however, not held up project implementation. Preparation of project works in



-33-                          ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
the first three of the provinces to be covered under the project is pro-
gressing satisfactorily, and tenders have been called for road works in a
fourth province (Nabeul).
Ln. 1675: Second Urban Sewerage Project; US$26.5 million loan of April 13,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: August 31, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Consultants have been contracted and detailed design is progressing
as planned.
Ln. 1702: Fifth Water Supply Project; US$25.0 million loan of May 31, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: October 19, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
The physical execution of the project is progressing well and
according to schedule. SONEDE has already prepared 9 sub-projects for a
total investment cost of US$5.3 million.
Ln. 1705: Second Urban Development Project; US$19.0 million loan of May 31,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: Not yet effective; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Staffing requirements and preparation of tender documents is pro-
gressing satisfactorily. Effectiveness is pending receipt of land acquisi-
tion rights in three areas.
Ln. 1746: Second Fisheries Project; US$28.5 million loan of July 20, 1979;
Date of Effective'ness: Not yet effective; Closing Date: June 30,
1985.
Loan effectiveness is pending signature of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and BNT. Preparation of tender documents
for port infrastructure and boat engines has begun.



- 34 -                              ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
SOUTHERN IRRIGATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare
the project:                                   May 1974-May 1979
(b)  Agencies which prepared the project:           National Agriculture Studies
Center (CNEA) and the Rural
Development Department (Genie
Rural - GR), Ministry of
Agriculture
(c)  Project first identified by Bank:              October 1977
(d)  Date of Bank appraisal mission:                May 1979
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:            December 13, 1979
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                 April 30, 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        A special condition of effectiveness would be the establishment of
the Office de Mise en Valeur du Djerid (OMVD) and Office de Mise en Valeur de
Gabes (OMVG) and the issuance of their organizational decree (para. 46).
2.         Other conditions are:
(i) the Government would channel budgetary funds and the Bank Loan funds
to Genie Rural (GR), Direction des Ressources en Eaux et en Sols
(DRES), OMVD and OMVG as indicated in para. 43;
(ii) the Government would enter into arrangements with the two OMVs
by December 31, 1980 (para. 46);
(iii) GR and OMVs would procure all civil works and equipment in accord-
ance with the stipulations of para. 48;



- 35 -                             ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(iv) the Government will continue to monitor closely the evolution of
the aquifers and periodically prepare and submit to the Bank
mathematical simulations of the aquifer development in the project
area and take any remedial action required to limit salinity and to
ensure availability of potable water to the population (para. 55);
(v) Consultants to assist in the preparation of bid evaluations, tender
documents and project supervision and aquifer studies, with qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment satis-
factory to the Bank, would be hired through GR and DRES (para. 45);
(vi) GR, DRES and the OMVs would execute and manage the project as
described in paras. 44-46;
(vii) the Government would carry out a study for the establishment of a
cost recovery system for irrigation in the project area and there-
after implement the system (para. 50);
(viii)  audited project accounts and financial statements of each OMV
would be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of each
fiscal year (para. 47); and
(ix)  alfalfa hay produced in the date palm/forage perimeters would take
into account the prevailing market prices and would be periodically
reviewed (para. 54).






IBRD 14434
'< i                       "     -      .   ''; C,  .'"  'b. I  JULY U79
st -i   i    -- TUNA'StA                        -.            
TUNISIA                                                         MEQITE RANEAN  SEA
r        Of~~it  O   IMM   I
f   ~~   X    ~~_jAbiodv7/0    \2 V  >                                  /    MC~~~~~AP SON 
BHommc          S        Tobourb                    g         K l
A- A.        rAin Dronm   Bijo    , b MTydiiez                              g
DN 
N~   ~~~~~~~~                                    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i  t $ /Efidavill
Main Ro adAs 
Ela--   Rw
~~    International Airports ~ ~    E(Di
el,                                                                                 " $(##=fPort
{,J   b ZF*riInterational  oundarie
) }t                                    :"ndL                         /   ' f
o my
i \  ,-~~~~~~     D                       .,,   -'-.'. .~~~ILAN O
1//////   Project Area                                                    ,
C > - > ,,> -- . 6 > ~~~~Freshwater Lakes  X
k;9f  TUN§SIX  >  ~~~~ -     ~ -Vr    Chotts (Soltwater Lakes)                    Sftoiewf
>- {         \                     -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers/
4   A  F R I C A    Xe          _    ~~~Main Roads/                                                            r
<                +~~~~7       S | @ | ~~~~~ Railways/
tb4:,,             )            6    ~~~~~~~~~~International Airporht\
M>Y,-F>-~~~~ ,  v t   4     @ ~~Portsi
<  <           2  ~~~~~~~~-*~~~~   International Boundories 
. i.- i,   et                         w                      \    ,,~~~9-  -                ! ,.






IPRD 14435
-~~~                                  --'---~~~~~~~~< ~TUNISIA
_                                                                     0 SOUHERRN IRIGATION PROJECT
RO EOT AREA
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ =                                                                                              -'                                                                                         Plnaio  ;n So o  <f>~  9reot.
--- -----------,-                                                                                                                                                                 S 
___                                                                   .                                        Bood8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oud,e
---- ---  ---- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~                                                      Ovrort  ~vdre
REHABILITATION                             NEW  PLANTATIONS
140    OASIS  SUP9ACE Iol                   N0       OAS0   5   UR-ACE
2'                   ~~~~~~~~I R  EL HAMMA  340                   IF  EL TIAMMA        2 78
9A85A  O R  70ZEUR         950                      27  0DAA 5UD G        "'
TOTAL CAFLA    1290              GARSA          AA  OR I00 
A    L   G     E   R   I  A            \\                         'R  TESO'LBOU       4?2                         TOTAL GARSA      128'
"'4.            O~~~~R RAS ELAIN   2 51                          ATTILET
990    R  E*0MA         144                          01949MMA~
7R  DOUZ           201                      6P  EL GHOULA         72
TOTAL OAB'S    1740              GABES   7   ORAA SAKKOUJMA  6L
71 RETII  8ATU   30 24  4,  4~44444
OL GAES      512                               K                                                                                 ,OME49P                                           >
0      7       20       30      90      57                      4  ,( 9



