7-100
Document of
The World Bank                       F I LE C  P Y
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 268 1-TUN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SOUTHERN IRRIGATION PROJECT
TUNISIA
December 19, 1979
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS                         WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
US$1.00 = D 0.408                               Metric System
D 1.00 = US$2.45
ABBREVIATIONS
AIC       -  Oasis Farmer Association
(Association de l'Interet Collectif)
BNT       -  National Bank of Tunisia
(Banque Nationale de Tunisie)
CI        -  Continental Intercalary Aquifer
CLCM      -  Mutual Credit Bank
(Caisse Locale de Credit Mutuel)
CNEA      -  National Agriculture Studies Center
(Centre National des Etudes Agricoles)
CRDA      -  Regional Agricultural Development Agency
(Centre Regional de Developpement Agricole)
CT        -  Complex Terminal Aquifer
DRES      -  Water and Soil Resources Agency
(Direction des Ressources en Eaux et en Sols)
FOSDA     -  Agriculture Development Fund
(Fonds Special de Developpement Agricole)
GID       -  Agency for Date Production and Distribution
(Groupement Interprofessionnel des Dattes)
GR        -  Rural Development Department of the Ministry of Agriculture
(Genie Rural)
OC        -  Cereal Distribution and Marketing Agency
(Office des Cereales)
OEP       -  National Livestock and Range Agency
(Office de l'Elevage et des Paturages)
OMV       -  Agricultural Development Agency
(Office de Mise en Valeur)
OMVD      -  Agricultural Development Agency for the Djerid Area
(Office de Mise en Valeur du Djerid)
OMVG      -  Agricultural Development Agency for the Gabes Governorate
(Office de Mise en Valeur du Gabes)
OMVVM     -  Medjerda Valley Development Agency
(Office de Mise en Valeur de la Vallee de la Medjerda)
REPI      -  Corporation for Public Irrigation Areas
(Regie d'Exploitation des Perimetres Irrigues)
RSH       -  Agency for Hydraulic Drillings
(Regie des Sondages Hydrauliques)
STEG      -  Tunisian Electricity Company
(Socifte Tunisienne de l'Electricitg et du Gaz)
STIL      -  Tunisian Company for Milk Industry
(Societe Tunisienne de l'Industrie Laitiere)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
SOUTHERN IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR .......*......................                         1
A.    Role of Agriculture in the Tunisian Economy   .....                     I
B.    Land Use  ......................................                        2
C.    Government's Objectives in Agriculture               ..........         3
D.   Sector Issues  ...................................                      4
E.    Previous Projects and Bank Role ....              .............         7
II.    THE PROJECT AREA,  ITS DEVELOPMENT POTENTIAL AND
CONSTRAINTS         . .........................................              8
A.    Location, Population and Climate  ....             ............         8
B.    Water and Soil Resources  .....           ...................           9
C.    Land Use and Land Tenure  ........................                    12
D.    Agricultural Support Services  ...................                    14
E.    Agricultural Production, Marketing and
Processing ......................................                     15
F.    Development Objectives                ..........................      16
III.    THE PROJECT ......*...................................                       17
A.    Origin and Objectives  .............       ..     ............        17
B.    Description of the Project ...........         .. .........            17
C.    Status of Engineering .............        ..     ............        20
D.   Cost Estimates  .................        ..    ...............         20
E.   Financing . ...................... ................                    21
F.    Implementation .................       ..     ...............         22
G.  Procurement ...................                                         23
H.   Disbursements  ...................                                     24
I.    Environmental Effects  .............       ..     ............        25
IV.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ....................          ...........             26
A.    Project Execution and Management  ....             ............       26
B.    Cost Recovery ..........  ........................ .                  28
C.    Accounts and Audits  .............................                    29
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in May 1979 con-
sisting of Mr. J. Cerych and Miss M. Varkie (Bank) and Messrs. I. Bergeron,
J. Marinet and M. Saint-Pe (Consultants).
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                          Page No.
V.   PROJECT PRODUCTION AND MARKETING ....      .................   29
A.   Production and Yields ...........................         29
B.   Prices   ..........................................       32
VI.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND BENEFICIARIES ......... ..........        34
A.   Project Benefits ................................         34
B.   Financial Analysis ..............................         35
C.   Economic Analysis ...............................         36
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...............         38
ANNEXES
1.  Table 1 - Project Costs and Schedule of Expenditures
Table 2 - Schedule of Disbursements
Chart 1 - OMV Organization Chart
Chart 2 - Implementation Schedule
2.  Table 1 - Incremental Production Generated under the Project
Table 2 - Basic Infrastructure
3.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAPPS
IBRD 14434
IBRD 14435



TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
SOUTHERN IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Role of Agriculture in the Tunisian Economy
1.01       Tunisia's population is estimated at 6.0 million (1978), and the
average rate of population growth during 1966-1975 was 2.3% p.a. Agriculture
contributed to about 15% of the GDP in 1978 and accounted for about 35% of
total employment. Although the sector has shown significant growth, its
relative share in the Tunisian economy has continued to decline, mainly
because of the expansion of other sectors, especially industry.
1.02       During 1970-1978 value added in agriculture grew at a compound rate
of 6.8% p.a. in real terms. This expansion was helped by the favorable
weather conditions between 1972 and 1976 as well as by:
(a) improvements in methods of cultivation attributable
to a major effort on the part of the extension ser-
vices;
(b) increased use of agricultural inputs and of mechan-
ization;
(c) enhanced forage resources;
(d) irrigation of additional areas; and
(e) development of credit facilities.
Agricultural production in Tunisia remains very much dependent on weather
conditions. The cereals subsector continues to be most vulnerable, because of
its sensitivity to drought. Poor weather conditions in 1977 and 1978 resulted
in a significant drop in cereal production, and a sharp increase in food
imports. During the Fourth Development Plan (1973-1976) agricultural exports
were nearly equal to food imports (on average D 74 million annually exported
compared to D 76 million imported). In 1978, D 74.0 million of agricultural
products were exported while imports reached D 106.6 million. The decline in
real terms of exports was due largely to poor weather despite sizable invest-
ments in irrigation, machinery and equipment, and increased use of inputs.
Tunisia's agriculture exports are olive oil (D 936.5 million in 1978), fresh
fruit and vegetables (D 10.4 million), processed agricultural products (D 9.0
million), fish and shellfish (D 7.2 million) and wine (D 5.8 million).
Tunisia is currently deficient in three vital commodity groups: cereals,
sugar and dairy products.



-2-
B. Land Use
1.03       In Northern Tunisia, where average rainfall exceeds 350 mm, rainfed
crops (mainly wheat and barley) are grown. In Central and Southern Tunisia,
with an average rainfall of 100-350 mm, agriculture is characterized by
rainfed tree crops (predominantly olives and almonds), marginal cereal produc-
tion, and sheep grazing. In the oases, dates and some fruits and vegetables
are cultivated.
1.04      Of a total area of 16.4 million ha, land suitable for agriculture
amounts to 9 million ha, of which 4.5 million ha are registered as cultivable,
1.1 million ha are covered by forests and esparto grass, and 3.4 million ha
are grazing and other lands. At present, about 150,000 ha or 3.3% of the
cultivable land is under irrigation. The production of the irrigated areas
represent in value more than 20% of the total agricultural production of
the country. The main products are vegetables (86,000 ha), forage (23,000
ha), tree crops (6,000 ha) and sugar beet (4,000 ha). The maximum potential
for irrigation is estimated at 250,000 ha or 5.5% of the cultivable land.
1.05      More than one-half of the agricultural land (some 5.4 million ha) is
privately owned land characterized by:
(a)  a large number of small farms (41% of all farms have less
than 5 ha);
(b)  a concentration of ownership (68% of the land is taken
up by farms exceeding 20 ha in size that belong to 16%
of the farmers);
(c)  a marked fragmentation (only 32% of the landholdings of
20 ha and less are in single parcels, 20% are composed
of 6 or more separate plots); and
(d)  a lack of title for a large number of the privately
owned lands.
Collective land amounts to 2.1 million ha. The remaining land amounting to
about 1.5 million ha is State-owned of which about 0.8 million ha are forests.
This breakdown is being changed since all collective land suitable for growing
cereals or tree crops (about 1.1 million ha) is being distributed to eligible
people selected by community management councils. Collective grazing lands
will continue to be used in common, but their demarcation, improvement and
conservation has been entrusted to the Forestry Department. State-owned land
is being used for State farms and pilot farms (0.2 million ha), agricultural
cooperatives (0.2 million ha) and a land reserve of 0.3 million ha set aside
for agrarian reform operations.



-3-
C. Government's Objectives in Agriculture
1.06      Tunisian agricultural policy is geared towards increasing rural
incomes and living standards through:
(a) increasing agricultural productivity by facilitating the
access of farmers to improved production methods and
agricultural credit;
(b) strengthening agricultural institutions; and
(c) mobilizing natural resources through the creation of the
necessary infrastructure and the intensification of efforts
to control erosion, desertification and degradation of soils
and forests.
1.07      The objective of the Fifth Plan (1977-1981) is to achieve self-
sufficiency in food by 1981, defined as a balanced trade account for food
expressed in specific terms as:
(a) an exportable surplus of hard wheat at least sufficient
to compensate for imports of soft wheat;
(b) self-sufficiency in meat; and
(c) imports of vegetable oils, milk and sugar, livestock
products and fertilizers to be offset by exports of
olive oil, wine, citrus and other fruits, fresh or
processed vegetables and fisheries products.
1.08      Quantitative targets have been set as follows:
(a) an average annual increase of 6.5% in agricultural
production at constant prices;
(b) investments amounting to D 500 million, which would
imply that the average annual real investment in
agriculture would be 45% greater than during the
Fourth Plan; and
(c) the creation of 30,000 additional permanent jobs in
agriculture and of 6,000 jobs in fisheries.
A major increase in the share of water development in total agricultural
investment is foreseen, from 23% in the Fourth Plan to 44% in the Fifth Plan.
Significant investment increases in livestock and fisheries are also planned.
1.09      The results obtained during the first two years of the current Plan
show that the investment timetables were fairly closely followed with some
minor delays affecting investments in tree crops, fisheries and irrigation.



- 4 -
However, it is unlikely that the production targets will be met, especially in
cereals. The results so far have been disappointing mainly due to bad weather
conditions in 1977 and 1978, but also because a large number of medium and
small farmers have been slow in improving their cultivation methods (use of
selected seeds and adequate inputs) and yields remain low. It is not likely
that an exportable surplus of hard wheat will be obtained by 1981 and imports
of soft wheat are likely to be higher than projected. Sugar production will
also fail to achieve the target due to delays in construction of the sugar
plant in Bou-Seb, which was projected to produce 140,000 tons of sugar by
1981. The production targets for other commodities will probably be met.
D. Sector Issues
1.10             The share of agricultural investment in total investment under
the Fifth Plan is about the same as in the preceding Plan (11.9% as compared
with 12.5%).  As has been noted in para. 1.08 the average annual investment
effort in real terms in the Fifth Plan is to be 45% greater than during the
Fourth Plan. However, much of these investments are in large infrastructure
which will not pay off during the current Plan and will therefore not contri-
bute to its primary objective which is self-sufficiency in food by 1981.
About 72% of the total investment in irrigation is for new projects which will
not enter into production until after 1981. The Government is aware that
there is an urgent need for increased utilization of past investments.
1.11       Land reform.  Efforts by the Tunisian Government to restructure
landholding have been primarily concentrated in two main areas:
(a) the distribution of collective land and of state-owned
land to the private sector; and
(b) the reorganization of land tenure in association with
the establishment of irrigation perimeters.
Establishment of public irrigation perimeters has always been associated with
the following measures:
(a) by setting a minimum and a maximum size of farm;
(b) contribution by owners to development costs;
(c) land consolidation; and
(d) requirements that at least two-thirds of the holding
is irrigated.
The land reform program has generally been well implemented except in the
Medjerda Valley. The Government has followed up on its policy of delimiting



- 5 -
farm sizes, but in some irrigation areas the minimum and maximum sizes selected
have been either too small or too large, giving rise to technical difficulties
in the operation of farms and to under-utilization of land and water. The
consolidation of land has been completed or is well advanced in all developed
irrigation areas. The owner's contribution to investment costs has been
difficult to enforce and owners have been reluctant to develop the land at
their own expenses.
1.12      To address these problems, the Government recently created a special
agency to handle agrarian reform operations in the public irrigation perimeters
(Agence de la Reforme Agraire dans les Perimetres Publics Irrigues). This
agency has already contributed to more efficient operations in the newly estab-
lished areas.
1.13      The private rainfed farms have so far been subject to few land
reorganization and consolidation measures. The excessive number of small
farms and the fragmentation of holdings are detrimental to production and the
Government should be urged to take the necessary remedial steps as early as
possible, especially in areas where rainfed farming has good development
potential.
1.14      Price policies.  Prices of agricultural products in Tunisia reflect
the Government's concern with the stability of the urban cost of living.
Agricultural prices are controlled in a number of ways. For the major com-
modities of cereals, olive oil and wine there are fixed product prices and
state monopoly agencies are responsible for the purchasing, importing and
exporting of these commodities and for their domestic distribution at fixed
prices. For some other commodities, prices are regulated by import policy and
the operation of state trading companies in conjunction with subsidies from
the Price Equalization Fund (e.g. meat). A re-assessment of the Government's
price policy concerning farm outputs and inputs seems called for, to determine
changes which would be needed to bring farmers' profits in line with output
targets set by the Fifth Plan.
1.15      Most agricultural inputs are subsidized either by supporting prices
at a low artificial level or by granting farmers a purchase subsidy asso-
ciated with credit. Irrigation water is also subsidized, its selling price
varies between 4 and 10 millimes/m3 and is well below the operating and
maintenance costs of the irrigation system. Increases in the price of irriga-
tion water have, however, been made recently and studies are underway with a
view to designing a system of charges that would cover the full operating and
maintenance costs.
1.16      Agricultural credit.  Agricultural credit in Tunisia is available
through the Ministry of Agriculture's Special Fund for Agricultural Develop-
ment (FOSDA), the commercial banks, especially BNT, and the Mutual Credit
Banks (CLCM). Short-term credit is granted to larger farmers by BNT and to a
small extent by other commercial banks. Credit to small farmers is provided
by the CLCMs and by several Government agencies under specific programs
(usually credit in kind, as part of an input package for a given crop or a
given region). Although the amount of credit to farmers (short- and long-
term) has increased from D 14.9 million in 1975 to D 26.0 million in 1978, the



-6-
number of farmers having access to credit is still rather limited: about
25,000 short-term loans and 12,000 medium/long-term loans were granted
by BNT in 1978. This means that only about 11% of the 326,000 Tunisian
farmers benefitted from agricultural credit in general, and only 4% received
any investment credit. Small farmer's access probably has been even more
limited mainly because of security requirements (many hold no title to their
land) and the credit institutions, especially BNT are reluctant to engage in a
program where both costs and risks are high. The Bank is addressing this
issue through the Agricultural Credit Project II (Loan 1340-TUN) bv earmarking
a part of the loan for subloans to small farmers, by inducing BNT to develop
and apply a better sub-project evaluation system and by having BNT assume a
greater part of the risk. The Bank will continue its effort in the same
direction under the Third Agricultural Credit Project to be appraised in
FY80.
1.17      Agricultural training and education.  The agricultural training and
schooling efforts which started under the Fourth Plan and were continued under
the Fifth Plan resulted in a substantial increase in the number of university
graduates and technicians, so that presently the number of university graduates
is already catching up with the available job opportunities and there is an
excess of technicians and skilled workers. To solve this issue the Government
should address itself to possibilities of expanding opportunities and of
improving the planning of enrollment in specialized schools.
1.18      Agricultural extension activities.  The multiplicity of agencies
providing extension services of various kinds tends to reduce their effective-
ness despite the heavy investment of human and financial resources made in
this field (300 agricultural engineers, 1,150 extension agents and 1,000
vehicles under the Fourth Plan).  The planned reorganization under the Fifth
Plan has the following objectives:
(a)  each farmer is to be advised by one extension agent and
not by several agents from various specialized agencies;
(b)  a decentralized network of extension services based on
extension units in each Governorate subdivision (dele-
gation) is to be created; and
(c) extension services in irrigation perimeters managed by
Agricultural Development Agencies (Offices de Mise en
Valeur - OMVs) are to be handled exclusively by these
agencies.
Due to financial and organizational constraints there have been delays in
implementing these plans. The Government should be urged to allocate the
funds necessary to proceed with the planned reorganization as soon as possible.



7-
E. Previous Projects and Bank Role
1.19       The Bank's agricultural sector strategy in Tunisia is to emphasize
rural development, create new irrigation infrastructures, and rehabilitate
existing ones, provide credit to farmers and develop fisheries. Bank group
lending for agriculture in Tunisia began in 1967 and to date seven projects
have been financed or approved for a total of US$114.7 million of Bank/IDA
funds. They include two irrigation projects: Irrigation Rehabilitation in
the Lower Medjerda Valley and Nebhana (FY75) and the Sidi Salem Multipurpose
Project (FY79). There have also been two Fisheries Projects (FY72 and FY79),
two Agricultural Credit Projects (FY71, completed and reviewed by OED in 1979,
and FY77) and a Cooperative Farm Project (FY68, completed and reviewed by OED
in January 1976). The OED recommendations made for the date palm plantation
component of the First Agricultural Credit Project have been taken into account
in the proposed project. The agricultural sector has also been addressed by
the Rural Roads Project (FY78) which aims at improving 60 rural roads totalling
about 1,000 km. This loan also finances agricultural facilities, equipment
and vehicles for agricultural extension units. The irrigation projects are
performing satisfactorily. The Irrigation Rehabilitation Project aims at
rehabilitating and improving the use of existing water resources as set out in
the primary stages of the Water Master Plan. The Project covers the Lower
Medjerda Valley and Nebhana. The Lower Medjerda Valley component includes
about 20,000 ha of which 75% are already equipped with irrigation and drainage
facilities; the remainder lacks secondary and tertiary distribution networks.
The Nebhana component includes the rehabilitation of existing irrigation,
drainage and road networks over about 5,000 ha. Physical implementation is
satisfactory. The Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project represents the first phase
of execution of the Northern Tunisia Water Master Plan. The Project includes
the irrigation of 10,600 ha in the Testour/Medjez el Bab and Cap Bon areas,
and aims at preventing the decline of 6,000 ha of citrus in Cap Bon, improving
agricultural production on 32,800 ha in the Lower Medjerda Valley, reducing
periodic flood damage, generating electricity and supplying about 100 million
m3/year of potable and industrial water to the Tunis area. Implementation is
generally satisfactory, but there are some delays in the construction of the
dam and railroad substructures. The First Fisheries Project will be completed
by the end of 1979. Progress was slower than expected and the lending channel,
BNT, has been experiencing difficulties with loan recovery. The Second
Fisheries Project was approved by the Board in June 1979, and is expected to
become effective by the end of 1979. Implementation of the Second Agricultural
Credit Project, which aims at supporting a lending program for development of
small and commercial farms, for agroindustries and for smallholder date palm
plantation development, is satisfactory. The Project is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1980.
1.20       The Bank's lending program for Tunisia is consistent with Tunisia's
Development Plan objectives. It stresses the need to continue the dialogue
with Government on the approach to rural development projects for Bank
financing which are oriented towards the target group. The program envisages
a Second and Third Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, which would contribute
to implementation of water development policy proposals to be prepared under



- 8 -
the on-going Sidi-Salem Multipurpose Project; a Third and Fourth Agricultural
Credit Project, which would provide the basis for continued Bank's assistance
in extending credit to small farmers and in improving credit policies and
institutions; and two Regional Agricultural Development Projects, which would
concentrate on programs for economically backward areas.
II. THE PROJECT AREA, ITS DEVELOPMENT
POTENTIAL AND CONSTRAINTS
A. Location, Population and Climate
2.01      The Project would be located in the semi-desertic southern and
southeastern part of the country (map IBRD 14435), in three areas, namely the
Djerid and Nefzaoua areas respectively north and southeast of Chott El Djerid,
some 400 km south of Tunis, and the area around the town of Gabes on the
southeastern Tunisian coast. The Djerid area is part of the Gafsa governor-
ate, the Nefzaoua and Gabes areas belong to the Gabes governorate.
2.02      The principal towns in the Djerid are Tozeur, Nefta and Degache.
The population of the Djerid amounts to 48,700 inhabitants (1975 census) of
which about 70% live in the three cities. The Nefzaoua has a total population
of about 69,700 inhabitants living in some 80 small villages and townships of
which the most important are Kebili and Douz with a total population of about
19,000 inhabitants. The dispersion of the Nefzaoua population as compared to
the Djerid is due to the scattering of a great number of small oases. Private
oases cover about 4,000 ha and 4,800 ha in the Djerid and Nefzaoua respectively.
The population of the coastal Gabes Project area is about 90,500 of which 65%
live in the town of Gabes. Some 40% of the total population (in all three
areas) is under the age of 15 years and the population growth rate is between
2.3% and 3% p.a.
2.03      The active population is estimated to be about 27,000 in the Djerid,
35,000 in the Nefzaoua and 45,000 in the Gabes coastal area. The main occu-
pation of the population in the Djerid and Nefzaoua areas is agriculture fol-
lowed by services and tourism. No official statistics exist on unemployment
or underemployment but estimates by CNEA assume underemployment to be between
25% and 35%. Due to the rapid development of industry and tourism, unemploy-
ment is not so high in and around Gabes.
2.04      The Project area is fairly well connected by hard surface roads
to the rest of the country. A railroad also operates from Tozeur and Gabes,
and a commercial airport has been recently opened near Tozeur. The Rural
Roads Project (1601-TUN) finances inter alia in the Nefzaoua area improvements
of about 100 km of rural roads which will substantially improve the communica-
tion network in the remote southwestern part of the Project area.



- 9 -
2.05       The climate in the Nefzaoua and Djerid areas is characterized by low
and irregular rainfall of about 100 mm/year, of which about 35% falls during
autumn.  In the Gabes area, the rainfall is about 200 mm/year.  The tempera-
ture in the interior reaches the extremes of +55 0C in July and August and -7 C
in the winter. The average temperature varies between +10 C in January and
+32 C in July.  The temperature along the coast averages +11 C in January and
+27.4 C in July. Winds are frequent both in the interior and in the coastal
areas.
B. Water and Soil Resources
Water
2.06       Originally, irrigation water was provided exclusively by springs
with substantial flow rates (1,930 l/s in the Djerid and 660 1/s in Nefzaoua
in 1920). With the introduction of deep well-drilling techniques, numerous
wells were sunk close to springs in order to increase the volume of water
available for traditional date palm, fruit and vegetable cultivations; subse-
quently such wells were also sunk outside the traditional perimeters for the
development of modern date palm plantations. A natural consequence of the
increased exploitation of the water resources was a decrease in the flow or
drying out of natural springs and a decrease or disappearance of the artesian
flow of the deep wells.
2.07       Groundwater resources of Southern Tunisia are in two major aquifers:
The Complex Terminal (CT) called Djeffara in the coastal area of Gabes, and
the Continental Intercalaire (CI). The CT aquifer is located between the
deeper CI aquifer and a secondary saline water table near the surface. The
depth of the CT aquifer, which is the most widely used, varies between about
80 m in Nefzaoua to over 500 m a few km north of Chott Djerid.  In the Djerid
area, the salt content is about 1.5-2 g/l in Tozeur and about 3.2 g/l in
Nefta. In the Nefzaoua area, salinity is lowest around Douz with only 1-1.5
g/l; further north and to the west it increases and reaches 3.6-5 g/l at
Fatamana on the furthest point of the Kebili Peninsula. The average salinity
is currently about 2 to 3.5 g/l in the Nefzaoua area. In the Gabes area the
salinity is about 3 g/l.l/ The CT aquifer is recharged in the mountains of
Northern Algeria; the total recharge quantity is not well known but it is
estimated to be at least equal to the original (prior to 1920) natural flow
of the springs in the area (para. 2.06). The CI aquifer which is some 1,000-
1,700 m deep is not well known; its salinity varies between 2.5 g/l and 4.5
g/l and the water reserves are believed to be important. So far only three
deep wells at Chott Fedjedj, originally sunk for petroleum exploration pur-
poses, use the CI water resource.
1/   The salt tolerance of the date palm and alfalfa is over 7 g/l and vege-
tables generally cultivated in the oases can tolerate up to 4 g/l without
a substantial decrease in production. Water is not suitable for human
consumption if the salt content reaches 3 g/l.



- 10 -
2.08      The potential of the water resources in the Algerian and Tunisian
Northern Sahara region was assessed by a detailed UNESCO survey financed by
UNDP in 1968-1972. Two large scale simulation mathematical models were
prepared to study the CT and CI aquifers, a smaller scale mathematical model
simulated the CT aquifer in the area of Nefzaoua-Djerid, and in addition an
electrical analogic model was prepared to study the coastal Djeffara aquifer.
In 1974, the Government requested the French engineering firm, SOGREAH, to
prepare a Master Plan for Water and Soil Resources Development in Southern
Tunisia based on the UNESCO/UNDP survey and on the results of the simulation
models which defined for different areas the level of exploitation of the
aquifers within acceptable salinity levels.
2.09      The Master Plan estimate of the potential exploitable water resources
in the Project area by the year 2000 is shown in the Table below:
Exploitable Water Resources
in Southern Tunisia
(in 1/sec)
Area/                                    Chott    Gabes      Gabes    Gabes
Water Resources           Djerid  Nefzaoua  Fedjedj  Vicinity  El Hamma  Mareth
Springs                     0        60
CT Aquifer
(artesian)                  0     2,500
CT Aquifer
(pumped wells)           4,800   2,700          -
CI Aquifer
(artesian)               2,000   1,000        1,000       -          -        -
Djeffara Aquifer            -       -           -       1,750       900       750
Total                     6,800   6,260       1,000    1,750        900       750
2.10      Present groundwater use in the Djerid and Nefzaoua areas amounts to
about 3,000 1/sec each and is about 3,400 1/sec in the Gabes area (of which
about 500 1/sec is used for purposes other than agriculture). If exploitation
of the CI aquifer is for the present not taken into account due to its great
depth, the resources that would still be available would be as follows:



- 11 -
asterplan     Present Use       Available
1---------------- 1sec -----------------
Djerid               4,800            3,000            1,800
Nefzaoua             5,260            3,000           2,260
Gabes Area           3,400            3,400
The planned private and Government projects other than the proposed one will
increase water consumption by about 640 I/sec in the Djerid and by about 500
1/sec in Nefzaoua, leaving 1,160 1/sec still available in the Djerid and 1,760
I/sec in Nefzaoua. This allows for potential new date palm development on
1,660 ha and 2,510 ha respectively in each area (0.7 1/sec per ha). No addi-
tional water resource development of the Djeffara aquifer in the Gabes region
is planned and the proposed Project would not increase the present water use.
2.11      The  aster Plan recognizes that any water resources development in
Southern Tunisia would be accompanied by a lowering of the water table, and
will result in an increase in salinity due to seepage of saltier water from
the overlying or underlying aquifers through faults and semi-pervious zones.
The Government Water and Soil Resource Agency (DRES) has built a new math-
ematical simulation model in 1978 to study in greater detail the CT aquifer
in the Nefzaoua area, where risk of salinization was considered higher than
in the Djerid and where an important water resource development was planned
(Kebili Peninsula oasis rehabilitation). The results of the model confirmed
the findings of the UNESCO/UNDP survey and the Nefzaoua water resource devel-
opment potential. The Government is aware that any water resources develop-
ment must be carefully planned to avoid depletion and increased salinization
of the water table. In 1975, the Government promulgated a new set of laws
closely regulating water resource exploitation, water use and water conserva-
tion. These laws are satisfactory and are being enforced. DRES is closely
monitoring the aquifer development, drilling of new deep wells is subject to
governmental approval and periodical new mathematical simulations to determine
the aquifer development trends are planned (para. 3.26). According to article
25 of the water use and conservation laws, potable water supply has first
priority and Government would take appropriate steps to ensure its availability
should, in the future, in some areas, the water quality reach a point where it
would become unsuitable for human consumption. The needs for municipal water
are very low, and its quality could be improved by small desalinization plants,
or conveyance of fresh water from less saline wells to the consumption sites.
Soils
2.12      There are five different types of soils in the Djerid:  (i) coarse
sands with a gypseous crust near the surface unsuitable for agriculture on
the Draa hills; (ii) deep sandy soils suitable for all irrigated crops found
around the Draa hills; (iii) Hazoua soils which are also deep sandy soils
suitable for irrigation but only after anti-erosion measures are taken to
stabilize the sand; (iv) Southeast El Hamma soils which are characterized by
a strong gypseous crust and are unsuitable for agricultural development; and



- 12 -
(v) salty soils in the Chott fringes with a water table less than 1.5 m deep.
The lower part of Tozeur, Nefta and El Hamma have soils of the latter category.
The Masterplan for Water and Soil Resources Development estimated that there
were 6,000 ha of suitable soils in the area.
2.13      The Nefzaoua soils belong to three types:  (i) saline halomorphic
soils near depressions with little potential for agricultural development
because of hydromorphy and salinity under the surface; (ii) alkali halo-
morphic soils, in the depressions, unsuitable for agriculture because of
high salinity and a salty water table at a depth of 50 cm; and (iii) calcomag-
nesiomorphic soils, which are sandy soils with a good porosity and high gypsum
content suitable for date palm plantation development. The Masterplan evalu-
ated the potential for development at 2,000 ha.
2.14      The soils in the coastal Project area are either alluvial with red
and yellow sandy clays; or hydromorphic with a crust at a variable depth. The
deeper the crust, the better the potential for agricultural development.
The Masterplan estimated the potential for development in the area at 1,300
ha.
2.15       In general, soil availability in the Project area is a lesser
constraint to agricultural development than water supply.
C. Land Use and Land Tenure
2.16      Traditional oases in Djerid and Nefzaoua cover about 7,000 ha and
their main characteristics are:
(a) high fragmentation of ownership with average holdings
of about 0.5 ha;
(b) "three level agriculture" with date palms, fruit trees
and vegetables/forage;
(c) high density of 200-300 trees per ha;
(d) small proportion of Deglat Nour date palms (35%);
(e) poor irrigation and drainage systems with simple
ditches (seguias); and
(f) water deficits varying in intensity from one oasis to
another.
Water distribution follows centuries old traditions and is supervised by
Oasis Farmers Associations (AIC) which also take care of the irrigation and
drainage network maintenance in most of the oases. The yields are low due
to the high density of trees and lack of water. Tenants and small-holders



- 13 -
belong largely to the target group. Emigration towards coastal urban centers
and abroad has traditionally been high due to the little employment opportuni-
ties in the inland oases.
2.17      The ownership is less fragmented in the coastal oases with individual
plots larger (average 1 ha) than in the interior. The climate is less favor-
able to date production and the main crops are vegetables and forage. Lack of
water resources is the main constraint to agricultural development.
2.18      To reverse the trend of oases decline, the Government decided upon a
program of oases rehabilitation, which included the following:
(a) drilling of new wells where needed and possible;
(b) equipment of wells with pumps where the artesian flow
had diminished or disappeared;
(c) increase of water supply by rehabilitation of irriga-
tion networks and replacing the old irrigation ditches
which have water losses over 30% with cemented canals or
pipes;
(d) rehabilitation or creation of drainage canals; and
(e) teaching the farmers modern techniques for quality
date production.
Several oases have already been successfully rehabilitated in recent years;
the most important being the oases of Nefta, Degache and Kebili Peninsula.
2.19      Grazing lands and livestock.  Livestock, nearly exclusively sheep
and goats, are traditionally kept by the farmers and smallholders in the
oases, as well as by the nomads. On the rangelands around the oases, exten-
sive grazing is possible on the state and tribal lands, but the quality and
quantity of fodder is extremely poor and during drought years is practically
non existent. A part of the nutriments needed to sustain the existing flock
in the Djerid and Nefzaoua areas, estimated at 150,000 animals, is supplied
from the oases where some alfalfa and barley are grown. However, due to
chronic undernourishment, the health of the animals is generally poor, the
fecondity is low and the mortality at birth and before weaning is high.
2.20      No statistics exist to establish with precision what the actual
deficit in fodder in the Project area is, but estimates made in 1978 by SETEC
International, a French consulting firm, put it as high as 25-75% of the
estimated needs. Even if the lower limit of 25% is adopted, the additional
quantity of alfalfa hay or equivalent needed to sustain the existing flock
in reasonably good health would be 16,500 t/year. Given the limited natural
resources of the Project area it would not be possible to increase fodder
production to that extent and Governmental policy should not only aim at
increasing fodder production on irrigated land, but should also take measures



- 14 -
to improve the steppe (experimentations to this effect have been conducted in
Southern Tunisia recently by the Ministry of Agriculture in collaboration with
the Utah State University).
2.21       New plantations cover about 3,150 ha of which the Government
controlled Tunisian Company for Milk Industry (STIL) manages about 1,150
ha. The privately owned modern plantations were originally developed by the
Government on state lands and later were distributed to farmers in plots of
two to four ha. In these plantations, the density of palm trees is 125 to 160
trees per ha, the date variety cultivated is mainly the Deglat Nour and the
number of other fruit trees is limited. The production in these plantations
is generally good and in some cases excellent (e.g. Ghardgaya). The source
of water is exclusively from deep wells which are either artesian or pumped.
2.22       STIL became involved in date palm plantation management in the early
sixties, when it took over nationalized mature plantations created by expatri-
ate settlers. Some of these plantations were extended and a few new ones were
created in the late sixties and early seventies. The Bank's First Agricultural
Credit Project (Loan/Credit 770/263 of 1971) included a component for financing
of the foreign exchange costs of a 900 ha of date palm plantations to be
created by STIL in the Djerid and Nefzaoua areas. The plantations are well
managed and yields are expected to be high.
D. Agricultural Support Services
2.23       The Ministry of Agriculture is represented in each Governorate by a
Regional Agricultural Development Agency (CRDA), which supervises the technical
services of the Ministry in the Governorate, these include the services of the
Rural Development Agency (Genie Rural-GR), Water and Soil Resources Agency
(DRES), Forestry Agency, the Corporation for Public Irrigation Areas (REPI),
Agency for Date Production and Distribution (GID), National Livestock and
Range Agency (OEP) and the Cereal Marketing and Distribution Agency (OC).
CRDA is also responsible for the coordination of all agricultural projects in
each Governorate.
2.24       Extension Services.  Extension services to farmers are provided by
CRDA in the continental areas, and by a regional branch of the Medjerda Valley
Development Agency (OMVVM) in the coastal area. One agricultural engineer and
25 extension agents cover at present the whole continental region. Some of
the agents have demonstration plots on which they cultivate vegetables under
plastic tunnels. Extension services geared especially towards date protection
on trees, pesticide use and date harvesting are also provided in the Project
area by six agents of GID. In the coastal area of Gabes, where mainly vege-
tables are cultivated, periodic seminars are conducted by OMVVM on early
vegetable production, pest control and agricultural machinery maintenance.
2.25       Given the high fragmentation of ownership in the oases the present
extension effort is not adequate as one agent has to advise on average some
560 farLriers on 280 ha of oases.  To succeed in its oases rehabilitation



- 15 -
program, largely designed to introduce new methods of date cultivation and
vegetable/forage intercropping, the Government intends to substantially
increase the number of its agents so that one agent would cover about 200
farmers on an oasis area of 100 ha.
2.26      Research.  Little agricultural research is currently being carried
out in the area. Research in drip irrigation was started in 1975 on a very
small scale (3 ha) by GID, but was discontinued because of lack of funds.
Some experimentation was also done in new methods of date harvesting, but no
results have so far been published.
2.27      Agricultural credit.  Medium term credit for agricultural investments
is available to farmers from the Agricultural Development Fund (FOSDA) managed
for the Government by BNT. In the Project area BNT has branches in Tozeur,
Kebili and Gabes. Short term credit is provided under supervision of BNT by
the Mutual Credit Banks (CLCM) with offices in Tozeur and Gabes and in the
coastal oases credit in kind (fertilizers, seeds and pesticides) is provided
by OMVVM. However, only a small proportion of farmers have access to invest-
ment credit (para 1.16).
E. Agricultural Production, Marketing
and Processing
2.28      Production and marketing.  The date palm starts to produce the
fourth or fifth year after planting, but the quantity of dates is small and
the quality mediocre. Significant production starts the seventh or eighth
year with yields increasing gradually until about the fifteenth year.
Although the date palm still produces after hundred years, it is generally
considered that after 60 years, the production declines and the trees should
be replaced. The Deglat Nour variety is the least productive in terms of
quantity, with yearly production of a mature tree in a densely planted tradi-
tional oasis averaging about 20kg/tree. The yields are somewhat higher in the
case of the Allig, the second best variety (30 kg) and about double in the
case of common variety dates. The yields in the modern plantations, where the
density of trees is much lower (100-125 trees/ha), vary between 80-120 kg/tree.
A good but not exceptional yield in a well managed and correctly irrigated
plantation is about lOt/ha of Deglat.
2.29      Smallholders sell their crops either as standing crop to wholesalers
or harvest the dates themselves, sort them according to quality, and then sell
them to wholesalers or exporters. Absentee owners often sell the whole
harvest to their tenants who take charge of harvesting, sorting and rating
before reselling them to wholesalers. The wholesalers resell the dates to
merchants in the bigger cities or to exporters. During the last decade
Tunisian date production varied between 40 and 50 thousand t/year of which the
Deglat variety represented in the last five years about 40%.
2.30      Fruit, vegetable and forage production in the continental oases is
mainly for the farmers' own consumption with surpluses being sold in the



- 16 -
local markets, cash income from these sales is low compared to the income
from dates. In the coastal oases where vegetable is the main cash crop
farmers sell their products most often to their service cooperative which
takes care of the marketing.
2.31      Processing.  The policy of the Government is to increase as much as
possible the production and exports of processed dates. Presently, there are
seven processing stations in Tunisia of which two have been installed recently
by GID in Kebili (Nefzaoua) and Tozeur (Djerid). Data concerning the capaci-
ties of the private plants is not available. The capacities of the GID
facilities are as follows:
Kebili        Tozeur        Total
Dehydration           10 t/day                    900 t/year
Desinsectization          -         45 t/day   4,050 t/year
Conditioning          12 t/day      12 t/day   2,160 t/year
As a large proportion of the Deglat dates is actually processed in Tunis,
these capacities are adequate for the present supply but could not absorb any
major increase in date production resulting from the Project.
F. Development Objectives
2.32      Agriculture and limited tourism are the only activities which can be
developed in order to improve the living conditions of the population in the
desertic continental southern Tunisia. Government's strategy to develop the
area is to: (i) arrest oases decline by rehabilitating their irrigation and
drainage infrastructure (para 2.18); (ii) create new plantations of Deglat
Nour dates; and (iii) create additional forage perimeters for alfalfa produc-
tion. To succeed in the oases rehabilitation, physical investments must be
accompanied by the introduction of new planting and intercropping methods and
better provision of agricultural inputs. However, these essential measures
would have to be followed by land consolidation to allow for better agricul-
tural practices. In the new plantations the strenuous working conditions,
especially date flower pollination and harvesting, tend to discourage the
labor force where other employment opportunities exist. To maintain produc-
tion, Government would have to introduce in the long run some mechanization.
2.33      Forage cultivation in the region, although necessary (para 2.20), is
highly costly and with the expected decline of the water table, will be even
more so in the future. The risk exists that increased forage availability
will not improve the quality of the livestock as the general tendency of the
farmers is to increase the number of animals rather than improve their quality.
It is, therefore, essential that the Government applies measures limiting the
number of livestock, as well as measures to improve the quality of rangeland
in the south (para. 2.20).



- 17 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Origin and Objectives
3.01      The Government has requested financing for a project which repre-
sents a part of the implementation of the aster Plan for Water Resource
Development in Southern Tunisia. The Project was prepared jointly by the
National Agriculture Studies Center (CNEA) and the Rural Development Depart-
ment of the inistry of Agriculture (Genie Rural - GR) assisted by consul-
tants. The consultant services amounted to US$180,000 and were financed
under the Project Preparation Facility. The Project preparation was also
supervised by the IBRD/FAO Cooperative Programme.
3.02      The main Project objectives are to:  (a) increase the present
production and exports of dates; and (b) provide employment opportunities for
farm labor in the new date palm plantations and improve the living standards
of the small holders in the existing oases by developing the potential ground-
water resources and improving agricultural practices and services. These
objectives are in line with Government efforts to reduce its deficit in the
trade balance for food and to improve rural incomes in the poorest regions of
Tunisia. The development of groundwater potential would be accomplished
through rehabilitation of existing oases (upgrading their irrigation and
drainage networks) and drilling of new wells in areas with good production
potential. Better agricultural practices would be introduced by reinforced
extension services, equipment and research.
B. Description of the Project
Main Features
3.03      The Project would consist of the following components:
(a) Rehabilitation of 7 existing oases on 3,040 ha in the Djerid,
Nefzaoua and Gabes areas;
(b) Creation of 9 new date palm plantations and date palm/forage
perimeters on 2,100 ha in Djerid and Nefzaoua;
(c) Creation of a date processing facility;
(d) Provision of vehicles, equipment, facilities and personnel for
agricultural services, and research in drip irrigation for date
palm trees; and
(e) Technical assistance to (i) GR for project implementation, and
(ii) DRES for preparation of mathematical simulation models.



- 18 -
Detailed Features
3.04       Rehabilitation of old oases.  The oases to be rehabilitated under
the Project are Tozeur and El Hamma du Djerid in the Djerid area; Douz, Ras
El Ain and Bazma in the Nefzaoua area and Ghannouche and Teboulbou in the
coastal Gabes area. The extent of the rehabilitation to be undertaken would
vary from oasis to oasis, but would generally consist of ti) improving the
water supply where required by sinking additional deep wells; (ii) equipping
the new and existing wells with pumps where the artesian flow has diminished
or disappeared; (iii) changing the irrigation network from the present irri-
gation ditches into cement pipes so as to limit water losses; and (iv) im-
proving or creating drainage canals. Details by oasis are shown in Annex 2,
Table 2. The physical rehabilitation of the irrigation and drainage systems
would be accompanied by extension action aimed at improving the agricultural
practices of the farmers (para 5.04).
3.05      New date palms plantations.  Nine new plantations would be created
out of which four would be in the Djerid (1,287 ha) on Government-owned land
and five in Nefzaoua (812 ha) on tribal land. Investments would include: (i)
deep well boring; (ii) well equipment; (iii) establishment of wind breakers;
(iv) land levelling; (v) building of irrigation and drainage infrastructures;
(vi) construction of 31 km of access roads; (vii) construction of tracks in
the plantation perimeters; and (viii) agricultural machinery and equipment.
A total of 27 deep wells would be sunk and all but two wells 1/ would be
equipped with electric pumps which would be connected to existing power lines.
Windbreaks would consist of "Tabias" -- asbestos-cement boards or dry palm
leaf fences backed by two rows of tamarisks and three rows of acacias or
eucalyptus. The plantations would be similar to the successful STIL planta-
tions, and trees would be planted at intervals of 9 m. The principal irriga-
tion networks would be buried asbestos-cement pipes of diameters varying
between 150 and 500 mm.
3.06      In some of the new oases to be created, forage (mainly alfalfa) would
be planted where soil and water quality is most suitable. The forage area is
expected to cover about 580 ha out of the total 2,100 ha as the expected
alfalfa production on this acreage would be adequate to cover the most urgent
needs of the existing livestock in the area and would allow for establishment
of an emergency stock to ensure survival of the flock during dry years.
3.07      El Ghoula and Draa Sakkouma, two of the new plantations in the
Nefzaoua area are on private land. 2/ The owners sunk deep wells, established
traditional irrigation and drainage infrastructures and planted date palms
three years ago. The artesian flow of the wells is, however, insufficient
and the irrigation and drainage infrastructure inadequate. In these two
plantations, the Project would finance pumps and improvements in the irri-
gation and drainage systems. Both plantations have been included under the
1/   The two wells projected for the Rejim Maatoug plantation in Western
Nefzaoua would be artesian and no pumping would be required.
2/   Originally, tribal land subsequently distributed to private families.



- 19 -
category of new plantations because the cultivation methods would be similar
to the newly created plantations under the Project.
3.08      Date processing facility.  The Project would provide one date
processing facility to be built in the vicinity of Nefta or Tozeur. The
facility would be similar to those existing already in Tozeur and Kebili and
would have a capacity of 10 t/day for dehydration, 45 t/day for disinsecti-
zation and 12 t/day for date processing which would be adequate for processing
the additional crop till about year 15 of the Project. Additional processing
facilities would have to be provided after that period. The structure
will cover 1,500 square meters and will be equipped with relatively simple
fumigating, steaming and drying chambers in addition to sorting and packing
tables. Storage will also be provided.
3.09      Agricultural services.  Two agriculture development agencies OMVs
would be created by the Government in the Project area, one in the Governorate
of Gafsa with offices in Tozeur, and the second in Gabes. During the imple-
mentation period of six years, the Project costs would include the Project
related operational expenses of the OMVs. For each OMV, the Project would
provide an office building, storage facilities for agricultural inputs and
outputs, a repair shop for vehicles and agricultural machinery, vehicles for
the staff and for the extension agents and trucks for transport of dates,
agricultural inputs and equipment (para 4.05 and Annex 3). The Project would
also include supplementary personnel to the GR during Project implementation.
3.10      Research.  The Project would provide investments in agricultural
research on (i) drip irrigation for date palms; (ii) sprinkler irrigation
for forage; and (iii) various systems of drainage. Drip irrigation has so
far been experimented on dates only on a very limited scale and if successful
could mean important savings in irrigation water. Forage sprinkler irriga-
tion with water of relatively high salinity has presented numerous problems
and additional research and experimentation is necessary. Drainage, using
buried earthware pipes or perforated plastic pipes, rather common elsewhere
in the world, has not been experimented with under Southern Tunisian condi-
tions. The proposed experiments would involve using different types of
pipes and filters, and varying the distance between drains. Investments
will include land levelling of the experimental plot (12 ha), experimental
irrigation and drainage equipment, agricultural equipment and a small storage
and office building.
3.11      Technical assistance.  The Project will provide (i) 48 man-months of
consultants' services to assist GR in the preparation of tender documents,
bid evaluations and Project supervision; and (ii) 12 man-months to DRES for
preparation of mathematical simulation models discussed under para. 3.26.
3.12      Although in the same area as the Rural Roads Project (Loan 1601-TUN,
1978) all the investments proposed under this Project in the Nefzaoua are
distinct from those financed under the Rural Roads Project. The oases to be
rehabilitated under the two projects are generally different and investments
proposed complement each other especially regarding communication improvement.



- 20 -
C. Status of Engineering
3.13      The location of each of the new plantations was based on soil
quality, distance from existing wells and springs, likely water resources
and manpower availability. The rehabilitation of existing oases is part of
an on-going program of the Government. The urgent need for rehabilitation
was the main criterion for choosing the ones to be included under the Project.
3.14      Detailed technical specifications with drawings and cost estimates
have been prepared for 11 out of 16 sub-projects by GR, assisted by two
consultants financed by the Bank's Project Preparation Facility. In the
remaining 5 cases, provisional cost estimates have been made, and the detailed
technical specifications and final cost estimates are to be completed and
submitted to the Bank by the end of 1979. The irrigation and drainage systems
as well as the basic infrastructure aspects such as land levelling, access
roads, windbreaks, power-line connections and substations have been thoroughly
studied and well designed.
D. Cost Estimates
3.15      The total Project cost is estimated to be D 29.6 million (US$72.5
million) of which the foreign exchange cost is D 10.3 million (US$25.3
million) or about 35%. Taxes and duties estimated at about D 3.2 million
(US$7.8 million) and representing 14% of base costs are included in the cost
estimates.
3.16      Base costs are expressed in December 1979 prices.  Physical con-
tingencies of 15% are added for the irrigation infrastructure and 10% for
all equipment, buildings and other investments. Price contingencies for
local and foreign exchange costs were calculated at 7% per annum through
1985. Physical contingencies represent 11% of the base costs and price
contingencies 18% of the base costs, including physical contingencies. The
cost of consultant services, including support services, has been estimated at
US$10,000 per man-month. The following table summarizes the cost estimates.
(Details are given in Annex 1, Table 1 and Annex 3).



- 21 -
Project Cost Estimates
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
--(Dinars' million)--  ----(US$ million)----          %
Irrigation Infra-
structure /a              8.2      6.6    14.8   20.1    16.1    36.2         45
Buildings                   0.7      0.6      1.3    1.7       1.5      3.2     46
Vehicles and Agricul-
tural Equipment           0.2      0.3      0.5    0.5      0.7      1.2      60
Establishment of Date
Palm and Forage
Perimeters                2.1       -       2.1    5.2        -      5.2       -
Other Investments /b        0.1      0.1      0.2    0.3       0.3     0.6      50
Rehabilitation Works /c   1.6         -       1.6    3.9        -       3.9      -
Operating Costs during
Project Implementation  1.8         -       1.8    4.4       -       4.4       -
Technical Assistance Id   0.1        0.2      0.3    0.1       0.6      0.7     84
Base Costs without
Contingencies            14.8      7.8    22.6   36.2    19.2    55.4         35
Contingencies
Physical               1.3      1.1      2.4    3.2      2.7      5.9      45
Price                  3.2      1.4     4.6    7.8       3.4    11.2       30
Subtotal               4.5      2.5     7.0   11.0       6.1    17.1       36
Total Project Cost         19.3    10.3    29.6   47.2    25.3    72.5          35
/a  Includes spare parts for agricultural equipment.
/b  Includes research on drip irrigation, office equipment, tools etc.
/c  Includes purchase of young palms and work executed by farmers.
/d Includes Project Preparation Facility.
NOTE: Discrepancies due to rounding.
E. Financing
3.17       The proposed Bank loan of US$25 million would be made to the Govern-
ment of Tunisia. It would finance 35% of the Project cost excluding taxes and
represent about 100% of the foreign exchange cost of the Project. The Govern-
ment would finance US$42.6 million equivalent and the oases farmers US$4.9
million equivalent. The Government's contributions would be allocations to the



- 22 -
budgets of GR, the OMVs and DRES. Assurances to this effect were obtained
during negotiations (para. 7.01). The farmers' contribution would be in the
purchase of young palm trees and rehabilitation work on their plots. Govern-
ment would bear the foreign exchange risk. The term of the proposed loan
would be 17 years including 6 years of grace to take into account the long
implementation period of the Project and the lack of any significant cash
generation during the first several years. The financing plan for the dif-
ferent Project components would be as follows:
Item                           Farmers    Government    IBRD    Total
--- US$ million ------------
New Plantations
Irrigation Infrastructure                           17.6         14.0    31.6
Establishment of Plantation             -            6.8          -       6.8
Traditional Oases
Infrastructure Rehabilitation           -            9.4          7.3    16.7
Plantation & Minor Civil Works         4.9            -           -       4.9
Buildings                                     -            2.3         1.6      3.9
Vehicles, Agr. Equipment &
Other Investment                            -            1.1         1.4      2.5
Operating Cost during Project
Implementation                             -             5.3          -       5.3
Technical Assistance                          -            0.1         0.7      0.8
Total                             4.9          42.6        25.0    72.5
F. Implementation
3.18      The Project would be implemented over a period of six years.  It
is estimated that the construction of wells and installation of well equipment
would take three years. Sand-barriers and windbreaks would be established
during the same period.  The replacement of dead trees would continue for
another three years. Land levelling of the new plantations would follow
the establishment of the wells and should be completed early in year four.
Irrigation infrastructure and drainage works will start in year one for some
of the rehabilitation subprojects and should be completed for alL the sub-
projects by the end of year four. Planting of date palms in the new planta-
tions would start in year three and should be completed by the end of year
five. Construction of the two office buildings to house the OMVs would be



- 23 -
spread over the first three years of the Project and construction of storage
facilities for the OMVs as well as for the plantations would be spread over
the whole project implementation period. The date processing facility would
be built and equipped in year six of the Project. Agricultural equipment for
the OMVs would be purchased from year three onwards. Technical assistance to
GR will be spread over the first two years of the Project. The staffing of
the OMVs and their equipping with vehicles would be completed in the first
three years. The implementation schedule is shown in Annex 1, Chart 2 and
summarized below:
Expenditures      1980      1981       1982      1983      1984       1985
------------------(US$ million)------------------
Annual            11.5      15.4       20.7      12.2       5.7        7.0
Cumulative        11.5      26.9      47.6       59.8      65.5      72.5
G. Procurement
3.19       About fifty-six pumpsets with related well equipment and asbestos
cement pipes for irrigation valued at about US$4.2 million and about USS7.1
million respectively would be tendered for under international competitive
bidding (ICB) procedures according to the Bank's guidelines. The pumpsets and
pipes would be grouped in lots sufficiently large to attract international
competition. It is expected that three contracts would be let for the pump-
sets and three contracts for the pipes. The ICB and Bank review threshold of
tender documents for pumpsets and related equipment, and for asbestos cement
pipes would be US$250,000 equivalent. Contracts for equipment below the
threshold would be purchased under competitive bidding procedures advertised
locally, provided that the aggregate cost of all contracts procured in this
manner does not exceed US$750,000.
3.20       Deep wells are usually executed for GR by a specialized agency of
the Ministry of Agriculture, the "Regie des Sondages Hydrauliques" (RSH). RSH
is financially autonomous, has good experience in deep well boring, is well
staffed and equipped and its prices are highly competitive. At least two
other local private contractors, SIF and "Equipment Hydraulique," are also
active in deep well boring in Southern Tunisia. They are well equipped and
staffed and compete adequately for contracts with RSH in the public as well as
in the private sectors. Under the First Agricultural Credit Project (Loan/
Credit 770/263-TUN, 1971) the Bank financed contracts for drilling of 18 deep
wells in the Nefzaoua and Djerid, procurement under ICB procedures resulted in
awards to local contractors. Foreign contractors have not shown interest in
bidding. In view of the remoteness of the area, the size of the contracts
spread over a four-year period, it remains unlikely that they would do so now.
The deep well boring contracts totalling US$6.4 million net of price contin-
gencies would, therefore, be let under competitive bidding in accordance with
local procedures already determined to be satisfactory to the Bank.



- 24 -
3.21      Power-line connections of the pumping station estimated to cost
US$0.4 million equivalent would be executed by the Government owne!d Tunisian
Electricity Company (STEG) under a negotiated contract. Procurement for
vehicles and agricultural equipment will take place over several years and
would include a wide range of items. Car manufacturers and agricultural
equipment suppliers are well represented in the country and are required by
the Government to carry an adequate stock of spare parts. Vehicles and
agricultural equipment valued at US$1.2 million equivalent would be procured
by competitive bidding in accordance with local procedures as bulk procurement
under international competitive bidding procedures would not be appropriate.
3.22      There are at least 15 civil works contractors in Tunisia who are
experienced in irrigation and drainage network construction. The civil works
under the Project would be widely scattered and would include a number of
contracts not suitable for grouping and would be undertaken over a period
of several years. It is, therefore, unlikely that foreign contractors would
be interested in bidding. The civil works component totalling US$20.1 million
equivalent would, therefore, be procured through local competitive bidding
procedures and it is expected that not less than 10 contractors would partici-
pate in the Project civil works.
3.23      Amendments to contracts adding or deleting more than 30% of their
respective value would not be made without the prior concurrence of the Bank.
General procurement notices would be provided in a timely manner for publica-
tion in the UN Development Forum. Assurances that the preceding procurement
procedures would be followed were obtained during negotiations (para. 7.01).
H. Disbursements
3.24      The proposed Bank loan of US$25 million is expected to be disbursed
over six years 1980-85. The loan will be disbursed as follows:



- 25 -
Category                    Amount          Disbursement Percentage
(US$ million)
(a)  Pumps and related equip-           12.6        55% of the cost of locally
ment irrigation equipment,                     purchased vehicles and equip-
vehicles, agriculture and                      ment and/or 100% of the c.i.f.
other equipment                                cost of imported equipment.
(b)  Civil works for irrigation          8.8        40% of total expenditures
and drainage, land level-
ling, road construction
and buildings
(c)  Consultant services                 0.4        100% of foreign expenditures
(d)  Unallocated                         3.0
Sub-Total                    24.8
(e)  Refunding of Project
Preparation Advance                 0.2
Total                        25.0
3.25      Disbursements would be made against receipt of full documentation.
Any savings in project cost will be cancelled. Detailed schedules of expen-
ditures and disbursements are presented in Annex 1, Tables 1 and 2; the
estimated schedule of disbursements is summarized below:
Disbursements   1980       1981      1982      1983      1984     1985
----------------- (US$ Million) -----------------
Annual            1.2       6.3       8.7       5.5       1.5       1.8
Cumulative        1.2       7.5      16.2      21.7      23.2     25.0
I. Environmental Effects
3.26      As discussed in Chapter II (para. 2.11), water salinization is
expected to increase gradually throughout the areas as a result of water
resources development and the lowering of the water table of the CT aquifer.
According to the UNESCO/UNDP survey and the various simulation models built,
the increase in salinization would, however, remain within acceptable limits
during the life of the Project and would not affect agricultural development,
mainly date palms. However, the number of wells producing water which does
not meet acceptable drinking standards might increase in the future. To allow
Government to undertake timely corrective measures if needed, assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Government would continue to closely
monitor the variations in water salinity and the depletion of existing and
future wells throughout the Project Area, and would:



- 26 -
(a) Not later than April 1, 1981, forward to the Bank for its review
and comment a report summarizing the data recorded on the evolu-
tion of aquifers taking into account water levels, water use and
water quality of existing and future wells;
(b) Not later than October 1, 1983: (i) develop a new Simulation
Model for the Djerid Region similar to the Simulation Model devel-
oped for the Nefzaoua Region; and (ii) carry out simulations of
the evolution of the Djerid and Nefzaoua aquifers, and forward to
the Bank for its review and comment the results thereof;
(c) Not less than every five years after the date specified in para-
graph (b), carry out new simulations and forward to the Bank, for
its review and comment, and results thereof; and
(d)  Take all such remedial action as may be required to limit salinity
and to ensure availability of potable water either through water
desalinization or by conveyance of fresh water from less saline
wells (para. 7.01).
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Execution and Management
4.01      The Project would be implemented by one department and two agencies
of the Ministry of Agriculture, namely Genie Rural (GR), Office de Mise en
Valeur du Djerid (OMVD) and Office de Mise en Valeur de Gabes (OMVG). The
two offices are to be created. The mathematical simulations of the aquifer
development required under the Project would be prepared by DRES. The coor-
dination and control of the Project implementation would be provided by the
Ministry of Agriculture's Department of Planning.
4.02      GR, a Department of the Ministry of Agriculture in charge of water
resources and rural development, would be responsible for the hydraulic and
civil works components of the Project. GR is well staffed with a sufficient
number of qualified engineers and has extensive experience in water resources
development in Tunisia. Its latest accomplishment in the Project area was
the rehabilitation of the large Kebili-Peninsula oasis, which from a technical
point of view was excellent.
4.03       GR was responsible for the preparation of the detailed technical
designs and cost estimates of the sub-projects and would be responsible for
preparation of tender documents for purchase of equipment and civil works
contracts. GR would supervise the boring of wells, installation of equipment,
land levelling, construction of irrigation and drainage networks, installation
of windbreaks by the local governmental forest authorities, and the construc-
tion of all buildings and the date processing facility. GR would also be
responsible for establishing and operating the research plot referred to in
para. 3.10. Once these works are finished in a sub-project, GR would transfer
the responsibility over to one of the OMVs. GR would also be responsible for



- 27 -
hiring the consultants discussed in para 3.11. Qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment of the consultants should be satisfactory
to the Bank and assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations
(para. 7.01).
4.04       OMVs would be semi-independent agencies of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture with a status similar to that of the other irrigation offices presently
in existence,1/ with financial autonomy and legal personality. The Bank has
had satisfactory working relations with the OMVVM, which is the executing
agency for the Medjerda Irrigation Rehabilitation and the agricultural part
of the Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project (Loan 1431-TUN). The establishment of
OMVG would, in practice, be a transformation of the local branch of OMVVM into
an independent agency.
4.05      The OMVs would be responsible for the purchase of agricultural
equipment, planting of date palm offshoots and seeding of forage perimeters.
They would be in charge of the management and maintenance of the new planta-
tions. In the rehabilitated oases, including El Ghoula and Draa Sakkouma
(para 3.07), their main responsibility would be extension work aimed at
improving the date, vegetable and forage production. They will also be
responsible for maintenance and servicing of the pumping stations, and in
places where no AIC (see para 2.16) exists, for the maintenance of the irri-
gation infrastructure.
4.06      The Project staff in each OMV would comprise, beside the adminis-
trative personnel (accountant, assistant accountant, administrative and
personnel officer, etc.), six agricultural engineers and all the personnel
needed for the establishment and operation of the new plantations, and one
agronomist who would supervise and direct extension services in the traditional
oases. At least 20 extension agents would be hired in each of the OMVs to
advise the farmers in the traditional oases. A typical new plantation of 100
ha with two pumped wells would employ about 50 permanent workers, two agricul-
tural agents, three pump attendants with assistants and two tractor drivers.
The OMVs would also employ personnel needed for maintenance of the pumping
stations, irrigation equipment and network, and agricultural machinery and
equipment.
4.07      Establishment of the two OMVs was decided by the Government in
Spring 1979, the Governmental decision now has to be approved by the Parlia-
ment and an organizational decree has to be issued. Issuance of this decree
would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan (para. 7.02) The organiza-
tion of the two Project OMVs would be similar to one of the five existing
OMVs. 1/ A tentative organization chart and staffing plan is shown in Annex
1, Chart 1.
1/   OMVVM - Office de Mise en Valeur de la Vallee de la Medjerda
OMVL - Office de Mise en Valeur de Lakkmes
OPPIJ - Office des Perimetres Publics Irrigues de Jendouba
OMIVAN - Office de Mise en Valeur du Nebhana
OTC - Office de la Tunisie Centrale



- 28 -
4.08      The OMVs would manage the new date palm plantations and date palm/
forage perimeters till they attain satisfactory production returns. The
Government would then decide whether (i) the management of the plantations
on State lands should be transferred to the State Land Management Agency
(OTD); and (ii) some of the plantations on tribal lands should be subdivided
into plots and distributed to farmers or whether they should all continue to
be managed by the OMVs. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the Project would be executed and managed as discussed in paras 4.01-4.07.
B. Cost Recovery
4.09       For the 3,040 ha of privately owned farms and the 2,100 ha of state-
owned plantations, rent and cost recovery indices were computed by taking the
net present values discounted at 10% over a 50-year period. The rent indices
calculated in Appendix C5, is the surplus of incremental farm income resulting
from the Project, above that required to assure an adequate incentive for
farmers' participation in the Project. For the state-owned plantations the
rent recovery index is 100 as these plantations would be run by the two OMVs
on a commercial basis and all investment and operating costs would be recovered
by the revenues accruing to the Government. In the existing oases, cost
recovery would be difficult to achieve. The water in the oases originally
came from springs and was plentiful and free. When new deep wells outside the
oases were sunk by Government for new developments, the water supply in the
springs gradually began to diminish and in some cases disappeared completely.
To save the oases, the Government sunk additional wells in the oases them-
selves, and channeled the newly available water into the existing irrigation
infrastructure. The farmers were not required to contribute to the cost of
the new wells. The wells in the oases were, in most instances, artesian and
no pumping was necessary. With the extension of some oases and the diminish-
ing artesian flow, pumping became necessary, in most cases. Again, the
Government did not make the farmers (generally small-holders) contribute
towards the investment cost in pumps, but did charge the farmers a token
contribution towards the operating costs. The amount charged for a cubic
meter is 4 millimes (about 1 c) and is presently being increased to 6 millimes;
the actual cost of pumping is about 20 millimes. Due to the low water charges
levied by the Government to compensate the farmers for the decrease in the
water supply in the springs resulting from the Government's decision to sink
new wells outside the oases, the rent recovery index is close to 0. As
indicated in para. 6.06, with the Project the revenues of the farmers would
increase and they would be able to gradually increase their contribution
towards water charges. Assurances were obtained during negotiations (para.
7.01) that the Government would:
(a) carry out a study for the establishment of a cost recovery system
for irrigation in the Project Area taking into account the Govern-
ment's Code des Eaux as well as, inter alia the following factors:
(i) the costs (in real terms) incurred by the Government for con-
structing, operating and maintaining the irrigation system in the
Project Area; (ii) the impact of the level and structure of water
charges on the farmers' incentives to utilize available water
resources; (iii) the farmers' relative income in relation to the



- 29 -
national per capita income; (iv) the scope for possible differen-
tiation in the water charges as applied to farmers with different
income levels and farm sizes; and (v) the appropriate phasing of
increases in water charges in relation to increased agricultural
production under the Project;
(b) on the basis of the results of such study and not later than
June 30, 1981, submit to the Bank for its review and comment a plan
to progressively increase water charges to be paid by farmers; and
(c) thereafter implement the plan agreed upon between the Government
and the Bank, and periodically review the adequacy of the level of
water charges in consultation with the Bank.
The rent and cost recovery indices for the whole Project are 58 and 48 respec-
tively.
C. Accounts and Audits
4.10      Each of the OMV's will keep independent project accounts and
monitor the project implementation. These accounts will be centralized by the
Department of Planning of the Ministry of Agriculture. The accounts of the
OMV's will be controlled by a financial controller of the Ministry of Finance
and also by a specialized division of the Ministry of Agriculture (Sous
direction des Organismes Sous Tutelle) overseeing all the semi-independent
agencies of the Ministry. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
audited project accounts of each OMV as well as the consolidated accounts
would be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year
(para. 7.01).
V. PROJECT PRODUCTION AND MARKETING
A. Production and Yields
5.01      Investments under the Project are expected to generate the following
incremental production at full development:
Quantity
(tons)
Dates:  Deglat Nour                       20,000
Allig                              1,400
Alfalfa Hay                                3,200
Barley Grain                                 600
Vegetables                                31,200
The phasing of the incremental production generated under the Project is
shown in Annex 2, Table 1.



- 30 -
5.02      New plantations.  The Deglat Nour would be the only variety of
date palm cultivated. Trees would be planted at 9 by 9 m intervals with
123 trees per hectare. Production would start five years after planting
with an average yield of 0.5 t/ha increasing to 10 t/ha (80 kg/tree) at full
development, which would be fifteen years after planting. Date production
during the first four years would be of an inferior quality and would be
consumed locally. Thereafter, production would be exported at the rate
of about 50% of the total production of 15,000 tons at full development.
5.03      Alfalfa for hay followed by barley for grain in a four-year crop-
ping pattern would be grown on 580 ha. The average yields of fresh alfalfa
and barley grain are expected to reach 60 t/ha and 3 t/ha respectively
(Annex 3). This production is expected to be consumed in the I'roject area
itself where deficits of animal feed are presently substantial.
5.04      Rehabilitation of oases.  The average density of date palms in
existing oases is over 200 trees/ha of which about 30% are Deglat Nour, 30%
Allig and 40% other common varieties. In addition, there are about 20 fruit
trees/ha and annual crops. Rehabilitation would entail: (i) reducing the
date palm density to about 155 trees/ha and replacing some of the common
date palm varieties with Deglat Nours so that the composition would be
about 55% Deglat Nour, 30% Allig and 15% common varieties; (ii) removing
most of the fruit trees; and (iii) doubling the annual crops. As a result
of the rehabilitation, the existing Deglat Nour, Allig and common variety
date palms would increase their yields from 20 to 32 kg/tree (60%), 30 to
50 kg/tree (67%) and 47 to 65 kg/tree (38%) respectively at full development.
The average yields of new Deglat Nour offshoots would only reach 45 kg/tree
at full development as compared to 80 kg/tree in the new oasis, primarily
due to the greater density of trees and intercropping. Incremental produc-
tion of Deglat Nour dates is expected to reach about 4,400 tons at full
development. It is assumed that without the Project, the average yields
of existing date palms would decrease by 1% per year due to inadequate water
supply and proper drainage.
5.05      Projections of incremental vegetable production resulting from the
Project in the rehabilitated coastal oases are subject to change since there
are various possible cropping patterns a farmer may implement. Projections
of total incremental production are based on a typical farm model (Annex 3).
Date palm production in these oases is negligible due to the climatic condi-
tions. At present, all vegetables are grown in open fields and total produc-
tion is estimated to be about 12,000 t. After the rehabilitation, which would
result in increased yields due to adequate water supply and good drainage,
better use of inputs and improved cropping patterns, incrementaL production of
vegetables in open fields would reach almost 27,800 t at full development.
Production of vegetables grown under plastic tunnels, expected to be installed
by some farmers would reach 3,400 t.
Exports
5.06      During the last five years, Tunisian date exports (mainly Deglat
Nours) averaged about 5,500 t per year. At present, France absorbs about
65% of the exports, Italy about 20% and the remaining 15% is imported by
other European countries (Annex 4). The main export season is in late fall



- 31 -
as demand peaks in Europe around Christmas. As prices drop significantly
after this period, dates of prime quality harvested late in the year are
often stored in refrigerated facilities until the next season.
5.07       Quantities of dates imported from Tunisia constitute only a small
fraction of total European date imports. In 1977, a total of about 41,000 t
were imported of which about 5,400 t or 13% came from Tunisia.  In the same
period, French imports of dates amounted to about 20,000 t of which about
20% were from Tunisia. 1/ Iraq has been the principal supplier of dates to
Europe, but the Deglat Nour is more highly valued than the Iraqi date varie-
ties. As a result, there is a great demand for the Deglat Nour variety in
European markets and Tunisia is able to sell all its production at a high
price without any great difficulty.  Discussions with GID confirm that the
demand for Deglat Nours from foreign markets has been far greater than
Tunisia's ability to supply.
5.08       The Project generated date production of the Deglat Nour variety
would be essentially for export, however, only the top qualities are exported
so that only 50% of the total production would be available for export. No
problems are foreseen in marketing the additional exports, which would amount
to 10,000 t in the year 2000. It is expected that about 50% of the exports
would be in the form of processed dates. There is still a great demand for
unprocessed dates from France, as several French firms prefer to process and
repack the dates in their own facilities.
Domestic Market Demand
5.09       Total consumption of dates in Tunisia has remained stable over the
past decade varying between 35,000 to 45,000 t per year. In 1978, the per
capita consumption was about 7.0 kg and in the urban areas consumption of the
Deglat Nour variety alone was about 4.0 kg per capita. Most of the ordinary
varieties, representing about 60% of total production, was consumed in the
oases and by the Saharan population for whom dates are still the staple food.
In the urban areas, the ordinary varieties no longer meet the market require-
ments. The Deglat Nour has become the most sought after variety, but because
of the high export demand, the local markets are undersupplied. With the
population gtowth in urban consumption centers, the domestic demand for the
Deglat Nour is expected to continue increasing. Therefore, no problems are
foreseen in marketing the additional 10,000 t of Deglat Nour generated by the
Project in the domestic market. The incremental Allig date production would
be largely consumed in the Project area and neighboring towns.
5.10       The vegetable production in the coastal oases would be primarily
destined for the Gabes market. With the expansion of industrial development
and tourism, the demand for vegetables is expected to continue increasing.
The alfalfa hay and barley grain produced under the Project would be fed to
the livestock in the Project area. It is estimated that there are about
150,000 sheep and goats in the Djerid and Nefzaoua areas. During the weaning
period alone (two months), it is estimated that the offspring would require
a minimum of 5,000 t of additional high quality forage. At present, there
is an acute shortage of forage in these areas and, therefore, the Project
1/   From FAO Trade Yearbook, 1977.



- 32 -
production of 3,200 t of alfalfa hay and 600 t of barley at full development
would be essential to maintain the livestock production and to provide for a
reserve stock during drought years (paras. 2.19-2.20).
Marketing
5.11      Prior to 1964, dates were exported by Tunisian merchants who sold
their produce to firms in Marseille. These firms processed and repacked the
dates in their own facilities and then often re-exported them. In order to
regulate the Tunisian production and increase exports, the Government, in 1964,
granted STIL a monopoly for the marketing and export of dates. In 1972, the
STIL monopoly was abolished but date exports remained regulated. At present,
a firm must fulfill several conditions to be authorized to export dates. They
include: (i) exp2rts of at least 300 t; (ii) processing and storing facilities
of at least 400 m ; and (iii) 40% of the exports must be processed dates. Due
to these strict conditions, there are few export firms; STIL remains the most
important. The existing firms have adequate capacity to handle the incremental
date exports that would be generated by the Project.
5.12      The new OMVs to be created (OMVD and OMVG) would be responsible for
the marketing and processing of dates and the marketing of forage produced in
the new plantations. In the oases to be rehabilitated, the existing system of
marketing will prevail (para 2.29). In the coastal oases, the farmers would
sell their vegetable production through their service cooperative directly to
the wholesalers and retailers in the Gabes market. The present marketing
system in Gabes is efficient and capable of managing the increased vegetable
production, which would result from the Project.
B. Prices
5.13      The Government fixes date prices each season for the premium and
commercial quality Deglat Nour at two levels: a minimum price at the farm
gate and a maximum price at the retail outlet. Prices for the best quality
of Deglat Nour on branches (currently over 400 millimes/kg) and all other
date varieties are not controlled. The following table shows the evolution
of the Deglat prices controlled by the Government.
Official Farm Gate and Retail Date Prices by Grade 1974/75-1978/79
1974/75 1975/76 1976/77 1977/78 1978/79
Minimum Farmgate price               ---------------(millimes/kg)---------------
Deglat Extra Premium                   250       280      320        340      340
-  Commercial                        200       230      250       270       270
-  Dry a/                            100        -        -          -        -
-  Unsorted a/                        50        -       -          -         -
Allig/Common Varieties a/               70        -        -          -        -
Maximum Retail Price
Deglat - Premium                       380       400      420        440      440
- Commercial                   380       320      340        360       360
a/   Not controlled since 1975/76.



- 33 -
5.14      Export prices are fixed during the export season biweekly by GID
according to the qualities and the general market situation. The average
f.o.b Tunis price increased from 438 millimes/kg in 1974/75 to 501 millimes/kg
in 1977/78, representing an increase of about 5% p.a. In the last two years,
the f.o.b Tunis price of the first quality was 680 millimes/kg leaving the
exporter-producer (ex. STIL), after deduction of all expenses for processing,
packing, transport and harbor charges, a farm gate price of 580 millimes/kg.
The f.o.b price of lesser qualities is substantially lower; it was 480
millimes/kg for packed dates and 430 millimes/kg for unprocessed dat^s with
corresponding farmgate prices of about 400 and 360 millimes/kg respectively.
With the persisting high demand from the export market as well as the domes-
tic market, and only a slow increase in production, prices are expected to
increase in the future.
5.15      The average export price used for valuing the Deglat Nour dates
for the economic analysis is D 446/t based on the 1978/79 season prices and
assuming that 30% of total exports would be of the first quality priced at
D 595/t, 20% of the second quality at D 410/t and 50% unprocessed at D 370/t.
Prices used are the f.o.b. Tunis price net of handling, transport and proces-
sing costs. For the financial analysis, the average price used for valuing
the Deglat Nour dates is D 352/t assuming that half the production is exported
and the other half is sold in the local market at D 270/t. For both the
economic and financial analysis, a constant price is used over the life of the
Project. Dates of the Allig and common variety have been valued at the farm-
gate price of D 120/t and D 70/t respectively. Vegetables have also been
valued at farmgate prices (Annex 3).
5.16      The economic alternative to local production of barley would be to
import. The c.i.f. Tunis price plus transport and handling costs is estimated
at D 58/t and the farmgate price in the south at D 47/t. At present, the
National Livestock and Range Agency (OEP) sells alfalfa hay produced at the
Chenchou perimeter near Gabes to the consumers at a subsidized price of D 70/t
while the free market price is about D 140/t. There is a severe shortage of
forage in Tunisia as the north does not produce adequate forage for its own
needs and there is no ready international market. There is no other alterna-
tive to meet the forage needs of the area than to produce as much as possible
of the local requirements in the area. Previously, small quantities of
granulated alfalfa were imported at a c.i.f. Tunis price of D 80/t (1977
price). Including transport costs, handling charges and all other expenses,
this would be close to the D 140/t price prevailing in the Project area.
Alfalfa hay produced in the date palm/forage perimeters is expected to be sold
at about the market price to encourage production and ensure the financial
viability of the Project. Assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations (para. 7.01).
5.17      Most agricultural inputs are subsidized by the Government in Tunisia
either by fixing prices at a low level or by making subsidies available to
farmers for purchase of agricultural equipment and other inputs. Farmgate
prices for fertilizers are sometimes as much as 35% below border prices
adjusted for transport and handling. A detailed list of producer prices
and adjusted border prices is given in Annex 3.



- 34 -
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND BENEFICIARIES
A.  Project Benefits
6.01      The Project represents the only possible development of the semi-
desertic southern and southeastern part of Tunisia. The main benefits of
the Project would arise from the incremental production of dates, forage
and vegetables (see para.5.01). At full development the Project would
increase by almost 50% the present date production of the country. The
Deglat Nour date variety destined for both the export and urban domestic
markets would result in foreign exchange earnings of about D 9.0 million/
year (US$22.0 million) in constant 1978 prices at full development. Produc-
tion increases in other date varieties and vegetables would mainly benefit
consumers in the Project areas. The forage production wculd contribute towards
maintaining and improving the quality of the existing livestock in the Project
areas (about 150,000 sheep and goats) and in drought years would provide a
reserve stock (paras 2.19 and 2.20).
6.02      One of the most important justification of the Project is its social
impact. The incidence of absolute poverty appears to be high in the south of
Tunisia and particularly around the Project area. The rehabilitation compo-
nent of the Project would directly benefit some 5,100 farmers or 30,600
people in the rural target population. As much of Tunisia's economic activity
is concentrated along the coast, rural-urban migration, especially towards the
coast, has been rapidly increasing over the past few years. Without the
Project, the situation in the existing oases would continue to deteriorate,
resulting in increased poverty of small farmers and the acceleration of
migration of the local population to the urban areas where there is already
widespread unemployment. The new date palm plantations and date palm/forage
perimeters would offer improved income opportunities to about 1,100 permanent
workers, many of whom are at present underemployed or unemployed. In addition,
about 80,000 man-days a year for seasonal work would be created. In the date
processing center to be financed under the Project, 34,000 man-days for
seasonal work are expected to be provided each year. Increased regional
employment in the Project areas, as a result of spread and multiplier effects
in the regional economy such as secondary service and tradesmen jobs, have not
been analyzed. The anticipated impact of the Project on employment creation
and income is summarized below:



- 35 -
Annual Net Income/a
Number of              Without lb    With lb
Average     Farmers/      Present  Project        Project
Farm Size   Workers       ---(D/year)-----------
Farmers
Oases in Djerid/
Nefzaoua            0.5 ha       4,000          320       250          600
Oases in Gabes        1.0 ha       1,100          350       240        1,160
Incremental Workers
Permanent              -           1,100          180       180          360
Seasonal (man-days)   -          114,000           -         -           100
/a   The absolute poverty line in rural areas in Tunisia is estimated to be
about D 48/year (US$118.0). The average family size is 6 members.
/b   At full development of Project.
6.03      The Project also recognizes the important role women can play
in agricultural production by creating employment opportunities for them.
Women already do and will continue to play a major role in agriculture in the
coastal oases. They are also employed as seasonal workers during the date
collecting and sorting season and the majority of the work force in the date
processing and packaging centers are women. It is expected that at least 35%
of the seasonal labor hired for the Project would be women.
6.04      The Project would further result in non-quantifiable benefits such
as:
(a) institution building, with the creation of two agricultural
development offices, OMVs, which would result in improvements
in extension services, provision of inputs etc.;
(b) long-term gains from research on drip and sprinkler irrigation
and various systems of drainage; and
(c) gains from technical assistance to the Genie Rural by consul-
tant services financed under the Project.
B. Financial Analysis
6.05      Results of financial cost-benefit analyses for typical investment
models of each of the project components are summarized below:



- 36 -
Financial ----------Sensitivity  Analysis----------
Rate of                  Investment    Operating
Return      Benefits         Costs          Costs
+10%  -10%    +10%  -10%  +10%         -Io
New Date Palm Plantations            11         12   10       10    11    10           11
New Date Palm/Forage
Perimeters                         10         11    8        9    10       9        10
Rehabilitation of Existing
Oases                             16          17   14       15    17    15          16
The calculations are based on 1978 market prices for both inputs and outputs
(Annex 3).  These low rates of return are attributable mainly to the long
maturing period of the palm trees and the large investment costs during the
first few years for the irrigation and drainage networks. In spite of these
low rates of return, these components are justified for the reasons outlined in
paras. 6.01-6.04. Each permanent worker is expected to earn about D 360/year
for 250 days of work a year and each seasonal worker about D 100 for 65 days
of work during the year.
6.06       Returns to farmers in the oases to be rehabilitated were calculated
based on representative farm models (Annex 3). It is expected that as a
result of the rehabilitation, a typical farmer owning 0.5 ha in the continental
oases could earn a net income of D 640/year at full development. D)educting
a water charge based on 6 millimes/m3 his net income would still be about
D 600/year. At present, the average income is estimated to be about D 320/
year. In the coastal oases to be rehabilitated, where the average farm size
is 1 ha and the principal returns are from vegetable and forage production,
an average farmer is expected to earn D 1,160/year at full development. This
represents a substantial improvement from his present income, which on the
average amounts to only D 350/year (para. 6.02). The calculations of returns
to farmers indicate that they will be able to gradually increase their contri-
butions towards water charges (see para. 4.09).
C. Economic Analysis
6.07       The estimated economic rate of return (discounted over 50 years) is
13%.  The economic evaluation of all project components is sumtmarized below:
Economic Rate
Component                                        of Return
New Date Palm Plantations                            13
New Date Palm/Forage Perimeters                      12
Rehabilitation of Existing Oases                     19
Total Project                                        13



- 37 -
Since the rates of return are above the estimated opportunity cost of capital
in TuniBia (10%), they are satisfactory for all components. The higher eco-
nomic rate of return for rehabilitation of new plantations is due to sunk
costs and, therefore, the need for relatively fewer new investments. The
Project economic cash flow with details of economic costs and benefits is
given in Annex 3.
6.08      Assumptions used for the economic analysis are the following:
(a) Foreign Exchange: The exchange rate of the Dinar is floating.
For the economic analysis the rate prevailing at the end of
June 1979 (US$1 = D 0.408/D 1.00 = US$2.45) has been chosen as
an approximation of the official exchange rate.
(b) Benefits, Investments and Operating Costs. All costs including
physical contingencies are expressed in 1978 constant prices
adjusted to exclude taxes and subsidies. Inputs and outputs
which are tradable on world markets have been valued at border
prices adjusted for handling and transport costs within Tunisia.
Other inputs and outputs have been valued at the 1978 farmgate
price and adjusted for taxes and subsidies where applicable.
(c) Labor Pricing: In the past, there has been considerable emigra-
tion from the Djerid and Nefzaoua areas due to the lack of
permanent employment opportunities. The permanent labor for the
new date palm plantations and the date palm/forage perimeters
would be drawn from the Project area and the surrounding rural
areas where there is still some unemployment and a considerable
amount of seasonal unemployment. In estimating the marginal value
of labor to the economy for this Project, a shadow wage rate of
50% of the minimum agricultural wage rate for permanent labor
has been applied. Family labor in the oases to be rehabilitated
has also been costed at 50% of the minimum wage rate, because
some seasonal employment opportunities for family labor are
available.
Sensitivity Analysis and Risk
6.09      Cost overruns and lower than expected yields are the most likely
constraints to achieving the economic rates of return, therefore, the sen-
sitivity of the rates of return were tested for these variables. Their
switching values are summarized below:



- 38 -
Economic Rate of Return Sensitivity Analysis
Switching Values at 107c/
Investment   Operating   Total
Yields      Costs         Costs      Cost
New Date Palm Plantations                       -26           71           70         35
New Date Palm/Forage Perimeters                 -15           31           38         17
Rehabilitation of Old Oases                     -45         150           181        82
Total Project                                   -23          60            59         30
/a   Percentage change beyond which the economic rate of return would be below
10%.
Results in general indicate little sensitivity to shortfalls in benefits or
increases in costs for the new date palm plantation and the rehabilitation
components. On the other hand, the rate of return of the new date palm/forage
perimeter is fairly sensitive to a decrease in benefits and total costs.
6.10       The sensitivity of the Project was also tested for a shadow exchange
rate 20% above the official exchange rate (US$1 = D 0.490/D 1.00 = US$2.04).
The shadow exchange rate used reflects existing protection levels and also
takes account of the float. Using this exchange rate, the economic rate of
return of the Project increases to about 14% with switching values of yields,
investment costs, operating costs and total costs being -28%, 80%, 76%
and 39% respectively.
6.11       As discussed in paras. 2.11 and 3.25, water salinization is expected
to increase gradually throughout the Project areas as a result of water
resource development. This would not affect agricultural development, but
potable water for the local population in certain locations might not meet
acceptable drinking standards. The sensitivity of the Project was therefore
tested for an increase in investment and operating costs resulting from the
inclusion of two water desalinization plants of about 2,000 m3/day capacity
each, one in the Nefzaoua and the other in the Djerid. The rate of return of
the Project was unchanged.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01       During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a)  The Government would channel budgetary funds and the Bank Loan funds
to GR and the OMVs as described in para. 3.17;
(b)  GR and the OMVs would procure all civil works and equipment in
accordance with the stipulations of paras. 3.19-3.22;



- 39 -
(c) Government would continue to closely monitor the evolution of the
aquifer and periodically prepare and submit to the Bank mathematical
simulations of the aquifer development (para. 3.26);
(d) GR would hire consultants to assist the preparation of bid evalua-
tions, tender documents and project supervision; whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment would be
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.03);
(e) GR and the OMVs would execute and manage the Project as described
in paras. 4.01 - 4.08;
(f) The Government would carry out a study for the establishment of a
cost recovery system for irrigation in the Project area and there-
after implement the system (para. 4.09);
(g) Audited project accounts of each OMV as well as the consolidated
accounts would be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of
each fiscal year (para. 4.10); and
(h) The price of alfalfa hay produced in the date palm/forage perimeters
would take into account the prevailing market prices and would be
periodically reviewed (para. 5.16).
7.02      Effectiveness of the Loan will be conditional on the approval by
Parliament of the establishment of the two OMVs and the issuance of an organi-
zational decree (para. 4.07).
7.03      Recommendation.  With the above assurances and agreements, the
proposed Project is suitable for a Bank Loan of US$25 million to the Tunisian
Government for a term of 17 years including 6 years of grace.
December 19, 1979



TUNTSIA
STA" APPRAISAL. REPORT OF THE
SOUTHERN IRRIGATION PROJECT
Prolate Costs and SchOedule of Etpsndieesn/
Cotat da Peojet ci Plan des D5peaces
1980                         1981                           1982                          1983                          1984                          1985                         Total
Fore-ig                       Fo.                           Forei8a                       F.reis                        Foreiga                       Foreign                        Forg
Local   Eachonge  Total    Loc.l   Eachango  Total    Local   Eathtnge  Total    Local   ax,hange  Total    Lot-l   Exchsage  To-al    Lotal   Bochooge  Tota-                       Lotal   Exthsage  Totol
-------------------Millions)----------------------------------------------------------(D  Milli-)---------__-_-__ -___________ -_-______________-_-_________-____
Ir-iganioc and leolnaga                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Inecatioc at Lratoaga
Iefeaairoolore/o                  2.03      1.28      3.31      2.94      2.03      4.l7      2.46       Z.46     4.92       1.40      0.75      2.15     0.02       0.01     0.03       0.21      0.10      0.31       8.26      6.63      14.89      Iteas troctare /8
B.ildings                           0.06      0.04       0.10     0.05       0.04     0.09       0.14      0.10      0.24      0.12      0.10      0.22      0.14      0.10      D.24      0.21       0.16      0.37      0.72      0.54        1.26   Bgtinnis
Vahitles & Age. Eqoipa.nt            0.05      0.03      0.08      0.04      0.03      0.07      0.03      0.04      0.07      0.02      0.04      0.06      0.04      0.04      0.08      0.06      0.06      0.12       0.24      0.24       0.48  VThicolne  . Eqtip. ageicoe-
Eatablisne-   of Dain Pain                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Fl-otations -d  PFolsiee-
and Forage Peei=eeers             0.03         -      0.03      0.03         -      0.03      0.57         -       0.57     0.60         -      0.60       0.60        -       0.60      0.26        -       0.26       2.09        -        2.09    ae p6cia8er-s foorragera
Ohne  1-ventianti /b                 0.01        _       0.01      0.06      0.04      0.10      0.01      0.01      0.02      0.01        -       0.01        -         -         -       0.03       0.09      0.12      0.12      0.14        0.26   Inves-tie enot  divers /b
Rehabilitoetio  Woeks /c            0.27         .       0.27      0.27        -       0.27      0.27        -       0.27      0.0237              0.27      0.02        -       (1.27     0.27         -       0.20      I.02        -         1.61   Trava-x  de eso9-garde /4
Capitalined Operatiog Cases         0.12         -       0.12      0.22        -       0.22      0.30        -       0.30      0.35        -       0.35      0.37                0.07      0.39         -       0.39      1.75        -         1.75   Ch-s da ee
_apieolteia-
Tachoical Assistance                0.02       0.09      0.11     0.02      2.01       0.11                  _         _                                       -                   -                    -                0.04       0.0018      A.2   Os.aneotte  Lethaique
Base Costs                     2.53      1.44      4.03      2.03      2.23      5.06      3.78      2.61      6.39      2.77      (0.89      3.66      1.44     0.15       1.59      1.43      0.41      1.84      14.84      7.73      22.37         Colts
Cotinge...s                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Al.5-Al
Fhysical                          0.30      0.20      0.50      0.32      0.30      0.62      0.42       0.35      0.77      0.17      0.10      0.27      0.02      0.08      0.10      0.09      0.04      0.13       1.32      1.07       2.39      I s.ne  de- qoantites
PFite                             0.30      0.06      0.16      0 34      7.27      0 63      0 86      0.53       1.29     0,78       0.27      1.05      0.53      0.0(0     0.81      0.68      0.20      21.06     30.9       1.41       4.60      h Hsse de- peix
Sbtiotal                        0.40      0.26      0.66      0.06      0.57      1.23      1.18      0.88       2.06     0,95       0.37      1.32      0.55      0.16      0.71      0.77      0.24      3.335     4.51       2.40       6.99        soos eoctl
ProJect Pe-peraton Facillity           -       0.07      0.07        --                                                                                                                                                              .?        0.00   Msnsi-e dr prep-oion den
Total Proj-tt Cone                  2.99       127                 3.49      2.80      6.29      4.96        49      0.45      3.72      2.26      4.90      1.99     0231       2.30      2.20      7.60       2.05    19.35    10.28        29.43   Cole toed  do Prolee
/a  Iaolndes spare p-rts far  igr1aolt-re  qnip-nt.                                                                                                                           /033Y coY pr,i  den pi&.. da rech-oge poor eqoip=cna .t gricoloj
/     - Ineloden  research on drip iriggation, offlar eqoipenot, eqaip .n.t foe praaesaig .a.t-c, tols., etc.                                                                  /b  Y co.epris Is rochercha cor l'ireigation par gouttcagoa ett,  -aturial de
-b-reca,  ataerinl poor leoen_tre sd tens-of-atito, ootiin, nt.
/c  IncRadon parp hasa ot yqung pAle t-res ad  in-r faveesssaais and aivil  ae-ks enco-tnd by fa-nY /c  T cosprie 7aahet da re-ets, peeite  iavostlsstLnine  it tra t ox



- 41 -                               ANNEX  1
Table  2
TUNISIA
SOUTHERN IRRIGATION PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
Barame de Deboursements
Cumulative Disbursement
IBRD Fiscal Year                                                  at End of Quarter
and Quarter                                                          (US$ Million)
FY80
March 31, 1980                                                          -
June 30, 1980                                                         0.2
FY81
September 30, 1980                                                    0.2
December 31, 1980                                                      1.2
March 31, 1981                                                         2.6
June 30, 1981                                                         4.5
FY82
September 30, 1981                                                    5.9
December 31, 1981                                                      7.5
March 31, 1982                                                         9.3
June 30, 1982                                                        11.4
FY83
September 30, 1982                                                   13.9
December 31, 1982                                                    16.2
March 31, 1983                                                        18.2
June 30, 1983                                                        19.9
FY84
September 30, 1983                                                   20.9
December 31, 1983                                                    21.7
March 31, 1984                                                        22.3
June 30, 1984                                                        22.8
FY85
September 30, 1984                                                   23.0
December 31, 1984                                                    23.2
March 31, 1985                                                       23.4
June 30, 1985                                                        23.7
FY86
September 30, 1985                                                   24.4
December 31, 1985                                                     25.0



TUNISIA
SOUTHERN IRRIGATION PROJECT
OMV Organization Chart
INTERNAL CONTROL
DIRECTOR                          COORDINATION
I MONITORING
ADMINISTRATION               OPERATIONS &                 EXTENSION                 MARKETING                    RESEARCH       | t
& FINANCE                     MAINTENANCE                 SERVICES
- Administration            - Op. New Plantations         Oasis 1                 - Procurement                   Drip Irrigation
- Personnel                 - Op. Oases                   Oasis 2                 - Marketing                     Other Research
- Budget                    - Maint. Wells & Stations    Oasis 3                  - Processing
Accounts                  - Maint. Irrigation N.W.      Demonstration Plots    - Statistics
- Maint. Vehicles &
Equipment
L Repair Shop
o ~



TUNIS IA
SOUTHERN IRRIGATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1980              1981             1982              1983             1984             1985
well Construction and Equipment                         _                                                                                                   Forage et eq.ipement des puits
Land Preparation and Windbreaks                      _                                                 ///i/U/l   //II////(II//(  /7//I/l/A/                Brise-vent, Nivellement du terrain
Irrigation & Drainage Infrastructure                                                                                                                        Infrastructure d'irrigation et de drainage
Date Palm Planting                                                                   _//,/'II//X///                                                         Plantations des palmiers                                       it
Building Construction                                            _                _               _  _           _ .                 . _                    Construction des bhtiments
Purchase of Agricultural Equipment                                                                                                                         Achat de l'equipement agricole
Construction of Processing Plant                                                                                                                            Construction de l'unite de conditionnement
Equipment for Agricultural Research                    _         _   -                                                                                      Equipement pour la station de recherche
OMV Operational Expenses                  .         .         .................... ..................  .         . ......... ............  ..               OMV - D     epe nses du fonctionnement
Genie Rural Project Expenses .                   ......Gnie Rurale - Depenses de projet
Technical Assistance                                      ..........                                                                                        Assistance technique
Planning and Preparation, Preparation of Bidding Documents
_     _    _   _   Construction or implementation
IIIII/I/III///II/  Replacements (palms, windbreaks)
......... Salaries, Technical assistance
July 1979



TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISA. REPORT OF TOE
SIOThERN RR81GATION PROJECT
I-cre -ental Produ-tion Generated Under te
Fenduntion Additin.nelle ouS. Le Pen-et
Years/Annee-           1        2        3        4        5       6        7        8        9       10       11       12       13       14       15       16      17        18       19      20   A Pnrtir
_                                                                                                                                     A_ari
21
1.  DATES - DEGLAT ONOR 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. DATTES - DEGLAT NOUR0  /
Ne. lace Palm Pl_ntati_on   (1,521 hc)       -        -        -        -       0.1      0.2      0.3      0.5      0.6    0.8       0.9     1.1      3.0      5.3      8.3      9.7      11.1    12.4    13.8    14.7        15.2       No-e1lts. Pllseta.Lins  dt PAtniets DIstiera
Rohabilittiece of Data P.C.
Flautftisne   (1,952 ha)/2                uSe      0.1     -'i      0~      0.7      0.8      1.1      1.4       1.6    jXj      7.,      2_7      3.1      3.3      3.8      4.1       4.2 4.     3      4.3      4.4      4.4          aiit92es P tations  /2
Sub-ntul                                -       0.1     0.3       0.5     0.8      1.1      1.4      1.9      2.2    2.7       3.2      3.8      6.1      8.8    12.1    13.8       13.3    16.7    18.1    19.1    19.6                 Gnus Tntol
11.  DATES - ALL1G/3                               -       0.1      0.1      0.3     0.6      1.0       0.2      1.4      1.4    1.4      1.4      1.4      1.4      1.4      1.4      1.4       1.4      1.4      1.4      1.4      1.4  II. DATTES - ALLIG/3
- COMMOS VARTETIEE                   (0.6)   (1.2)   (1.7)    (2.3)   (3.0)   (3.9)    (3.8)   (3.7)   (3.7)  (3.7)   (3.7)   (3.7)    (3.7)   (3.7)   (3.7)    (3.7)              (3.7)    (3.7)   (3.7)   (3.7)   (3.7)  'A- RAIETES                      N
Ill.  ALFAL                                                            2 0.2  1.0     2.2      3.2      3.2      3.2      3.2    3.2       3.2      3.2      3.2      3.2      3.2      3.2       3.2      3.2      3.2      3.2      3.2 fIl. LUZERNE
IV.  EARIEY                                        -        -               0.4      0.4      0.4      0.6      0.6      0.6    0.6       0.6      0.6      0.6      0.0     0.6      0.0       0.6      0,6       0.6      0.6      0.6  IV, ORG0
V.  VEGETABLES/2                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V. LEGUt ES/2
VRehbllltatton ot C_Rst-l oorst -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      h (1,088 ha)
-  Ietoblee; in Greenhouses                 -        -       0.9      1.5      2.2      3.0      3.2      3.3      3.4    3.4      3.4      3.4      3.4      3.4      3.4      3.4      3.4      3.4       3.4      3.4      3.4         Legosoes coa eare(c
F- ield Crops                                _        -       9.2    14.0    19.4    25.2    286,        27.4      7.0   20.8    27.8    27.8    27.8    27.8    27.8    27.8    27. 8    27 .               7 27.8    27.8    27.8      -  Cullures Plein GbAsn
subt=eAl                                _        _     10.1    15.5    21.6    28.2    29.7    30.7    31.2   31.2    31.2    31.2    31.2    31.2    31.2    31.2    31.2    31.7                     31.2    31.2    31.2              Gous ToCal
/1  DOto production in the fi-Lt lour years cr          - LLtond qu.lity dates.                                                                       /I  Ls produ:tion   p-odant lea qcutre p-ei-errs amass  sat do d-uoi-pe quyllit
/2  Ianremeotul prodortion                                                                                                                            /2  Pr-duntion odditi 1nnell1
/3  Innmontal pr-duntion in rehabilitated pi-neotione.   prodnotiD of rho  c-                 jarirty Atos dotrond r                                 /3  Prodontion  Additi--nn-lr dan-  las pIct-tiuos -ehabilite-s.  To pr-d-eirn An dattec  dosries
.a  tIe7 aty   r- pla-rd by ne-  Deglar None ofa.hoots.                                                                                                -cnnp  di=inua  -rape e1l1   coot r-s-plaeec par lrc nouncaux  -ejrto DeIstlo Ne.
iuly i979                                                                                                                                                      1979



TfNISIA
STAmF APMAtSAL RWRT OP TNE SOUT11WN IXEGATION PROJECT
Ih.il Issfeastraessuee
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
No. of        Well,s        N.- of        Proo                      Sabstti.o.s        Land LeOellles R..ds           Ir-igatio  S-vten          N        0e 3.a)            B- ri-e  (Table)       Widbr-oka
It..                        Hertar-          Well            Wm           ,.sep        ils)        (kr)         No.       (OVA)               (kao)             (lks)    (D1--re, em)          Ne     larp- -eset                (kra)
_Oes Rehabilittalir
Ojerid                    (1,290)
El Ha-en                   340             -              -            4           60-90       cxiaring       4    125-160                _                 23.4        150-500           28.5        15
Tozeur                     950             3            450            4           65-100         2.5         4       160                 -                 15          250-300           20          44
civil erg.
Ne f-aou.                    (662)
Raa el Ala                 251             1            210            3           60-80          2           3       125                 _                 12.4        150-300           21.5          6
aema                        150            -              -            2           56-100         -           2                 700    oasis traks          11          200-500           14.5          -                    0.9                  7
D=uz                        261            1              50          4           34-80          -           4      63-125               -                 12.6        150-300           34.5         1.7                    -                   -
Cabre                     (1,088)
Gh-anoache                 673             4            590            8           27-80          3.3         8      25-125               -                 42          150-500           10          10
Trb.olb u                  415             3            480            4           40-80          0.5         4      25-63                -                 24           150-300            -          -                       _                  _
cIvIl era.
Subtotal                  (3,040)           12          1,880           29           27-100         0.3        25                           _                127           150-500         Z7  km.  2 m deep                   0.9                  7
(149 kr ikproved)
Ne  Plantations                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      r
Djtrid                     (1,287)
Dt-a Sld                    197            3          1,920            3              60          3.1         3         63      17 kl  oa-is track.         12.5         150-250          55                                 7.8                 37
OraS Nerd                  615            10          6,500           10              60          4          10        160      11 kB  arceae  roads        48.5        150-250          160                                15                   90
37 kn Oasis trocks
Hazoua                     197             3          1,605            3               60       (diesel)      -         -       16 kee asis tracka          12.5        150-250           51                                 7                   35
El H-nsa                   278             4          1,200            4           42-84          3.9         4    125-160    14 ks oasis tracka            11          100-500          100                                                     50
N.f-aaos                     (812)
El GhBula                   72             -            _              1              72          3           1      30-63      12 kB  aoisi  trarkr         3.4        200-300           12                                  _                  21
D-aa Skauea                 S0            -            -              1               80         1.5         1      30-125              -                   7          150-250           33                                 2.2                 11
SBida                       56             1           200             1              60          3           1      30-63       5 kB  oasis tranks          3.4           200            32                                 2.5                 12.5
R0Ji0   Mato-s              304            2           450          atesian        96-104          -          -        -        20 kl  acces  -oads         19.5        150-500          121                                 6                   30
30 kB  oasis tracks               civiil rg.
Atilet - Dj-en.s            300            4           660             4               80         4.6         -    125-160               _                  20.7         150-300           -
Sabtotal                  (2,099)            27       12.535            27           42-104        23.1        24                U3Q kB  rasis tracka        139           100-150          i50 ko; 2 m deep                  40.5               206.5
GRAND TOTAL                  (5,139)            39                        56            27-104       31.4        53                131 kB  aesi  tra-ka        266           100-150          220 kn 2  =  deop                  41.4              203.3
_     ~            ~      ~      ~ ~       ~ _~                                  Ba =k  anrosa coaide     -                            (19 kea tmaroraed)-                                    __
At krst 1979



-46  -                             ANNEX 3
Page 1
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
SOUTHERN IRRIGATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Selected Reports and Studies on the Agricultural Sector in Tunisia
-    Draft of Agricultural Sector - IBRD Memorandum (July 1979)
-    Preparation du 5e Plan (1977-81) - Ministry of Agriculture
-    5e Plan du Developpement Economique et Social (1977-81) - Republic
of Tunisia
-    Budget Economique 1979 - Republic of Tunisia
-    Conference Mondiale sur La R&forme Agraire et le De'veloppement Rural
1978 - Republic of Tunisia
-    Rapport d'Activite des Offices de Mise en Valeur 1977 - Ministry of
Agriculture
-    Rapport d'Activite des Offices de Commercialisation de Production et
de Vulgarisation 1977 - Ministry of Agriculture
-    Enquete Agricole de Base 1976 - Ministry of Agriculture
-    Enquete Agricole de Base 1977 - Ministry of Agriculture
-    Enquete Conjoncture Agricole 1979 - Ministry of Agricu:lture
-    Rapport d'Activite de l'Institut national de la Recherche
Agronomique de Tunisie 1978 - Ministry of Agriculture
-    Commercialisation Interieure des Produits de l'Agriculture 1979 -
Ministry of Agriculture
-    Prix i la Production des Produits de l'Agriculture et de la Peche
1965-75 - Ministry of Agriculture
-    Budget Economique 1978, Agriculture et Pgche 1977 - Ministry of
Agriculture
-    Budget Economique 1979, Agriculture et Peche 1978 - Ministry of
Agriculture



-47 -                              ANNEX 3
Page 2
-    Evolution des Prix de Principaux Intrants 1968-78 (1979) - Ministry
of Agriculture
-    Bulletin Mensuel de Statistique Nos. 261-264, 273-284 - Ministry of
Planning
-    Statistiques Resumees du Commerce Exterieur 1978 - Ministry of
Planning
-    Note sur la Conjoncture Agricole 1979 - Ministry of Agriculture
-    Statistique sur la Production, le Commerce et le Prix de la Viande
Bovine 1978 - FAO/SIDA
-    Programme International de Coordination du Developpement Laitier
1978 - FAO
-    La Commercialisation de la Viande Bovine 1978 - FAO
-    Organisation du Ministere de l'Agriculture 1977 - Ministry of
Agriculture
-    Les Perimetres Irrigues en Tunisie - Various Documents
-    L'Olivaie Tunisienne 1977 - FAO/SIDA/ONH
-    Le "Systeme Tunisien" de l'Alimentation bovine a Base d'Ensilage de
Cereales 1978 - FAO/SIDA
-    Etude du Secteur Irrigue en Tunisie 1976 - Ministry of Agriculture
B.   Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Plan Directeur des Eaux du Sud - Projet de Creation et de Renovation
d'Oasis dans le Sud Tunisien - Rapport General et Annexes - Centre
National des Etudes Agricoles (April 1979).
Specifications Techniques et Estimations Quantitatives pour le Forage,
l'Equipement et les Tests de Debit pour 10 Forages d'Irrigation (January
1977).
Specifications Techniques et Devis Quantitatif pour le Forage, Realisa-
tion et Tests de 33 Puits d'Irrigation (January 1977).
Etude Agro-Economique de l'Amenagement de l'Oasis de Douz (December 1978).
Etude de Sauvegarde des Oasis du Sud Tunisien



- 48 -                           ANNEX 3
Page 3
-    Oasis de Gannouche (May 1977)
-    Oasis de Ras El Ain (May 1977)
-    Oasis de Teboulbou (May 1977)
-    Oasis d'El Hamma du Djerid (September 1977)
-    Oasis de Tozeur (May 1977)
Simulation pour la periode 1971-1975 de la Nappe du Complexe Terminal dans
la region de la Nefzaoua - Djerid (December 1977).
-    Etude de creation d'oasis nouvelle (Volume II (March 1977)
-    Code des eaux (1978)
C.   Selected Working Papers and Tables Prepared by Bank Staff and Consultants
Appendix
C1   -   Detailed data on Technical Characteristics .... ......       1
c2   -   Detailed data on Agricultural Production based on
Investment Models .....   . ..............................  2
C3   -    Detailed data on Investment Costs and Unit Prices ...       3
C4   -   Detailed data on Economic Analysis .....      .............  4



IBRD 14434
;  - S                        ;                          }o           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JULY17
TUNISIA
MEDITERRANEAN    SEA
SOUITK-RN IRRGATK)N PRJCT
-,g&, ziSn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CAP SON 
re A    A ia   n  Dranom    B    <f           ,liFan                      F         M
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
35.~~~~~~~~~~~~~Eb
,q4. nd/To \,. KERKNN
N00  ~      ~T VRAP                          / / 0             E/f"d"
| ) Y72 92<J ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t 4 # Vf Of84MwMt
_s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d OW -rWY j     S t f)       &
/1'O { ,T   B0,'SADO
j    fl  -.   /              \              \    tV           r@K~~~~~~DERBA
I/I///// Proiect Area
Freshwater LakesL
UNIS                              Chotts (Saltwater Lakes)
-r    \S Rivers
{  A  F R I C A    X                   Main Roads
-4--+--+  tRailways
f International Airports
- l yf @ Ports
International Boundaries
.   g   /   /                                                  \O~~~~~     ~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Remodo   .   
.   .   % (  0 / 01   210 1     0    8 8.0  100
-     KILOMETERS






IBRD 14435
TUNISIA
SOUTHERN IRRIGATION PROJECT
PROJECT AREA
Plontotrons to be -retod
/  //  [-t-/  \  f  af  8rCethec Rraditionctl Oosis~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TodFino Os,
r //7 '= Rf / - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--  Trocks.
Aiports
,   -- GO_,   norote Bou-dories
4-,     H,I.
D=_EleUb;ge   ~~     >\=                        =                  *REHABILITATIN  NEW  PLANTATION
NO    OA5SI    R7A0E (hAn NO                   O4S"  -UP      (h7                                                                                      a/
2'                S~~~~~~~1REFL HAMOA  340               SFl '-L HAMMA       2I8
2~~~~~~~ =                                   RO   25  00\2          950                        SF4  .    /\SUi  101 EPd   
N ~~~~~~~~~RTOER 4                     ,,ADR.ASOD S9
SR  GHANNOUC54  673                        HAOA           4
A   L  G    E   R   I A                                    SR  TELOLOU      41 5                          GAFSt     2/\
A R RAS ES ALIN  2N1                                                                                                                                                           PLAN1AIO3 LjETNIS            \>
rA     RES R AZMA        50                       DJ       OUA   A0                                                                                                                               T       5  I A900
FR   G0 BE       2E5 GB                Mp RAAOLA0         73 1 A
!P  SM IA          5p
|   X,   ,   .   pt,:,  Of  .f  .......  h b WldS RS .... {tm | A2430~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILOM R                                                                                                    IIA.'
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T



