OFFICIALI LOAN NUMBER 1796 TUN
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Southern Irrigation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1796 TUN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         F4                  , 1980, between
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA (hereinafter calledthe Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) Parts A and D of the Project will be carried out by the
Borrower, respectively through GR and DRES (as these terms are
hereinafter defined);
(C) Parts B and C of the Project will be carried out by OMVD
and by OMVG, respectively, with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower w>ll make available to OMVD
and OMVG, respectively, a portion of the proceeds of the Loan as
hereinafter provided;
(D) by an exchange of letters dated January 10, 1978 and
January 27, 1978 between the Borrower and the Bank, the Bank
granted to the Borrower a project preparation advance (hereinafter
called the Advance) in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred and eighty thousand dollars ($180,000) to assist in
financing the preparation of the Project; and
(E) the Bank is prepared to refund the Advance out of the
proceeds of the Loan provided for herein;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth


﻿-2-
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Area" means the area of about 5,000 ha com-
prising the Regions of Djerid, Nefzaoua and Gabas;
(b)  "GR" means the Genie Rural Department within the
Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(c)  "DRES" means the Direction des Ressources en Eau et en
Sol within the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(d)  "OMVD" means the Office de Mise en Valeur du Djerid,
an 6tablissement public A caractAre industriel et commercial
responsible for agricultural development in the Djerid region,
and to be established by the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (a)
of this Agreement, or any successor thereto;
(e) "OMVG" means the Office de Mise de Valeur de GabAs, an
6tablissement public A caractAre industriel et commercial
responsible for agricultural development in the Gabgs and
Nefzaoua regions, and to be established by the Borrower pursuant
to Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement, or any successor thereto;
(f) "Simulation Models" means the mathematical models used
to simulate the process of acquifer development to determine their
evolution as a result of various programs of their exploitation;
and
(g) "Dinars" and "DT" mean the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) As of the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Advance
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount
of the Advance shall be cancelled as of the same date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to.the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and ninety-five hundredths per cent (7.95%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE Ill
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A and D
of the Project through GR and DRES, respectively, and shall cause


﻿OMVD and OMVG to carry out Parts B and C, respectively, of the
Project, under arrangements acceptable to the Bank, all with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, agricultural and engineering practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Promptly after the completion of Part A of the Project,
the Borrower shall ensure that the responsibility for the opera-
tion and maintenance of the new plantations established under Part
A of the Project is transferred to OMVD and OMVG, respectively.
(c) Without limitation or restriction upon the generality of
Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall allocate to
GR, DRES, OMVD and OMVG, respectively: (i) budgetary funds in such
amounts as shall be required to meet, inter alia, the local
expenditures for Parts A, D, B and C, respectively, of the Pro-
ject, and (ii) such proceeds of the Loan as shall have been
withdrawn by the Borrower for the purposes of Parts A, D, B and C,
respectively, of the Project.
(d) The Borrower shall, through its Ministry of Agriculture,
ensure the coordination of the work of OMVD, OMVG and of its
agencies and departments participating in the execution of the
Project.
Section 3.02. In order to assist (i) GR in the preparation
of bidding documents and the evaluation of bids and the supervi-
sion of construction works under the Project, and (ii) DRES in the
carrying out of the studies under Part D of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experi-
ence and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.03. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
Parts B and C of the Project to be carried out by OMVD and OMVG,
respectively, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
for this purpose, not later than December 31, 1980, or such later
date as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank, the
Borrower shall enter into arrangements providing for, inter alia,
the obligations of OMVD and OMVG, respectively:
(i) to establish, manage and maintain the new plan-
tations and carry out the extension services


﻿-5-
under the direction and supervision of qualified
staff satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii) to periodically determine the price of alfalfa hay
produced taking into account prevailing market
prices in the Project Area;
(iii) to procure the goods provided under Parts B.3
and C.3, respectively, of the Project in accordance
with the provisions set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; and
(iv) to undertake any other obligations as the Borrower
and the Bank shall agree.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan again,     hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delive y thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Parts A and D of
the Project (including its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods and ser-
vices financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose
their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in Part A of the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular
intervals all such information. as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate,


﻿-6-
the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or at such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall closely monitor the varia-
tions in water salinity and the depletion of exisiing and future
wells throughout the Project Area and, for this purpose, the
Borrower shall:
(a) not later than April 1, 1981, forward to the Bank
for its review and comment a report summarizing the data recorded
on the evolution of aquifers taking into account water levels,
water use and water quality of existing and future wells;
(b) not later than October 1, 1983: (i) develop a new
Simulation Model for the Djerid Region similar to the Simulation
Model developed for the Nefzaoua Region; and (ii) carry out
simulations of the evolution of the Djerid and Nefzaoua aquifers,
and forward to the Bank for its review and comment the results
thereof;
(c) not less than every five years after the date specified
in paragraph (b), carry out simulations and promptly thereafter
forward to the Bank, for its review and comment, a copy of the
results thereof establishing detailed projections of the evolution
of the Djerid and Nefzaoua aquifers; and
(d) take all such remedial action as may be agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Bank to limit salinity and ensure
availability of potable water through such measures as may be
appropriate, including as the case may be, through water desalin-
ization or conveyance of fresh water from less saline wells.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the alloca-
tion, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivisi,on, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with


﻿-8-
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of Parts A and D of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower respon-
sible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause all works and facili-
ties included in the Project to be adequately maintained and
repaired in accordance with sound engineering and agricultural
practices and standards and shall cause all canals, pipelines,
structures and other works and facilities not included in the
Project but necessary to the proper and efficient operation
thereof to be operated and adequately maintained and repaired in
accordance with such practices and standards.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (i) carry out a study,
based on the criteria set forth in Schedule 5 of this Agreement,
for the establishment of a cost recovery system for irrigation in
the Project Area; (ii) on the basis of the results of such study
and not later than June 30, 1981, submit to the Bank for its
review and comment a plan to progressively increase water charges
to be paid by farmers; and (iii) thereafter implement such plan on
the basis of such recommendations as shall have been agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Bank, and periodically review the
adequacy of the level of water charges in consultation with the
Bank.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01, For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the Borrower, OMVD or OMVG shall have failed to perform
any of their respective obligations under this Agreement or under
the arrangements entered into pursuant to Section 3.03 of this
Agreement; and
(b) an action shall have been taken for the abrogation or
amendment of any of the terms of the Borrower's Act establishing
OMVD or the Borrower's Act establishing OMVG which would, in the
opinion of the Bank, adversely affect the execution of the Project
or the ability of the Borrower, OMVD or OMVG to perform their


﻿-9-
respective obligations under this Agreement or under the arrange-
ments entered into pursuant to Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any of the events specified in paragraph (a) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall o-cur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
(b) any of the events specified in paragraph (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) OMVD shall have been duly and legally established as
an 'tablissement public ' caract're industriel et commercial
with all such powers as are necessary to carry out Part B of the
Project in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in
this Agreement; and
(b) OMVG shall have been duly and legally established as
an 'tablissement public ' caract're industriel et commercial
with all such powers as are necessary to carry out Part C of the
Project in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in
this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that OMVD has been duly and legally established as
an etablissement public a caractere industriel et commercial
in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations prevailing
in the Republic of Tunisia, and has been duly empowered to carry
out Part B of the Project in accordance with the provisions set
forth,in this Agreement; and


﻿- 10 -
(b) that OMVG has been duly and legally established as
an 6tablissement public A caractere industriel et commercial
in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations prevailing
in the Republic of Tunisia, and has been duly empowered to carry
out Part C of the Project in accordance with the provision set
forth in this Agreement.
Section 6.03. The date       4            O        is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministre D6l6gu6 aupras du Premier Ministre
Charg6 du Plan of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist6re du Plan
1 rue de Beja
Tunis, Tunisia
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINISTERE DU PLAN                 MIPLAN
Tunis                             12117 TN
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day atnd
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By                    Regional Vice President
Europe, Mi9dle East and North Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Civil works                     8,800,000     40%
(2) Vehicles and agri-             12,600,000     100% of foreign
cultural and irri-                           expenditures
gation equipment                             and 55% of
local expendi-
tures
(3) Consultants' ser-                 420,000    100% of foreign
*vices and studies                           expenditures
(4) Refunding of Project              180,000     100%
Preparation Advance
(5) Unallocated                     3,000,000
TOTAL           25,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.


﻿- 13 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuf-
ficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallo-
cation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which is included in the Borrower's Master Plan
for Water Resources Development in Southern Tunisia, consists of
the following Parts:
Part A:   Civil Works
1.   Hydraulic and civil works for the rehabilitation of 7
oases on about 3,000 ha and for the establishment of 9
new date palm plantations and date palm-forage peri-
meters on about 2,100 ha in the Djerid, Nefzaoua and
Gabas Regions, including:
(i) deep-well boring;
(ii) installation of pump sets and of well equipment;
(iii) installation of power connections;
(iv) land-levelling;
(v) construction of irrigation and drainage infrastruc-
tures;
(vi) installation    of wind   breakers and anti-sand
barriers;
(vii) construction of feeder roads and access roads;
(viii) construction of office buildings, storage facili-
ties, and repair shops for vehicles and agricul-
tural equipment; and
(ix) construction of a date processing plant in the
Djerid Region.
2.   Acquisition of vehicles and acquisition and installation
of equipment, including pump sets, well equipment,
abestos and cement pipes.
3.   Establishment and maintenance of an experimental plot of
about 15 ha in the Nefzaoua Region to undertake research
on:


﻿- 15 -
(i) drip irrigation for date palms;
(ii) sprinkler irrigation for forage plantations;
and
(iii) various drainage systems.
Part B:   Agricultural Development in the Djerid Region
1.   Planting, operating and maintaining 4 date palm planta-
tions of a total of about 1,300 ha, including about 280
ha of forage plantation.
2.   Provision of agricultural extension services to farmers
to improve date, vegetable and forage production.
3.   Acquisition of vehicles and trucks and acquisition and
installation of agricultural equipment and machinery.
4.   Operation of a date processing plant.
Part C:   Agricultural Development in the Gabas and
Nefzaoua Regions
1.   Planting, operating and maintaining       5 date palm
plantations of a total of about 800 ha in the Nefzaoua
Region, including about 300 ha of forage plantation for
the production of alfalfa.
2.   Provision of agricultural extension services to farmers
to improve the date, vegetable and forage production.
3.   Acquisition of vehicles and trucks and acquisition and
installation of agricultural equipment and machinery.
Part D:   Studies of the Evolution of Aquifers
1.   Construction of a detailed Simulation Model for the
aquifer in the Djerid Region.


﻿- 16 -
2.   Carrying out of simulations on the basis of the Simula-
tion Models developed for the Djerid and Nefzaoua
aquifers.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1985.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 1986
through   September 15, 1996               1,135,000
On March 15, 1997                               1,165,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.40%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                             2.80%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                             5.15%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen years
before maturity                             7.00%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                             7.95%


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereunder, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale
or delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Republic of Tunisia may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿- 20 -
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Republic of Tunisia if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Republic of Tunisia equal
to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pur*uant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 21 -
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Schedule:
1.   Contracts for civil works required under the Project shall be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures
acceptable to the Bank, except that civil works required for the
installation of the power connections under Part A.1 (iii)
of the Project, estimated to cost the equivalent of $400,000,
shall be carried out on the basis of a negotiated contract between
the Borrower and the Soci6t6 Tunisienne d'Electricitf et du
Gaz under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Bank.
2.   Contracts for vehicles and agricultural equipment required
under Parts A, B and C of the Project, which do not exceed the
equivalent of $250,000 each and which do not exceed in the
aggregate the equivalent of $1,700,000, may be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
3.   Contracts for pump sets, well equipment, and asbestos and
cement pipes required under Part A.2 of the Project, which do not
exceed the equivalent of $250,000 each and which do not exceed in
the aggregate the equivalent of $750,000, may be awarded in accor-
dance with local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $250,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it, is issued to the prospective
bidders.


﻿- 22 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and compari-
son of the bids received, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 30% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 5
Criteria for Formulating a Cost Recovery System
Determination of the level of water charges to be recovered
from farmers shall take into account, the provisions of the Bor-
rower's Code des Eaux as well as, inter alia, the following
factors:
1.   the costs (in real terms) incurred by the Borrower
for constructing, operating and maintaining the irriga-
tion system in the Project Area;
2.   the impact of the level and structure of water charges
on the farmers' incentives to utilize available water
resources;
3.   the farmers' relative income in relation to the national
per capita income;
4.   the scope for possible differentiation in the water
charges as applied to farmers with different income
levels and farm sizes; and
5.   the appropriate phasing of increases in water charges
in relation to increased agricultural production under
the Project.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this        -day of eZ&    , 198 LL.
S XSCRETA
FOR SECRETARY


