Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11257
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COMOROS
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1408-COM)
OCTOBER 8, 1992
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
South Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS (1991)
Currency unit      =     Comorian Franc (CF)
I US dollar        =     282 CF
MEASURES
Metric system            Anglo-Saxon svstem
1 meter            =     3.28 feet
1 square meter     =     10.76 square feet
1 kilometer        =     0.62 miles
I square kilometer   =   0.39 square miles
ABBREVIATIONS
BEPE   -   Education Projects Implementation Unit (Bureau d'Ex6cution des Projets
Education)
CEGIR  -   Center for Research, Information and Production of National Education
CSP     -   Central Supply PharmacyJ]
EPI     -   Expanded Program for Immunization
FAO     -   Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
FP      -   Family Planning
GDP    -   Gross Domestic Product
IDA     -   International Development Association
IEC     -   Information, Education and Communication
IFRC    -   Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
IV      -   Intraveinous
MCH    -   Mother and Child Health
MH      -   Ministry of Health
MP      -   Ministry of Planning
NSH     -   National School of Health
NGO    -   Non-Governmental Organizations
PHC     -   Primary Health Care
PNAC   -   National Autonomous Pharmacy of the Comoros (Pharmacie Nationale
Autonome des Comores)l/
UNFPA  -   United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF -   United Nations Children's Fund
WHO    -   World Health Organization
11      The Central Supply Pharmacy was transformed from a division of the MH into
an autonomous public sector agency, the National Autonomous Pharmacy of the
Comoros.



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-Genral
Operations Evalustion
October 8, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - COMOROS: Health and Population
Proiect (Credit 1408-COM)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report - COMOROS: Health and Population Project (Credit 1408-COM)"
prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed by
the Borrower.   No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reciplints only in the performance of
ther official duties. fts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COMOROS
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1408-COM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No
PREFACE ................................ . .
EVALUATION SUMMARY ......................... .  iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE.    . . . . . . . . . . .1
1. Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
2. Socioeconomic Context .1...................... . .
3. Project Objectives and Description .1............... . .
4. Project Design and Organization  ....  .                     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  2
5. Project Execution  .....  .                 .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   4
6. Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
7. Sustainability of Project Effects .................. .                                              9
8. Overview  of Bank Performance   ....  .                   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    10
9. Performance  of the Borrower  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
10. Relations under the Project  ....  .                   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    12
11. External Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
12.  Project Documents  and Data   ....  .                 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    13
13. Lessons Learned  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . .   15
1. Introduction  .....  .               .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    15
2. Design, Implementation and Impact of the Project
Performance of each Component   ....  .                   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .    16
3. Critical Analysis of the Performance of the Bank,
the Government  and the Technical Assistance   . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
4. Economic and Financial Evaluation of the Project  . . . . . . . . . . .   19
5. Conclusion  .....  .               .  ..  .   .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  ..      .    20
PART III:  STATISTICAL  INFORMATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
1. Related IDA Credits   ....  .                .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .    .    21
2. Project Timetable   ....  .                .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .    .    21
3. Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
4. Project Execution   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
5. Project Costs  and Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
6. Project Results   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
7. Application of Clauses  ....  .                 .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .    .    25
8. Utilization of IDA Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
ANNEX  1 - Comparative  Timetable of Project Execution   . . . . . . . . . .   29
ANNEX 2 - Comparative Table of Estimated and Actual Costs  . . . . . . . .   31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- j -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COMOROS
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1408-COH)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Health and
Population Project in the Comoros, for which Credit 1408-COH in the sum of
US$ 2.85 million equivalent (SDR 2.7 million) was approved by the Executive
Directors on August 23, 1983. The Credit Closing Date, originally June 30,
1987, was postponed five times to June 30, 1991, at the Government's request.
The Credit Account was kept open a further four months to honor withdrawal
applications arising from commitments made before the final revised closing
date. The Credit Account was closed on November 5, 1991 and an undisbursed
balance of SDR 87,575 was cancelled.
This PCR was prepared jointly by the Population and Human
Resources Division of the South Central and Indian Ocean Department, Africa
Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III) and the
Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was based on the findings of missions that
visited the Comoros in October 1991 and February 1992 and, inter alia, on the
following sources: the Appraisal Report, the Credit Agreement, supervision
reports, correspondence between the Association and the Borrower, internal
memoranda and discussions with representatives in the field. Comments were
also obtained from the IDA task managers/projects staff who identified,
prepared, appraised and supervised the project and from the Government on
drafts of Parts I and III of the Report.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COMOROS
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1408-COM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Proiect Obiectives and Description
1.    The objectives of the project were to help develop a program to slow
population growth and to strengthen management and delivery of basic health
services. The project consisted of six components: (a) improve the quality of
and access to family planning services through staff training, equipment,
vehicles, consultant services, and incremental operating expenditures; (b)
develop a national population policy through consultant services, training
programs, fellowships and study tours, and incremental operating expenditures;
(c) construct and equip a central pharmacy, including a compounding unit, and
three regional depots, along with consultant services to improve distribution and
logistic systems and staff training; (d) extend/upgrade basic health facilities
through construction and equipping of 2 MCH centers, rehabilitation of about 30
health posts, and the reequipping of 1 hospital MCH unit, 7 health centers and
39 health posts; (e) strengthen MH sectoral planning capacity and the training
programs of the National School of Health (NSH) through consultant services,
vehicles and fellowships; and (f) consultant services to prepare a hospital
sector development and financing plan, including proposals to introduce fees for
services.
Proiect Execution
2.    The project was completed on June 30, 1991 four years later than planned.
The project components were for the most part implemented.   The quantitative
objectives for physical infrastructures were achieved in overall terms but
considerably behind schedule. The civil works were adversely affected by the
poor quality of the plans prepared by the consultants. Project implementation
could have been speeded up by regular coordination meetings. The total cost of
the project was CF 1,321,413,000, a 30% overrun over appraisal estimates due to
(a) a 1890% overrun of on project administration costs, and (b) price increases
stemming from implementation delays. Despite a modification of the disbursement
schedule to reduce the Government's financial contribution, the Credit financed
only 81% of project costs against an appraisal estimate of 91%.
Prolect Results
3.    Family  Planning  (FP)  services  are no  longer  controversial  and  are
accessible throughout the country in almost all health facilities with
specialized personnel assigned for their delivery. Between 1982 and 1991 the
modern contraceptive prevalence rate increased from about 1% to over 3.5 Z of
women of childbearing age.  Although significantly improved, the FP services
still have shortcomings and suffer from not being integrated into the other MCH



- iv -
programs. The number of acceptors is below levels required to reduce demographic
growth. The monitoring of clients, supervision of services and management of
contraceptives still leave much to be desired. Supplies of contraceptives are
unpredictable. Hardly any improvements of MCH services occurred.
4.    Support to the Population Unit, along with a UNFPA project, helped to
change very negative attitudes of political, religious and traditional leaders
toward family planning through demographic research and population information,
education and communications activities using modern and traditional networks.
However, the Population Unit lacked the human, physical and financial resources
needed to fulfill its tasks of planning and coordinating a national population
policy. In later years, its focus shifted to the preparation and execution of
a population census.
5.    The project helped enhance the efficiency of the national pharmacy.  Its
headquarters and its three regional branches were given new buildings. The drug
and intravenous (IV) solution production units bogan operations in 1991. In 1990
the pharmacy was transformed into a public agency with management autonomy.
Commercial activities began in 1991. Successful operations have facilitated the
adoption of regulations allowing hospitals to operate income and expenditure
accounts. The MH has taken steps to establish and supervise village pharmacies
that are expected to increase access to essential drugs. Technical and financial
support provided by France, the United Nations system and the European Development
Fund in conjunction with the IDA financed project and a close collaboration and
consultation among donors and with the MH have contributed to the success
obtained.
6.     The construction of two MCH centers and the physical rehabilitation of 24
Health Posts intensified an already dense health network.   Execution of this
program was satisfactory in terms of the number of units created and renovated,
but was characterized by lengthy delays and numerous technical and logistical
problems relating to the civil works and specification and delivery of equipment.
The design of the MCH centers was not fully appropriate. Low facility utilization
rate hardly improved, except for prenatal consultations and vaccinations for which
excellent coverage rates have been achieved. Until 1992 essential drugs were not
available in or near the rehabilitated health posts, despite the commitments made
by the Government to supply the Central Pharmacy.
7.    The planning and training component was largely not implemented, except for
a study on the training programs of the NSH. This was due in large part to the
unwillingness of the director of the NHS to carry out the programmed activities.
The planned activities could have contributed to improving the quality of basic
health services and provided the foundation for addressing the health personnel
issues identified as a priority area of the economic adjustment program negotiated
in 1991. A study of the hospital system focusing on financial needs, was prepared
but not used by MH officials. It helped limit costly hospital investments and
facilitated the introduction of cost recovery measures.
Sustainabilitv of Prolect Effects
8.    The project effects have been below expectations.  Gains are still fragile
and will need to be supported, particularly through a new project under



- v -
preparation. Physical infrastructures have major unmet maintenance requirements
which, combined with a lack of motivation on the part of health personnel to
preserve their plant, suggest that they will quickly deteriorate unless new
solutions and financing sources are found: the water supply installations in the
renovated health posts, apart from being rudimentary, are already out of service
everywhere. The institutional effects are likely to be more lasting, foremost the
improved access to drugs made possible by the changes in the status and operating
metIhods of the National Autonomous Pharmacy of the Comoros (PNAC) and the
acceptance by the Government of the principle of community participation for drug
purchases. Initial experience with the Population Unit was promising but tailed
off; few efforts were made to improve MH's sector planning and training capacity.
The project coordinating unit had to deal with many difficulties in implementing
this first project and met with varying success in coordinating the entities
responsible for project implementation. By project completion, it no longer had
any defined tasks and the experience acquired by its members risks being lost.
Overview of Bank and Borrower Performance
9.    IDA invested a great deal of time and money, quite out of proportion to the
amount of the Credit, to ensure regular supervision of the project and to
compensate for design shortcomings of a complex first operation in the sector.
Recommendations and Credit Agreement amendments enabled obstacles impeding project
execution to be surmounted. Frequent staff changes led to periods of adaptation
with considerable time spent on project familiarization.
10.   The MH was the Borrower's principal executing agency, although it had hardly
been involved in project identification and preparation. The rapid establishment
and staffing of the Project Coordinating Unit, and the continuity of its principal
members, were positive factors, but could not guarantee the smooth progress of the
project. In the final two years of project implementation frequent government
reshuffles with replacement of senior MH officials, as well as labor strikes,
disrupted the project schedule and work program. A chronic shortage of Government
funds undermined the operation of basic health services and delayed supply and
production of essential drugs. Compliance with procurement procedures was poor.
Lessons to be Drawn
11.   The principal lessons to be drawn from the project relate to lessons learned
about the difficult conditions prevailing in a small, isolated, stagnating island
economy with: (a) very weak public institutions and a civil service administration
incapable of adequately remunerating and motivating employees; (b) a scarcity of
technical expertise in almost all disciplines; and (c) a strong tradition of
village politics that call for mechanisms to channel local community and
beneficiary energies towards sustaining project objectives.   In raising the
following set of lessons, it is useful to recall that the project was logical in
conception and that it addressed the real health and population problems with what
was good professional judgement at the time.
(a)   The project design was too complex, with excessive technical and
coordination/management expectations of the MH. Building standards
need to be optimized to reflect maintenance requirements and
capacity.   To compensate for institutional weaknesses,  technical



- vi -
assistance and provisions for ensuring sector wide coordination need
to be built into the project and easily monitorable indicators of
project activity and impact need to be specified.
(b)   When dealing with weak implementation agencies, project preparation
needs to specify technical aspects in great detail; these should be
finally agreed by negotiations.  Project preparation also needs to
fully involve the principal implementation agency right from the
start of the project cycle in order to avoid backtracking on
agreements reached during negotiations and implementation delays.
Increasing IDA supervision to compensate for poorly specified designs
is a costly and ineffective coping mechanism.
(c)   The Government's fiscal situation and of its financial administration
need to be assessed more realistically. Recurrent cost implications,
especially for staffing and maintenance, need to be better defined
and monitored. Alternative sources to Government funding, including
popular participation, need to be thoroughly explored to enhance
sustainability prospects.
(d)   Small projects requiring small quantities of a wide range of goods to
be procured should make use of international shopping procedures. In
general procurement arrangements need to be examined with particular
care to ensure that bidding packages can effectively elicit responses
from suppliers.   When a previously untried procurement method is
proposed (use of UNICEF for procurement of drugs and health facility
equipment and furniture), fall back positions need to specified.
(e)   The decision to use Project Management Units rather than the Ministry
of Public Works or an architectural firm to manage and supervise
civil works programs is not always efficient nor conducive to a
lasting transfer of skills.   Use of a Project Management Unit in
another Ministry (other than Public Works) should be avoided as it
creates intersectoral coordination problems.
(f)   Project Coordination Committees should not be used to compensate for
inadequate intra-ministerial coordination; the taking of adequate
coordination measures should be conditions of negotiations.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COMOROS
HRALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1408-COM)
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Proiect Identitv
Project title:                 Health and Population Project
Credit number:                  1408-COM
Office of the Regional
Vice President:                Africa Region
Country:                       Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Sector:                        Population, Health and Nutrition
Amount of Credit:               SDR 2.7 million
Board approval:                September 30, 1983
Original closing date:         June 30, 1987
Actual closing date:           June 30, 1991
2.    Socioeconomic Context
2.01 Macroeconomic Context. The project was prepared and appraised in 1982 when
the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros (IFRC), independent since 1975, was
still engaged in reorganizing its administrative and economic system, which had
been destroyed by the regime of President Ali Soilih. Many obstacles lay along
the path to progress:  the country's geography, its heavy dependence on food
imports, runaway population growth, seriously underdeveloped socioeconomic
infrastructure, low level of school attendance and a very limited scope for
economic diversification. Up to 1984 GDP increased 7.5% a year, largely as a
result of favorable world prices for the country's three export products (gloves,
vanilla and ylang ylang). From 1985 onwards, however, this trend was reversed.
The country's economic and social situation became increasingly difficult and
strained; this led the Government to introduce in 1991 a structural adjustment
program that included components for the rehabilitation of the civil service and
the social sectors.
2.02 The objectives of the project were entirely consistent with the health
sector development priorities set forth within the framework of the Interim
Economic and Social Development Plan for 1983-87.  This plan assigned to the
Ministry of Health (MH) the task of reducing mortality, especially maternal/child
mortality, and slowing down the rate of population growth. Among the strategies
recommended to the HH was the generalization of primary health care and family
planning (FP) services. This approach remains valid.
3.    Project Oblectives and Description
3.01 Project Obiectives. The general objectives of the project were to help the
GovernDment develop a program to slow population growth and strengthen the
management and delivery of basic health services. Specifically, the project was



- 2 -
designed to: (a) develop a strategy for reducing the rate of population growth
and enhance the quantity and quality of FP and other mother/child health
services; (b) introduce a system for the compounding, storage and distribution
of pharmaceutical products; (c) improve the relevance and effectiveness of
training programs for health service personnel; (d) upgrade the network of
facilities providing basic health services; and (e) prepare a plan for the
rationalization and development of the hospital sector.
3.02 Project Components. The project consisted of the following six components:
(a)   Family planning.  To improve and extend the delivery of family planning
services, support for the Mother and Child Health (MCH) Division of the MH
was to provide training for four family planning supervisors, equipment,
vehicles, consultant services, and meet part of the cost of supervision
and information, education and communications (IEC) activities in the area
of family planning;
(b)   Population Unit.   To assist the development of a national population
policy, the project was to finance consultant services, training programs,
fellowships and study tours, as well as providing funds to cover the
additional operating costs, of a new unit to be established in the
Ministry of Planning that would be responsible for preparing, advising and
coordinating population control activities undertaken by other ministries;
(c)   Production, Storage and Distribution of Pharmaceuticals. The construction
and equipping of a central pharmacy and three regional supply depots,
including a compounding unit, consultant services to improve distribution
and logistics and initiate the unit's activities, and a study tour for its
director;
(d)   Health Facilities.  Extending the network of basic health care facilities
through the construction and equipping of 2 MCH centers, rehabilitation
and construction of about 30 health posts, and the reequipping of 1
hospital MCH unit, 7 health centers and 39 health posts;
(e)   Planning and Training of Human Resources.  Consultant services, vehicles
and fellowships, preparation of a training and redeployment plan for
paramedical personnel, including the revision of training programs at the
National School of Health (NSH);
(f)   Hospital  Studies.    Consultant  services  to prepare  a plan  for  the
development and financing of the hospital sector, including the
introduction of fees for services.
4.    Prolect Design and Organization
4.01 The six components of the project closely reflected its general objectives,
but were not sufficient on their own to generate the anticipated benefits. The
sector policies with which the project activities meshed were appropriate; what
was lacking was development vision or guiding concept that would have spelled out
how all the activities undertaken by the MH, including those financed by the IDA
credit, were to complement each other in order to achieve the desired objectives.



- 3 -
The result was that the project was planned and implemented as a patchwork of
separate activities that were inadequately linked to the projects and programs
of other donors operating in the sector. This lack of coherence stemmed from the
weakness of MH', and the way in which the project was prepared and the
appointment of a national director for each component. For despite the fact that
the project was conceived as an extension of actions initiated by UNFPA with the
MH in September 1980, the Government's initial request for financing came from
the Ministry of Planning (MP). The MH did not participate in the early phases
of project preparation:   established only in 1980, it was just beginning to
organize itself at that time.  Under the initial institutional structure, the
Education Project was responsible for supervising civil works on behalf of the
MH, which did not have the necessary resources.  The arrival of the MH as the
principal  executing  agency  altered  the  focus  of  the  project.    Health
considerations which were originally subordinate came to predominate over the
demographic aspects.
4.02 The institutional weakness of the MH and the lack of experience of its
officials called for precise technical reference documents. However, important
matters were overlooked during project preparation. For example, the definitive
list of equipment to be financed under the project was only finalized well after
the negotiations2 , the Credit became effective before the sites for civil works
had been identified, and the scope of pharmaceutical preparation and production
activities had to be changed. Nor did the project document accurately address
the difficulties of ensuring the financial viability of the National Pharmacy of
the Comoros (PNAC) in the absence of a sound health financing system.  These
omissions gave rise to long and costly discussions. A more thorough examination
of the health system and the conditions required for its rational and effective
operation would have indicated that the contributions asked of the Government and
the MH were unrealistic and beyond their limited institutional (logistics and
human resources) and financial capabilities.
4.03 The project opted for a vertical rather than an integrated approach to its
various activities. Thus the family planning activities were planned without
consideration being given to the low overall credibility of the health facilities
in which they were to take place. No effort was made to interest the health
center physicians -at the time all expatriates were preoccupied with the current
operation of the facilities for which they were responsible- in the provision of
family planning services. Instead the project relied on a team of five well-
trained, well-motivated and well-equipped midwives to promote and supervise these
activities.
j/    During project preparation, many of the positions in MH's organization
chart were unfilled.    There was no senior officer  responsible  for
coordinating public health services and there was not a single Comorian
doctor among MOH Headquarters staff. Internal coordination was provided
de facto, by the head of the Canadian International Development
Agency/University of Laval Health Project.
Z./ The original specifications were apparently misplaced. The recourse to
UNIPAC Services of UNICEF to procure this equipment was abandoned.



- 4 -
4.04 Other planning errors became apparent during implementation: the project
was too complex and its implementation period was too short; it did not take
proper account of the Government's technical and financial constraints. Analysis
of the socioeconomic data available at the time of project appraisal would have
led to the conclusion that it was unrealistic to expect that a newly-created.
underequipped Ministry of Health, whose personnel were poorly motivated and
irregularly remunerated, could execute, within 45 months and without proper
technical assistance, a project with six separate components.  The same data
would also have revealed that the Government's proposed contribution exceeded the
country's capacity.
5.    Proiect Execution
5.01 The project was begun in February 1984 and completed on June 30, 1991
rather than on June 30, 1987, i.e. four years later than planned. The project
components were for the most part implemented. The quantitative objectives for
physical infrastructures were achieved in overall terms (see Part III, Table 6A),
but considerably behind the original schedule. The civil works were adversely
affected by the poor quality of the plans prepared by the consultants. Delays
could have been reduced by more thorough, detailed preparation of proposals
before negotiations and by identifying more clearly the risks involved.   In
addition, the holding of periodic meetings of officials responsible for project
implementation would have facilitated the flow of information between the project
coordinating unit and the component leaders. As a result a number of officials
who could have speeded up the implementation of project activities were
sidelined.
5.02 The total cost of the project, including contingencies, was estimated at
CF 1,015,000,000, or US$3,123,000. At the closing date, the actual cost of the
project was CF 1,321,413,000, a 30Z overrun.   This can be attributed (a) to
project administration costs, where the overrun was very large (+1890x)', and
(b) to price increases stemming from implementation delays.
5.03 The other main variances involved the following:
(a)   Project implementation period was seven years instead of three years as
planned.    The  closing  date  was  extended  five  times4  to  enable
implementation of project components to be completed. There were various
reasons for the delays: (i) the questioning of sites for the construction
3/    The size of the overrun is accounted for a series of factors that
compounded each other: (i) gross overestimation of the financial
contribution of the Government and MOH which had to be partially taken
over  by  the  IDA  credit;  (ii)  an underestimation  of  the  operating
expenditures of the Project Implementation Unit; and (iii) a doubling of
the project implementation period.
4/    As follows:   (1) on July 30, 1987 the closing date was postponed to
December 31, 1987; (2) on February 1, 1988, to December 31, 1988; (3) on
December 1, 1988, to June 30, 1989; (4) on May 24, 1989, to June 30, 1990;
(5) on June 11, 1990, to June 30, 1991.



and rehabilitation of health facilities by the authorities and then their
belated final choice ; (ii) the protracted architectural studies (poor
performance, lack of follow-up and questionable practices of the first
firm selected, leading to the revoking of the contract and the selection
of another firm);5 (iii) the changes to architectural plans (addition of
an "intravenous solution (IV)" unit in the pharmaceutical production
complex; (iv) a procurement process drawn out by nonobservance of certain
agreements reached between IDA and the Borrower; (v) repeated withdrawals
of bidders after contract award; (vi) poor performance of firms carrying
out civil works; (vii) the difficulties in accessing the counterpart funds
voted by the Government. The difficulties encountered under points (iv)
to (vii) are not specific to this project; they constrain the
implementation of most projects in the IFRC.
(b)   Unit costs:   The unit costs for civil works ranged from CF 140,000 to
190,000/m2, according to location, for new construction (MCP and
pharmaceutical depots).   These figures should be compared with the CF
240,000/m2 (including contingency and price increases) used for project
appraisal.' The costs of furniture, equipment and vehicles were slightly
underestimated; the variances with respect to the unit costs of technical
assistance (little used) and recurrent costs were larger; in the latter
case, there was a substantial overrun because of the extension of the
project.
(c)   Distribution of financing:  The Credit contributed 81% of project costs
rather than the 91% estimated at appraisal. The allocation of funds was
altered on February 1, 1988 (see Part III, Tables 5C and SD) to reduce the
Government's financial contribution, which ultimately was CF 252,089,539,
an increase of 187% over the appraisal estimate.
6.    Proiect Results
6.01  Extension and ImDrovement of Family Planning Services.   FP services,
introduced into the Comoros in 1979, have been made accessible throughout the
country and are no longer controversial. At the end of 1991 they were provided
in almost all health facilities; specialized personnel were assigned to the
health and MOH centers and hospitals. As a result, FP services are being more
widely utilized: between 1982 and 1991 the modern contraceptive prevalence rate
among women of childbearing age more than tripled. Conditions for those using
these services have been improved by the programs to rehabilitate and reequip
health facilities and by the retraining of the service providers.   Project
funding and equipment improved the quality of supervision of FP services.
./   The first firm worked as part of and under the authority of the First
Education Project, and the second firm under the authority of the
Population and Health Project.
i.    This discrepancy (from 20% to 40% below the estimate), deriving from
improved productivity in the construction sector, is only partially
reflected in the actual expenditure on civil works (7% below the estimate)
because the constructed area was about 20% larger than estimated.



6.02 Although significantly improved, the FP services still have obvious
shortcomings and suffer from not being integrated into the other MCH programs.
The number of acceptors is still well below levels required to reduce demographic
growth. An examination of the files shows that many clients do not return to the
center for further supplies, but no survey has so far been made to obtain
accurate information on their reasons for dropping out.   The monitoring of
clients, supervision of services and management of contraceptives still leave
much to be desired. Supplies of contraceptives, financed solely by UNFPA, are
unpredictable and subject to inventory breakdowns, and the intended qualitative
improvement of MCH services has hardly occurred at all.
6.03 Population Unit. The project, along with a UNFPA project, helped to change
the initially very negative attitudes of political, religious and traditional
leaders toward family planning.   It also supported a program of demographic
research and organized information, education and communications activities in
the area of population, relying in part on traditional communication networks
such as mosques and markets. Although the Population Unit has played a role in
the support provided by Comorian leaders and officials for the concept of
controlling fertility, the unit has not had the human, physical and financial
resources needed to fulfill the ambitious tasks conferred on it of planning and
coordinating the implementation of a national population policy. In the latter
years of the project, the priority focus of this unit has been on the preparation
and execution of a general census of the population.
6.04  Preparation. Storage and Distribution of Pharmaceuticals.  The national
pharmacy's mission was to ensure supplies to public sector health facilities,
including the ordering, reception and distribution of pharmaceutical products
purchased from the national budget or donated to the Government. It was also
responsible for production of IV solutions and a series of essential galenicals
(plant extracts).  Until 1991 a number of constraints affected the operations of
the national pharmacy:   (a)  supplies were inadequate because the credits
allocated in the finance laws were not executed; the grants of medicines to the
MH could only cover a small proportion of the country's needs, which led to
frequent stock breakdowns and hampered the operations of the health services; (b)
local production and packaging of essential medicines was constrained by the
limited resources allocated to purchases of raw materials, and problems related
to the maintenance and the replacement of equipment and other production tools.
6.05 Despite these problems, the project helped to enhance the efficiency of the
national pharmacy. Its headquarters and its three regional branches were given
new buildings.  The drug and IV solution production units were completed and
began operations at the end of 1991. In June 1990, as a result of the project,
a law was promulgated converting this pharmacy into a public agency with
management autonomy. While carrying out a public service mission, particularly
through a supply policy that generally conforms to the principles of an essential
drugs strategy, it is operated along business lines. The national pharmacy's
commercial activities began in 1991 with the opening of a pharmacy outlet in the
El-Maarouf hospital. This successful operation has facilitated the adoption of
regulations allowing hospitals to operate income and expenditure accounts (i.e.
handle cash generated by cost recovery).  In anticipation of the generalized
introduction of cost recovery for pharmaceutical products within the public
health system, the pharmacy and the MH have taken steps to establish and



- 7 -
supervise village pharmacies in the three islands. These actions, initiated in
1991 and 1992 and further strengthening of the distribution system, will
significantly increase the population's physical and financial access to
essential drugs.
6.06 Two factors contributed significantly to the results of this component,
namely: (a) the technical and financial support provided by France, the United
Nations system German Technical Cooperation Agency (GTZ) and the European
Development Fund in conjunction with the IDA-financed project; and (b) the close
collaboration and consultation between these development partners of the Islamic
Federal Republic of the Comoros.
6.07 The premises of the National Pharmacy of the Comoros (PNAC) posed major
problems.   Work was begun before the specifications for equipment had been
finalized, which led to various additional costs (unsuitable electrical wiring,
passages too small for the installation of equipment, etc.). The design of the
warehouses did not conform to standards required for the proper conservation of
products (significant temperature variations caused by excessively low roofs, a
lack of ventilation).   A partial solution has been found by undertaking
corrective works to improve ventilation at the initiative of the users, and using
funds available to the PRAC. Hygiene conditions in certain technical areas are
unsatisfactory owing to the installation of improperly designed insect protection
screens that allow birds to establish nests within the building. Finally, it is
unfortunate that the premises were only occupied some time after the buildings
were accepted; this meant that certain defects (lack of a proper evacuation
system for condensation water from air conditioning equipment) only became
apparent after the guarantee period had expired. The buildings and surrounding
areas are well maintained, but work remains to be done to bring operating
conditions up to acceptable standards in all PNAC premises. At the time of the
completion mission, some PNAC equipment was unused or unusable, owing to (a) poor
choice of word processing equipment and software, and (b) lack of training of
personnel in the use of certain computer equipment.
6.08 Extension and Rehabilitation of the Basic Health Facilities Network. The
project intensified the coverage of the already very dense health network in the
Comoros through the construction of two MCH centers and the physical
rehabilitation of 24 Health Posts. Execution of this program was satisfactory
in terms of the number of units created and renovated, but was characterized by
lengthy delays and numerous technical and logistical problems relating to the
civil works:   (a) renovation work was limited to restoring the premises in
question to their original standards; but the causes of some of the deterioration
(inherent weaknesses or poor initial planning) were not tackled; (b) the minimum
resources required to maintain new buildings, including budget credits, personnel
training and sensitization of the beneficiary population, were not provided; (c)
poor design of new buildings will lead to maintenance problems that could have
been avoided (unsuitable roof design, inadequate roof gradients, insufficient
roof overhang, lack of transition areas between internal and external areas, poor
siting of buildings, inadequate sanitary facilities, etc.); and (d) there were
major problems in the ordering and delivery of furniture and equipment
(cancellation of bids, furniture not delivered at all to the Moh6li and Anjouan



health posts, and disorganized deliveries in Grande Comore).7   Finally, the
design of the MCH centers was inappropriate insofar as the architects included
neither delivery rooms nor maternity wards.
6.09 Although more than 80% of the population lives within 5 km of a basic
health care facility, there has been hardly any improvement in the low
utilization rate of these facilities.  Except for prenatal consultations and
vaccinations, for which excellent coverage rates have been achieved, the services
provided by these facilities still leave much to be desired.   Until 1992
essential drugs were not available in or near the rehabilitated health posts,
despite the commitments made by the Government to supply the Central Pharmacy.
The lack of drugs and the lack of qualified personnel were cited as the main
cause for not using these facilities.   This situation partly explains why
hospitals continue to deliver basic health services although the program to
extend and rehabilitate the MCH centers and basic facilities was intended to
eliminate the need of hospitals to deliver these services.
6.10 Training and Planning of Human Resources. Execution of this component was
very weak and, apart from a study on the training provided at the National School
of Public Health, two fellowships and the provision of vehicles, none of its
objectives was achieved. The unwillingness of the director of the NHS to carry
out the programmed activities was largely responsible for this state of affairs.
These could have helped to improve the quality of basic health services, which has
remained very unsatisfactory, and could have provided a foundation for better
allocation and management of health personnel, one of the priority areas of the
economic adjustment program negotiated in 1991.   It is unfortunate that a
component so relevant to the analysis of priority problems in the sector and to
the deployment of remedial strategies and measures could not have been carried out
under better conditions.
6.11 Study of the Hospital Sector. A five-volume study of the hospital system,
focusing particularly on the hospitals' financial needs, was prepared by
consultants.  The report has not been used by senior ministry personnel which
considers it insufficiently analytical. The data provided and the recommendations
made address the poor functioning of hospitals and document the severe financial
constraints affecting service delivery.   This study and, more generally IDA
involvement in the sub-sector, made it possible to limit planned and costly
hospital investments and facilitated the introduction of cost recovery measures.
7/    The  project  coordinating  unit  did not  control  the  distribution  of
equipment as a result of pressures from striking health personnel with the
result that some of the equipment was distributed before the delivery of
the supply cabinets foreseen for their storage.   At the time of the
completion mission, an inventory of equipment available in the health
posts was being made.   It is estimated that only 502 of the planned
equipment is currently in place in these health facilities.



- 9-
7.    Sustainability of Proiect Effects
7.01  The project effects8 must be analyzed at two levels: (a) upgrading physical
infrastructure and  (b) strengthening the technical skills and institutional
capacity of the executing agencies. These effects have been generally less than
had been anticipated. Indeed, the gains are still fragile and will need support
in the years to come, particularly through a new project now under preparation.
A discussion of the potentially lasting effects of the project follows.
7.02 Physical Infrastructure. Maintenance requirements are large, principally
as a result of climatic conditions and the design weaknesses already referred to
in the design of the buildings. Except for the PNAC, which has its own financial
resources, the costs of maintaining structures and their surrounds have not
generally been undertaken by the users. However, certain deficiencies cannot be
attributed to the shortage of funds, particularly as regards the upkeep of access
ways, trimming of trees, etc., which, if ignored, lead to premature deterioration
of buildings (runoff of rainwater blocked by leaves, roofs damaged by tree limbs
during windstorms, etc.).  These problems indicate a lack of motivation on the
part of health personnel to preserve their plant and suggest that these
infrastructures will quickly deteriorate.
7.03 It would seem that these obvious maintenance problems, particularly in
outlying areas, will only be solved if they can be tackled directly at the local
level, and that present arrangements do not offer any satisfactory way of their
assuming the costs involved. This ought to lead the authorities to consider what
steps could be taken by the users (health personnel and beneficiaries) to this
end. This review should cover (a) a redefinition of the responsibilities of those
involved (state, health personnel, communities), particularly in relation to the
(i) planning, (ii) design, (iii) execution, (iv) management and (v) maintenance
of infrastructures; (b) the identification of local resources and potential; and
(c) the identification of the additional resources needed (generation and/or
allocation of funds at the local level and support for users, e.g. in the form of
training and/or sensitization).
7.04 The MCH centers are poorly designed, which will lead to operating problems;
the small size of rooms do not permit certain planned training or demonstration
activities to take place, and some examination rooms lack running water. The
buildings are soon going to pose major maintenance problems (unsuitable roofs,
buildings poorly protected against rain and vandalism, built-in sanitary
facilities and fittings, interior woodwork not protected against termites, etc.).
The water supply installations in the renovated health posts, apart from being
rudimentary, are already out of service everywhere (pumps not maintained and
blocked, poorly protected and broken pipes).
8/    This discussion relates to the situation prevailing at the end of 1991.
During this year some activities were temporarily disrupted by labor union
actions.   In January 1992 health personnel began a strike which has
received wide support, thereby severely impacting the provision of
nonessential health services.   The Government should take appropriate
measures to improve the level and regularity of the payment of its
employees' remuneration.



- 10 -
7.05  Institutional Effects.   Probably the most lasting impact will be the
improved financial and geographical access to drugs made possible by the changes
in the status and operating methods of the PNAC, and the acceptance by the
Government of the principle of community participation in the management and
(direct) financing of the supply of pharmaceutical products.
7.06 The operating conditions of the health posts and MCP centers could not be
thoroughly analyzed because of strikes affecting outlying health facilities at
the time of the mission. An earlier review of consultation records in the health
posts had indicated low utilization of these facilities, principally owing to (a)
the nonavailability of medicines,' (b) a lack of qualified personnel, and (c)
a quality of service that leaves much to be desired.
7.07  The project coordinating unit had to deal with numerous difficulties during
the implementation of this first project.  It did not have the resources that
would have enabled it to perform its implementation or oversight tasks more
effectively, and it had varying success in its information and coordination role
via-A-vis the administration and 16 officials responsible for the different
components. At the time of the completion mission, the project coordination unit
was reduced to the coordinator and an accountant. The team no longer has any
clearly defined tasks and is physically isolated, and there is a risk that the
experience acquired by its members may be lost.
7.08 The objectives of strengthening sector planning capacity, particularly in
relation to hospitals, and improving the skills and management of Ministry of
Health personnel were hardly achieved at all; they need to be supported in a
future project.  The strengthening of the coordination function of population
policy by the Population Unit of the MP started well, but tailed off in the
second half of the project implementation period.
8.    Overview of Bank Performance
8.01 IDA invested a great deal of time and money, quite out of proportion to the
amount of the Credit and to the results achieved, to ensure regular supervision
of the project: more than 18 man-weeks a year on average, at an average rate of
more than one field mission every six months. The pertinent observations and
recommendations resulting from these missions enabled a number of obstacles
impeding project execution to be surmounted. The numerous problems encountered
i/    This problem began to be solved in 1992 with the establishment of village
pharmacies close to outlying health facilities which attract large numbers
of users. These pharmacies may take the form of a simple supply cabinet,
or a room set aside for this purpose in the health post or other community
premises in the village, or even an imposing building the size of a villa.
The creation of new village pharmacies needs to be better controlled in
order to avoid the waste of local resources which are limited in relation
to overall needs, and to provide for the best possible conservation of
products  (light,  dust).   Consequently,  the specifications  issued to
communities setting out the conditions for opening village pharmacies
should also identify the (limited) physical requirements which these
premises must satisfy.



- 11 -
were handled with a combination of firmness and flexibility. IDA reconsidered
some of its requirements when these appeared excessive or unrealistic, and agreed
to necessary adjustments to facilitate project execution:   (a) following a
reappraisal of the state's budgetary capacity, the disbursement rate for civil
works was raised from 90% to 100% (excluding taxes and duties), and for the
incremental operating costs - including salaries - from 50% to 100%; and (b)
IDA agreed that the architectural studies could be performed locally and directly
under the authority of the project coordinator.   On the other hand,  the
Association remained firm on other points, insisting on appropriate solutions to
improve the operation of the special account and on observance of procurement
procedures.
8.02 The shortcomings apparent in the monitoring by IDA of a relatively complex
first operation pertain, first, to the Association's difficulty in satisfying
numerous requests for technical advice needed to mitigate shortcomings of design
that were insufficiently prepared given the institutional capacity of the MH and,
second, to the frequent changes among project personnel in the IDA team: during
implementation there were five project officers and four architects. This led
to unavoidable periods of adaptation with a not insignificant proportion of staff
supervision time spent on familiarizing themselves with the project.  This in
turn contributed to the fact that supervision mission problems tended to overlook
infrastructure defects, focussing most of their attention on matters that could
lead to implementation delays, but not enough attention on the quality of the
work being done (suitability of equipment, the comfort and safety requirements
of certain activities and goods, maintenance problems stemming from the
architectural solutions proposed).
9.    Performance of the Borrower
9.01 The MH was the Borrower's principal executing agency, although it had
hardly been involved at all in project identification and preparation, in which
the MP took the lead role. The MH's lack of familiarity with the project was
initially  partly  responsible  for  slowing  its  implementation.    The  rapid
establishment of and secondment of personnel to the Project Coordinating Unit,
and the continuity of its principal members, were positive factors, but they
could not, in themselves, guarantee the smooth progress of the project. In the
final two years of project implementation frequent government reshuffles, leading
to the replacement of senior MH officials, and a succession of labor union
strikes, had disruptive effects on the project schedule and work program.
9.02 A review of project activities shows that the Borrower executed most of the
covenants of the Credit Agreement, except for the financial ones, where project
execution suffered from a chronic and chronic shortage of government funds, -at
times this was a total absence of funds- undermined the operation of basic health
services and delayed the purchase and manufacture of essential drugs.   The
funding problem was general and systematic and not limited to its counterpart
funding obligations under the project: even civil servant salaries could not be
paid on time. Nevertheless the Government showed little commitment to carrying
out these undertakings in a timely manner, especially as regards the choice of
sites.   It was slow to react to the conclusions and recommendations of the
various studies carried out under the project and even less eager to utilize them
to improve system management.   It showed little interest in using the funds



- 12 -
earmarked for the health manpower planning. From 1987 onwards the head of the
"Population Unit" component lost interest in the project, preferring to
concentrate his efforts on preparing the census planned for 1990. The studies
for the planning and redeployment of human resources were blocked for no valid
reason. It is possible that a fear that the study would document that manpower
levels were excessive held up action on this issue.
9.03 Project execution suffered from a lack of rigorous application of
procurement procedures by the administrative staff in question. Due to its long
implementation period, it also suffered from a lack of pertinent project
information on the part of the senior officials responsible for the different
project components, and a lack of commitment by the project coordinating
committee, due in part to difficult relations between the project Coordinators
and the Cabinet of the MH.
10.   Relations under the Proiect
10.01 Relations between IDA and the Government were good throughout the project,
but were hampered by the frequent changes in managers on both sides, the weakness
of telecommunications and the absence of a World Bank representative in the
Comoros. The Bank also built up excellent relationships with donors active in
the health sector in the Comoros, notably UNDP and France. The contacts with
France, which plays an important role in the sector, made it possible to involve
the French cooperation in the operations of the PNAC.   The good relations
established under the project led the principal donors to combine their resources
with those of the World Bank in the preparation of their next health
interventions.
11.   External Services
11.01 Architectural Studies. The decision to entrust the architectural studies
to the Education Projects Execution Bureau (BEPE), which had experience of
project implementation and a team of full-time civil engineers, turned out to be
very costly because of the delays that occurred in site selection and because of
the  difficulties  experienced  by  the health  project  coordinating unit  in
monitoring and overseeing the technical work done by consultants of BEPE part of
which was finalized in Canada.  These arrangements were nevertheless logical to
the extent that there were no other architectural firms implanted in the Comoros
when the project was appraised.   Problems involving the nonobservance of the
timetable for the studies, and the poor quality of and double invoicing for
certain studies, led to the contract being revoked. The recruitment of local
consultants, remunerated on a lump-sum basis, gave better results, but there were
still certain shortcomings in the plans for the civil works, notably imprecise
specifications for materials and their handling.   The recommendation that a
qualified civil engineer be seconded to the coordination unit to monitor the
consultants could not be put into effect because such a technician could not be
found.
11.02 Procurement. Project implementation faced great procurement difficulties
due to the wide range and small quantities  of the goods  it needed.   The



- 13 -
procurement role set out for UNIPAC of UNICEF at appraisal did not materialize.
Ex post, one may question whether it would not have been preferable to have
allowed for international shopping procedures for packages of goods too small to
attract bids under ICB procedures.   To respond to these needs, the project
retained the services of a procurement agent for the acquisition of furniture and
equipment entirely imported from abroad. The quality of the furniture selected
was good, but bore little relation to the environment of the health posts and MCH
centers. Despite the efforts of Task Managers and the Project Coordinator to come
up with satisfactory solutions, significant flaws remained in the equipment
procurement process which led to insufficiently precise specifications and to
orders that were irrelevant to the users'  real needs.   Delivery/acceptance
procedures for furniture and equipment were also flawed, in particular they should
have included a pre-acceptance of equipment (before shipping), which would have
avoided the delivery and acceptance of incomplete sets of equipment.   The
consultants advising on PNAC's equipment performed satisfactorily.
11.03 Civil Works. The procedure for selecting firms, based principally on cost
criteria, did not always provide sufficient guarantees of the technical and
financial capacities of construction companies; their withdrawal of their bid
after contracts had been awarded and deficiencies at work sites were signs of the
weakness of the sector.   In future,  it would be better to strengthen the
selection process by giving more weight to reliability criteria and requiring
bidders to post bid-bonds.
11.04 Other Studies. The consultants recruited for the hospital, pharmaceutical
and NSH studies performed satisfactorily, although their reports did not always
meet MH expectation and they were not always utilized.  The studies on health
financing and the planning/retraining of MH personnel were not executed under the
project; preliminary descriptive studies were undertaken under a different source
of financing.
12.   Proiect Documents and Data
12.01 Despite the Borrower's failure to prepare progress reports on schedule, the
mission was able to obtain from the project coordinating unit and the staff of
the Ministry of Public Health and Population most of the information it needed
to prepare the project completion report. The IDA supervision reports, varying
in format in light of personnel changes, and the substantial use made of
consultant services, were well documented.
13.   Lessons Learned
13.01 The principal lessons to be drawn from the project relate to lessons
learned about the difficult conditions prevailing in a small, isolated,
stagnating island economy with: 1. very weak public institutions and a civil
service administration incapable of adequately remunerating and motivating
employees; 2. a scarcity of technical expertise in almost all disciplines; and
3. a strong tradition of village politics that call for mechanisms to channel
local community and beneficiary energies towards sustaining project objectives.
In raising the following set of lessons, it is useful to recall that the project
was logical in conception and that it addressed the real health and population
problems with what was good professional judgement at the time.



- 14 -
(a)   The  project  design  was  too  complex,  with  excessive  technical  and
coordination/management expectations of the MH. Building standards need
to be optimized to reflect maintenance requirements and capacity.   To
compensate for institutional weaknesses, technical assistance and
provisions for ensuring sector wide coordination need to be built into the
project and easily monitorable indicators of project activity and impact
need to be specified.
(b)   When dealing with weak implementation agencies, project preparation needs
to specify technical aspects in great detail; these should be finally
agreed by negotiations. Project preparation also needs to fully involve
the principal implementation agency right from the start of the project
cycle in order to avoid backtracking on agreements reached during
negotiations and implementation delays.   Increasing IDA supervision to
compensate for poorly specified designs is a costly and ineffective coping
mechanism.
(c)   The Government's fiscal situation and of its financial administration need
to  be  assessed  more  realistically.    Recurrent  cost  implications,
especially for staffing and maintenance, need to be better defined and
monitored. Alternative sources to Government funding, including popular
participation, need to be thoroughly explored to enhance sustainability
prospects.
(d)   Small projects requiring small quantities of a wide range of goods to be
procured should make use of international shopping procedures. In general
procurement arrangements need to be examined with particular care to
ensure that bidding packages can effectively elicit responses from
suppliers. When a previously untried procurement method is proposed (use
of UNICEF for procurement of drugs and health facility equipment and
furniture), fall back positions need to specified.
(e)   The decision to use Project Management Units rather than the Ministry of
Public Works or a an architectural firm to manage and supervise civil
works programs is not always efficient nor conducive to a lasting transfer
of skills. Use of a Project Management Unit in another Ministry (other
than Public Works) should be avoided as it creates intersectoral
coordination problems.
(f)   Project Coordination Committees should not be used to compensate for
inadequate intra-ministerial coordination; the taking of adequate
coordination measures should be conditions of negotiations.



- 15 -
PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT
C(SOROS
HRATTH ANM POPULATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1408-COM)
PART II:   PROJECT REVIEW FROH THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Introduction
1.01 After eighteen months of negotiations, the Health and Population Project
was launched in February 1984, at a time when the Federal Islamic Republic of the
Comoros was about to reenter a period of economic recession. After a period of
satisfactory GDP growth attributable primarily to the investments in
infrastructure made following independence with the assistance of donors, the
situation deteriorated very quickly with the decline in world market prices for
its only export products (vanilla, cloves, ylang-ylang) and burgeoning external
debt.
1.02 Despite the Government's efforts, starting in 1978, to reopen all the
health care facilities that had been closed on attaining independence, the health
situation was characterized by an extremely high infant mortality rate (140/1,000
live births), widespread malnutrition, particularly among women and children
under five, an almost endemic prevalence of malaria, filariasis, anemia and acute
respiratory infections. Faced with this situation and with the help of WHO,
UNICEF, Laval University and UNFPA, the Government had decided to give priority
to the establishment of Primary Health Care by developing basic health service
programs (Expanded Program for Immunization - EPI), Maternal/Child Health (MCH),
malaria control etc.)
1.03 But despite its determination, the Ministry scarcely began to get itself
structurally organized before the shortage of trained manpower became blatantly
obvious. All it managed to achieve was the establishment of a Directorate of
Basic Health headed by a Comorian physician with public health training, who was
expected to put these programs in place.
1.04 The objectives of the Project were to:
- Help the Government formulate a population policy;
- Help the Ministry of Health develop a Maternal and Child Health and
Family Planning Program with a view to reducing population growth;
- Establish a production, storage and distribution system for
essential drugs;
- Streamline the use of NHS personnel and training programs;
- Renovate and build basic health care facilities (MCH clinics and
Health Posts);



- 16 -
- Prepare a plan to streamline hospital services.
1.05  The Project components are structured around these six objectives.   A
Health and Population Division was also established within the Ministry under the
direction of a National Coordinator who is directly responsible to the Office of
the Minister.
2.    Design.  Implementation and Impact of the Project Performance of each
Component:
Maternal and child health and familv planning
2.01 The Project prompted the establishment of a MCH/FP Division within the
Directorate of Basic Health and the launching of a family planning program
throughout the country, structured around a core of four midwives trained in
Mauritius and Tunisia. These activities have also benefitted from assistance from
the UNFPA Project, particularly in terms of training and contraceptive supplies.
It subsequently proved possible to launch other programs with the assistance of
WHO, UNICEF and Laval University in the area of immunization and prenatal care and
child development, which thus completed the range of maternal and child care
included in the strategy to integrate primary health care (PHC).
2.02 Centers in the 14 operational health districts now offer integrated family
planning activities, immunization, prenatal care, child growth monitoring, using
both fixed and mobile teams, and almost all the Health Posts (62 in all) regularly
distribute contraceptives, their nature depending on the qualification level of
the health manpower.
2.03 Eighteen qualified midwives have been trained in FP abroad (Mauritius,
Tunisia, Brussels, Canada) since the start of the Project and 78 have received
training locally, as have 110 auxiliary midwives and 153 traditional birth
attendants (matrones).
2.04 Efforts to make the population aware of the need for birth spacing were
stepped up, starting in 1977, with the launch of the UNFPA/FAO Information,
Education and Communication (IEC) Project and the establishment of a Health
Education Unit within the Directorate of Programming.
2.05 The combined effect of all these programs has produced spectacular results
in terms of immunization coverage (from 21% of children fully immunized in 1984
to 85% in 1990) and highly encouraging results in terms of the contraceptive
prevalence rate, which by 1990 was 3.5%.
2.06 But in other areas weaknesses are still apparent, particularly with respect
to stock management and the active investigation into cases of discontinuance of
family planning.
Population Unit
2.07 This Unit was established within the Ministry of Planning in response to
a request from the Government, which, upon publication of the 1990 census



- 17 -
results, expressed its intention to develop a population policy to enable it to
maintain a balance between population and economic growth. But from the very
start, the responsibilities and activities of this unit were left vague in the
Protect documentation. However, those in charge of this component focused their
action in the following three areas:
- Making decision-makers and opinion leaders aware of the population issue
and its problems by publishing brochures and organizing seminars (national
and regional);
- Training three leaders abroad in demographic issues and sending the Unit
Chief on a study tour to Senegal and Morocco.
- Coordinating population-related activities at multisectoral meetings and
conferences.
This action, while limited, was successful in making the political and religious
leaders aware of the seriousness of the population problems facing the country.
Pharmaceutical suPRlv and distribution
2.08 This was the most important component of the Project, its objective being
to attack the problem of both the supply and distribution of essential drugs,
thereby putting an end to the chronic shortages experienced by the health care
facilities. The Project began by providing the Central Supply Pharmacy (CSP) and
its three regional supply depots with vehicles.   But the main thrust of the
Project consisted in building and equipping the new premises for the CSP, which
also include a laboratory for the local production and inspection of certain
essential drugs, together with three new storage and distribution warehouses (one
on each island) for the regional supply depots.
2.09 But the studies conducted as part of this component quickly showed that the
shortage problem was attributable more to the system used to finance the supply
of pharmaceuticals because of the difficulties encountered at the Treasury in
releasing the funds that had been allocated for this purpose. It was therefore
necessary to come up with another system of funding based on community
participation, i.e. selling the pharmaceuticals to the population instead of
distributing  them  free-of-charge.    This  called  for  the  adoption  of new
legislation making the CSP a State Corporation. This was accomplished with the
Federal Assembly's vote on December 8, 1990 on the new bylaws of the Pharmacie
Nationale Autonome des Comores (PRAC). All that remains to be done to make this
strategy operational is to establish the village pharmacies.
Renovation and equipment of basic health care facilities
(MCH clinics and Health Posts)
2.10  The major problem encountered in executing this component has been the
authorities' delay in selecting posts for renovation and in choosing the sites
for the construction of new facilities. Two MCH clinics have finally been built
(one in Moroni and one on Anjouan), a new Health Post with housing has been built
on Moh6li and 23 other health posts have been renovated (11 on Grande Comore, 11
on Anjouan and 1 on Moh6li).



- 18 -
2.11  On the other hand, the order for medical equipment was forwarded to UNICEF
on time and the items were received and have been distributed in all the MCH
clinics, Health Posts and Rural Maternities.
Health manpower planning and training
2.12 The action in this component consisted primarily in conducting a two-part
study, i.e.: an analysis of paramedical manpower needs and deployment plans, on
the one hand, and the revision of the training programs provided by the National
Health School (NHS), on the other. But only the first part of the study has been
carried out and there has been no follow-up to the consultant's report by the
management of NHS, despite the relevance of the recommendations made in that
report.
Study of hospital services
2.13 Here too, action has concentrated mainly on conducting a study in the hopes
that it would lead to a master plan for the country's three main hospitals. But
despite the rather large size of the report (five volumes), its recommendations
are largely philosophical and do not provide any concrete proposals that might
throw some light on the decisionmaking that is needed. There has been no follow-
up to this report either.
Proiect coordination and management
2.14 All these efforts have been made thanks to the sterling work of the Project
Coordinator. His responsibilities have not always been clearly defined, however,
particularly with respect to the civil works component, which was more the
responsibility of the Education Project.  This triggered conflict between the
Health and Population Project, on the one hand, and the Education Projects
Implementation Unit (BEPE) and CEGIR, a consulting firm, on the other.  This
problem was also largely to blame for the delays experienced in the construction
works.
2.15 Relations between the Coordinator and the country's political and
administrative authorities have not always been easy. Because of this he often
had to turn somersaults to get the signatures needed for the Project to progress.
Relations between the Coordinator and the component leaders varied, on the other
hand, depending on individual personalities and affinities.  The most serious
complaint that can be made here concerns the fact that the Supervision Committee
did not operate as intended.
2.16 Despite its ups and downs, there is no doubt that the first Health and
Population Project has made a significant contribution toward developing the
Comorian Health System by providing it with the infrastructure it needed to
deliver Basic Health Care Services.
3.    Critical Analysis of the Performance of the Bank. the Government and the
Technical Assistance
Evaluation of the Bank's performance



- 19 -
3.01 The Bank's regular supervision missions and its major decision-making
played a key role in the smooth implementation of the Project. However, some of
the Bank's requirements were extremely constrictive for the Government. In the
first place, the level of the counterpart funds set in the course of the
negotiations proved extremely high, given the country's financial difficulties.
Then, the cancellation of two invitations to tender for the pharmacy in 1989 did
nothing to further the rapid completion of the Project.   But most of the
supervision missions and of the main recommendations were extremely helpful.
Something that did make things rather difficult, however, was the frequent change
in supervisory personnel sent by the Bank.
Evaluation of the Government's performance
3.02 On the Government's side it was more the slow decision-making that resulted
in accumulated delays in Project implementation.   Another factor was the
financial difficulty in which the Public Treasury found itself, which meant that
the Government was unable to honor its commitments as it should have:
particularly with respect to the operation of services and the procurement of
essential drugs.  Another regrettable aspect was the absence of any project
supervision by the Ministry of Finance or the Office of the President. But the
main thing was that both parties showed a spirit of good will and of willingness
to solve the problems that occurred on either side.
Evaluation of the performance of the consulting firm and the consultants
(the technical assistance)
3.03 The consultants' studies and missions played a major role in the Project.
But not all of these yielded results that lived up to expectation.  The most
flagrant example was the case of CEGIR which received payments (CF 56.12 million)
well in excess of the work actually carried out*. In fact only the Study by Dr.
Griffiths on the CSP actually resulted in concrete applications vis-A-vis PNAC.
4.    Economic and Financial Evaluation of the Prolect
4.01 The total cost of the Project was originally estimated at CF 1,015.1
billion for three years, including contingencies. After seven years, however,
the expenditures that had been incurred, as at June 30, 1991, amounted to
CF 1,290.64 billion and the Project activities had still not been completed,
particularly with respect to the CSP. The Project is therefore going to cost CF
526.28 million more than estimated in 1983 and it will be noted that it is mainly
the operating costs that have increased, followed by the cost of equipment and
the civil works. Comparing this with the sources of financing, it will be seen
that it is mainly the Government that has borne this considerable increase in
cost, its share accounting for 16.8Z instead of the 8.7Z originally estimated.
4.02 In light of these findings, it is clear that the main lesson to be drawn
is that the longer a project takes, the more costly it is going to be to the
Clarification of the World Bank staff: the contract with the firm ended up
being revoked (see Part I, para 11.01).



- 20 -
Government. It is thus important to keep this in mind for the future and to
speed up decision-making by the authorities as much as possible.
4.03 What we need to look at now is the post-Project situation. The ending of
the Project is bound to have some detrimental consequences in terms of the
operation of the CSP and the continuation of MCH/FP activities. The Government
therefore needs to take whatever measures are needed, with the assistance of its
partners, to ensure the continuation and the continuity of these basic
activities.
5.    Conclusion
5.01 The first Health and Population Project has enabled the Government of
Comoros to make an important investment in the building of its health system.
It has, at the same time, also started the country thinking about the need to
maintain a balance between economic and demographic growth and also about the
need to involve the community in the recovery of health care costs as a way of
improving the health care funding system.
5.02 It would be a shame for this new endeavor to be halted in mid-stream.
Hence the interest in a Second Health Project that could continue the efforts to
strengthen the health care pyramid and focus on resource management and the
funding of the health care system.



- 21 -
PROJECT CCItPLETIOI REPORT
COMOROS
HRATLTH AD  POPULATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1408-CCI)
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.       ReLated IDA Credits
This project is the first in the sector. There is no other ongoing project in the sector.
2.       Project Timetable
Timetable of estimated and actuaL Proiect dates
Type of operation                           Estimated date                       Actual date
Identification                                                                   March 19 - ApriL 3, 1982
Preparation/preappraisal                                                         Aug. 28 - Sept. 15, 1982
Appraisal                                                                        Dec. 4-18, 1982
Negotiation of the Credit                                                        June 15-17, 1983
Board approval                                                                   August 23, 1983
Signing of the Credit                       February 1983                        September 30, 1983
Effective date                              January 27, 1984                     February 10, 1984
Closing date1                               June 30, 1987                        June 30, 1991
Final disbursement                         December 31, 1987                     October 31, 1991
1/       Closing date extensions:
on Juty 30, 1987                     to December 31, 1987
on February 1, 1988                  to Deceffber 31, 1988
on December 1, 1988                  to June 30, 1989
on May 24, 1989                      to June 30, 1990
on June 11, 1990                     to June 30, 1991
3.       Disbursements
Estimated and actual cumulative disbursements
(in thousands of USS and SDRs)
IDA fiscat year           1981    1984    1985       1986      1987      1988      1989      1990      1991       1992
Appraisal estimate         120     500      1900     2850
('000 of S)
Appraisal estimate         114     474      1800     2700
('000 of SDRs)
Actual    amounts           0       100     391       592       847       1200      1961     2040       2285      2612
('000 of SDRs)
Actual amount as           0,0     21,1    21,7      21,9      31,4      44,5       72,6     75,6      84,6       96,8
% of estimates
i   OEseLmatlans  de  1'4valuatiarx 4            'c41uxsomeat  *ffoctlfs
25 000
L  2 5 0 0  f__ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ __  _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _
' 2000
d  looa.
e   500
Soo
            31982    1983    1984    1985    1986   1987    1988   1989   1990    1991    1992
s                                          Annd. f IScal  de  1 IDA



- 22 -
IDA fiscal year
4.    Proiect Execution
Works comDletion dates
Civil works                     Estimated               Actual
Health posts                    September 1985          Feb. 1989-Aug. 1990
MCH                             December 1985           March-Nov. 1989
Pharmaceutical depots
Moroni                         December 1985           March 1989
Anjouan and Moheli             June 1985               July-Dec. 1988
5.    Proiects Costs and Financing
A. Itemized Drolect cost
Amounts in CF '000o
item                            EstimAted               Actual         DIMg
A.    Family planning                   79 857              103 044,3          29
B.    Population                        59 180                6 812,1         -88,5
C.    Supply and distribution
of pharmaceutical products       471 061             584 969,3          24,2
D.    MCP dispensaries and
health posts                     271 519             330 228,6          21,6
E.    Health personnel                   66 631              42 407,5         -36,4
F.    Study of hospital
services                          56 213              43 344           -22,9
G.    Project administration            10 597              210 607,6        1887
TOTAL COST                     1 015 059           1 321 413,4          30,2



- 23 -
B. Proiect costs by exDenditur* cateaorv
Amounts in Cr '0005
Catecorv,                                       Estimated                          Actual                Diff,
Clvil  work.'                                     490  642                      568  617,5                1S,8
Furniture and equipment                             94 477                      204 844,2                116,8
Vehicles                                            30 702                        59 236,5                 92,9
Technical assistance                              274 634                       148 717,7                -45,8
Training and study tours                            24 185                       28 224                    16,7
Local personnel                                     39 899                       70 939,5                 77,8
Supplementary operating
cost         t                                      60 520                      240 833,9                297,9
TOTAL COST                                     1 01S 059                     1 321 413,4                   30,2
.1.  Including architect's fees.
C. Proiect financino
(in CF)
Source                  Aoeruisal estfmete               Actwt fin nino                    Differ ner
IDA                                927 21S 529    (9f.3t)          1 069 323 660    t80. 9)             - 15.38
Government                          67 641 472      (6,74)           252 069 539    (1.9.i,e,.187.08
Total                            l Os 057 000       (.008)         1 321 413 399      C1200t)            * 30.28
P. Disburs~mnts
C in SDRs)
ALLocation on
signing of the               X        Revised allocation          X        Disbursements at
Credit                   ffn nced   (Feb. 1.  J2              fin nced   Dec. 31. 1991
1. Civil works                      6  000                to a           2l 0 000             9. s 077 367,16
2. Furniture,
eqip.    t *nd                 290 000               2.0              ISO 000              ac0          644 497,54
vehicle a0 00                                        Ica              Soo 000             too           $78 274 ^
3. CorsuLtants' and
experts, services
4. Training and study              Go 000       Q         O.              sO 000             to0             cc 2Sz.cc
tours
5. Operating costs                 70 000                                200 000             100           245 7U8,42
for the project                                                      Il2. 000
6. Special account                2.1. 000                               26  0
7. Unolloc tod                                                           140 ooo 
7.UnalLated                 l c 100 oo0                            2 700 000                          2 612 424.66
TotaL                       2 700 000                                                                    47 57S,34
Und I sbjrse



- 24 -
6.    Proiect Results
A. Direct benefits
Ayvraisal estimates  Proiect achievements
Health posts
renovation                        up to 20                       23
replacement                       up to 10                        0
establishment                             0                       1
MCH                                         2                       2
Pharmaceutical depots
First production unit                     1                       1
Pharmaceutical depots                     3                       3



- 25 -
7.       Application  of clauses
Section      Agreements  by  and/or  obligations  of  the    Degree of coqpliance achieved
Borrower
2.02b        The Borrower shall open a Special Account in    Account opened Noveaber 21, 1983.
Comorian francs at the Treasury.
2.04         The cLosing date shall be June 30, 1987.               Closing   was   June   30,   1991,   after   5
postponements.
3.01b        The  Borrower  shalt  open  and  make  regular    Delays in making deposits and non-availability
deposits into an Advance Account,                      of funds disrupted project execution.
3.01c        The Borrower shall each year make sufficient           The scheduLe prepared in April  1988 was not
budgetary  allocation  to cover  the costs  of    observed.
purchases for the preparation of pharmaceutical
products.
3.02a        The   Borrower   shall   maintain   a   Project         Committee established October 17, 1983; held
Coordinating Committee meeting on a quarterty    few meetings.
basis.
3.02b        The   Borrower   shall   designate  a  Project    Appointed Mov mber 3, 1983.
Coordinator.
3.04a        The  Borrower  undertakes  to  insure  imported    Disruptions  occurred  in  deliveries  betwen
goods against all hazards  incident  to their    Grande Comore and the other islands.
acquisition, transportation and delivery to the
place of utilization.
3.05d        The Borrower shall prepare and furnish a report    Prepared in September 1991.
on the execution of the project not later than
6 months after its cLosing date.
3.06b        The Borrower  shall make sites avaiLabLe not    The sites were made available after significant
later than December 31, 1983.                         delays (from April 1985 to September 1986).
3.08         The   Borrower   shall   appoint   three   field    Appointed on September 16, 1983.
supervisors to the Family Planning Division by
Decemtber 31, 1983.
3.09         The Borrower shalt, no later than December 31,
1983, empLoy on a full-time basis:
(i)  a director for the Population Unit and           Appointed Decemtber 10, 1983.
(ii) a pharmacist for the compounding unit.           United Nations volunteer seconded October 7,
1986.
3.10         The  Borrower  shall  prepare  a plan  for  the    MCH  centers  have  been  constructed  and  are
phasing  out  of  maternal  and  child  health         operational but have not replaced corresponding
services and family planning services at the El        hospital  services.   This  transfer  is being
Marouf and Hombo hospitals.                            sought under new project.
3.11a        No Later than October 31, 1984, the Borrower    Study made in 1985; no exchange of views with
shall exchange views with IDA on the study of          IDA.
the hospital subsector.
3.11b        The Borrower shall take the necessary measures    observed.
for purposes of introducing cost recovery
systems .
4.01a        The Borrower shall maintain separate accounts    Done.
in accordance with appropriate accounting
practices, to refLect project operations.
4.01b        The  Borrower  shall  retain  all  records  and    Observed.
enable IDA's representatives to inspect them.



- 26 -
4.01c        The Borrower shill have the accounts for each    Don.
fiscal   year  audited   in  accordance  with
appropriate auditing principles.
4.02a        The Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the  health    Not all  the health  facilities  renovated or
facilities  nd phorm_cutical depots included    constructed under the project were operational
in  the project  carry out their  operations    because of the strike in the sector.  There
appropriately  ard  have  access  to  adequate    were no operating furds  nd the training of
financial and husan resources.                       persou il was inadequate.
4.0Zb        The Borrower shall  nsure that the buildings,    The  chronic  shortage  of  funds  made  it
centers  and  equipment  provided  under  the    impossible to ensure the minima mintenance of
project are adqately maintained,                     these infrastructures.



- 27 -
8.        Utilizatign of IDA Resources
A .    Perlsonnel1
(person/wveks)
Proiect chafes
62   63       4      as5    66    6        t6    69       90     91      92   Total    C
1.  Preappraisal          19.2 25.4                                                                       45.6   20.7
2.  Apprsisal                  23.3                                                                       23.3   10. 6
3 .  Negotiation                 2.6   L.                   ise     2.                                     4.4      2.0
4.  Supervision                       20.1   20.2   24.1  15.1 24.   s0.2            9.9  19.9    2.4   146.9    65.7
5.  Copietion
Total                199.2 52.2  21.9   20.2   24.1  15.6   24.3   10.2    9.9   19.9    2.4  220.2  100.0
X totat               0.7 23.7   9.9    9.2   10.9   7.1   11.0    4.6          4.S    9.0    1.0   100.0
S.  Missions
No. ot
pers/weeks             No. of        Sp.ciaLties
Suwr islori       14fsslon dot         an missfon         oarticirmnt       rerDrs ntod       r      K      a      C
Sup.rv. 1         s.pt 177-23. 3               2              2             Eco,??            1            1      1
Suere. 2          !4b 4-1.6, 4                 6                            E ce. ", A        1I     .      2.     2
Superv. 3         auq 25-sOpc 5. 64            5              3                sea, Zoo  r    1      1      1      1
SuPgrv. 4         april 4-17, 65  -           5.5             3             Sc. n7. A        2      1      1      2
Swer-r. S          ov 9-23. 6S                 6              3               .    I. A       3      2      2      2
Qrr,. 6               7-19. 14                 5              3             P, r.    A        3      3      2      2
suprr. 7          Oct Is-  ov.1.86             3              2             PR  A             2      3      2      2
Supr'. a          ,an 3-10. 87                 1              1 2                             2      1      2      2
Suw.v. 9          april 10-17. 87              2              2             u. k              2      3      2      2
Su"rr. la         sOpc 15-24. *7               5              4             PH. kn.A. A       3      2      2      3
s'.qr'. 11        feb 7-19, 66                 3              2               I A             3      2      2      2
SMW.ZV. 12        July 28-auq *5, 66          5.5             2              H, A             2      2      2      2
suv. 13           april 3-10, 69               2              2             7   A             2      2      2      2
s9prv. 14         :ov 69                      as              1             n                 6     2       2      2
9tert. 2.5        my 22-Jue 21, *0             11             3             too; "I. VP1/  3        2       3     3
Supv. 16          doc 1-20. 90                6,5             3             Sao, VP. A 1/   3       2       3     3
Tocal                                        70.5
.1.  IncLuding preliminary dIscumsiors regarding the hihsemt  project.
A:        Architect
ECO:      Econmist
FP:       F_mlly plamving specialist
pH:       P.lfc health specialist






Lcuvarotive timetable of Dro1c~l tIIAuimig
its)            I  Ia            os 4&  196                     161             loss                             I  190          i911            1 993
ArchlocIwoal studlies                                Xxxxx       ...X.   .xxxx                xxxxxx             IK
Sddinq c-pwtitim                                                --                      X.. N.XxExxxXXEZ   XIxNxxRx ...  ..
Eha48C.0                                                             -- ---------                                              ...Xm... a.9
Anj.s.n                                                                                                                    ......   Raggtgmas.E
FMI Ime                                                          . -' . .. - .- -                             ... ...... X          a   xtx
AnS                                                               ..  .......                                 lxax.x.. xnxmaxxmxs  SUN
Training (chlef & mealetenI)----
Study tour (chief)
stm~tfur (chief)                                           -
Cenwut tent                                                   ...
Logistical caWmuitMnt--
i  nwtent
Cm,..e prarm  plairgin  cmr.ulttnt....
training of Irlmnrs                                ..........   ..     .
stuck af hospital servicem-  ----
(D






-5.                                                                   u 4a-4"  "I-'  "S.    -5-1-3-3- - -- -                                                                                                        5-   - -.
H|Ii'"i"'                             .       ^ se.                      *,   *..              u        ..s  sins...    Is:               a    s t  .h.           -" *s    *.s.                                        * aea                            .     n    .                    S..               .
*~~ll*  US sqdp.h6  ~~        mIl    IsiS. mis  i.e. me         315   816.61  -..5l              53131  11511)   s.s555                         55.14 I.i                             3.11                   5666        *548.6o841                4    5.51.5.                    5......      53.1
X-_ _ t*_W a@a}s la1453.35.           *313     5            1.5             *       .i4                       i    is     .,.. s    45 ) .               55&5t$   1o..5.           511   I4.S.'s        5   i             I       . M651                    3    511.15 5.5alas 13A. .n
CarSA   sP             g        s  Wau.s *   W.s @ Z. -40.tzhanu0 doe"    "W%14               s      asz 8. Wats  *t"1   S.S54 3    Al. St                                        *la  DOMMS)o661    GDWS-bs.                                    z *        SIIAS5.4,beb *asaa |4to|
-LI    _s_ at I   _@ms | z|a *us                                                                                                                                                                          as
INAA Kamm     Imat                          moo#   1116s4.4a    loo,%          assis   14."S  e -9.1              14010   bftse   I9s    44.           I *as    kdl- . apj  A" te         *81.0   las.  "S   -11                         3.1                     SlI63.3,SW1                        448 III.. 
_  *.sia.3  55.3~-t-            s.1--.  5.---    5555. 31   .55.5-         45151    *-1        .5.51         55553   555....      .5...           355          5.5u. s.i5..3         51151   *5- .51    -, ... . 55553  ,,,,3, 15,  ,5.i                      ,, ,55. ,             _    ,    515       3 3.1.  ..3
su.m.ss . Isa                                                                 51315.331                           51535.30                                                                                                                                      sn.ss.sSa~~~~~~~~~~~~~e - 



