Jr~~~~~~~~~~~r
g.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
ii         ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



CURRENCY EQUIVALUETS
Currency Unit - Cowor_an Franc (CF)
(The CF Is fully convertible into the French franc at 50 CF - 1 FF).
Calendar 1982                         February 1983
US$ - 328.62 CF                       344.09 CF
1,000 CF - US$3.06                    US$2.90
1,000,000 CF - US$3,060               US$2,900
(The Staff Appraisal Report is based ou US$1.00 - 325 CF).
MEASURES
1 meter (i)               -   3.28 feet
1 square meter (.2)       -  10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)              0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2) -   0.386 square miles
ABBREVITONS
BEPE       - Bureau d'exEcution des projets d'Education
CE7ADER    - Centre ffdGral d'appui au dEveloppement rural
CIDA       - Canadian International Development Agency
NCR        - Maternal/Child Health
mPH?       - Ministry of Public Bealth and kjpulatiou
NHS        - National Health School
UNFPA      _ United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF     - United Nations Children's Fund
WHO        - World Health Organizationi
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



M  OFFICIAL UW  ONLY
TABLE OF CONDENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUNKAJY ..............................    ..     i
I -  THE ECONOMY ..... ........*e........****,, **********                1
Recent Developments               3...........*****               3
II -  WORLD BAIR GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE COMOROS ................          5
III -  THE POPULATION AlND HEALTH SECTOR ..........................         6
Demographic Background .... ..............................        6
Health Conditions .................................. . ..         6
Population, Health and Development ......................         7
Policies ^n Population and Health .............. .........        7
Organization and Aditdistration of the Realth Sector ....         8
Staffing tn the Health Sector ......         .....................  9
Pharmaceutical Storage and Distribution .................         9
Availability and Quality of Health and
Family Planning Services ..............................    10
Health Expenditure and Finance  ....... 009       *...... ..*. .0    10
Bank Group Involvement and Strategy in
the Health  -d Population Sector          ......................    11
IV -  THE PROJECT *..............................................    12
Background ........................... : ..........................    12
Project Objectives and Description ......................    12
Project Cost and Financing            .............              15
Project Implementation ..... *........  *..................    15
Procurement  ...      .....*      .-........ .......... ....    16
Disbursement ..................                   .... ....*.    16
Revolving Fund         ........................................*    17
Project Accounts, Audit and Reporting                   ....    17
Benefits and Risks .............................. 00.9*8*    17
V -   LEGAL INS-RUMENTS A?D AUTHORITY  .6........................    18
VI -   RECOMMENDATION ******. .          ...................             18
ANNEXES
Annex I      Social ;ndicators Data Sheet
Annex II    Status of Bank Group Operations in the Comoros
Annex III   Supplementary Project Data Sheet
IThis document has a restricted dRisbution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance|
Lof thei offlciS dutumits contents may not otherwe be discko# without World Bank; authoozmn.



COMOROS
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros
Beneficiary:       Ministry of Public Health and Population (MPHP)
Amount:             SDR 2.7 million (US$2.85 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard
Project
Description:     The project would assist the Governmervt t^ develop a strategy
and a program to slow population growthk and to strengthen the
management and delivery of basic health'. and family planning
services. The project comprises: (a) establishment of and
technical assistance for a unit in the Planning Directorate
to plan and coordinate a national population program;
(b) technical assistance, training and materials and
equipment to the Ministry of Public Health and Population
(MPHP) to improve and expand the family planning program;
(c) improvements to the storage and distribution of
pharmaceuticals, including the establishment of a small
compounding unit: (d) construction and equipment of two
maternal/child health clinics and renovation-or replacement
of about thirty substandard health posts; (e) fellowships for
nurse trainers and technical assistance for health manpower
planning and curriculua development for the National Health
School; and (f) a study and long-range p'an for the
development and financing of hospital services.
Benefits & Risks:  The project's main benefits would include development of a
strategy and program to reduce population growth,
strengthening of the MPHP's planning and management capacity
and improvements in tbe quality and quantity of family
planning and related health services. The main risk is the
general financial weakness of the Government which could
endanger the prompt availability of counterpart and operating
funds for the project. However, recently adopted fiscal
measures suggest an improved outlook for the Government
budget. The limited implementation capacity constitutes
another risk. Technical assistance provided under the
project is likely to minimize the latter risk.



- 11. -
Estimated
Costs:
US$ (Million)             Z of
Local     Foreign    Total    Base Cost
Civil works                                .47        .58      1.05       45.0
Furniture & Equipment                      .02        .21        .23      10.0
Vehicles                                  -           .08        .08       3.0
Technical Assistance                       .14        .54        .68      29.0
Training and Study Tours                  -           .06        .06       3.0
Local Personnel                            .10        -          .10       4.0
Incremental Operating Costs               .07         .08       .15        6.0
Subtotal, Base Costs                    .80        1.55      2.35      100.0
Physical Contingencies                     .08        .12        .20       8.5
Price Contingencies                        .26        .31       .57       24.3
Total Project Costs                      1.14        1.98      3.12      132.8
Financing Plan:
Percent
local     Forein    Total    of total
(US$ mill-ons)
Government                               0.27         -        .0.27       8.7
IDA                                      .0.87       1.98      2.85      91.3
Total                                 1.14        1.98      3.12      100
Estimated Disbursements        IDA FY   1984        1985      1986        1987
U 5cuS  iliwas)
Annual                                0.22        0.28      1.40        0.95
Cumulative                            0.22        0.50      1.90       2.85
Rate of Return: not applicable
Appraisal Report: Report No. 4350-CON, dated June 22, 1983
Map: IBRD 17010



IN!ERNATIOIML DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AlND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDE r
TO THE EXECUITVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONOROS
FOR A HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Federal Islamic Republic of the Comorosl/ for an
amount of SDR 2.7 million (US$2.85 million equivalent) on standarT IDA terms to
help finance a health and population project;
PART I - THE ECONDMY
Background and Economic Structure
2.        A country economic memorandum, reflecting the findings of an economic
mission which visited the Comoros in December 1980, was distributed to the
Executive Directors in May 1982 and provides a comprehensive review of the
country's economic situation and development issues, An updating economic
memorandum is currently under preparation, based on the findings of an economic
mission to the Comoros in September 1982. The following sm-mary is based on the
findings of that mission.
3.        The Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros is among the poorest
countries in the world (per capita income was estimated at US$310 in 1981)2/
and is considered by the United Nations to be one of the least developed
countries. The archipelago, which consists of four main islands stretching over
a distance of 270 km at the northern end of the Mozambique channel, is heavily
populated with 400,000 inhabitants in an area of 2,166 km22. The population
density (182 inhabitants/km2) is among the highest in the Eastern Africa Region,
particularly when the ratio of population to cultivable land (375
inhabitants/k=2) is taken into account. The islands are volcanic in origin,
fairly rugged, and covered with lush vegetation. They have a marine, tropical
1/ The Comoros archipelago consists of four islands: Grande Comore, Anjouan,
Koheli and Mayotte. The Government of the Federal Islamic Republic of the
Comoros has effective control over the first three islands. Mayotte is still
under French administration. References to the Comoros in this report exclude
Mayotte.
21   Atlas GNP per capita.



-2-
climate and receive over 2 meters of rain in the rainy season. Their tcopgraphy
creates several microclimates as a result of which a variety of crops can be
cultivated.
4.        Agriculture occupies the vast majority of the people, and over 80% of
the population live in rural areas. Host cultivation is of foodstuffs for local
consumption, the main food crops being coconut, banana, cassava and rice.
However, about 10% of the cultivated area is planted with high-value cash crops,
the no.,t important being vanilla, cloves, ylang-ylang and coconut.  These cash
crops account for virtually all export earnings.  Farming methods are
rudimentary and yields are low.  As a consecuence, food production is
insufficient and food imports absorb a large share of export revenues.
5.        Non-agricultural activities in the Comoros are limited.  The very
small processing and manufacturing sector consists mainly of ylang-ylang
distillation into perfure es.ences, a small soft drink bottling plant, a sawmill
and a soap factory. The social sectors, notably education and health, were
adversely affected by the economic difficulties of the country during the
1975-78 period, but recently the situation has started to improve, partly on
account of substantial external assistance. Education had already started
expanding rapidly before independence, and by 1978-79 enrollments in primary
schools exceeded 80% of the population in the 7-12 age group. However, the
system lacks relevance to the Comoros' needs and the quality of education
remains poor. There is also a severe shortage of qualified Couorian teaching
staff and a large number of teachers are being provided by the Arab League and
France.
6.        Population pressure is a serious problem in the Comoros.  It has led
to extensive deforestation and erosion by inducing farmers to extend cultivation
to higher hill slopes. Between 1968 and 1974, forest areas declined by 44%. In
the most densely populated island, Anjouan, the decline was 69%. Erosion is
aggravated by the farming methods employed, particularly the lack of terracing.
Population growth has also increased the demand for fuelwood, imposing more
strain on the forests. In 1980, the Government undertook a census with
assistance from the United Nations Fund for Population Activities. The
population is currently estimated to be growing by about 2.6% annually which, if
continued at the same rate, would imply a doubling of the population and the
population density by the year 2010. The Government has become more aware of
this problem, but a broad consensus on an explicit population policy has not
been reached and the control of population growth will have to overcome
political and religious obstacles.   Family planning services only started
recently as part of the maternal-child health activities in the Ministry of
Health.
7.        High infant mortality, malnutrition and malaria are the predominant
health problems. The general standard of health services is low because most
Comorian personnel are poorly qualified, drugs are In short supply and basic
equipment is lacking.  Doctors' services are provided mostly by expatriate
personnel and most expenditures in the health sector are funded by external
sources.



-3-
8.        Transport, both internal and external, has always been a problem for
the Comoros. International sea transport is rendered costly and irregular by
the small size and isolation of the islands. This situation is aggravated by
the absence of a deep water port and the lack of a natural site for port
development. Hence, large ships are reluctant to call at Comorian ports and
cargo has to be trans-shipped through the ports of neighboring countries. This
situation is being remedied, albeit at high cost to the country, with the
ongoing construction of a deep water port at Mutsamudu on Anjouan island. Sea
transport between the islands depends mostly on small steamers and dhows and is
also hampered by the lack of adequate port infrastructure. Within the islands,
transport is limited by the lack of reliable road connections between the coast
and the hinterland. Because of this, farmers have difficulty in bringing
perishable crops to markets. Recent assistance from several multilateral and
bilateral agencies, including IDA, is helping to improve the road transport
situation.
Recent Developments                                                -
9.        The period immediately folloving independence in 1975 was marked by an
acute decline in economic activity which was halted only in 1977 when new
foreign issistance became available to replace French financial and
administrative assistance which was suddenly terminated after independence.
During 1977-78, GDP grew at about 3.5% per annum, which meant a slight decline
in per capita income, given the high rate of natural population growth and the
repatriation of about 20,000 Comorians expelled from Madagascar. The economy
has recovered since 1979 mainly as a consequence of the resumption of external
aid and budgetary support from France and financial assistance from the Arab
countries, the reconstitution of the administrative services (which provided
employment and stimulated internal demand), favorable world prices for Comoros'
major export commodities, and the Implementation of a number of investment
projects in infrastructure financed by external sources.
10.       Agricultural growth resulted from (i) good performance in cash crops
(cloves and vanilla), which was partially neutralized by the decline in perfume
essence production, and (ii) positLve results from efforts to increase local
food production, maialy maize and bananas.
11.       Public investments have fostered the growth of the construction
sector and account for most of the growth in the industry sector, as
manufacturing activities remain very limited. Total fixed investment has
reached an annual average of about 24% of GDP, for the period 1979-1981 most of
it (about 75%) being public investment. The interim plan covering the 1984-86
period, currently under preparation, would target total fixed investment at
35-40% of GDP.
12.       With respect to the balance of payments, the current account deficit
has been widening since 1979 because of the modest growth of exports and the
steady increase in imports of goods and non-factor service payments. The
resource gap, which reached US$32 million in 1980 and 1981, representing 272 and



-4-
29% respectively of GDP, essentially reflects the availability of h.gh levels of
external development aid on a per capita basis.   Disbursements of concessionary
aid averaged some $37 million annually during the period 1979-1981.  Exports in
1981 benefited from the devaluation of the French franc and reached US$18
million. Poor export performance in 1980 was in part due to stockpiling or
vanilla in an unsuccessful attempt to force international prices up.
13.       Food and consumer goods account for about 702 of the Comoros'
merchandise imports. Rice has traditionally represented a large share of
imports, accounting for more than 20% of total imports over the last decade.
Rice imports declined in volume under the previous administration when foreign
exchange was scarce, but increased to an average of 25,000 tons per year since
1979. The low share of imported intermediate goods reflects the small scale of
Comoros' industrial sector and the low level pf investment in machinery and
equipment. Construction materials and capital goods imports have noticeably
increased since 1980, reflecting mainly investment in road construction and
maintenance financed by external aid agencies. Energy imports have been
restricted by the lack of adequate storage and difficulties in maintaining a
regular supply.
14.       Although total government outlays have been curtailed since
independence, during 1979-81 they were almost four times the level of government
domestic revenues, and the deficit was covered by a large inflow of external
assistance for both capital and recurrent expenditures. Foreign aid
disbursements (grants and loans) amounted to more than twice the level of
capital expenditures. Government tax revenues represent a relatively small
share of GDP (10Z) and depend mainly on indirect taxes on foreign trade.  The
heavy reliance on ind1irect taxation on foreign trade is partly due to the low
level of taxable domestic production and income, but it also results from the
low recovery of direct taxes, whose raLes range from 74% for the tax on profits
to 7% for the general turnover tax.
15.       With assistance from France and the IMF, the Government has recently
undertaken reforms to improve public finances. On the revenue side, a new tax
administration, Administration GGngrale des Imp8ts (AGI) has been created.  The
agency is an autonomous body responsible for assessing taxes, establishing tax
roles, and collecting indirect taxes. Direct tax bases have been reassessed and
collection is expected to be enforced much more strictly. French technical
assistance should also help to improve revenue collection in the customs
department. As a result of a recent change in the Constitution, following the
creation of AGI, the island governors and assemblies no longer have taxing
powers and island governmentr can no longer collect taxes; this is now the sole
responsibility of the AGI and the Federal Treasury.
16.       The 1983 budget totalling 3.65 billion CF projects a deficit of 950
million CF, representing 341 of receipts, which is expected to be covered by
external budgetary aid. The 2.74 billion CF projected domestic revenues
represent a 44% increase over 1982. On the expenditure side, the 1983 budget
assumes further reductions in expenditures for education, personnel and
Government travel. The capital budget of about 900 million CF is to be financed
entirely by external sources.



-5 -
17.       Public enterprises suffer from inadequate organizational structure and
a lack of managerial skills. At present, their financial accounts are scanty
and unreliable. Available evidence indicates that there is a complicated
network of unpaid debts ('dettes crols es") within the public sector. The
Government, therefore, needs to undertake immediate action to Improve the
financial performance of the public enterprises. In particular, public
enterprise accounting services need to be strengthened and financial controls
established. The parastatals and their finances are currently under review but
no action has been taken, except for the appointment of a General Manager,
seconded by France, at the Electricity and Water Board.
*      18.       The Comoras have potential for expanding production.  Improvement of
agricultural techniques should increase yields substantially. There is scope
for small-scale enterprises, the processing of agricultural products and some
import substitution. A possibility exists of attracting a quality tourist
trade. New hotel pro5jects are currently under consideration with -xternal
financing from bilateral sources.
19.       Several aid agencies are currently extending financial and technical
assistance to the Comoros. France resumed her assistance in 1979 and aid from
other sources, particularly the Arab countries has also been growing. Other
major donors include the African Development Bank Group, Kuwait Fund, Arab Bank
for Economic Development In Africa, Saudi Arabia, Abu Dhabi, the Islamic Bank,
the United Nations Development Program and the European Development Fund. In
view of the concessionary terms on foreign capital inflows, the external debt of
the Comoros has remained relatively small; ODA transfers predominate, and there
has been almost no foreign commercial bank lending. However, recent borrowing
for the Mutsamudu port in 1982 will significantly increase the debt service
burden. The debt service ratio, estimated at 5% In 1983, is expected to
increase to 18% in 1985.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE CO01OROS
20.       The Comoros joined the Bank in December 1976 and the Association in
December 1977. To date, Bank Group operations in the Comoros include a first
IDA highway credit of US$5.0 million in 1978, a coconut rehabilitation project
for which IDA approved a US$5.2 million credit in 1980, a second highway
maintenance project  f US$6.3 million, and a US$6.0 million education credit in
1981. To date, IFC has not made any investment in the Comoros. TIplementatlon
of ongoing projects is generally satisfactory, although a substantial input of
technical ass'stance is still required for project management. Annex II to this
report contains a summary statement of IDA credits as of March 31, 1983 and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
21.       Because of the enormous staffing constraints facing the Cwioros and
the basic weakness of its publir administration, technical assistance assumes a
particular Importance in that country. Such assistance is being provided by all
the donors active in the Comoros, notably France, IDA, UNDP, FED and Kuwait.
The IMF is also providing technical assistance in fiscal policy and administra-
tion. To coordinate aid and to avoid duplication of efforts, the UNDP is
sponsoring a donors conference in Moroni probably in December 1983.



-6 -
22.       Fucure lending to the Comoros will continue to support the productive
sectors, i.e., agriculture and small-scale industries, but assistance will also
be provided for health/population, education and manpower training. Projects in
agriculture would include a rural development scheme. Assistance to small-scale
enterprises would be provided through the newly created development bank which
would be the beneficiary of a first IDA line of credit to the Comoros signed in
June 1983. Comoros haE been quite effective in using funds made available for
project preparation unler the PPF system and its performance on disbursement of
credits is generally good. There are as yet no project completion or audit
reports available for the Comoros.
PART III - THE POPULATION AND HEALTH SECTOR
Demographic Bizckground
23.       The Comorian population is characterized by youth, rapid growth and
high density. The 1980 census enumerated about 347,000 people, and the present
population is estimated at 370,000, more than half of whom are under the age of
20. Eighty percent of the people live in rural areas and there are only 8 towns
of over 5000 inhabitants. Population density is among the higbest in Africa.
Between the census of 1966 and 1980, the average annual growth rate of the
population was 3.6%, reflecting the convergence of a natural rate of increase of
about 2.6% and an influx of about 38,000 immigrants, notably Comorians expelled
from Madagascar in 1977. However, immigration is not expected to be significant
in the coming years. The crude birth and death rates, estimated at 45 and l9
per thousand, respectively, are high and typical of low-income African
countries. Infant mortality is estimated a' about 150 per thousand live
births. The UN-estimated total fertility rate of about 6.3 is somewhat below
the average for Eastern Africa. Little is known about the factors affecting
fertility in the Comoros, but the relatively late average age of marriage for
women--about 20 years--may serve to limit the birth rate. Fewer than 3% of
couples practice contraception.
24.       Comoros' population is projected to almost double its present size by
the year 2010, if there were no decline in fertility. However, the population
growth rate could decrease to 2.3X by the year 2000, if the level of
contraceptive use could be increased to about 22% within the next ten years. To
achieve this level of contraceptive usage, which is reasonable, about 9,000
acceptors would have to be recruited yearly until 1992.
Health Conditions
25.       Data on health conditions are scanty in the Comoros.  The principal
sources are records of attendance at health centers and hospital admissions,
which do not necessarily reflect the health problems of the population at
large. The pattern of disease reflects poor living conditions and lack of
preventive measures. Malaria, parasitic diseases, respiratory illnesses and
rheumatism account for most reported adult illnesses. Only a small proportion
of people obtain chemoprophylaxis and/or treatment for malaria, resulting in



-7 -
very high morbidity and mortality. Other public health problems Include
tuberculosis, estimated at 3 per thousand, trauma due mostly to traffic
accidents and falls, genito-urinary diseases, and poorly performed abortions by
traditional practitioners.
26.       Inadequate nutrition contributes to the incidence and severity of
illnesses among children. A 1979 study found that about 40% of children under
three on Grande Comore and Anjouan suffered from malnutrition, while oa Moheli
about one quarter of the children were malnourished.  The frequency of poor
nutrition, malaria and anemia place the majority of pregnancies in the Comoros
in the high-risk category. The maternal mortality rate for institutional
deliveries in 1981 was a high five per thousand and perimstal mortality was
estimated at 47 per thousand births. Poor delivery practices and conditions
also contribute to high maternal and perinatal mortnlity during home deliveries,
which account for about three-quarters of 11 deliveries.
Population, Health and Development
27.       There is a direct link between the Comoros' health and population
situation and its national development prospects. Population growth at the
present rate of almost 3% would offset about half of the projected increase In
total GNP. The high prevalence of malaria, chronic diseases and malnutrition
limits the productivity of working adults and the learning ability of
schoolchildren.
28.       The present population size is already havink serious effects on the
agricultural sector: deforestation and soil erosion are major problems on
Anjouan, where there have also been inter-village conflicts over land use
rights.  The Comoros already imports at least 35% of its food supply, and there
are natural factors limiting the potential for increasing domestic food
production.   According to Bank Group projections, agricultural output could
grow at 4% per annum through the 1980's. With a population growth rate of
around 2.6%, the per capita increase in production would be only 1.4% per
annum. At this rate, the Government's objective of food self-sufficiency will
be very difficult to attain.
29.       Population growth at even a modest rate will continue to place heavy
strains on the economy in general and the public sector 'n particular. A recent
survey found unemployment rates of 35-50% in the three .ain towns and
opportunities for large-scale job creation are likely to remain very limited.
Even if there are significant improvements in the tax base and tax collections
as expected, the need for increasing expenditures, particularly on education and
urban infrastructure, is likely to leave government finance heavily dependent on
external financial assistance, including budgetary support.
Policies on Population and Health
30.       The Government has, during the past two years, become concerned about
rapid population growth, particularly its effect on land availability. The
authorities have publicly commented on the need to slow population growth, but
this sentiment has not yet been translated into an explicit policy on population
though the Government has recently decided to create a coordinating umit for



- 8 -
population matters within the Directorate of Planning. The Gover.ent is also
aware of the potential political and religious obstacles that may inhibit action
in this sensitive area. In the specific area of family planning, it has
permitted the provislan of family planning services as part of the
maternal/child bealth program In government health facilities. A family
planning division in the Ministry of Public Health and Populatior has just been
created, but has not yet developed a work program.
31.       The health system deteriorated at independence in 1975, following the
departure aZ most French medical personnel, and suffered further during the
Soilih regime.  The present Government has declared its health objectives as
follows: (i) reduction of infant mortality and an increase in life expectancy
through the implementation of basic health care services; (ii) a maternal/child
health program; (iii) control programs for malaria, tuberculosis and leprosy;
(iv) strengthening of hospital services; (v) the establishment of a planing and
evaluation system, and (vi) the development of human resources.
32.       The MPHP has emphasized the provision of basic preventive and curative
services by reopening about 40 health posts previously closed and by
establishing the National Health School to train' and upgrade paramedical
personnel. All health services are now provided free of charge, but the
Government intends to introduce fees for certain drugs anm services. In view of
the Comoros' severe resource constraints and the nature of its health problems,
the Government's priorities are considered appropriate. However, no explicit
plans or guidelines have been prepared, particularly concerning the trains.ng and
allocation of health manpower, the services to be offered at the various types
of facilities, the orientation of external assistance for health, or the
construction of new facilities.
Organization and Administration of the Health Sector
33.       The federal Ministry of Publio Health and Population (MPHP) is
responsible for the overall planning -nd uanagement of the health sector, the
National Health School, the Central Supply Pharmacy, and since January 1983, for
the operation of hospitals amd health centers. The governorates now retain
jurisdiction only over health posts and urban clinics.  Most health services in
the Comoros are provided in government facilities; the only exceptions are a
Catholic mission dispensary in Moroni, a small leDrosy program operated by a
European charity on Anjouan, and the private practices of about ten Comorian
physicians.
34.       The MPHP has only about twelve staff members with professional or
technical qualifications. A number of functions including health education,
maintenance and logistics, supervision of hospital services, and personnel
management are non-existent. The Directorate of Basic Health Services, along
with its two divisions for family planning and malaria control, was created late
in 1982. The MPHP receives important technical assistance from CIDA (Canada)
executed by Laval University (Canada).



-9-
Staffing in the Health Sector
35.       There are about 600 people working in the Comoros' goverrment health
services.  Of these, only about 120 have received formal training, either at
medical and nursing schools abroad, or at the National Realth Schcvl. This
number includes about fifteen Comorian and twenty expatriate doctors and
dentists. All the Comorians are in Moroni and Hutsamudu; peripheral facilities
are staffed by UN volunteers and Laval University doctors. The trained medical
and paramedical staff are otnumbered by the roughly 480 workers with little or
no formal training including nurses, health technicians, auxiliary nurses,
auxiliary midwifes, nurses aides, and itinerant workers. The nojority of the
*      health posts are filled bv these staffs, most of whom can perform only a small
number of tasks. In the large health facilities, the few trained personnel
often provide direct services instead of supervising and managing the
lower-level staff.
36.       The National Health School (NES), established in 1980, provides
three-year courses for nurses amd teckaicians, and in-service training for all
paramedical personnel. About 30 nurses and technicians graduate annually. To
date,  most of the instructors have been furnished by WRO, but there are several
Comorian instructors now undergoing training abroad. The NES training programs
are not well adapted to the needs of the Comoros' health system:there is
iusufficient practical training, and the programs and curricula have not been
based on a detailed analysis of health workers' actual responsibilities and
skill requirements. There is therefore a need to review and adapt the curricula
at NIS. There are about 40 Comorians now receiving medical and nursing training
abroad. In the past, few such students have returned to the Comoros. The
Government i5s no exploring ways to encourage their return.
Pharmaceutical Storage ard Distribution
37.       The acquisition, storage and distribution of drugs for all health
facilities is the responsibility of the Central Supply Pharmacy (CSP). About
90Z of the CSP's drug supply is provided free by various external donors.
Donations and purchases are normally limited to a list of 150 essential drugs,
but unsolicited gifts of drugs not recuired in the Comoros are also received.
The Government makes only a token budgetary provision for drug purchases, and in
1982 disbursed only ZOZ of the sum budgeted. Because of the smallness of the
country's drug requirements, along wv-h communication and transportation
difficulties, the present practice of direct procurement from nonprofit foreign
wholesalers is appropriate. The CSP itself compounds small quantities of a few
common drugs. However, spa.e and equipment are major constraints, and the
procedures used are unsatisfactory. The CS is located in Horoni in a small,
decrepit building totally unsuited to its function. Storage conditions,
maintenance and security provisions are poor. Uantil late in 1982, supplies were
distributed directly from the CSP to individual health facilities on all three
islands. This system has favored facilities on Grande Comore because of their
proximity; there have been periodic shortages on Anjouan and ?Aoheli owing to
logistical problems and lack of funds for transport. Consequently, the
Government has recently decided to decentralize the distribution system by
establishing depots on all three islands. Shortages in peripheral facilities
also result from the absence of a system for reporting requirements and
consumption patterns.



- 10 -
Availability and Quality of Health and Family Planning Services
38.       There are three main types of health facilities in the Comoros: rural
health posts, health centers, and hospitals. In most areas, people live within
reasonable walking distance of a. health facility, although there remain a few
poorly served -ural areas on Grande Comore. There are 39 rural health posts
which in fact administer mainly first aid and other simplecurative measures.
The furnishings, equipment and supplies of most health posts are inadequate and
about 75! of the posts require renovation or replacement. Seven health centers,
each with about 40 bcds, are staffed with a doctor and a few qualified nurses
but most personnel have received only on-the-job and -refresher  training.  The
quality and range of services provided are limited. The towns of Moroni and
Mutsamudu each have a maternal/child health clinic and a general outpatient
clinic, which are poorly housed and equipped. The country's two major hospitals
provide services that are still substandard but they do have better equipment
than the health centers and are staffed with surgeons, dentists and a few other
specialists.
39.       A maternal/child health program, which includes family planning
services, was started in a1 health facilities in late 1980. The new Family
Planning Division in the MPHP has been given the task of expanding and improving
family planning services, designing educational materials and assisting with
staff training at the health school and on the job. Contraceptives are
available in hospitals, health centers, and rural maternities; pills and
condoms are provided at some health posts; and tubal ligations are performed at
the two major hospital. Adequate supplies of contraceptives are provided free
of charge by UNFPA and other organizations to the Central Supply Pharmacy, which
distributes them to health facilites. Nb quantitative information is available
about attrition rates of contracepti^ve users, but many pill acceptors do not
return for resupply and there is no systematic follow-up. As demand for family
planning is limited by religious and cultural inhibitions, carefully designed
efforts to increase demand through organized informational or motivational
activities will be essential if the family planning program is to have a
significant impact.
Health Expenditure and Finance
40.       In 1981, health accounted for about 5Z of all government recurrent
expenditures, which is comparable to the 6-8% range found in Botswana, Malawi,
Lesotho and Rwanda. Since no user fees are levied, recurrent costs are covered
by government and external agencies. Irn 1981, external agencies spent more on
health in Comoros than did the federal and island governments - US$1.2 million
equivalent on recurrent expenditures, and about US$0.8 million equivalent on
capital expenditures. France and the Arab countries finance most of
government's general budgetary deficit and thus indirectly provide additional
support for health. Nb capital expenditures for health were made by
Government. Personnel accounts for about 60% of health expenditures, about the
same proportion found in other African countries. Because of lack of trained
personnel, qualified staff are called upon to perform direct services and,
therefore, cannot be effectively utilized in management and supervision.
Further, since preventive programs financed by the Government are limited, most
expenditure is for services that are essentially curative in nature.



- 11 -
41.       In the past few years, MPHP has actually received substantially less
than the amounts budgeted for the operation of health services. This has
resulted in shortages of basic supplies and eauipment, reduced operations of
some programs, improperly maintained buildings and equipment, and minimal
supervision of field activities by headquarters personnel as well as frequent
delays in the payment of civil servants' salaries.  The latter problem lowers
the staff morale and makes it difficult to attract and retain qualified
personnel.  In 1983, it is estimated that the federal government would need to
spend about 425 million CF (USS1.3 million) to operate existing health
facilities and programs at an acceptable level. The governorates together would
need to spend another 70 million CF (US$0.2 million) to operate the health posts
*      and urban clinics.  The total estimated financing requirement of 405 million CF
(USS1.5 million) represents about 82 of projected 1983 government recurrent
expenditures.
Bank Group Involvement and Strategy in the Health and Population Sector
42.       The Bank Group's only lending for this sector to date has been in the
context of the First Education Project signed in February 1982, Which includes a
component for the construction and equipment of a National Health School
building.  This building, whose construction has not yet begun, will permit the
school to provide a wider variety of training programs in order to meet the
shortage of paramedical personnel and upgrade existing staff. A Bank
population, health and nutrition sector review was undertaken in March 1982
after the Government requested Bank Group assistance in tbh  field of
ropulation. This review, which was accepted by the Government, provided a
comprehensive picture of the sector to the extent permitted by data
availability, and identified key constraints and needs. A key element of our
lending strategy is therefore to support the Government's desire to reduce
population growth by strengthening the services and institutions providivig
family planning and related health services. At the same time, the Govermnent
is being encouraged and assisted to develop approaches that go beyond the mere
provision of family planning services, by developing a population policy.
43.       The Comorian Government has correctly recognized rapid population
growth as a critical area but needs to develop strategy and institutional
capability. In view of the limited human and financial resources and the small
size of the target population, the population problem in the Comoros should be
approached primarily in the broader context of the health sector, with an
emphasis on basic level services. A family planning program would be the
cornerstone of any population program. The proposed project is designed to
support this objective through the health facilities, technical assistance, and
training for Comori_.s personnel. In the course of project preparation the
Government agreed to create a unit in the Directorate of Planning to plan and
coordinate population activities. Experience in other countries has shown that
such an entity, having access to a wide range of resources and with a broadly
defined mandate to approach the population problem, is an essential component of
a suces.sful program. During negotiations, we discussed the Government's
strategy and policy in respect of population control. The Government confirmed
Comoros' intentions to proceed with present and future measures designed to slow
down the growth of population, 'ncluding the decision to create a poptilation
poliev unit in the Directorate of Plannint, expansion and improvement of family
planning activities and mobilization through the media of broad political
support for a population program. Nevertheless, the Government recognizes the



- 12 -
need to dev.op and spell out a more precise policy framework for future
population action.  A draft outline has been given to the authorities concerned
as a possible guide In formulating policy.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
44.       The proposed project is based on a Government request to the Bank in
December 1981 for assistance in the population sector. A sector/identification
mission visited Comoros in March 1982, followed by a preparation mission in
August. The project was appraised in December 1982. Negotiations were held in
Washington from June 15 to 17, 1983. The Comorian delegation was led by
H.E. Abdou Moustakim, Minister of Public Health and Population and included Mr.
Said Omar Ben Achirafi, the proposed Project Coordinator. A Staff Appraisal
Report entitled -Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros-Realth and Population
Project- (No. 4350-COM) dated June 22, 1983 is being distributed separately to
the Executive Directors. A credit and project summary is provided at the
beginning of this repott and supplemental project data are contained in Annex
III to the report. A map of the major health facilities is attached.
Project Objectives and Description
45.       The project would assist the Government in developing a program to
slow down population growth and strengthen the management and delivery of basic
health services. Specifically, the project would support Government policies
and institution-building in the sector with the following objectives: to
develop a strategy for reducing population growth and increase the quantity and
quality of family planning and related health services; strengthen the MPRP's
planning and management capacity in key areas; increase the storage and
distribution capacity for drugs; improve the relevance and efficiency of
training programs for paramedical personnel; and upgrade health facilities and
rationalize hospital services.
46.       To meet the above objectives, the proposed project includes (i)
technical assistance, training, and logistical support (materials and vehicles)
for family planning; (ii) establishment of a population unit in the Directorate
of Planning; (iii) construction and equipment of 3 pharmacy depots and a central
compounding unit, along with training and technical assistance for tneir
overation; (iv) construction and equipment of two replacement maternallchild
h alth clinics and renovation or replacement of up to thirty substandard rural
health posts, as well as medical equipment for selected clinics; (v) fellowships
for two nursing instructors and technical assistance for health manpower
planning and curriculum development for the National Health School; and (vi) a
study and long-range plan for hospital services, including proposals for cost
recovery. Detailed features of the project are as follows:
(a) Family Planning. This component would support the operation of the
newly-created Family Planning Division of the MPHP. As a condition of
credit effectiveness, the Division is to be headed by a chief who vill



- 13 -
be assisted by a nurse or midwife. There would also be one nurse or
midwife on each island to supervise the delivery of family planning
services and information in all health facilities and provide
on-the-job training to rural nurses and midwives. At negotiations,
assurances were obtained that three qualified field supervisors would
be appointed by December 31, 1983 and sent for training in family
planning by April 30, 1984 (Section 3.08, draft Development Credit
Agreement). Provision is made under the project for eight months of
consultant services to help the MPHP design and carry out service
delivery, staff training, public education, statistical and monitoring
activities. Vehicles, office furniture and equipment are also
provided.
(b)  Population Unit.  A population unit is to be established in the
Directorate of Planning to advise Government on the formulation of a
population program and educate the general public about population
growth and its implications, family health and family planning.  The
unit would design and coordinate activities to be carried out by
various Government organizations including the Ministry of Education,
the agricultural extension service, the Islamic Affairs Secretariat,
the MPHP's Family Planning division, religious leaders and women's
organizations. At negotiations, agreement was reached that the unit
would be sta;ffed by a director with experience and qualifications
acceptable to the Association no later than December 31, 1983 (Section
3.09 (.), draft Development Credit Agreement). Consultant services to
assist in the design and execution of the unit's work program would be
included in the project as well as a vehicle, office furniture,
education materials, and external training for the director. The
project would finance short-term training abroad and study tours
to neighboring countries with active family planning programs for both
the staff of: the Family Planning Division and the director of the
Population Unit.
(c)  Pharmaceutical Storage, Distribution and Compounding.  The proposed
project would finance the construction and equipment of a pharmaceu-
tical supply depot on each of the three islands. Each depot would be
capable of stocking sufficient supplies for one year for all health
facilities on the island. Each would have appropriate facilities and
equipment for the safe storage of inflammable and perishable items.
The Moroni supply depot on Grande Comore would also accommodate the
Central Supply Pharmacy, comprising central administrative offices and
a small compounding unit to be created under the project. The project
would provide the necessary facilities and equipment for compounding,
packaging and quality control. At negotiations, agreement was reached
that the Government would make annual budgetary allocations for the
purchase of raw materials to enable the compounding unit to operate at
planned capacity (Section 3.01 (c), draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). To ensure effective operations, the project would include
provision for technical assistance to the Central Supply Pharmacy in
the form of on-the-job staff training to improve the pharmaceutical
compounding, distribution, logistics and accounting.  There will also
be supervision visits to the Anjouan and Moheli pharmacies by the
chief pharmacistiand to Moroni by staff from the other islands.



- 14 -
Assurance was obtained at negotiations that the Government will
recruit by December 31, 1983, an additional qualified pharmacist
to assist the chief pharmacist when the contract of the
expatriate advisor now in post expires (Section 3.09 (ii), draft
Development Credit Agreement).
(d) Improvement of Health Facilities. The project would include the
construction of replacement facilities and equipment for
maternal/child health clinics in Moroni and Mutsamudu. These
clinics provide comprehensive preventive services for pregnant
women, mothers and children umder 5, including vaccination,
malaria prophylaxis, growth monitoring and family planning. The
clinic at Moroni would be used for practical training of MS
students. Agreement was obtained during negotiations that after
the new maternal/child health clinics become operational, the
provision of routine maternal/child health services at El Maarouf
(Moroni) and Hombo (Hutsamudu) hospitals would be phased out
(Section 3.10 (a), draft Development Credit Agreement). Standard
sets of equipment for other facilities providing maternallchild
health services, namely the Moheli hospital and the couatry's
seven health centers, would also be included under the project.
About 30 existing health posts require repair, renovation and/or
replacement which th1 project would finance up to US$260,000,
based on a list of priorities provided by the MPHP.
(e) Health Manpower Planning and Training.  The project would assist
the MPHP in making more efficient use of its personnel by
providing two months of technical assistance for the development
of a detailed manpower plan for the entire health sector. To
Improve the relevance and effectiveness of training prograum at
the NUS, six months of consultant services are included for
curriculum development. The project would provide two minibuses
to transport NEES students to peripheral facilities for practical
training. The project would supplement the existing
WHO-administered program of fellowships for nurse trainers by
financing two additional fellowships.
(f) Study of Hospital Services. The project would include 11 months
of consultant services to study and make recommendations on the
services to be provided in the health system and on long-term
requirements for hospital personnel, facilities and equipment.
The study also would cover financing needs and options for the
health sector and recommend a feasible system of cost recovery,
in line with the Government's intention to begin charging fees
for some services. Draft terms of reference for the consultant
team have been discussed and agreed with the Government. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that the Government will
discuss with IDA, no later than October 31, 1984, the study's
recommendations for cost recovery and take appropriate follow-up
action (Section 3.11, draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 15 -
Project Cost and Financing
47.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at about US$3.0
million equivalent, of which about 63 percent, or US$1.9 million equivalent,
represents the foreign exchange component. Taxes are negligible since all items
imported for the project would be exempt from customs duties and taxes. A
detailed cost table is provided in the credit and project summary at the
beginning of this report. The proposed IDA credit of SDR 2.7 million (US$2.85
million equivalent) would cover about 90 percent of the total cost and the
Government would contribute the balance representing US$270,000. The IDA credit
would finance all foreign exchange costs and 76 percent of local costs. The
Government contribution would finance part of the civil works, local salaries of
incremental project personnel and some operating local costs. The project's
recurrent cost implications for Government finance would be as follows: during
implementation, the maximum Government counterpart contribution in any one year
would be about US$90,000 equivalent. After the project period, the annual
Incremental recurrent cost would represent about 3% of the Government budgetary
allocation to the health sector in 1983, or US$40,000 equivalent annually.
48.       Project cost estimates are based on January 1983 prices.  The average
cost of consultancy services is estimated at US$11,000 including fees,
subsistence and international travel on the basis of prices quoted in contracts
for similar services being provided in the region. The consultancy services for
the study of hospital services, which would probably be provided by a firm,
rather than individual consultants, are estimated at US$13,000. Salaries and
per diems for local staff are based on current Government scales, and training
fellowships reflect actual tuition, travel and subsistence costs at relevant
international courses. Physical contingencies (15% for civil w.orks, 5% for
furniture and equipment and 5% for technical assistance) represent 9% of total
project costs. Price contingencies have been calculated at rates declining from
12% to 10 % per annum for local supplies and services and from 82 to 6% per
annum for imported items between 1983 and 1986.
Project Implementation
49.       The project would be implemented over a period of three years and is
expected to be completed by October 31, 1986. The MPHP would be responsible for
overall implementation of the project, except the population component. The
population component would be Implemented by the head of the proposed Population
Unit, under the supervision of the Director-General of Planning. Under the
overall supervision and coordination of the Minister, the various senior
officials of the MPHP will have responsibility for tlxa other project components:
the Chief Pharmacist for the pharmaceuticals component; the Director of the
National Health School for the manpower and training component; the Director of
Basic Health Services for the family planning and maternal/child health clinics
and the health posts components; and the Director of Hospital Services for the
study of hospital services.
50.       Staff responsible for Implementation of project components in the MPMP
and the Directorate of Planning and representatives of the education projects
implementation unit (BEPE) would constitute a project coordinating committee
that would meet quarterly under the chairmanship of the Minister of Health
(Section 3.02 (a), draft Development Credit Agreement). An MPIP official would
be appointed coordinator and would be the liaison between t.he MPRIP and the
Association and would be responsible for project reporting and accounting,



- 16 -
procurement, withdrawal applications, coordination with the BEPE, as well as
administration of consultancies, scholarships and study tours, etc. He would
also be responsible for the administrative aspects of the Implementation of the
population component. The appointment of a project coordinator with
qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (Section 5.01 (a), draft Development Credit Agreement).
51.       The consultants employed by the Borrower would have qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the
Association and would be recruited in accordance with Bank Gtidelines for the
use of consultants under Bank-financed projects published in August 1981
(Secticn 3.03, draft Development Credit Agreement). The MPHP has no in-house
capacity at present to prepare drawings, specifications and bid documents, and
to supervise construction. The Ministers of Education and Public Health have
agreed to the use of the Project Implementation Unit (BEPE) in the Ministry of
Education, which is carrying out civil works under the IDA First Education
Project, to implement the civil works component of the proposed project (Section
3.07, draft Development Credit Agreement). The Government has designated sites
for the maternal/child health clinic and pharmacy depot on Anjouan and the depot
on Moheli. Assurances have been obtained that sites acceptable to IDA for the
construction of the clinics and a depot on Grande Comore will be made available
to MPHP no later than December 31, 1983 (Section 3.06 (b), draft Development
Credit Agreement). -
Procurement
52.       Because of the Comoros' geographic isolation and the small size of the
civil works contracts for this project, foreign construction firms not already
established in the Comoros are unlikely to bid for works under-the project.
Therefore, civil works contracts would be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding, in accordance with current Government procedures which were
reviewed by a Bank procurement mission in September 1982 and found to be
acceptable. Minor renovations to health posts in remote areas could be carried
out on force account by the Ministry of Public Works subject to prior approval
by the Association (Schedule 3, paragraph C to the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Contracts for furniture, vehicles and other equipment would also be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding because they are likely to be
too small to interest firms not already represented in the country. Medical
equipment for health posts and the maternal/child health clinics would be
procured through UNICEF. Manufacturing and specialized storage equipment for
the pharmacy would be awarded on the basis of limited tendering after quotations
have been obtained from at least three suppliers. Items would be grouped to
permit bulk procurement. Architectural designs, draft contract documents and
specifications for equipment and supplies would be subject to prior review by
the Association (Section 3.05 (a), draft Development Credit Agreement). Review
of tender evaluation documents by IDA would not be required for contracts
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent.
Disbursement
53.       The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed against 100% of
expenditures for furniture  equipment, vehicles  consultant services  technical
assistance, training and study tours; 90Z for civil works; and  OZf



- 17 -
expenditures on incremental operating costs. Disbursements would be fully
documented, except those for local incremental operating costs, which would be
made against certified statements of expenditure. The documentation for the
statements of expenditure would be retained by the Borrower and, made av. ilable
for inspection by the Association during project supervision (Section 4.01 (b),
draft Development Credit Agreement). The credit closing date is June 30, 1987
(Section 2.04, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Revolving Funds
54.       Two revolving funds would be established in the Comorian Treasury
under separate accounts.  An IDA-financed special account, with an initial
contribution of US$120,000 by the Association, would finance eligible
expenditures to be reimbursed from the IDA credit. IDA would replenish the fund
after not less than one-half has been spent, upon receipt of withdrawal requests
from the Government, accompanied by appropriate documentation of expenditures
made. This procedure would continue until project completion (Section 2.02 (b)
and schedule 4, draft Development Credit Agreement).
55.       A Government-financed advance account, with an initial Government
deposit of US$20,000 equivalent to be replenished on a quarterly basis would
help ensure that counterpart funds for project activities are readily available
(Section 3.01 (b), draft Development Credit Agreement). The establishment of
the special and advance accounts and an initial deposit of US$20,000 into the
advance account by the Government would be conditions of IDA credit
effectiveness (Section 5.01 (c) and (d), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Accounts, Audit and Reporting
56.       Separate accounts for project expenditures would be maintained by the
MPHP and audits would be required for all accounts, including statements of
expenditure, to be carried out annually by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association in accordance with satisfactory auditing procedures. Audited
reports would be submitted to the Association for review within six months
following the end of each fiscal year (Section 4.01(c), draft Development Credit
Agreement).  ITa project coordinator through the MPHP would furnish to the
Association semi-annual progress reports on project implementation (Section 3.05
(b), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
57.       The project would assist the Government in improving health and family
planning services at the primary level. Improvements in these preventive
services can be expected to have a significant impact on immunization coverage,
reduction in the incidence of malaria among children and pregnant women, infant
and maternal mortality, and would result in a greater use of contraceptives.
The project would also provide the means to upgrade the existing paramedical
personnel and train new staff required by the health system.
58.       In addition, the project would develop institutional capability to
deal with demographic growth through the new Population Unit which is expected
to develop a strategy and a program of activities to inform and educate the
local population about family planning. The MPHP would also have a plan for the
development of hospital services including proposals for cost recovery, thereby



- 18 -
increasing the financial resources availab'le to the health sector. ?4HP would
acquire the necessary infrastructural facilities to distribute drugs to health
posts in a timely and efficient manner, and ac:ieve cost savings in the long run
by compounding locally some of the pharmaceutical products commonly used in the
Comoros.
59.       The main risk of the project is that Government may lack the
counterpart financial resources required under the project or could later be
unable to provide funds on time to meet the recurrent costs generated by the
project. However, fiscal reform measures recently introduced suggest an
improved outlook for the Government budget in the coming years.  To deal with
the financing problems during implementation, tw-o revolving funds, to be
replenished periodically by the Government and the Association, will be set up
under the project to finance eligible expenditures while ensuring availability
of Government funds.
60.       Another risk is that MPHP staff may experience difficulties in
implementing the project. To minimize this risk, the Government would appoint a
suitably qualified project coordinator to oversee the overall progress of the
project. In addition, the Laval University (Canada) technical assistance team
to the HPHP is expected to assist in the implementation of certain project
activities, particularly those relating to family planning and maternal/child
health care.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTRORITY
61.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Federal Islamic
Republic of the Comoros and the Association and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d), of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Special conditions of credit effectiveness would be (a) the appointment of a
suitably qualified chief and a nurse or midwife as assistant for the Family
Planning Division of the MPHP (para. 49 (a); (b) the appointment of a project
coordinator (para. 53); (c) the opening by the Borrower of a special account to
receive advances from the IDA credit account(para. 58); and (d) an initial
deposit of funds (US$20,000 equivalent) by the Government into an advance
account to be used for financing Government's contribution to project
expenditures (para. 58).
62.       I am satisfied that theproposed credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECONHMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
August 2, 1983



-19 -                                              NNEX I
T-  -L r. 1A                                    page 1 of 5
coDitos                   SOCIL TINDICATORS DATA SHEET
COMOROS                               REIrFRENE  tOOUPS (FIGHTED AiVERACEs) I.
M, dow(DST RECEFT ESTIMATE) hb
1q60t       197 T/b  ::.EAT.L!t ICA S. Or 5*5MM            AICR S.OF. ISCQIA
AREA (TNUNa Sq. I)
TOTAL                                 2.2         2.2          2.2
AGKICULrCRAL                          n.g9        1.1          1.1
CNP PMR CAPITA (US5)                    qO.0       170.0        1221 254.6                                     7
ENet COSiINPION PER CAPITA
tNlLnGRARS OF COAL FqtllVAL.rNr)     22.0        44.0         57.n               79.e                     724.2
P0mLATION AM VITAL STATISTICS
opLPLATrliNnMII-YEAR (THNrSA!n.S)   204.0       27n.0        3s8.n
URSBA  ?oPrn.ATlON (2 OF TnTA.J        ..        14.t        zo.s                19.5                      2115
POPULArtrwN PmoaJEcrtnus
POPULATIliN IN YEAR 2000 (MTLL)                             n.h
t                     SrATEONARY PnPlLATION (MTLI.)                                2.2
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                            2240
POPULArtION DESsIT
PER 6). KM.                        94.0       124.4       159.9                29.S                      56.5
PER sf!. SM. AGRI. LAND           226.7       257.1       327.4                94.1                     131.8
POPL'LArTTON AGE !t-1ICTURE (C)
0-!4 YRS                          45.0        45.1        43.5                45.0                       65.9
15-e4 YRiS                         52.3        52.0        54.3                52.1                      51.2
65s ADM ABOVE                       2.7         2.7         2.2                 2.9                       2.8
POPuLATION CROWNr  RAR (2)
TOTAL                               2.91        2.Sl       2.6fL               2.8                       1.8
URBAN                                ..          ..         6.1                 6.2                       5.3
CRUDE AlRTR RATE (PER THOUS)         48.2        46.9        47.2                47.9                      47.6
CUDE DFATh RATE (PER TCOUS)          21.5        19.9        l7.5                19.2                      15.2
GROSS REPVntICTI.lU RATE              1.2         3.1         3.1                 3.2                       1.2
FAMILY rLANNI%r
A-CCEPrORS. ANNR.AL (TIOts)          ..
IISERS (: OF MARRIED warEN)          ..          .. W.0E..
row0 A   NtirmTnOo
tINDEX OF FOUL. Phin. PI. CAPITA
(1969-71-loo)                          ..       100.0        99.0                87.3                      95.7
PER CAPTTA SUPPLY oF
CALORIES (z OF REQUIRFMENrSI       99.0        96.0   ,   102.0/d              88.0                      67.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           40.0        39.0        43.n7i              51.2                      56.0
OF WHICP ANLMAL AND PULSE         10.0        10.0         12.n               18.1                      17.2
CHTL'I (AGS 1-4) DEATH RATE          28.5        21.5         16.2               25.7                      23.6
MELT.
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTh (YEARS)        42.5        44.5        47.5             -  47.4                       5L.9
INFANJT MORT. RATE (PER TNCIJS)     135.3       110.5        90.9               126.5                     117.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (ZPOP)
TOTAL                                ..          ..           ..               t4.7                      25.4
URBAN                                ..          ..           .                56.8                      70.5
RIJRAL                               *-          *-           .                18.3                      12.3
ACCESS TO EIXCRETA DISPOSAl.
(T OF POPULATION)
TorAL                                ..          ..           ..               28.1
URBAN                                ..          ..           ..               65.7
RURAL                                ..          ..           ..               21.9
POPULATION PER PHYStCIAN          18550.0     16210.0    10230.0              27420.6                   12181.6
POP. PER NURSING PERSON            3100.0/f    900.0       2750.0              3456.2                    2292.0
PO(P  PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                             500.0       480.0       440.0              1183.2                    1075.4
URBAN                                ..       110.0          ..               380.6                     402.3
RURAL                                .       1140.0           .              3177.5                    3926.7
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED            ..        17.9
NOUS IN
AVERAGe SIZE OF HOUSENOLD
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                                      ..          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                *-           *-
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (z jP DWELLINCs)
TOTAL                                ..          ..         20.01/,h
IIRBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..



-20-                                                    ANNEX I
page 2 of 5
TA A _L r 3A
coM0osos                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA sNErT
COHoRos                                 REFERENCE CROUPS (CI.ICHTEID AVERAIZS) /a
MOST                       (MOST RECCNT EStDIATE) tb
REEENT               LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
IqmoLk      1970tb  EYST1MAThL       AFRICA S. OF SAHARA       AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
SIUCATION
ADJULTSU ENROLLMlENT RATIOS
PRIIMAJYi   TnTAL                   14.0         34.0        In3.0                63.                        97.2
4ALF                     21.0        46.0        120.0                71.b                       103.1
FCMALE                    4.0        21.'         3s.n                51.h                       83.5
SECONDARY? TOTAL                     1.1          3.n         25.0                12.5                       17.2
HALr.                     R.0          5.n        33.0                16.7                        23.5
FrrIALE                   0.2         2.0         17.0                 8.1                        14.2
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDARY)              ..         2.0          1.1                 7.3                        5.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             41.0         42.0         46.0                16.4                       42.9
SECONDARY                           17.0         o0.n         31.0                25.L                       23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (2)                  ..        58.4/1        *-                 16.5                       17.1
COIIMnITO1
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND PoP             ..           ..           ..                 1.3                       IA.R
RADiO RECEVERS/THOUSA1ID POP          2.5         88.9        109.                 45.3                       917.8
TV RFfEtVERS/TH0OLSAN   oP              ..           ..           ..                 2.7                       13. 6
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INETRRESr) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                 ..          ..           ..                 4.7                       18.2
ciEI2tA ANNUlAL ATTENnANCE/CAPITA       0.1         0.4           *-1.0                           I0 .
LABOR PORCE
TOTAL LAROR FORCE (THOLS)             80.0         99.0        12R.0
FMNALE (PIRCENT)                    3f6.         35.7         34.9                34.5                       36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               70.0         67.n         64.0                76.9                       56.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.0         21.0        23.0                  9.8                       17.5
PARTICIPATION RATF. (PERCENT)
rtYAL                               39.3         36.6         35.7                40.9                       37.0
MALE                                50.6         47.7        46.9                 A.0                        47.1
FEMALE                              28.4         25.e         24.7                2R.9                       27.0
EcONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATtI               1.2         1.3          1.3                 1.2                        1.3
[ICOE DISTRlEEIWIO
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HlGHEST 5Z OF IHOUSEHOLDS              ..
HIGHEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..           ..           .                   .
LOSEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..
LOWEST 402 Or HOUSElltLOS              ..
POiVRTY TAJICT cItWPS
ESTIMATED ABSnLUTE POVERTY INCnME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URIIAN                                 ..          ..           ..               165.9                      534.2
RURAL                  -               ..          ..           ..                57.4                      255.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
IIRI N                                 ..          ..           ..               100.8                      491.5
RuRA.                                  ..          ..           ..                64.6                      189.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (2)
LRBAN                                  ..          ..           ..                39.5
RURAL                                   .          ..           .                 69.0                         ..                                3
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICAIU.E
NO T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicaitor are populatlon-welghted arithmetc maens.  Coverage of countries among the
Indicators depends on availability of data and Ia not uniform.
lb  Unlena othervisa  noted, -Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961;  bDtt Efr 1970- between 1969 and
1971; and data for -Most Recent FEati_str between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1982; /d Present Bank estlates indicate lover ratio of supply of calories and proteins: /e 1977; If 1962;
-/S Perientage of population; lh 1976; 1 1966; /J Due to immigration population grtwtl rate La hilher than rate of
natural inre-ie.
Nay 1983



ANNEX I
ha21L                                                                                                  page 3 of 5
lemlim    Ailmomil' ii   lii  arm L     lime mm"Irmm.  necerc I..i.        tdmii Cv  amilim  iii lam. mai n-. I. .. In  mIuim                  l.1. Tm imid   li  ml..... e                      ...islumma immmm Nii
rm-g 1mei d..laiaaimmm lii 1d-           I-IcirA mmimedie    limlma    m   mmmmmoIm. mmmd r                    dilym    l rmam   -Mw tm   m-l...mi   i.mii    iemaam.mimvma.mtii   m
dimm11'memmmlarm mmi in IImImd h. imdial  m-am.  iS   rhr aumamib,        maMI m-e-I" se.mr       :1I dlim .airt be Nla..    M.mmeiim,
siemmm  ma  dal  imm  ilmm   l.lim-mmmmym   i..-. m. I            mimmmmmimie"idiumi. ii.. *III4                              404,mmiilImiii.E.a.   mlm.mm   .mmmm.    miemimmm- ii
amimlil mmm  iii nIcE  mm  emmaimmmuse mi mm.a imdui ii ...i aFmd lme r*   I..1 IIII. -011dii . mI-ma NIIN.m  ,*i,, Nmm  mi-                 :.I it  m  .me.   ...ll-mI .i i      iMe  caImImI. mI  m-mmim'ai
fl~,(imhm .Maaid aii.kAml                                                                                                 ii.i1m -imimm                                          14mm   iiii  I  my amaimlmm   pirmm 
mel - t.mimm  iya1           ir.e  -mmprl.Mia   IiA ite    amid  I.miid oe   um   iii                                mJm.'ml1lmaIlm1mi    mmtmmiime  mm  mmm I   II                     mimmim   lrI' Iim
19711 iS   mloii dii..                                                                                                                                                         ..`1mmLmu.m24    id    A mpN Jm,mi  Impel .1 mmFmiamms ia  i.miai
tMIIV~~~~~~~~~~~~~li mmamlmaimmm iimmmmimilmad
*                               ills)~~~~~~~~M .  Mml.  m 14 5di ; ii.                                                                                     hi mm   eam  mmI.   u..iim    mmtlimiimiim  imm  lmm m   m.sms im mmma  i
IMO. Islu. and IUI 4.4..~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~       ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~c. imiliriiidm Sna i  aiiie'  ~mm~m #..14smv.Imm.. insuli em I -.
amigm    anlam ii1i,    nh immharala              maI am, r eala     e..I immemm areiiipmmmireilmimlm ami.  ml m.ad liI  Ia.m Il  me.I                                                      m   i mim   i    imrma
I'.).  immmn. add  iq*  de                                                                                                i am  mmm.mmim   mimd   illm   mi   im    imiic   mmml -%1 meimm.  ca               a
miirisimm  imme   m   aim   mimismitem.m-d-i.  -mI .mmam.mm.. I-,         iia
I Pj   P V.LTA1.jkAr.,% IVI                                                                                W.H.~~~~~~~~~~~~~iirieiamlim Ammmem   etmii.mlm    mim m.i    mm
frlIIL  IVTAi.    !IhITXL'
jmmmiim.mI.lii   i.' me   5 miaqeama  - h   ii  imi? I    him   qumm~emil   ll                   5ammms9yjrmsmmm~Iiimmml- Tmmel mmamdmmm.  iimidaim.i4mmm  m mml Jmmrimrai4m
.-W,makim  m  imImi
mmmimmmmm i%mmmiiiai ii.  ante, Ii tel em  mapmmLmm immmmm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..
dirlarami deli                -    -        rm rmesm-- armh1sy  idae--Imi~
ammm   mmearmmmmnil    li.  ml  vi    at.                                                          .rmmr;r  ibmm.mmmdm~!mmmimpr   mmemiml                               aii   ikIN,mrmi
immmm. em.mmmnM  Lime a-part, eyatM             irt       iam.a 1ncii   _mumaatMy  inmCre iiPi .~i m                                                  i1i~~    m.r                 mjmiiimiimmi
yatL.' t-m   p.irair  l. t telmiii  laM,ta l.-by. threw.l. Iramm ?m.imwrmmIm".d marie
sa omis      Thbelrll.,  i.  rmmlii  aeranimmi  Ii. Immmf mama  cmi. paai lam.im.lmiMmrmiyrr-'.m..mii.zAmemmml.meelmm
r IF                   1mm..   a- ita.trmay   laammait..mmmmmba mie.- ii    O.      S.Mi_rmaImimIl. l                                                                    1.
I. .._I eqa  m.aaiIN. dmmim r"at, thid ii.  th  ea                                       iicti
mmimm- tmm.  6Immtim  eammett. NN      imi.  ma. ariimmaami      Itim alme-t iymim    ream                      VIRMeilmi
P.  mpmiti-  time  aam  ammiatem.  mm. ibm  bil           F tIm    rjra   i5iatt                                       smlir. mlmmmim   maamaimmimmii  fim imema -rhilmaid    .jd al
tuu    in  mime mip.dtimt. im  m. Ymma  Ztii. Namd  mmmm   asmm dti s   m                                          yaerm  mm.. em4Jmmmmm  mmml dii SermNi  e1es  e 1h m  ptlemr, .4mmmm -msimmm  Sir
V-at  miiimmmry.     .aPmIamum - i r-   ie-      m       per   m..m.mmmmmem_._e- 'm.   mmlimi..                                                       m..mmm-e maa...   mb   mmma  mmlmmmm  aim.
T_ mmm,ai 1mmm Yammm         atdm.ram mm,.-iTh.miria -                                                                                           It        aci  'utpe            mmddiamimmmal  smiat0-      i ii  mi
iuIiulrmal  51 .!mii   h9m. m"'Pit mI                                                                                   mmiimmmi p mmNlmmi    et   lcemitammdmmammtmm    t
ImIoe lmm~   ii M':mimImra  I  m              ralmii   mimImmmtmamcI dit                                          m.-Pade me-mim-am   mmm12 mAl hidY. milie  .mmmimm.             mim m....-imm.vm
hIIeItam I     ad  ratimml.1-   Uad jits      p aiet  it pe remime   at aid-jee                                        pimWriid5ammmmim  m.imeymmimm    ie
Nmymmtam~hh    Q0   I."d.ti    li.fjmmmmmm    amI-tm iy ei   mmaerm-miimmeemm,a   iiI
frjmmtmimmmm  ihmmaim   etaimmirimil- imia -limd      lnmei    ae    m!mmiad                                    mWTr-T         tem.-er.i-.,;Itrihun.                  mamI.i-miI mma'-     r m-   mimemmmr'-
I,ail,   mmmeammm   mm  i9i-ee4hMia-i.aS n-m.rapedmeimmm.
i.mim~immmmmCrat  iCu  mmttmii  m aimt m mimmi5  remim  riit  i   rle  mmli  i mmei  em   lvrmemm)mm4 Chi    aei   tsml  m   rce-mml  rtmm   a
smimuatatimmi  tt  tu-u.  mmidm)mI eM i'tm'im.a  mfrrmiiee  i   am  Icltspmm-a NIim  agdi                                                                                   Wer    idmm.l
eia   iti   lae   mrtimemmd                          Idraime   19imiile   rilaee i1mim
Crtdl sit" p1 raeaa        a   It"  I mmymi  mice  admtm   Iuui duit                     m                              imm-adiam   mm1  emytlrmmImm (5. Mmmtm tlm-mmmm -. N        timlii-.-eilmhe  e
ilipm                                                                                                                  irammem   iraymrm   m. mmetlmm    aid.,yaum.e,  rmmmmii m.m  . Nm.i
tlmiim -km.mmm   ammui  lmmmeimi  -dammaiieiermm  cmmpmmmmi~i  aa   iliami   mliii mmmlc Mr..-emm     -ci.. mymc    Nvremeemm'                                               N4'. 
fFiij       tt.fhmmm m  aie   eispm _6iein A   mm Iimee-  lammil  imem1smm                                  mm,memm I.."   mm mie     rmmmi
Ttmfla.TVbrimmti  mymiimiaimmmmaNm)mm'   Ai-emmmiP er -mm.eIm-mm  mmmII.
la wmiPamim     mm  1 e.i            laii,emPi.m m aem?mmrmmdmserlpm5rItmmmmim.m  hmmim-:.mimlmmmamrimdT ,mmy.m
amrmmlbmrmg   ia     i-4  ..mmmmimi  ..  mimm.-amt.idam-mmm                                   i   mmmmmm~   mm  1    mer   miammm,-.mmmmmmlT  mc, amiM  il.m
elimirrmmlimemm  acm.   ianrmmm.                                                   immmmmm.M                  R...m.ai.m..mair ..m mm.m.m  N"mmm"~'a
ha  axmmimnmie.iifl                                                                                                                   'f.f    *mmiiCiTrmmtmimm   m    imtaelmmmhmm   md,.
is'   mimdirmdmmp                 rcimm    iiami'm.               miaem   .       im-rierm.mm- d..mm    -mm.mlm.   mmmmimrrIVmim~. I   m  ..mmhlm
r-ii                                                                                                               came tbima,I.:-pr=            M
tarrau-u  1immeel mi malMNrt.m    bImmrA i ..         rmmmmmm d  -Wmeml.i mm    Lrmm1mmmedt                            tIm   kIalt.  ta..I A.Ii lmiemmi  m im immia  iami- fmtmm   m  iml                             me
liaFtmir  mqamm.imm  atr      mi  a    aapp lam       p-ti liabl      ff -mm .m.t.... riyi   miiiaa   i    iamlpdimimmrmdami-.aamem.iiimm,ar,-~lm
IFpimi    .i.ie..   mtmmm       k       a    ..p..m.mi.d.  minima   rea. ..pidt. rP-ctbi    npml.,mmid eb    S-mmdeMi-d
lam silmaa  atmd   mm.aimg   i   mmta  i   uiitiai                                      aleimremia em    ii5e lbimm.-   mmteta.e   mii    urlre
iaqmmrammerm  avm  aetsamie   byk  rUmlas      ps I..ymammlii amm  mmci mmarmmu *_.dj1.i                                               mil      L      Nitmt-eiiiimm.imiiryhmiilim
Liulsity  aS    aum  eaemPr-..a   -a   :.mWmmammma  memeimmt.bdyalgmi                                             imlitiipi-mmaIiImitei. -ti   mare   tiiim. 541m -S    mmmi                              i-
ma2.timrmy   arla "      mimi di.     km   imil  a    . ddmltmmmd a- -            ebmmmmmiiia  n,mam4Iym'~m     mmu W                                               I  mmIm' ua-5 mmiim   m. .iti    immI may,a
imai e Ie  frIallII mamiu.4  emMNteh..mmimd i.mIme..,1 ia       -d l It       -ma  .-                                                      1,ii6i,ime    rm  -em rmmm  mmmm  i  ia-mi  emaalhm   m  im.a
emaiia.mmira-ii  bm    1~    aiat..I.ii  pat Ia  is    1 e..Pi..                                                         i.iam mi M    anImmed.-im ta-4 miiaimlmi,.i                          i.. se r            .
11                        .  emlmmi  pyitlm  amuiesiie  fo  is   euid.  rmammmad b  thn ii ib                                                    '.e mmi imaime  im rme   maimemlmtamai
TidML,i    .    (um;tu-m.Ilu                     smm    aa                                                                    e Sm.  maim..- mii mm. .ni immNmmitimmdmmeifrNii -i   L,' amid  maI..
dems time  aMiam  aId -trmuma  I..tmicim   Pr   Udin    lridmmii   F-i   i 
ate  mmymmp i-ItIalmim to ibalremi im  timid  mmiaritmr  a    dam-tp.lmiilatn, r.-5mm    1mm1  Pt..I. Tamiea -m  ymmrmma IUead  pMr,a    m pti-W,                                                           m
-t                                31= 241                           _    0  fr El. 7lmmrsmimely ?M:b:y   CSmlb.
aThbird  kth1    ba (mmmi . 11ed  liii  d..                                                                            mm9mmiimINt. mmmltat.miY  mmdii, Wmmaidmam -mmm   mm.,                                     .    1
ieaiemiammtemmimmd mammier earl. -  ibit Irma.Ul. rretei.d  imiemee,e     aa   cad                           mammal i-lemm.    pmet!smmeimla   tmm    u   n am.e   mrrrm
lim    t  bs   cay   tbe ya   -mtdy    -  beimm. Naitbiria  rea -ii Ind        nt tit.   mi.m                     hImis  mimic  r1t  a-mhmm' immmmVm 1m-immmm.!a!..r ..m
:a.,  I-. aw    urI---      mabm acimmcl    il    bt  k    emm eo                                                 aMdJ  tm`: ira   m e.-imt Zaplam -I.r.b mmha   i-    ie      dm   r    iumm
immba-        mm m'mt11,   meemel  dmi  At be  i           4mts  a   dh.mmpmm         rilaa.t pert a-,I,iammmt1
m  N e    .MFmhms   b    ulu irmmm; .m              . maeda        N       d.
isalm  mkr.  mlk r Immapka  (t M pic     . allimm    aid   itya   aerta    imy eirinrieIy....d
dimpaci  i pere-aiemim-m      fit r -ts p rcim., pm itmama   immrata dImiad                                       .         I.miurl               --       .-l,. -.r
-y   imeimdatbeyalsetmmi  s   lapea-    mmi  m    uhmmit.taia-                     'I Niimmmyeinm  mmhm,  hi-mam   mmIiem
hes  eism     mM   e mm mid.II h- eett'm'n,        =iyaim-a                        thmmImim t mi            F"II          f             tm-aem   Ae.                      i _  mi   mim  imm  ump-iuc
I.-lem    as  alIta    la- tmirtiaba. .- .-dayl h,garlerIW :.A M                                                                                            1111        -b..I   -7



ANNEX I
- 22 -                                  !?pa?e 4 of 5
COMOROS - ECONOtIC INDICATORS
CROSS NATIONAL PRODUCr rI 1979                          ANNUAL RATE OF CROWTH C1, 1979 constantprices
uSS ILn.         Z              1976-79           1980     1981
CDP at Market Prices                100.5         108.5                               7.4      5.5
CNP at Market Prices                92.6          100.0              3.9               -        -
Gross Domestlc Investent             24.8          26.8             16.3             4'.4   -24.6
Cross Domestic Saving                12.9          12.4             20.5            -66.9   -76.7
Current Account Balance             -1.1         -13.8                .                .
Exports of Goods, SFS                19.9          21.4             -0.1             12.3    17.6
lWorts oE Goods, NFS                 31.8          35.8              4.4            -38.8     72.6
OUTPUT IN 1979
Value added
lUS$ Kn.        Z
Agriculture                          M.3           42.1
Industry                            13.4           13.3
Services                             44.8          44.6
Total GDP            100.5         100.0
GOVEEN  FINANCE
Central Government 11
CF Min.      Z of GDP                CF Mm.       Z of GDP
1979          1979                   1981          1981
Curreut Receipts                    2045           9.6                    3585           14.8
Current Expenditures                 5729          26.8                   9516           39.3
Current Deficit                    -3684         -17.2                   -5931           24.5
Capital Expenditures                 2807          1 .1                   34S6           14.4
External Assistance                  5887          27.5                   9491           39.2
(GDP)                            (21,386)        (110.0)               (24.233)        (100.0)
WDNEY, CREDIT and PRICES
1978          1979          1980       1981     1982
(June)
(Cillions of CF outstanding end period)
Noney and Quasi Money                 2424          2462          3854       3809     4475
Bank Credit to the Government          86          -227            230        315      207
Bank Credit to Private Sector         2203          2397          3704       3729     2035
V
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as 2 of GDP    14.3          11.5          15.2         12.7   12.9
CDP Price Deflator (1979 - 100)     86.9           100.0        110.7        124.0
Annual percentage changes in
CDP Price Deflator                15.6          15.1          10.7         12.0
Rank Credit to the Government      -77                             .         137    -34
Bank Credit to Private Sector       10             9             55            1    -45
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during
the period covered.
..not available
..not applicable
Includes extrabudgetary operations
January 1983



-23-                                 ANNEX  I
page 5 of 5
COMOROS - TRADE PAYMENT  AND CAPITAL FLOWS
B UANCE OF PAYMENTS                                  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAz;E 1979-81)
(F.O.B. Value)
1979   1980   1981 el                                US$ Ulu.      1
(USS Million)
Ylang-Yiang essences              2.3      15.3
Vanilla                           6.5      43.3
Exports of Goods, NFS         19.9   13.4   12.5    Copra                              0.6        4.0
Imports of Goods, NFS         31.8   45.3  49.9    Cloves                              4.8      32.0
Resource Gap (deficit -)     -11.9  -31.9  -32.4    Other comodities                   0.8        5.4
Interest Payments (net)         -     0.6    0.2           Total                      15.0      100.0
Other Factor Payments (net)
Net Transfers                 10.8   25.6   22.6
Balance on Current Accouat    -1.1   -5.7   -9.6
EXiERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1981
Net HLT Borrowing             10.3   18.2   17.2
Disbursements                 10.3   18.2   17.2                                    USS xim.
Amortization                    -     -       -
Others 1I                     -6.5 -15.5  +3.5    Public Debt,  incl. guaranteed   64.5
Change in Reserves            -2.7  +3.0  -4.1    Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
- increase)                                       Total Outstanding & Disbursed   64.5
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981 2/
I
Memo item
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed    3.0
Tmports of Petroleum Products  1.9    6.2    5.9    Non-uGaranteed Private Debt
(C.I.F. Value)                                 Total outstanding & Disbursed    3.0
IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Sept. 30. 1982) (USS Min.)
IBRD       IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed            .        6.1  1
RATE OF E.CHAMGE     1979        1980      1981      Undisbursed                        .        16.4
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed      .       22.5
*  US$1.00 - CF        212.72     2L1.30    271.72 
CF    1 - USS         O.0047     0.0047    0.0037
e/ Estimates
1/ Including errors and omissions
Z| Ratio of Debt Service Payments to Exports of
Goods and Non-Factor Services
not available
not applicable
January, 1983



- 24 -
ANNEX II
page 1 of 3
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE COMOROS
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1983)
Credit
Number       Year      Borrower         Purpose            IDA      Undisbursed
852-COIl/   1979       Comoros         Highway I          5.0   Fully disbursed
1035-COH     '981       Comoros         Agriculture        5.2         4.10
1188-CON     1982       Comoros         Highway II         6.3         6.30
1195-COK     1982       Comoros         Education          6.0         6.00
TOTAL                                         22.5       16.44
of which has been repaid                      -          -
TOTAL now outstanding                         22.5         -
Amount sold                        -          -
of which has been repaid      -
TOTAL now held by IDA2/               22.5        _
TOTAL Undisbursed                     16.4       16.44
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1983)
none
C. Statement of Projects in Execution as of March 31, 1983 3/
Credit No. 1035: Coconut Rehabilitation and Rodent Control Project:
USS5.2 million Credit of June 30, 1980; Date of
Effectiveness: October 8, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project, to be implemented over five years, aimed to improve and
extend coconut and copra production in the three islands of Grande Comore,
Anjouan and Moheli through rodent control, increased productivity of existing
stands and new planting and improvement of copra processing and marketing. It
includes a component for technical assistance to the Government to strengthen
the financial management of agricultural development projects.
1/ The IDA credit was complemented by an EEC Snecial Action Credit of
US$0.7 million.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments
3/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress in execution, and in particular to report any problems which are
being encountered and the action taken to remedy them. They should be read
in this sense and with the understanding that they do not purport to present
a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



!
- 25 -
AMWIX  II
page 2 of 3
This is IDA's first agricultural project in the Comoros.  The
project preparation and initial work required to commence implementation were
generally satisfactory. However, despite the lack of experience of the project
staff in dealing with IDA and the overall supply problems in the Comoros,
procurement of basic equipment to commence implementation has made a good start
although the pace of commitment of funds remains slow due to low adoption rate
by smallholders because of poor coconut prices on world markets. Physical
execution is under way a-nd proceeding well. Three nurseries have been
established, one on eacn island. Land preparation has been virtually completed
on about 12 ha of seed gardens but the cost of manual land clearing has been too
high, due to poor productivity of labor. Tests with rodenticides have been
completed and rat control in coconut stands and housing has started. Although
behind the schedule set at appraisal, the rat control program is developing
well. Technical assistance contracts with the coconut advisor and the financial
advisor have been renewed for one year. A study of the copra stabi_lzation fund
has been completed and steps are being considered to create a copra
stabilization fund.
Credit No. 1188-COM: Second Highway (Maintenance) Project: US$6.3 million
Credit of February 12, 1982; Date of Effectiveness:
August 26, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The project would continue for a three-year period the road
Improvement and maintenance operations started under the first highway project.
It also includes technical assistance to the Government for highway maintenance
and administration, training of local staff and a study of labor-intensive
techniques for use in road maintenance operatioas. The maintenance program,
which suffered a temporary halt due to lack of prefinancing by Goverment, has
resumed following effectiveness of IDA credit and AFDF loan.
Credit No. 1195-COM: First Education Project: US$6.0 million Credit of February
12, 1982; Date of Effectiveness: July 30, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1987.
The project would support qualitative Improvements in primary
teacher training, curriculum development and provision of teaching materials;
improve the provision of skilled manpower in the agricultural and health fields
through construction and equipment of a paramedical school and establishment of
an agricultural training center. A project unit architect/assistant project
director has been appointed and began work in August 1982. A procurement
*      specialist was scheduled to be appointed by October 1982 while a full-time
Comorian accountant has just been appointed. Architectural designs for one of
the schools have been completed and tender documents have been advertised and
procurement of other items under the project will commence with the expected
appointment of tie procurement specialist.



-26 -                          ANNEX  II
page 3 of 3
Credit No. 1378-CON:  Development Bank of the Comoros (DBC) Project:
US$2.3 million
Credit of June 17, 1983; Expected Date of Effective-
ness: October 17, 1983; Closing Date: June 30, 1989
The project would strengthen the newly created development bank by (i)
providing it with part of its resource requirements to finance projected lending
to small and medium-scale enterprises iu the key sectors of the economy during
the 1983-86 period; (ii) financing the technical assistance to DEC for the
management of the institution, project promotion and technical support to
entrepreneurs as well as training of DBC's staff.
.



- 27 -                          ANIXE III
page I of 2
COMOROS
HEALTH APND POPULATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENrARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
Time taken to prepare project                    8 months
Preparation                                      Govt. with assistance from IDA
Preparation mission                              August 1982
Appraisal mission                                December 1982
Negotiations                                     June 1983
Planned date of effectiveness                    November 1983
Section II: Special Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions of the Project:
(a)  Three field supervisors for the Family Planning Division of the NEHP
would be appointed by December 31, 1983 (para. 49(a));
(b) The proposed Population Unit in the Directorate of Planning would be
formally established and a suitably qualified director appointed by
December 31, 1983 (para. 49(b));
(c) An additional qualified pharmacist would be appointed to the
Central Supply Pharmacy by December 31, 1983 (para. 49(c));
.d) The Government would discuss with IDA by October 31, 1984, the
recommendations of the study on financing and cost recovery for
hospital services. On the basis of this exchange of views, the
Government will take appropriate follow-up action (para. 49(f));
(e) The Government will prepare a plan and timetable for phasing
out routine primary maternal/child health and family planning services at
El Haarouf and Hombo hospitals, and submit it to IDA for review by June
30, 1985 (para. 49(d)).



- 28 -                      A!'EX III
page 2 of 2
Special Conditions Of Effectiveness:
(a)  The appointment of a chief and an assistant for the Family Planning
Division of the MPHP (para. 64(a));
(b) The appointuent of a project coordinator (para. 64(b));
(c)  The opening of a special account in the Borrower Treasury to
receive advances from the IDA credit to finance eligible project
expenditures (para. 64(c));
(d)  The opening of an advance account in the Borrower Treasury with
an initial deposit of US$20,000 equivalent, to finance Government's
contribution to project expenditures (para. 64(d)).






