Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4350-COM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
June 22, 1983
Population, Health and Nutrition Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =   CFA Franc (FCFA)
US$1.00         =   FCFA 325
US$0.003         =   FCFA 1
MEASURES
1 meter (m)                 =   3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)         =   10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)            =   0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)   =   0.386 square miles
ABBREVIATIONS
BEPE    =  Bureau d'ex6cution des projets d'education
(Education Projects Implementation Unit)
CEFADER =  Centre federal de developpement rural
CIDA    =  Canadian International Development Agency
MCH     =  Maternal/Child Health
MPHP    = Ministry of Public Health and Population
(Ministare de la sante publique et de la population)
NHS     =  National Health School
(Ecole national de la sante)
UNFPA   =  United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF  =  United Nations Children's Fund
WHO     = World Health Organization
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
the Comoros in December 1982 and comprised Ms. V. Elliott and Mr. V. Kumar
(IDA), and Dr. J. Lecomte (consultant). Mr. H. W. Messenger participated
in concluding discussions.



FOR OFFICIAL ,SE ONLY
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Basic Data
General
Area                                               1,660 km2
Population (1982)                                  370,000
Per Capita Income (1981)                           US$310
Annual Natural Growth Rate of Population           2.6%
Literacy Rate (est. 1975)                          20%
Health
Birth Rate (est.)                                  47/1000 population
Death Rate (est.)                                  19/1000 population
Infant Mortality Rate (est. 1982)                  148/1000 live births
Total Fertility Rate (est. 1982)                   6.3
Life Expectancy (est. 1981)                        46 years
Percent of Population 14 years and younger         43%
Population per Physician (1982)                    10,600
Population per Trained Nurse or Midwife             4,000
Percentage of Births Supervised (1981)             24%
Percentage of Pregnant Women Receiving
Antenatal Care (est. 1981)                       50%
Government Expenditure on Health as Percentage
of Total Government Expenditure (1981)
- Capital                   0%
- Recurrent                 5%
This document. has a restricted distribution and may be used by rc:ipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL SETTING .................   ..............      1
II.  THE POPULATION AND HEALTH SITUATION
A.  Population Size and Dynamics ...............               2
B.  Health Conditions  ................................        3
C.  Population, Health and Development ...............   .     4
III. POLICIES, PROGRAMS AND SERVICES IN HEALTH AND POPULATION
A.  Policies on Population and Health  ................        5
B.  Organization and Administration of the Health Sector    6
C. Availability and Quality of Health and Family
Planning Services  ...... ..........................       8
D.  Expenditure and Finance .......... ................    10
E.  Bank Group Involvement in Health and Population ....    11
F.  Issues and Bank Strategy  .....      ....................    12
IV. THE PROJECT
A.  Project Objectives and Design  ...... ..............    12
B.  Summary Project Description  .......... .............    13
C.  Detailed Project Description  ........... .       ....    14
V. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A.  Cost  ............................................ ..     18
B. Financing   .............. ........ ...................    20
C. Disbursement, Accounts and Auditing          ................   21
VI.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Implementation  ....................................    22
B. Procurement  .......................................    23
VII.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits  .........................................    24
B. Risks ......                                               25
VIII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ............................   26



Table of Contents (continued)
TABLES
1 Health and Population Indicators
2 Leading Causes of Morbidity
3 Structure and Distribution of Health Services
4 Recurrent Government Expenditures for Health Services
5 External Assistance for the Health Sector
6 Estimated Project Costs by Expenditure Category and Year
7 Estimated Project Costs by Expenditure Category and Component
8 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
CHARTS
1     Organization of the Ministry of Public Health & Population
2(a)  Implementation Schedule:  Civil Works
2(b)  Implementation Schedule:  Technical Assistance and Training
MAP
IBRD 17010  -   Comoros: Major Health Facilities
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
-   Population Health and Nutrition Sector Report, IBRD, August 1982.
-   Pre-appraisal report on Family Planning, Manpower, and Hospital
Study components, J. Lecomte, IBRD, October 1982.
-   Pre-appraisal report on Civil Works, E.Dib, IBRD, September 1982.
-   Pharmaceutical Supply System, IBRD, January 1983.
-   Detailed project cost tables.
-   Project Implementation Volume, containing terms of reference for
consultant services, draft schedules of accommodation, equipment
lists, and detailed work program for family planning division.



COMOROS
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. Economic and Social Setting
1.01      The Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros, located at the
northern end of the Mozambique Channel, consists of three volcanic islands,
Grande Comore, Anjouan and Moheli. Its population of about 370,000 is
almost entirely Moslem. With an estimated per capita income of US$310
(1981), it ranks among the low-income group of countries. About 80% of the
population live in rural areas and earn their living directly from
agriculture, which contributes nearly 40% of GDP and virtually all export
earnings. The main food crops are bananas, coconuts, and rice. Because of
high population density and primitive farming techniques, food crop
production is insufficient to meet domestic requirements, and increasing
quantities of rice and meat are being imported. Less than 5% of the
population live from fishing, which is done on a small scale using dugout
canoes. There is virtually no industry or tourism. Comorian society,
while traditional and conservative, has an open attitude to outside
influences. Women play an active role in the production and marketing of
food crops, and, on Grande Comore, have important traditional rights to own
and inherit land and houses.
1.02      Comoros' long-term economic prospects are uncertain because they
depend heavily on volatile world markets for its only exports: ylang-ylang
(a base for perfume), vanilla, cloves, and copra. The possibilities for
diversification of the economy are extremely limited because of the
country's location, lack of resources and oligopolistic commercial
structure. Over the past five years, the external trade and services gap
has grown at about 30% per year. This resource gap has been financed by a
very high level of development aid, mainly from France, Kuwait and Saudi
Arabia, in the form of technical assistance, grants, and concessional
loans. France has also provided direct assistance for government recurrent
expenditure. This high level of concessional aid will have to be
maintained during the coming decade; this is likely to happen because of
Comoros' small size, strategic location, and religious affinity with the
Islamic states of the Persian Gulf.
1.03      Comoros underwent coups d'etat in 1975 and 1978. Between those
years the administration of public institutions weakened dramatically and
government services, particularly health and education, were sharply
reduced. Since 1978, when the present regime took power, France has
provided the Government of the Comoros (GOC) with substantial financial and
technical support. The Government's development strategy has placed a high
priority on strengthening the public sector, and many public services have
been restored. However, the general scale of government activities is
small, even in comparison to other poor sub-Saharan countries, and public
administration remains weak. Comoros is a federal state in which each
island constitutes a governorate. The distribution of powers between the
two levels of government has never been clearly defined; the federal
government is currently in the process of assuming some powers formerly in
the governorates' hands. The GOC, under pressure and with substantial



-2-
technical assistance from the Government of France, is taking steps to
improve its fiscal management, which to date has been extremely weak.
II. THE POPULATION AND HEALTH SITUATION
A. Population Size and Dynamics
2.01      The Comorian population is characterized by youth, rapid growth
and high density. The 1980 census enumerated about 347,000 people, and the
present population is estimated at 370,000. There are large differences in
population and population density among the three islands:
Population Density, 1980
Grande
Comore      Anjouan       Moheli       Total
Population             192,200       137,600       17,200      347,000
Population/km2              188          323           81          209
Anjouan is more densely populated than any country in Africa and is already
suffering severe deforestation and soil erosion. Although there has been
some migration to Moheli, cultural differences and the land ownership
system limit the potential for large scale inter-island migration. Most
Comorians live in rural areas; only 20% of the population live in the eight
towns of 5,000 or more. The two principal towns are the capital, Moroni
(pop. 20,100), on Grande Comore and Mutsamudu (pop. 12,500), on Anjouan.
The urban population is estimated to be growing at 5-6% per year.
Urbanization is motivated not by industrial development, which is almost
non-existant, but by the shortage of arable land and by the development of
Government and other tertiary activities. On all three islands, the
population is young: more than half are under 20,
2.02 Between the censuses of 1966 and 1980, the average annual growth rate
of the population was 3.6%. This high rate reflects the convergence of a
natural rate of increase of about 2.6%, and an influx of about 38,000
immigrants, notably Comorian refugees who fled Madagascar in 1977.
Immigration is not expected to be significant in the coming years. The
crude birth and death rates are estimated at 45 and 19 per thousand,
respectively--figures that are high and typical of poor African countries
(see Table 1). Infant mortality is estimated at about 150 per thousand
live births. The UN estimates the total fertility rate at about
6.3--slightly below the average for Eastern Africa. Little is known about
the factors affecting fertility in Comoros. The relatively late average
age of marriage for women--about 20 years--may serve to limit the birth
rate. Only about 3% of married women are contraceptive users. More
reliable estimates of these and other key demographic parameters will only
be available when the 1980 census is analyzed.



B. Health Conditions
2.03        There are few reliable data about health conditions;  the
principal sources are records of outpatient attendances at health centers
and of hospital admissions, which do not necessarily reflect the problems
of the population at large. The general levels of morbidity and mortality
are very high (see Table 1), and the pattern of disease is typical of
low-income African countries, reflecting the effects of poor living
conditions and a lack of preventive measures. More than half of recorded
adult outpatient attendances at health centers in 1981 were accounted for
by the following five illnesses: malaria (22% of the total), skin diseases
(12%), intestinal parasites (8%), respiratory illnesses (8%), and
rheumatism (7%). The pattern does not differ significantly among the
islands. Malaria is the most important illness throughout the year for all
age groups and is hyperendemic in most areas of all three islands. The
incidence is lower at higher elevations, where the climate is less
favorable to the vectors, while in some coastal villages, 90-100% of people
carry the parasite. The severity of morbidity and the level of mortality
from malaria in Comoros are unnecessarily high, because only a small
proportion of people obtain chemoprophylaxis and/or treatment. Medical
personnel believe the incidence of anemia and miscarriage resulting from
malaria to be high. Filariasis, another parasitic disease transmitted by
mosquitos, is probably a significant problem on all three islands.
However, its prevalence is difficult to estimate because early diagnosis
requires microscopic techniques not readily available in Comoros. The
prevalence of tuberculosis is estimated at three per thousand, making it
another important public health problem. Trauma, due principally to
traffic accidents and falls, accounts for almost one quarter of adults'
hospital admissions in Moroni. Genito-urinary diseases are the second
commonest cause of adults' hospital admissions; this category includes
sexually transmitted diseases, which local doctors say are widespread. A
significant number of abortions mismanaged by traditional practioners
require emergency hospital treatment.
2.04       Child Health.  For children under five, as for adults, malaria
accounted for about one quarter of all outpatient visits in 1981. (See
Table 2.) The other four leading causes of child morbidity are respiratory
illnesses (13%), intestinal parasites (11%), skin diseases (10%) and
diarrheas (8%). Measles was the principal cause of child mortality at El
Maarouf hospital, followed by pneumonia, malaria, and diarrhea.
Immunization coverage is much higher on Grande Comore and Moheli, where
intensive campaigns have been mounted, than on Anjouan. Overall, about
half of the children are immunized against measles and tuberculosis, and
about one quarter against diphtheria, whooping cough, tetanus, and polio.
Malnutrition is not recorded as a separate condition, but it contributes
significantly to the incidence and severity of other illnesses. According
to a 1979 study, on Grande Comore and Anjouan about 40% of the children
under three suffered from moderate protein-calorie malnutrition (PCM) and
an additional 10% had severe PCM. On Moheli, about one quarter of the
children had moderate malnutrition, and only 2% were severely
malnourished. The study also found 14% of children on both Grande Comore
and Moheli, and 8% on Anjouan, with severe anemia, and smaller numbers also
suffering from vitamin A deficiency, rickets, and/or goitre. A number of



-4-
factors affect this alarming incidence of malnutrition among children.
First, location: there are significant differences in daily caloric
consumption among the three islands, with consumption being inversely
correlated with population density. Second, 80% of the calories of the
diet are provided by rice, cassava, bananas and coconut, all foods that are
low in protein. Rice, which provides 30% of caloric intake, is mostly
imported, so consumption is limited by family cash income. About 10-15 kg
of fish per capita per year is caught, but its distribution is very limited
because neither refrigeration nor drying is used. Finally, the nutritional
status of some children is harmed by families' incorrect beliefs and taboos
about food.
2.05      Maternal Health.  The frequency of poor nutrition, malaria and
anemia place the vast majority of pregnancies in Comoros in the high-risk
category. The maternal mortality rate for institutional deliveries in 1981
was a high five per thousand; perinatal mortality in institutions was also
high, although typical for southern African countries, at about 47 per
thousand births. Fewer than one quarter of all deliveries take place in
institutions. Poor delivery practices and conditions contribute to high
maternal and perinatal mortality during home deliveries as well.
C.  Population, Health and Development
2.06      There is an integral link between Comoros' health and population
situation and its national development prospects. The Bank estimates
that GNP per capita will increase by about 2.4 percent annually.
Population growth at the present rate would offset about half of the
projected increase in total GNP. At the same time, the high prevalence of
malaria, chronic diseases and malnutrition limits the productivity of
working adults and the learning ability of schoolchildren. According to
Bank projections, Comoros' population would reach 731,000--almost double
its present size--by 2005, if there were no decline in total fertility.
At that time, the annual natural population growth rate would have risen
from the present 2.6% to about 3.2%. Because of Comoros' short experience
with family planning and the lack of reliable data on mortality and
fertility, it is difficult to forecast alternative scenarios of population
growth, However, it can be roughly estimated that if the proportion of
married women using contraceptives could be increased from the present 3%
to about 22% within ten years, the population growth rate would be only
2.3% in 2005. To obtain 22% contraceptive usage, about 9,000 acceptors
would have to be recruited yearly by 1992, assuming that continuation rates
are similar to those in other less-developed countries. This is a
realistic objective for the Comoros. A more ambitious, but still
attainable objective of about 12,000 new acceptors annually by 1992 would
reduce the population growth rate to 1.8% in 2005.
2.07      The present population size is already having serious effects on
the agricultural sector: deforestation and soil erosion are major problems
on Anjouan, where there have also been inter-village conflicts over land
use rights. Comoros already imports at least 35% (in terms of calories) of
its food supply, and there are severe factors limiting the potential for
increasing domestic food production. Fewer than 60,000 hectares of the
total land area of 170,000 hectares are potentially suitable for growing



-5-
food crops. Of the potentially suitable area, the 20,000 hectares not
already under cultivation are generally steeply sloped or have shallow
soils. At present, it is unecomomic to use fertilizer on a wide scale in
Comoros, but other improvements, such as selected seed and erosion
protection, could increase food crop yields by an estimated 50%. Even if
such increases could be fully realized, and present import levels were kept
constant, the available calories could support a population of only
410,000. According to Bank Group projections, agricultural output could
grow at 4% per annum through the 1980's. With a population growth rate of
around 2.6%, the per capita increase in production would be only 1.4% per
annum. At this rate, the Government's objective of food self-sufficiency
will be very difficult to attain.
2.08     Population growth at even a modest rate will continue to place
heavy strains on the economy in general and the public sector in
particular. A recent survey found unemployment rates of 35-50% in the
three main towns and opportunities for large-scale job creation are certain
to remain very limited. In 1980 the excess of government current
expenditures over domestic tax revenues was equivalent to 15% of GNP.
External donors financed about one-third of this deficit, in addition to
financing almost 90% of all public capital expenditure. Even if there are
significant improvements in the tax base and tax collections, the need for
increasing expenditures, particularly on education and urban
infrastructure, is likely to leave government finance permanently dependent
on heavy external support. The Government has recently imposed limitations
on secondary school enrollments in order to maintain recurrent expenditures
on education at their present levels. These limitations will, of course,
have long-term implications for the development of Comoros' human capital.
III. POLICIES, PROGRAMS AND SERVICES IN HEALTH AND POPULATION
A. Policies on Population and Health
3.01      The Government has, during the past two years, become concerned
about rapid population growth, particularly its effect on land
availability. The President and other leaders have publicly commented on
the need to slow growth, but this sentiment has not yet been translated
into a policy on population. The Government has recently decided to create
a co-ordinating unit for population matters within the Directorate of
Planning. While apparently committed to taking action, the Government is
also keenly aware of the potential political and religious backlash that
could result from poorly conceived or too rapid government involvement in
this sensitive area. In the specific area of family planning, the GOG has
permitted the provision of services as part of the maternal/child health
program in government health facilities. A family planning division in the
Ministry of Public Health and Population has just been created, but has not
yet developed a work program. Although little overt opposition to family
planning has been expressed, the absence of explicit official support makes
the service providers cautious and is slowing down the expansion of
services. In particular, staff have felt inhibited from undertaking
large-scale informational activities.



-6-
3.02      The health system deteriorated badly after the departure of most
French medical personnel in 1975 and during the 1976-1978 Soilih regime.
When the present government took power in 1978, it declared its health
objectives to be the reduction of infant mortality and an increase in life
expectancy through the implementation of basic health care services, a
maternal/child health program, and control programs for malaria, TB and
leprosy; the strengthening of hospital services; the establishment of a
planning and evaluation system; and the development of human resources. In
short, it adopted a standard menu of health care objectives without being
specific about timing, methods, or priorities.
3.03      Nevertheless, the Government's actions since 1978 reflect an
implicit emphasis on the provision of basic preventive and curative
services on an integrated basis. Its major achievements have been the
re-opening of about 40 health posts that were closed after 1975; the
establishment of the National Health School to train and upgrade
paramedical personnel; and the implementation of two projects funded by
UNFPA and CIDA for the development of basic and MCH health services. The
Ministry of Public Health and Population has just created a basic health
services directorate, which is intended to provide better supervision and
an increased range of activities at the primary care level. All health
services are now provided free of charge, but the Government is considering
imposing fees for certain drugs and services. In view of Comoros' severe
resource constraints and the nature of its health problems, the
Government's priorities have been appropriate. However, no explicit plans
or guidelines have been prepared, particularly concerning the training and
allocation of health manpower, the services to be offered at the various
types of facilities, the orientation of external assistance for health, or
the construction of new facilities. There have been and continue to be
strong pressures to construct unneeded new facilities and to provide more
equipment and facilities--that cannot always be properly utilized--at the
tertiary level. The ready availability of grants and technical assistance
for these purposes risks distorting the orientation toward basic and
preventive services. On balance, however, the Government has an
appropriate and realistic health policy.
B. Organization and Administration of the Health Sector
3.04      The federal Ministry of Public Health and Population (MPHP) is
responsible for the overall planning of the health sector, the National
Health School, the Central Supply Pharmacy, and as of 1983, for the
operation of hospitals and health centers. The governorates, formerly
responsible for the operation of all types of health facilities, will now
retain jurisdiction only over health posts and urban clinics. Most health
services in Comoros are provided in government facilities; the only
exceptions are a Catholic mission dispensary in Moroni, a small leprosy
program run by a European charity on Anjouan, and the private practices of
about ten Comorian physicians.
3.05      The MPHP, whose organization chart is shown in Chart 1, has only
about twelve staff members with professional or technical qualifications.



- 7 -
It lacks a number of functions usually found in health ministries,
including health education, maintenance and logistics, planning, hospital
services, and personnel management. The Directorate of Basic Health
Services, along with its two specialized divisions for family planning and
malaria control, was created late in 1982 to concentrate on these areas,
which the MPHP has identified as being of top priority. The MPHP receives
important technical assistance from expatriate staff of the Basic Health
Services project executed by Laval University (Canada) and funded by CIDA.
The MPHP's staff members, while relatively inexperienced, are able, and
several have had specialized training in public health, health
administration, etc. Because of Comoros' isolation they have had only
limited opportunities to meet foreign counterparts and experts and to
observe health programs elsewhere in Africa. At the governorate level,
very few resources are devoted to the administration of the health sector,
and this is likely to remain so with the recent reduction in the
governorates' jurisdiction.
3.06       There are about 600 people working in Comoros' government health
services. Only about 120 of them have received formal professional
training, either at medical and nursing schools abroad, or at the National
Health School. This number includes about fifteen Comorian and twenty
expatriate doctors and dentists.   All the Comorians are in Moroni and
Mutsamudu; peripheral facilities are staffed by UN volunteer and Laval
University doctors. The trained medical and paramedical staff are
outnumbered by the roughly 480 workers with little or no formal training
who have a confusing array of titles--nurse, health technician, auxiliary
nurse, auxiliary midwife, nurses aide, itinerant worker, etc.--and a
variety of backgrounds. The majority of the health posts are staffed by
such workers, most of whom can perform only a small number of tasks. In
the large health facilities, the few trained personnel often provide direct
services instead of supervising and managing the lower-level staff.
3.07       The National Health School (NHS), which was established in 1980,
provides three-year courses for nurses and technicians, and in-service
training for all paramedical staff. About 30 nurses and technicians
graduate annually. When the new NHS building, which is being financed
under the IDA First Education Project, is completed in early 1985, a
one-year course for nursing assistants will be added. To date, most of the
instructors have been furnished by WHO, but there are several future
Comorian instructors now in training abroad. The NHS training programs are
not well adapted to the needs of Comoros' health system: there is
insufficient practical training, and the programs and curricula have not
been based on a detailed analysis of health workers' actual
responsibilities and skill requirements. There are about 40 Comorians now
receiving medical, nursing,and related training abroad. In the past, very
few such students have returned to Comoros. The Government is now
exploring ways to encourage their return.
3.08      The acquisition, storage and distribution of drugs for all health
facilities is the responsibility of the Central Supply Pharmacy (CSP).
About 90% of the CSP's drug supply is provided free by various external
donors. Both donations and purchases are supposed to be limited to items
on a list of 150 essential drugs, but unsolicited gifts of drugs not on the



-8-
list and not appropriate to Comoros' health problems are also received.
The GOC makes only a token budgetary provision for drug purchases, and in
1982 disbursed only 20% of the sum budgeted. Because of the smallness of
the country's drug requirements, along with communication and
transportation difficulties, the present practice of direct procurement
from nonprofit foreign wholesalers is appropriate. The Kuwait Fund is
apparently expected to finance the CSP's entire drug needs for the next two
or three years, although no written agreement has been made. The CSP
itself compounds small quanties of a few common drugs. However, space and
equipment are major constraints, and the procedures used are
unsatisfactory. The CSP is located in Moroni in a small, decrepit building
totally unsuited to its function. Storage conditions, housekeeping and
maintenance are poor, and there are minimal security provisions. Until
late in 1982, supplies were distributed directly from the CSP to individual
health facilities on all three islands. This system has favored facilities
on Grande Comore because of their proximity; there have been periodic
shortages on Anjouan and Moheli owing to logistical problems and lack of
funds for transport. The GOC has recently decided to decentralize the
distribution system by establishing depots on all three islands.
Unfortunately, the stock of drugs has been prematurely divided up and
distributed to Anjouan and Moheli, without there being adequate storage
facilities or trained personnel. Shortages in peripheral facilities also
result from the absence of a system for reporting requirements and
consumption. No funds are available for the chief pharmacist to make
regular visits to Anjouan and Moheli.
C. Availability and Quality of Health and Family Planning Services
3.09      The structure and distribution of health services is shown in
Table 3. There are about 60 facilities providing health services, of which
about 40 are health posts and maternities opened or re-opened since 1978.
Although the ratios of population to beds and service providers are roughly
similar among the three islands, there are marked differences in access to
services within islands. For example, some health centers cover
populations of 8,000 while others serve up to 20,000 people. However, on
Anjouan and Moheli, only a few thinly populated and mountainous areas are
outside an acceptable radius of a health facility, and additional
facilities are not required. On Grande Comore, however, several populated
regions fall outside the optimal coverage areas. The shortage of trained
staff is the main constraint on the opening of new facilities.
3.10      The 39 rural health posts (dispensaries) constitute the lowest
tier of facilities. They are supposed to provide preventive services,
including prenatal and under-fives clinics, vaccinations, and malaria
prophylaxis. In fact, most of their work consists of first aid and other
simple curative measures, owing to inadequate training and supervision, and
to lack of drugs and supplies. Health posts are staffed either by a
NHS-trained nurse or, more often, an auxiliary with little formal
training. The furnishings, equipment and supplies at most health posts are
inadequate and about 75% of them are in structures requiring renovation or
replacement. There are also five four-bed rural maternities, all opened
since 1980, and each staffed by a midwife. They are used only for
deliveries and prenatal clinics, and are generally underutilized because



- 9 -
most women prefer to deliver at home. The seven health centers, each with
about 40 beds, constitute the middle tier of facilities. The hospital at
Fomboni on Moheli, so called because it is the major facility on the
island, is in fact also in the health center category. Each center has a
doctor and a few fully qualified nurses, but the bulk of their personnel
have received only on-the-job and "refresher" training. Like the health
posts, they are not over-utilized but the quality and range of services
provided are very limited. For instance, they have no X-ray services and
very little laboratory equipment. The towns of Moroni and Mutsamudu each
have an MCH clinic and a general outpatient clinic (the "Centre Medical").
These urban clinics are all heavily utilized. Both the MCH clinics are
housed in small and unsuitable quarters, have inadequate equipment, and
therefore cannot offer a full range of services.
3.11      The standard of service provided at the country's two major
hospitals is low. They are only marginally better equipped than the health
centers, although they do have surgeons, dentists and a few other
specialists. Hombo hospital in Mutsamudu, with 146 beds, has three
doctors, including one surgeon. El Maarouf hospital in Moroni, the
country's principal hospital, has 6 doctors, 200 other staff, and 360
beds. It has a heavy load of unreferred outpatients, many from outlying
areas, who ought to be treated in other facilities. However, it does not
try to screen outpatients and in any case, the separate outpatient clinics
in Moroni are too small to handle more patients.
3.12      Since independence there have been virtually no organized efforts
against communicable diseases. There are no malaria vector control
activities, and systematic treatment and chemoprophylaxis are done only in
some antenatal and under-fives clinics. Antimalarial drugs are not always
available in peripheral facilities. WHO is assisting the Government to
prepare a long-term vector control program that will require substantial
external funding to implement. Meanwhile, improvements in MCH services and
the distribution of drugs could significantly reduce morbidity and
mortality from malaria.
3.13      All health and family planning services are provided through the
basic network of health facilities. Most maternal/child health services
were started only in 1980. Prenatal and under-fives (well children's)
clinics are, in principle, conducted in all types of health
facilities.  Pregnant women are supposed to be given tetanus injections,
iron tablets and malaria prophylaxis, and high-risk pregnancies to be
identified.  However, the quality of services rendered varies greatly, and
not all staff are adequately trained to identify high-risk pregnancies.
The main services performed at under-fives' clinics are vaccination, growth
monitoring, malaria prophylaxis, and deworming. Not all clinics are able
to offer all services, and activities are constrained by insufficient
trained personnel and lack of drugs and supplies.
3.14      Family planning services have been available in health facilities
since late 1980. The new Family Planning division in the MPHP has been
charged with expanding and improving family planning services, designing
educational materials and messages, and assisting with staff training at
the NHS and on the job. The MPHP has decided to keep family planning fully
integrated with overall basic health services, and not to set up a



- 10 -
separate, "vertical" program. Oral contraceptives, injectables,IUDs and
condoms are available in hospitals, health centers, and rural maternities,
pills and condoms at some health posts, and tubal ligations are performed
at the two major hospitals. Since NHS graduates and auxiliaries have
received little practical training in family planning, services can usually
be provided only where a doctor or state-registered nurse or midwife is
present or has individually trained other staff members. Contraceptives
are supplied free by UNFPA and other donors to the Central Supply Pharmacy,
which distributes them to health facilities. To date, supplies have been
adequate. There are no reliable data about the prevalence of contraceptive
use but it is estimated that about 3% of women of reproductive age use
contraceptives. Of these, slightly fewer than half use the pill, about one
quarter have IUDs, one quarter use injectables, and perhaps one hundred
have been sterilized . No quantitative information is available about
attrition rates, but a large proportion of pill acceptors do not return for
resupply and there is no systematic follow-up of acceptors. The
spontaneous demand for family planning is limited by religious and cultural
traditions favoring large families, the perceived economic advantages of
numerous children, fears and myths about contraception's health effects,
and other constraints prevalent in many African countries. To date, no
efforts have been made to increase the demand for family planning through
organized informational or motivational activities. Although such
activities will be essential if the family planning program is to have a
significant impact, they will have to be carefully designed so as to
minimize negative reactions.
D. Expenditure and Finance
3.15      Figures about expenditure and financing in the health sector are
unreliable because government accounting and budgeting are virtually
nonexistent. In 1981, the most recent year for which figures are
available, health accounted for about 2% of the federal government's
estimated total recurrent expenditures, and about 11% of the governorates'
estimated recurrent expenditures. All told, an estimated 5% of all
government recurrent expenditures went to the health sector. This
proportion is comparable to the 6-8% range found in Botswana, Malawi,
Lesotho and Rwanda. In 1981, external agencies spent more on health in
Comoros than the federal and island governments did--US$1.2 million
equivalent on recurrent expenditure, and about US$0.8 million equivalent on
capital expenditures (see Table 5). No capital expenditures for health
were made by the government. These figures actually underestimate the
value of external assistance because they exclude the costs of the French
medical team and certain other expatriate workers. Further, France
finances part of the government's general budgetary deficit and thus
indirectly provides additional support for health. Government spending on
health measured on a per capita basis is about US$2.50 per year, with
external assistance adding US$6.25 per capita per year. Private
expenditures on health care are difficult to quantify. They comprise drug
purchases at the country's two commercial pharmacies; payments to the
Comorian physicians with part-time private practices and to traditional
practitioners, and trips abroad to obtain medical treatment.



- 11 -
3.16      It is clear that Government expenditure on health has been
inefficient, even though the lack of data makes it impossible to estimate
unit costs. Personnel accounts for about 60% of expenditures on
health--about the same proportion found in other African countries.
However, spending within this category is inefficiently allocated; since
there are many poorly trained staff with limited productivity, the
qualified staff cannot be effectively utilized in management and
supervision. Further, since there are few specifically preventive programs
financed by the government, most expenditure is for services that are
essentially curative. In light of Comoros' main health problems and
resource constraints, an increase in expenditure on prevention would be
efficient. The absence of screening and the resultant heavy load of
unreferred outpatients is the primary source of inefficiency in the
hospital sector. This could be remedied by an improved quality of service
at lower-level facilities, and the introduction of selective fees for some
services. The allocation of capital expenditure, virtually all of which is
externally financed, has been heavily oriented to the hospitals. Although
they do need capital improvements, the actual investments, which have
mostly been for the construction of wards for specialized services, have
been of little value because the corresponding staff, equipment and
supplies are not available.
3.17       In the past few years, the MPHP has actually received
substantially less than the amounts budgeted for the operation of health
services. This has resulted in shortages of basic supplies, materials, and
equipment, and has inhibited the functioning of a number of programs and
services. Buildings and equipment are not properly maintained and there is
only minimal supervision of field activities by headquarters personnel.
The frequent long delays in the payment of civil servants' salaries cause
morale problems and make it difficult to attract and retain qualified
staff. In 1983, the federal government would need to spend about 425
million francs (US$1.3 million) to operate existing health facilities and
programs at an acceptable level. The governorates together would need to
spend another 70 million francs (US$0.2 million) to operate the health
posts and urban clinics. The estimated total requirement of 495 million
francs (US$1.5 million) represents about 8% of projected 1983 government
recurrent expenditures.
E. Bank Group Involvement in Health and Population
3.18      The Bank Group's only lending for these sectors to date is in the
context of the First Education Project (signed in February 1982), which
includes a component for the construction and equipment of a National
liealth School building, to include classrooms and dormitories. This
building, whose construction has not yet begun, will permit the school to
provide a wider variety of training programs in order to meet the shortage
of paramedical manpower and upgrade existing staff. A PHN sector review
was undertaken in March 1982 after the GOC requested the Bank Group's
assistance in the field of population. This review, which was accepted by
the GOC, provided a comprehensive picture of the sector to the extent
permitted by the data, and identified key constraints and needs.



- 12 -
F. Issues and Bank Strategy
3.19      The Comorian Government has correctly identified rapid population
growth as a critical problem area, but has not yet developed either a
strategy or an institutional capability to deal with it.  In the Comorian
context, the population problem should, for several reasons, be approached
primarily in the broader context of the health sector. First, a family
planning program would be the cornerstone of any population program. In
view of the limited human and financial resources and the smallness of the
target population, such services can be most efficiently provided through
the health system. Second, the traditional and religious character of
Comorian society make it advisable to introduce family planning to the
public mainly as a way to improve the health of mothers and babies, rather
than as a program to control family size. Therefore, a key element of the
lending strategy is to support the Government's desire to reduce population
growth by strengthening the services and institutions providing family
planning and related health services. At the same time, the GOC should be
encouraged and assisted to develop approaches that go beyond the mere
provision of family planning services. The Government plans to create a
unit in the Directorate of Planning to plan and coordinate population
activities. Experience in other countries has shown that such an entity,
having access to a wide range of resources and with a broadly defined
mandate to approach the population problem, is an essential component of a
successful program. At negotiations, the GOC delegation and IDA discussed
the GOC's general policy on the reduction of population growth, as well as
a draft paper on possible elements of a more fully elaborated program.
3.20      Although the Government has adopted appropriate priorities in the
health sector, with an emphasis on basic level services, it has had
difficulty in effectively implementing appropriate programs. Not only have
the resources provided to the sector been inadequate, but existing
resources have not been effectively and efficiently used. Thus Bank Group
lending should assist the Government to get the maximum impact from
existing resources, while making minimal additions to its recurrent cost
burden. A key way to improve resource use is through training and
technical assistance for Comorian personnel, which is a major objective of
the overall lending program for Comoros, and of this project in particular.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Design
4.01       The proposed project has two related objectives:  to assist the
Government to develop a program to slow population growth, and to
strengthen the management and delivery of basic health services. In both
these areas, the project builds on appropriate Government policies (see
paras. 3.01 - 3.03). However, the Government is still at a very early
stage in planning and implementing appropriate programs. It will require
substantial institutional development before being able to manage an
effective health service system and a population program. The specific



- 13 -
objectives of the project, which are based on the conclusions of the August
1982 sector report, are to help the Government:
-   Develop a strategy for reducing population growth, and to
increase the quantity and quality of family planning and
related health services.
-   Provide an efficient, cost effective system for the
compounding, storage and distribution to peripheral
facilities of pharmaceuticals.
-   Increase the relevance and efficiency of the training
programs for paramedical manpower.
-   Upgrade or replace where necessary a number of facilities in
which basic health services are provided.
-   Prepare a plan for the rationalization and development of
hospital services.
The project is designed to place the minimum burden on the Government's
recurrent budget, and takes into account the small size and lack of
implementation experience of the executing Ministry.
B. Summary Project Description
4.02       The proposed project would 'include six main components.  The
cost figures in this paragraph exclude contingencies.
(a) Family planning (US$200,000):
To improve and extend the delivery of family planning
services: consultant services, vehicles, educational
materials, and funds for local supervision for the Family
Planning Division of the MPHP; training fellowships and
study tour for staff.
(b) Population unit (US$143,000):
To assist the development of a national population program
including educational and motivational activities:
consultant services, training, fellowship, study tour and
educational and office supplies for the Population Unit in
the Directorate of Planning.
(c) Pharmaceutical storage, distribution and compounding
(US$1,077,000):
To improve the distribution of pharmaceuticals and initiate
local compounding of some items: construction and
equipment of three regional supply depots and of a small
compounding unit in Moroni; vehicles; consultant services to



- 14 -
improve distribution and logistics and to start up
compounding; study tour for staff.
(d) Maternal/child health clinics and health posts (US$594,000):
(i)   to improve the range, quality and quantity of MCH
services and to improve facilities for practical
training of paramedical staff: construction and
equipment of two replacement MCH clinics in Moroni and
Mutsamudu; medical equipment for MCH services in one
hospital, seven health centers and thirty-nine health
posts;
(ii) to improve rural health facilities: renovation of up
to twenty, and replacement of up to ten substandard
health posts.
(e)  Health manpower planning and training (US$169,000):
To assist in the development of a plan for the
training and deployment of paramedical manpower and in
the improvement and expansion of training programs at
the National Health School: consultancy services for
manpower planning and for curriculum development;
fellowships for trainers; two minibuses.
(f)  Study and plan for hospital services (US$143,000):
To prepare a long-term plan for the development and
financing of hospital services, including introduction of
fees for some services: consultancy services.
C. Detailed Project Description
Family Planning
4.03      This component would support the operation of the newly created
Family Planning Division in the Basic Health Services directorate of the
MPHP (see paras. 3.05 and 3.14). A condition of credit effectiveness would
be the appointment of qualified staff to the positions of chief and
assistant chief of the division (para. 8.02 (b)). There would also be one
nurse or midwife on each island charged with supervising the provision of
family planning services and information in all health facilities,
providing on-the-job training to nurses and midwives, and gathering
information to assist in the development of the family planning program.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that field supervisors with
qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA would be named by December
31, 1983 and that they would be sent for training in family planning by
April 30, 1984 if they had not already been trained (para. 8.01 (a)).
Training financed by UNFPA is available at the WHO regional training center
for family health at Mauritius. Because family planning is a new activity,
the personnel of the division will require expert assistance and training



- 15 -
before being able to develop and implement a detailed work program.
Provision in the project is made for eight months of consultant services to
help the MPHP design and carry out service delivery, staff training, public
education, statistical and evaluation activities. The consultant would
assist in identifying suitable opportunities for short-term training abroad
and study visits to African countries with active family planning programs
for the staff of the division. These would be financed by the project, as
would vehicles, office furniture and equipment, educational materials, and
operating funds, especially for inter-island travel.
Population
4.04      Having recognized that Comoros requires a population program that
goes beyond the provision of family planning services, the COC has decided
to establish a Population Unit in the Directorate of Planning.   Its
mandate would be to advise the GOC on the formulation of a population
program and to inform and educate opinion leaders and the general public
about population growth and its implications, family health and family
planning.   To do so it would design and co-ordinate activities to be
carried out by various Government organizations--the Ministry of Education,
the agricultural extension service, the Islamic Affairs Secretariat, the
MPHP's Family Planning division, for example--and by people outside
government, including religious leaders and women's organizations. As
chief of the unit, the GOC would recruit an experienced, respected
individual, who would work on a continuous basis with key officials of
other organizations. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
unit would be established and a chief with experience and qualifications
acceptable to IDA appointed by December 31, 1983 (para. 8.01 (b)).
Consultant services to assist in the design and execution of the unit's
work program would be included in the project, as would office furniture,
educational materials, and a study tour for the director. Provision would
be made for the unit to organize studies, seminars and local conferences
to explore and publicize the population question.
Pharmaceutical Storage, Distribution and Compounding
4.05      An important constraint on the provision of health services has
been interruptions in the supply of drugs and other supplies to peripheral
facilities. This has been due in part to the over-centralized distribution
system described in para. 3.07, and the Government has accordingly decided
to decentralize the system. The proposed project would finance the
construction and equipment of a pharmaceutical supply depot on each of the
three islands. (The existing pharmacy facility on Grande Comore is not
suitable for renovation.) Each depot would supply all health facilities on
the island and would store up to one year's supply of most items. They
would have appropriate facilities and equipment for the safe storage of
flammable and perishable items; facilities and equipment for general
storage; handling equipment; refrigerators, and standby generators.
4.06      The facilitv in Moroni housing the supply depot for Grande Comore
would also accommodate the Central Pharmacy, comprising central
administrative offices and a compounding unit. The compounding unit would



- 16 -
prepare and package a limited number of liquids, oral rehydration salts,
and other products commonly used in the provision of basic health
services. These items are now imported by air at high cost. The project
would provide the necessary facilities and equipment for compounding,
packaging, and quality control. During negotiations, assurance was
obtained that the Government would budget adequate funds for the purchase
of raw materials to enable the compounding unit to operate at planned
capacity and would consult with IDA prior to making its annual budgetary
allocation (para. 8.01 (g)).
4.07      The project would provide technical assistance to improve
pharmacy operations in the areas of compounding, distribution, logistics,
and accounting. Draft terms of reference have been discussed and agreed
with the GOC. Depending on the qualifications of available consultants,
these services would be provided by either two or three individuals. The
project would provide for four months of expert services in pharmaceutical
compounding to assist the Government to determine the items to be
compounded and specify the equipment and materials to be purchased and,
upon completion of construction, to install equipment, train staff and
establish procedures.  It would also provide four months of consultant
services in pharmaceutical logistics and management. These services are
required because the present systems of inventory control, record-keeping,
reporting, and distribution are already inadequate (para. 3.08), and the
newly decentralized system will require major improvements in these
procedures. The consultant would visit Comoros before and after the
completion of the supply depots, to establish procedures and train staff in
the areas of inventory management, reporting of consumption, forecasting of
requirments, purchasing, and efficient distribution methods. Finally,
three months of consultant services would be provided to help the pharmacy
establish a financial accounting system, which it does not now have. Such
a system will be required because of the proposed establishment of the
compounding unit, the expected increases in the purchase of drugs, and the
expected introduction of cost recovery for some drugs and services.
4.08      To ensure that pharmacy operations on Anjouan and Moheli are
effectively run, the project would include provision for supervision visits
by the chief pharmacist, and for periodic visits to Moroni by staff from
the other islands. An assurance will be sought at negotiations that the
Government will recruit another qualified pharmacist to assist the chief
pharmacist by December 31, 1983, when the expatriate advisor now in post is
scheduled to leave (para. 8.01 (c)). A course for pharmacy assistants will
be offered at the National Health School in 1984/85. In the meantime,
on-the-job training for existing staff will be provided by the consultants
financed by the project.
Health Manpower Planning and Training
4.09      The project would assist the MPHP to make more efficient use of
its personnel and improve the relevance and effectiveness of training
programs at the NHS. Two months of technical assistance would be provided



- 17 -
for the development of a detailed manpower plan for the health sector. The
plan would evaluate the quantity, quality and deployment of existing health
manpower, and assess the needs for basic training, in-service training,
redeployment or retraining of staff, and, if necessary, changes in job
classifications and descriptions. To increase the relevance of the NHS
curricula to the identified needs, six months of consultant services in
curriculum development would be provided. The project would supplement the
existing WHO-financed program of fellowships for training of nurse trainers
by financing two additional fellowships. Two minibuses would be provided
to transport NHS students to peripheral facilities for practical training.
A replacement MCH clinic in Moroni is to be provided in another component
of the project (para. 4.10). In the design of that clinic, special
attention will be paid to its role as a training site for NHS students.
MCH Clinics and Health Posts
4.10     (a)  MCH Clinics    The MCH clinics in Moroni and Mutsamudu
provide integrated services to the priority target groups of pregnant and
lactating women, and children under five. Most of the services are
preventive in nature, although curative services are also provided for
under-fives. The staffing of these two facilities is adequate, but their
small and unsuitable facilities constrain the range and volume of services
they can offer. The project would therefore include the construction and
equipment of replacement facilities. The new clinics would provide
pre-natal, family planning, immunization, well children's and sick
children's services, and would have a small diagnostic laboratory and areas
for educational sessions for mothers. The clinic at Moroni would also be
used for practical training of NHS students.  Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the GOC would, by June 30, 1985, prepare and
submit to IDA for review a plan and timetable for the phasing out of
routine primary (non-referred) MCH services at El Maarouf (Moroni) and
Hombo (Mutsamudu) hospitals once the new MCH clinics are operational
(para. 8.01 (e)).
(b)  MCH Services in Health Centres    MCH services are also
provided at the hospital on Moheli and in the country's seven health
centres (para. 3.14). Although the facilities are generally adequate,
equipment is often lacking, so a standard set of equipment for MCH services
would be provided for each of these facilities.
(c)  Health Posts   The Kuwait Fund is financing the construction
of ten new health posts in the few locations where existing coverage is
inadequate. (para. 3.09). However, there are many existing health posts
that are substandard. About 7 require minor repairs, 13 need extensive
renovations, and about 10 should be replaced. The project would support
part of these renovations and replacements, up to a total base cost of
US$260,000, based on a list of priorities to be provided by the MPHP.
All but one of the posts to be replaced is currently staffed and operating.
Provision is also made for purchase of basic furniture and medical
equipment for all health posts except those being financed by the Kuwait
Fund.



- 18 -
Study and Plan for Hospital Services
4.11      The services and facilities at the tertiary level of the health
system require extensive improvement and rationalization. (see
para 3.11). The Government intends to seek external financing to develop
this sector but because it does not have a detailed plan, there is a
significant risk that inappropriate and unduly ambitious projects will be
undertaken. The project would include 11 months of consultancy services to
study and make recommendations about the type and amount of services to be
provided at the tertiary and other levels of the health system and about
the hospitals' long-term requirements for personnel, facilities and
equipment. The results of the manpower planning exercise described in
para. 4.09 would be used as an input to the study. The study would also
cover financing needs and options for the health sector and recommend a
feasible system of cost recovery, in line with the Government's intention
to begin charging fees for some services. Although this element of the
study would cover cost recovery in all areas of the health sector, it is
likely that an effective and equitable cost recovery plan will be weighted
heavily toward fees for drugs and services provided at the tertiary level.
For this reason, the examination of health care financing has been included
in the study of hospital services. The team of consultants would consist
of a general health services planner, a physical planner, and an expert in
financial analysis and management.  Draft terms of reference have been
discussed and agreed with the GOC. During negotiations, an assurance was
obtained that the Government will discuss with IDA by October 31, 1984 the
study's recommendations for cost recovery and take appropriate follow-up
action on the basis of those discussions (para. 8.01 (d)).
VI. Project Cost and Financing
A. Project Cost
5.01      The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at about US$3
million equivalent. Taxes are negligible since all items imported
specifically for the project would be exempt from customs duties and
taxes. Base costs are estimated at US$2.35 million equivalent and
contingencies at US$.77 million equivalent. Project costs by expenditure
category and component are summarized below and detailed in Annex Tables 6
and 7.



- 19 -
PROJECT COSTS BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
Francs CFA (Millions)           US$ (Millions)          % of
Local  Foreign  Total    Local   Foreign  Total  Base Cost
Civil Works                      154.0    188.3    342.3        .47    .58    1.05         45
Furniture & Equipment              7.7      68.8      76.5      .02    .21       .23       10
Vehicles                            -       27.4      27.4        -    .08      .08         3
Technical Assistance              43.9    175.5    219.4        .14    .54      .68        29
Training & Study Tours              -       20.3      20.3        -    .06      .06         3
Local Personnel                   30.8        -       30.8      .10       -     .10         4
Incremental Operating Costs    22.7         25.0      47.7      .07    .08      .15         6
Subtotal Base Costs           259.1    505.3    764.4         .80   1.55    2.35        100
Contingencies
Physical Contingencies          25.1      39.8      64.9      .08      .12    .20          8.5
Price Contingencies             84.2    101.6    185.8        .26      .31    .57         24.3
Subtotal, Contingencies          109.3      141.4   250.7       .34      .43    .77         32.8
Total Project Costs              368.4      646.7  1015.1    1.14    1.98   3.12           132.8
PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
Francs CFA (Millions)            US$ (Millions)           % of
Local    Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Base Cost
A. Family Planning                19.7       45.4    65.1       .06      .14    .20           8.5
B. Population                     15.5       31.1    46.6       .04      .10    .14           6.1
C. Pharmaceutical Supply
and Distribution            120.7      229.2   349.9        .37     .70   1.07          45.8
D. MCH Clinic & Health Posts   77.4         115.6   193.0       .24      .36    .60          25.2
E. Health Manpower                11.1       43.9    55.0       .04      .13    .17           7.2
F. Study of Hospital Services   9.3          37.1    46.4       .03      .11    .14           6.1
G. Project Administration          5.3        3.1      8.4      .02      .01    .03           1.1
Total Base Costs                 259.1      505.3   764.4       .80    1.55   2.35          100.0
Physical Contingencies          25.1       39.8    64.9       .07      .13    .20          8.5
Price Contingencies             84.2      101.6   185.8       .26      .31    .57         24.3
Total Project Costs              368.4      646.7  1015.1    1.14    1.98   3.12           132.8



- 20 -
5.02      Cost estimates are based on January 1983 prices.  Estimates of
civil works costs are based on a review of civil works undertaken by
locally established contractors, and take into account recent large
increases in materials prices. Equipment and vehicle costs are based on
current CIF costs from manufacturers' and suppliers' lists. The average
cost of consultancy services is estimated at US$11,000 per man-month
including fees, subsistence, and international travel, based on actual
costs for similar services being provided in the region. The consultancy
services for the hospital study would probably be provided by a firm rather
than by individual consultants, and are therefore estimated at US$13,000
per man-month. Salaries and per diems for local staff are based on current
Government scales. The estimated cost of training fellowships is US$23,000
each, which reflects actual tuition, travel and subsistence costs at
relevant international courses. The category of incremental operating
costs includes maintenance and operation of vehicles and buildings;
inter-island travel and per diems; and consumable office and educational
supplies.
5.03      Contingencies Allowances   Physical contingencies have been
estimated at 15% for civil works, 5% for furniture and equipment and 5% for
technical assistance.  Total physical contingencies account for US$205,000
equivalent, or 6.4% of total project costs. Price contingencies have been
based on the following estimates of annual price increases, applied in
accordance with the implementation schedule:
1983       1984        1985        1986
Foreign          8%         7.5%         7%           6%
Local           12%          10%        10%          10%
5.04      Foreign Exchange Component   The foreign exchange component is
US$1.98 million equivalent, or 63% of total project costs. It has been
estimated at 55% for civil works; 90% for furniture and equipment; 80% for
technical assistance; 100% for vehicles, training and study tours; 50% for
incremental operating costs, and 0% for local personnel.
B. Financing
5.05      An IDA Credit of SDR 2.7 million (US$2.85 million equivalent)
would represent about 91% of the total project cost, and would finance all
the foreign exchange costs and 76% of local costs. The Government would
finance the remainder, which amounts to US$270,000 equivalent. The
financing plan by expenditure category would be as follows:



- 21 -
Proposed Financing Plan (US$ millions)
Government  IDA   Total   % IDA
Category:
Civil Works                             .10      .95    1.05      90
Furniture and Equipment                   -      .23    0.23    100
Vehicles                                  -      .08      .08    100
Technical Assistance                      -      .68     .68    100
Training and Study Tours                  -      .06     .06    100
Local Personnel                         .10        -     .10       0
Incremental Operating Costs             .07      .08     .15      50
Contingencies                             -      .77     .77    100
Total                            .27    2.85    3.12      91.3%
In any year during project implementation, the maximum Government
counterpart contribution would be about US$90,000 equivalent. After the
project period, the incremental recurrent costs to the Government would be
about US$40,000 equivalent annually, including the cost of raw materials
for pharmaceutical compounding. This amounts to about 3% of the 1983
Government budget requirement for health.
C. Disbursement, Accounts and Auditing
5.06      Disbursement of the credit would be made on the basis of:
(a) 90% of expenditures on civil works;
(b) 100% of expenditures on furniture, equipment, vehicles,
technical assistance, training and study tours;
(c) 50% of expenditures on incremental operating costs.
Disbursements would be made against full documentation, except
those for incremental operating costs, which would be made against
statements of expenditures. The MPHP has the institutional capacity to use
this procedure; at negotiations, agreement will be reached on the
information to be provided and the format to be used (para. 8.01 (1)). The
documentation for statements of expenditure would be retained by the
Borrower for inspection by supervision missions. It is anticipated that
the credit would be fully disbursed by June 30, 1987, eight months after
expected project completion. As this is the first project in the sector,
country disbursement profiles are not applicable.
5.07      Revolving Fund and Advance Account  In order to assist the
Government to finance expenditures to be reimbursed from the credit, an
IDA-financed revolving fund would be established in the Treasury to cover
expenditures eligible for reimbursement, other than those for which IDA
would disburse directly. The fund would be established with an initial
deposit by IDA of US$120,000 equivalent. IDA would replenish the fund
after not less than half has been spent, upon receipt of a withdrawal



- 22 
request from the Government, accompanied by documentation of expenditures
made from the fund. This procedure would continue throughout the life of
the project. A Government-financed advance account would also be
established to help ensure that counterpart funds for project activities
are readily available. The Government would establish the account with an
initial deposit of US$20,000 equivalent. The establishment of accounts in
the Treasury for the revolving fund and the advance account, and an
initial deposit by the Government of US$20,000 to the advance account would
be conditions of credit effectiveness (para. 8.02 (c) and (d)).
5.08       Accounting and Audit  Separate project accounts, including those
related to the population component to be implemented by the Directorate of
Planning, would be maintained by the MPHP. Assurances to this effect were
obtained at negotiations. Assurances were also obtained that project
accounts, including statements of expenditure, will be audited annually by
independent auditors whose qualifications and expe-rience are acceptable to
IDA, and that the audited accounts, together with an auditor's report,
would be submitted to IDA not later than six months following the end of
the fiscal year (para. 8.01 (i)). About US$12,000 equivalent would be
included in project costs for the auditors' fees. It is expected that
audits would be performed by foreign firms that already visit Comoros
periodically to audit the accounts of other projects.
VI. Project Implementation
A. Implementation
6.01       The project would be implemented over a period of three years
from November 1, 1983 to October 31, 1986, and the expected closing date
would be June 30, 1987. The MPHP will be responsible for the
implementation of the project as a whole except the population component,
which will be implemented by the Directorate of Planning. Under the
overall supervision and coordination of the Minister, the various senior
officials of the MPHP will have responsibility for the relevant project
components: the Chief Pharmacist for the pharmaceuticals component; the
Director of the National Health School for the manpower and training
component; the Director of Basic Health Services for the family planning
and MCH clinics/health posts components; and the Director of Hospital
Services (when named; meanwhile, the Director of El Maarouf Hospital) for
the study of hospital services. An MPHP official will be named project
coordinator (para. 6.02). These officials, along with representatives from
the Directorate of Planning and the Project Implementation Unit of the
Ministry of Education, will constitute a project coordinating committee
that will meet quarterly under the Minister's chairmanship; an assurance to
this effect was obtained at negotiations (para. 8.01 (m)). As for the
population component, it will be implemented by the head of the new
Population Unit, when named, under the supervision of the Director-General
of Planning.
6.02       The appointment of a project coordinator with qualifications and
experience acceptable to IDA will be a condition of credit effectiveness
(para. 8.02 (a)). The coordinator will be the main point of contact
between the MPHP and IDA, and will be responsible for project reports and



- 23 -
accounts, procurement, withdrawal applications, co-ordination with the
BEPE, and administration of consultancies, scholarships, study tours, etc.
He will also be responsible for the administrative aspects of the
population component. In order to familiarise himself with Bank
procedures, he will obtain assistance from staff of the BEPE and the
CEFADER. The Government will ask the WHO to help administer the two
fellowships for nurse trainers. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions
of employment of consultants providing technical assistance would be
acceptable to IDA, in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, (August 1981) (para. 8.01 (h)).
6.03      Civil Works   In light of the quality and competitiveness of the
private construction industry, construction for the project will be carried
out by private firms. The MPHP has no capacity to prepare drawings,
specifications and bid documents, nor to supervise construction. Given the
small size of this project and the uncertain reliability of the only
locally represented architecture firm, the most economical and reliable way
to obtain these professional services is through the Projects
Implementation Unit of the Ministry of Education (the BEPE). This unit is
executing civil works for the IDA First Education Project, which is
providing it with expatriate technical assistance specialists. The
Ministers of Education and Public Health have made an agreement concerning
the services required, the timetable, and the additional resources required
by the BEPE. The Government has obtained acceptable sites for the MCH
clinic and pharmacy depots on Anjouan and for the depot on Moheli; it will
make available to the MPHP by December 31, 1983 sites acceptable to IDA for
the clinic and depot on Grande Comore (para. 8.01 (n)).
6.04      Reporting   Progress reports on project implementation would be
submitted to IDA on a semi-annual basis following a mutually agreed upon
format and timetable. These reports would be prepared by the project
co-ordinator using information supplied by the BEPE, the MPHP staff members
responsible for the various components, and the Directorate of Planning.
The reports would cover the status of implementation of project activities,
major issues, and actions proposed to resolve them. The progress of the
family planning program would be monitored through the statistical
information system to be established with the help of project-financed
technical assistance (para. 4.03). The delivery of other health services
will be monitored through the MPHP's existing statistics collection system,
which receives technical assistance from UNFPA.  These results would be
summarized in the semi-annual reports. A project completion report would
be prepared no later than six months after the credit closing date.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that these procedures would be
followed (para. 8.01 (k)).
B. Procurement
6.05      Contracts for civil works, vehicles, equipment and furniture
would be grouped so as to permit bulk procurement. Because of Comoros'
isolation and the small size of the civil works contracts for this project,
foreign construction firms not already established in Comoros are unlikely



- 24 -
to be interested.  There are about six competent locally established
construction firms in Comoros. Therefore, civil works contracts (US$1.6
million including contingencies) would be awarded after locally advertised
competitive bidding, in which foreign firms can participate, following
Government procedures. These procedures, which are essentially those of
the French Code des Marches Publics, were reviewed by a Bank procurement
mission in September 1982 and found to be acceptable. Minor renovations to
health posts in remote areas could be carried out by the Ministry of Public
Works through force account procedures, subject to prior approval of IDA.
Contracts for furniture, vehicles and non-specialized equipment, (US$0.3
million including contingencies) would also be awarded on the basis of
locally advertised competitive bidding. Only three or four makes of
vehicles are in general use, and therefore able to be maintained and
serviced, in Comoros. There are local dealers for each of these makes.
Medical equipment for health posts and MCH clinics would be procured
through UNICEF. Compounding and specialized storage equipment for the
pharmacy (US$50,000 including contingencies) would be awarded on the basis
of prudent shopping after at least three quotations have been obtained.
Architectural designs, draft tender documents, and master lists of
equipment and supplies including proposed grouping would be reviewed by
IDA. Review of tender evaluation documents by IDA prior to award would not
be required for contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each.
Assurances were obtained that the above procurement procedures would be
followed (para. 8.01 (j)).
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
7.01      The proposed project would have two kinds of benefits: improved
health and family planning services; and better planning and management of
health and population programs. The first type of benefits is important
because the inadequacy of health services is partly responsible for the
very low health status and high fertility of the Comorian population. By
the end of the project the MPHP should be in a position to provide good
quality basic health--especially MCH--and family planning services in all
primary level facilities (para. 4.10). It would have the appropriate
facilities, drugs, equipment and procedures in place, and would be carrying
out a plan for the optimal deployment and training of staff (paras. 4.05-
4.09). These improvements in services, which are predominantly preventive,
can be expected to have a significant impact on immunization coverage, the
incidence and severity of malaria among young children and pregnant women,
infant and maternal mortality, and contraceptive prevalence. This project
would complement the First Education Project in providing the means to
train and upgrade virtually all the paramedical manpower required by the
health system. These benefits of the project would accrue particularly to
women, not only in their role as the principal consumers of MCH and family
planning services, but also as present and future members of the
paramedical professions.
7.02      The project's benefits in the area of planning and management
would be in accordance with the priority given by the Bank Group to the
institutional development of this very young country. These benefits are



- 25 -
particularly important in light of the uncertainty of Comoros' long-term
economic prospects, which make it imperative for the Government to manage
its existing resources as effectively as possible. The project would
riesult in the development of an institutional capability to deal with the
critical problem of demographic growth (para. 4.04). By the end of the
project, the proposed Population Unit would have developed a strategy and a
program of activities to inform and educate all Comorians about the
necessity of reducing fertility. This program would mobilize existing
activities and personnel both within and without Government. In the area
of health, the MPHP would have in hand a feasible plan for the
rationalization and development of hospital and related curative services
(para. 4.11). This will permit the Government to mobilize and direct
available resources to meet the needs for these services, without exceeding
its financial, manpower and organizational limitations. It would be able
to distribute drugs to health facilties in a timely, secure and efficient
manner, avoiding both wastage and interruptions in supply
(paras. 4.05-4.08). It would achieve cost savings in the long run by
compounding some items locally (para. 4.06).   Finally, the Government
would be in a position to impose fees for certain health services (para.
4.11). This would not only increase the financial resources available for
the public sector, but would also have a deterrent effect on the excessive
or unwarranted use of those services.
B. Risks
7.03      In view of the GOC's recent severe budgetary constraints, the
most serious risk of this project is that the Government will be unable to
afford the operation of the assets to be created, or the financing for
project activities, or both. However, the GOC is currently implementing a
number of wide-ranging fiscal reform measures, with assistance from the
Government of France. Although it is too early to make a quantitative
assessment of their impact, they are expected to improve significantly the
Government's capacity to finance its operations. Further, several aspects
of the project are designed to minimize the financial burden on the GOC.
First, most of the project-financed facilities can be staffed with existing
personnel or personnel who would be hired even in the absence of the
project. The clinics and health posts to be constructed are replacements
for existing facilities. Second, the incremental recurrent costs to the
Government would be about US$60,000 equivalent during the project period,
and about US$40,000 equivalent annually after the project period. The
latter amount represents only about 3% of the total recurrent financing
requirement for health for 1983. Finally, an IDA-financed revolving fund
would be established to assist the GOC to finance project expenditures
eligible for reimbursement (para. 5.07).
7.04      A second risk is that the MPHP, with its small and inexperienced
staff, may have difficulty implementing even this modest project. To
minimize this risk, the Government would name a project co-ordinator whose
experience and qualifications would be acceptable to IDA, and who would be
available to devote as much of his time as required to project-related
work (para. 6.02). This individual would contact the staff of government
agencies that have worked with the Bank Group to familiarize himself with
accounting, procurement, withdrawal and other procedures. At the earliest



- 26 -
opportunity he would participate in a Bank-sponsored training seminar in
procurement. Having itself no capacity to tender for or supervise civil
works, the MPHP would contract these services from the BEPE on the basis of
an agreement reached between the Ministers of Education and Public Health.
The technical assistance team of the Laval University project, who already
play a significant advisory and supervisory role in the MPHP, are expected
to assist in the implementation of the project activities relating to
family planning and MCH. The MPHP is expected to request assistance from
them and from IDA in preparing short lists of possible consultants, and
from WHO in administering the fellowships for trainers.  These steps,
combined with the expected full involvement of all MPHP staff, should make
it feasible for the MPHP to implement the project.
VIII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, the following assurances were received from
the Government:
(a) Three field supervisors for the Family Planning division of
the MPHP will be appointed by December 31, 1983 and will
attend a training course in family planning by April 30,
1984 (para. 4.03);
(b) The proposed Population Unit in the Directorate of
Planning will be officially established and a chief,
with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA,
appointed by December 31, 1983 (para. 4.04);
(c) An additional pharmacist with qualifications and experience
acceptable to IDA will be appointed to the Central Supply
Pharmacy by December 31, 1983 (para. 4.08);
(d) The Government will discuss with IDA by October 31, 1984,
the recommendations of the study on financing and cost
recovery for health services (para. 4.11). On the basis of
the exchange of views, the Government will take appropriate
follow-up action;
(e) The Government will prepare a plan and timetable for the
phasing out of routine primary MCH and family planning
services at El Maarouf and Hombo hospitals, and submit it
to IDA for review by June 30, 1985 (para. 4.10);
(f)  The Government will maintain adequate staffing of MCH
clinics, health centres, health posts and pharmacy depots,
and make appropriate budget provisions in each fiscal year
during project implementation to ensure the satisfactory
functioning of all these facilities;



- 27 -
(g) The Government will make sufficient budget provision for the
purchase of sufficient raw materials to ensure that the
pharmaceuticals compounding unit operates at planned
capacity, and the budgeted amounts will be agreed with IDA
from time to time (para. 4.06);
(h) Consultants will be selected in accordance with
the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers (August 1981). Their qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment will be satisfactory
to IDA (para. 6.02);
(i)  Separate project accounts will be maintained by the MPHP;
all project accounts will be audited by independent auditors
whose qualifications and experience are acceptable to IDA,
and all audited accounts, together with an auditor's report,
will be submitted to IDA not later than six months following
the end of the fiscal year (para. 5.08);
(j) Procurement procedures as outlined in para. 6.05 will be
followed;
(k) Reporting procedures as outlined in para. 6.04 will be
followed;
(1) The content and format of statements of expenditure will be
acceptable to IDA (para. 5.06);
(m)  A project coordinating committee chaired by the Minister of
the MPHP will be established and will meet quarterly
(para. 6.01);
(n) The Government will make available to the MPHP no later than
December 31, 1983 sites acceptable to IDA for the
construction of the MCH clinic and pharmacy depot on Grande
Comore.
8.02      As conditions of effectiveness the Government will:
(a)  Appoint a project coordinator with qualifications and
experience acceptable to IDA (para. 6.02); and
(b)  Appoint a chief and an assistant chief, with qualifications
and experience acceptable to IDA, for the family planning
division of the MPHP (para. 4.03);
(c) Open an account in the Treasury for the purpose of
establishing the proposed IDA-financed revolving fund under
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (para. 5.07);
(d) Open an account in the Treasury for the advance of the
Government's contribution to project expenditures, and make
an initial deposit of US$20,000 equivalent (para. 5.07).



- 28 -
8.03       The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA
credit of SDR 2.7 million (US$2.85 million equivalent) on standard terms to
the Government of the Federal Islamic Republic of Comoros.



- 29 -
Table 1
COMOROS: HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
COMPARATIVE HEALTH AND POPULATION INDICATORS: 1980
Eastern
Comoros     Madagascar   Rwanda          Malawi     Africa
Population, mid-1980                0.3           8.7          5.2           6.1        135
(millions)
Population Density                209             14         167            47           18.4**
(per km2)
Crude Birth Rate                   47            45           53            51           48
Crude Death Rate                   19            19           20            19           19
Life Expectancy                    46            46           45            46           47**
at Birth
Infant Mortality Rate             148           102          137           142          132
Total Fertility Rate                6.3            6.1         8.3           7.0          6.6
% Population under                 43            43           45            44           46
Age 15
** Africa South of Sahara
Sources: Population Reference Bureau, "1980 World Population Data Sheet;" United Nations
estimates; and three World Bank documents: World Tables (1980), Malawi Health
Sector Memorandum (May 1981), World Development Report (1981).



- 30 -
Table 2
COMOROS: HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
LEADING CAUSES OF MORBIDITY
OUTPATIENTS, EIGHT HEALTH CENTERS, 1981
Under 5 Years Old                                 Over 5 Years Old
%      Visits                                       %    Visits
1.  Malaria                   24.5    54,353    1.  Malaria                       22.1   82,550
2   Respiratory Illnesses   12.7    28,175    2.  Skin Diseases                   12.3   45,944
3.  Intestinal Parasites    11.4    25,291    3.  Intestinal Parasites             8.1   30,256
4.  Skin Diseases             10.5    23,294    4.  Respiratory Illnesses          7.8   29,135
5.  Diarrhea                   7.8    17,304    5.  Arthritis & Rheumatism         7.4   27,641
66.9   148,417                                      57.7  215,528
Total Visits      100 = 221,853                      Total  Visits   100 = 373,532
Source: La Sante de Base 1981, Ministry of Public Health and Population



Table 3
COMOROS: HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
STRUCTURE AND DISTRIBUTION OF HEALTH SERVICES
Type of Facility             Grande Comore                       Anjouan                          Moheli        Total
Hospital                         El Maarouf Hospital                Hombo Hospital            *Fomboni Hospital
(formerly classified
as Health Centre)        3
Health Centre:  inpatient                 *3                              *4                                             7
and outpatient services
Moroni                        Mutsamudu
Town outpatient clinics        -*MCH Clinic ("Croix Rouge") -*MCH Clinic ("Croix Rouge")
- General Outpatient Clinic  - General Outpatient Clinic                                  4
("Centre Medicale")             ("Centre Medicale")
Rural Maternities                          4                               -                               1             5
Health Posts - existing                  *16                             *18                              *5            39
- to be added
by Kuwait Fund             6                                2                              2            10
Total                      22                               20                              7            49
*To be supported by project.



- 32 -
Table 4
COMOROS: HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
RECURRENT GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURES FOR
HEALTH SERVICES BY TYPE OF SERVICE, 1981
MILLION CFA Francs
Personnel    Drugsa/   Otherb/   Total    %
Administration (MPHP)      20.7         -         35.5       56.2   15%
and Training
Hospitals                  80.0        34.7       14.5      129.2   34%
El Maarouf               54.7        24.1       10.1      88.9   23%
Hombo                    25.3        10.6        4.4       40.3   11%
Health Centers              59.1       18.2       11.4       88.7   23%
Health Posts and             4.7        4.8        2.2       11.7    3%
Maternities
Urban Clinics              39.6         5.2        3.2       48     13%
Medical Evacuations                               22         22C     6%
Drugs (allocation                       24.5                 24.5    6%
not available)
Total                     204.1        87.4       88.8      380.3  100%
%                          57%         27%        16%
a/   Includes imputed value of donated drugs.
b/   Mission estimate.
cl   Excluding federally-paid evacuations.



Table 5
COMOROS: HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE FOR THE HEALTH SECTOR, 1981
MILLION CFA  Francs
Drugs &                   Operating,   Scholar-                      Total
Contra-    Supplies &   Admin. &        ships &                      US$
__Personnel   Facilities   ceptives   Equipment    Misr                Training   Food   Totl    MG0
Laval UJniversity             86e3                        4,7        23.6            7,5                           12201    407
WHOb                          80a                                                                 38&4             1-18.4    395
UNFPA                          7.8          15a9          3.3        31.8           15          20.4               8007    257
France                        n,aa          35ac                     35a                                            70       233
Kuwait                                      70ac                                                                    70       233
Holland, West
Germany, France, etc,                                  60a                                                         60       200  L
UNICEF (E.PI.                                                        35.4a                                                   118
Swiss Red Cross                6a                         8.5        20                                             34 5    1 1 5
U.N, Voilunteeir              3.,13                                                                                 J3       100
-at i i3.'r, t C4.                                       5                                                  h5    2;         3r6
World Food P-rogrammre                                                                                       8,5ac  53,,      28
Tf'OTAL                      225b9        120.9         8K-5        145.8           108         58,s      130r)  6'5.7  2,189
'a   Mission estimate.
b    Excltides administrative costs  nd program  coordination,
C    IicIludes some expenditures mr-k in 1980 and 1982.
n.a, = not available



- 34 -
Table 6
COHOROS
HEALTH AND POPULATION
Tunears Account bs Time
(FCFA Million)
Base Costs
+ Price
Base Costs                  Cont. on    Foreign Exchanse
Unit No. ot                 - - - - -                B ase Costs   ----------------
Unit Cost Units    PY1        FY2      PY3      Total    0US$ Million)    %       Amourt
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                                    -   76,670  166.623   98997   342.290             1,317    55.0  18B.260
Phssical Continsescies                         -   11,0B4   24,57i   14,433    50,093                 -    55,0   27,551
Price Contingencies                            -   12,766   46.465   39.029    96.260                 -    45.2   44,459
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                    100.5i9  237.665  152.458   490.642             1.317    53.0  260.269
Foreign Exchange                               -   54,080  126,364   79,826   260.269                 -     0.0    0.,00
B. FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT                        -   31,266   45,234          -    76.500          0.277    90.0   68.850
Phesical Contingencies                         -    1.563    2.262          -     3.825               -    90.0    3.442
Price Continsgencies                           -    4.138   10.014          -    14.152               -    86.1   12,179
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                     36,967   57.509          -    94.477          0.277    99.4   84.472
Foreign Exchange                               -   33.107   51.365          -    04.472               -     0.0    0.000
C. VEHICLES                                       -   27,400         -         -    27.400           0,094   100.0   27.400
Price Contingencies                            -    3,302         -         -     3.302               -   100.0    3,302
Sub-Total INCLUOING CONTINGENCIES                     30,702         -         -    30,702           0,094   100,0   30,702
Foreign Exchange                               -   30.702         -         -    30.702               -     0.0    0.000
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                           -   98.097   91,510   29.739   219.346            0.805    80.0  175,477
Phssical Contingencies                         -    4.905    4.576    1.487    10.967                 -    80.0    8,77A
Price Contingencies                            -   13,555   21.142    9.625    44,321                 -    73,1   32,412
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                    116.557  117.227   40.850   274.634            0,805    78,9  216.662
Foreign Exchanse                               -   92.331   92.368   31,964   216,662                 -     0.0    0.000
E: TRAINING AND STUDY TOURS                       -    5,786   11.962    2.601    20.349            0.074   100.0   20.349
Price Contingencies                            -    0.697    2.412    0.727       3.836               -   100,0    3.836
iub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                      6.483   14,374    3.328    24,185            0,074   100.0   24,185
Foreign Exchange                               -    6.483   14.374    3.328    24.185                 -     0.0    0,000
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                  239.219  315.329  131.337   685.885             2.567    70.0  480,335
Physicsi Contingencies                            -   17.552   31.414   15.919    64.885                 -    61.3   39.767
Price Contingencies                               -   34.458   80.032   49.380   163,870                 -    58.7   96.188
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                           291.229  426.775  196,637   914.640             2,567    67.4  616,291
Foreign Exchansge                                 -  216.703  284.471  115.117   616,291                 -     0.0    0.000
II. RECURUENT COSTS
A. LOCAL PERSONNEL                               -   10.250   10.250   10.250    30,750            0,123      0.0    0.000
Price Contingencies                           -    1.804    3.009    4.335       9.149               -     3.0    0,000
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                    12,054   13,259   14.585    39.899            0.123      0.0    0.000
B. INCREMENIAL OPERATING CDSTS                   -    9.730   18.030   19,955    47.715             O.IB6    52.5   25.027
Price Contingencies                           -    1.421    4.429    6.953    12.803                 -    42.4    5,428
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                    11,151   22.459   26,908    60.518             0,186    50,3   30.455
Sorei5r E,xrchane                             -    5.E88   11.301   13,266    30.455                 -     0.0    0.000
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                     19.90    8280   30.205    78.465              0.309    31,9   25.027
Price Contingencies                               -    3.225    7.438   11.289    21.951                 -    24.7    5.428
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                            23.205   35.718   41.494   100.416             0.309    30.3   30.455
Foreign Exchange                                  -    5.8B8   11.301   13.266    30,455                 -     0.0    0,000
Tota21  4ASELINE COSTS                                   259,199  343.609  161.542   764.350             2.8?6    66.1  505,363
Phssical Contingencies                             -   17.552   31.414   15,919    64.B85                 -    61.3   39,767
Price Contingencies                                -   37.683   87.470   60,669   185.822                 -    54.7  101.616
Total PROJECT COSTS                                      314.434  462.493  238.130 1,015.057             2.876    63.7  646,746
Voreign E:chanse                                   -  222.591  295,772  1i28383   646.746                 -     0.0    0.000
June 13, 1993  14114



-~ 35 -
Table 7
-Tjorior~ ACCt,nt 6U9 Project Eohpeorer1t
tFrF4 Irilhor<
F'HARMACEWIChP  MtCH CLINICS            STALY, CF                             Co>0r5C+   l
FPiIL0 '302PLATIDN   SUPRLY AND   AND HEALTH   4E4LTH  HOSPITAL    PROJECT
6LANNIN3 ,    UNI4      IIIST01 3UT3 ON   POSTS    'iANPRER SERVICES ADMINIST941 TION  T-3-l                 4 trrt
T, T3vE527ENT r05rT5
L, ll010 .i603                                                          I _  _  I 02,0    60,2 90     -         -                    3742. 290)  i4.6  5.3"I
Fh0si,o,' -rmiir,sercie                        -                       7 '7  00      7.792                   -                      I 50,093    .,0  0.I000
F,>e                                                                   I ItC'0encies  -  -  51.048  47,212  -  -              -    98,260  12.8  12.551
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
17,-Tot1 INCLUPINC C3NT34 1ENCIES                -           -         260.348       270, 294         -         -                -   450.42  12,31  62,643
F 1rel47, E'xhanse                             -           -          338223       122.03t         -         -                -   260,269  12.3  27320
, FUJRNITU6E AND EQUiFMENT                                 973,0 G ,97  55.S1925 3       2-0r'        -         76576,5800                             3.325
6h6s:                          c5i O9rtsenles.06      0.3bS4            .751   ,      .7bG         -         -                - I.965    0.0C I       .C 0
Irice Contirsenaces                       2,1I72      0.129           10,548         3.30          -                                t -214.152   4.8   3,674
Suob-ict2l TN0U3iN0 FINTiNOE6ES               1,537       1.l53           38.325       23.4b2          -         -                -    94.477   4.8   4,439
':a>eiOr E.char,se                        1.377        1 032          61,077        20.,986         -                         -    84.472   4.3   4.o22
'. 1FHrF;                                    B.300            -           10,40C,            -    Y. 00          -                -    27,400   0.0   Cr,600
f'rice LontnIl1en9ec1                     G                            1.253             -      O.085        -                -      3.302   0.0   0.08
3hb-lotol INEtLDIN- C0NTINGENCIES            8,064            -            l,53              -   10.085          -                -    30,702   0.0   0.0o0
'>-eigr E:cher,e                          8,V6-                       11.o57             -   IO.OSS          -                -    30.702   0.0   h 0.0
3s. 7p3941 PL ,07113T4hCC                   28,589      '3.779      ~     2   2S       11 ,219   28.499   46.332                  -   21.346   5.0  10'.6-
Ph>sicvl COrtargenoies                    1.429       1.5e9            3.54         0G.56t     1.425    2.337                 -    10,967    .0i  0.000
-rice  Fartir9e0rie9            5           ,090      7.3297                         2,?03     5,27T -.564                    -    44.321   4.8   2.1ll
Gu[-Trta3 l30LLU16N 0 C0NTINGENCIEc         35,10G       40,707          92.741        14.715   35,147   56.213                   -   374,634   4.0  13,078
Fore'9' rYcfle70                         2'.'34      3. 043           -3, OK2       1,569  '27,767   44,461                   -   216.672  4.8  10.317
r, TRAINING hNI STUi0l; TOURS                3.485        1,7SE            2'4               - I.-7.4                                  ' 20.349   O.",  0.000
Fice  onmlIserxcles                      1,747      0G.3b61             524                   1.204         -                -      3.836   0,,^   0 .I
Sua-'Mote  INCLUDIING 201NTINGENCIES        I'-3A'          149           2.124             -    8b88            -                -    24.185   0.3   3,400G
Fireil> E>chan4e                         10,232       2.149            3.124             -    80780          -                -    24.185   3.0   0.000
410l           3 0083                          46,374      34.,42 372.953               190,709   44,975   46.332                   -   685.885 r ,      64.05
eS:'22i C[Otin6en1c1ee                       1,494        1.638          3236SQ        24,213     1.425    2.317                  -    64.885   0.o   0.000
9plc, 507r3t6194er9c:es                       7,973       7,820           '9,545,      53.452    7.512    7.564                   -   163.870    ?.4  15.335
!UU90  100 T11N0  0 1NTI4E093CIES              '5,541       44.209         43-6-1l       26e,475   53,912   56,212                       914.640   8.8  80.220
Fo>eie,sr !:char'ss                         48.37        25,224         387,37c       154,591   46.532   44,461                   -   616,201   7,7  47,_7r
TT, FECU8 RE5   0[39T
h. .C0.7 PERSQONNEL                         '.000        0.00           10.000             -    0,750           -           4.500    30.750   O.G   O.G,G0
7rjce 03r219497c7;9                      2,o78       l.?S5            3l2-4             -    0.223          -            1,329      9,149   0.0   3,000
.70>-'e0c 3 611 00 O3N 6 LLI     CGT T iR 3ENCE .  II . t75  7'. 7E5    17.124P-    0.7 9?3                                5.839      39,85   00 I    o. 000
3- IOAKE TEN'AL CFE0T01   C0,T53            9.730       6-G3            io.2 c5        2,340    9,210          -            3,900     47.715   0.G   0.0'!
-         Ccqt n>lne2cle. 'i628                1.351           4, 74         -,705    2.536          -            2.858    12.I03   0.0   0.000
.5       103000'6LU 0IING  3j6Tlr006ENCTES  12,328    7.-76           1124            .04'    1746           -           4,755      60.518   0.0   0.0GG
>rcel3sr E:-cr o=l5eT                      91li      3.56i           IG.155         1,452    5.625          -            3,746     30,45      .    0,0G.O
~t21 kEEUF'T C035                             .a.730      12-C35           27.000         2,340    ',9            -            8,400     78.465    0.0   7.300
--Ice r:!t.lr.$er.cise               5.2r76      3`136            7.870         (.705    2,^59          -            2197    21.51   5.0   0.0C0
190 -0~'160810135 2Ns i.ls;G  -4.0x6t    '5-171                  '34 77?       . ^45   12,719          -          1?57 19100,416   0.0 I       .000
7979^6 -, E  c rl 2              5 g e  ~   . 914  .SOT 533zl).i             .4K5     5.            -            2 ,746    2-.455   0.    0.00-1
.     _        _               _       _             _  _    _   _                               _   _,l  ,
T4f,' `>99    3  3E                              65.104      46,77           749,93         97749   54,935   46.3372               ,403   764.350   8.5  64.538
9F037499?1?9 -orttrser i           3 i.494      1,.78          33. 2% 24.313            1.425    2.31-                 -    74,985    .0   3,0800
'-l e r2rlrg 9nc e3               1' 799r    iO,765            37,433        54,1-'   117371    7,564              2,397    185.022   5.3  15.335
T2-    }~F yr,  -,'-7 C                          79.357      0Q,190          4?i.061      171.513   7.,631   56.213              13.8'? 111.257   7,0  50.22,
84,221      30-'r2           797.33      156,0C43   52. :57   44,461              ,746    64t,746  I7    473   5
1-                ----------



- 36 -
Table 8
COMOROS: HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ '000)
Quarterly            Cumulative
Quarter Ending                    Disbursements         Disbursements
FY 84
December 31, 1983                       1-201/                120
March 31, 1984                                                120
June 30, 1984                                                 120
FY 85
September 30, 1984                       30                   150
December 31, 1985                        50                   200
March 31, 1985                          100                   300
June 30, 1985                          200                    500
FY 86
September 30, 1985                     300                    800
December 31, 1985                      300                  1,100
March 31, 1986                          400                 1,500
June 30, 1986                          400                 1,900
FY 87
September 30, 1986                     300                 2,200
December 31, 19862/                    250                 2,450
March 31, 1987                          200                 2,650
June 30,  19873/                        200                2,850
Notes:
1/ IDA deposit to revolving fund.
2/ Expected Date of Project Completion: Oct. 31, 1986.
3/ Expected Closing Date: June 30, 1987.



COMOROS
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Organization of the Ministry of Public Health and Population
r  ------             ----- 
National            j        Technical                                                                    Executive
Health Council              1Advisor & Aid Age,s'.|                                                                Assistant
|Administration-|                |                Director-Gnr                                   Statstic
& Logistics     |                                of Health                                     Unit
DireDirectorate                                  Directorate of                                   Directorate                                       Directorate
Supl P e hnialrMatrcyL                                Basic Health                                     of Training     |L                               of Hospitals
&Tecnincal Materialsr
Shupprcy Pharma
&ogThnl                                                                                                                                                        Hospital
Malaria                      Family                            National
Control                     Planning                        Health School
PRhauWrmWacy 'k_
Anjouan                                                                                                                                                        Hsia
| Regional |
Pharmacy                                                                                    .
Grande Comore.
World Bank-24827



Chart 2(a)
COhfOROS
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule: Civil Works
1983               1984               1985                1986
1   2   3   4          1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4
SITE SELECTION
SKETCH PLANS, IDA RE/IEW_
WORKING DRAWINGS
TENDER/AWVARD
CONSTRUCTION:
Guarantee
PHARMACY DEPOTS, ANJOUAN & MOHELI                                __. .. ... n..
PHARMACY DEPOT, MORONI                                                _         _                ... ....
MCH CLINICS                                                          _          -         _ 
HEALTH POSTS                                                                                -      '
Expected Date of Effectiveness, November 1, 1983
Expectea Date of Project Completion: October 31, 1986
World Bank-24826



- 39 -
Chart 2(b)
COMOROS
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule: Technical Assistance and Training
1983              1984                 1985                 1986
2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4
1. FAMILY PLANNING
Consultant
Training, Chief & Assistant
Training, Midwives
Study Visit, Chief
2. POPULATION
Study Visit, Chief
Consultant
3. PHARMACY
Consultant: Compounding
Consultant: Logistics
Study Tour
4. MANPOWER PLANNING & TRAINING
Consultant: Manpower Plan
Consultant: Curriculum Development
Training of Trainers    .
5. STUDY OF HOSPITAL SERVICES
Expected Date of Effectiveness: November 1, 1983
Expected Date of Effectiveness: October 31, 1986
World Bank-24825






IBRD 17010
43'00'                                                        4330'                                                          44'00'                                                         44 30,    MARCH  1983
Mitsamiouli
MAJOR  HEALTH FACILITIES
Ivembeni    PM(enji
I} Vr30'                                                                                                                                                                                                         1  19   30 -
;  ,  iG Hospitals
Hohthaiy            )                                                                                (' GRANDE COMORE  Health Centers
GRANDE COMORE                                        0  ~~~~~MCH Clinics
ioumbani
      National  Copital
MORONI  '-                                                                      o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Selected  Towns
_____  Roads
Iconi                             Bandomcdii                                                            t       Airports
Th" 1- 1   oreka rb- edhy                                                                                                               Internationoa   Boundaries
hte WMnhhfl B a1 staf  -eOktihe
torhthe                                                       umboonv ne the
,eeciora ana Is eonns,vely tot rhe                       (*
rerna, use of Dhe World Bank
aond 11e Itnah m.mnaat nnance          Dembeni \
2orortsonhA Ihc d,IlommthnOtOtt
us0d and the heundarnes sher wn. 
on hoU ma p o not smph non the ,
nImnateeTheWoF,nan  sndrenrahen                                                                              0                            25                           50 Kilometers
a,thkfidhnent on the legal stat,,e                                                                                                        .l     
ofat   v ,tentn,ny or snr                                                                                    I                                                        r
,,&nhhaPn,entenr a,,,eptnh 0oe0                                                                                                10                 20                 30 Miles
SCnn heenehanna
-12<00'                                                                                                                                                                                                           1200'-
123000
43'000
TANZANiA    '                                                                        1/i,
ANJOUAN
S,'                                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ouan  \
COMOROS                                                                                                                        7         MUTSAMUDU
MALAWI                                                                               MOHELI                                                                    S                                  Btmbao
;                                              Hoas    XFOMBONi                                                                                       (           3Domoni
Miringoni
Wnani                                                                    M
. V QSr j                                     NiNoum choua-
;   ' ,-?j :.      ~        444
4303Q'                                                        44~00'                                                          4403Q



