Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18009
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
lBOLIVIA
MAJOR CITIES WATER AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 2187-BO)
June 12, 1998
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Country Management Unit 6
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQtJIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Boliviano (Bs.)
EXCHANGE RATE EFFECTIVE DECEMBER 31,1997
US$1.00 = Bs5.34
Bs.1.00  =  US$0.1873
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANESAPA        National Association of Water Supply and Sanitation Institutions (Asociaci6n Nacional de Empresas
de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado)
IDB            Inter-American Development Bank
CAF            Andean Development Corporation (Corporaci6n Andina de Fomento)
CONATA         National Tariffs Board (Consejo Nacional de Tarifas)
COTEAS         Water Sector Coordination Committee (Comite Coordinador del Sector Agua Potable), Ministry of
Urban Affairs and Housing
DINASBA        National Directorate of Basic Sanitation (Direcci6n Nacional de Saneamiento Basico)
EIA            European Investment Bank
FIS            Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversi6n Social)
FNDR           National Fund for Regional Development (Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Regional)
IDA            International Development Association
IFC            International Finance Corporation
KfW            Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MDA            Ministry of Human Development (Ministerio de Desarrollo Humano)
MPC            Ministry of Planning and Coordination (Ministerio de Planeamiento y Coordinaci6n)
MUA            Ministry of Urban Affairs (Ministerio de Asuntos Urbanos)
PPF            Project Preparation Facility
PROFISE        Institutional Strengthening Program (Programa de Fortalecimiento Institucional) (SEMAPA)
PRORPAAL    Program for Preinvestment Studies in Water and Basic Rural Sanitation Projects (Programa de
Estudios de Preinversi6n en Proyectos de Agua Potable y Saneamiento BAsico Rural)
PROSABAR       Basic Rural Sanitation Project (Proyecto de Saneamiento B$sico Rural)
SAMAPA         La Paz Municipal Water and Sewerage Services Company (Servicio Aut6nomo Municipal de Agua
Potable y Alcantarillado de la Paz)
SAGUAPAC    Santa Cruz Public Utilities Cooperative Limited (Cooperativa de Servicios Publicos Santa Cruz
Limitada)
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SEMAPA         Cochabamba Municipal Water and Sewerage Services Company (Servicio Aut6nomo Municipal de
Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Cochabamba)
SIRESE         ector Regulation System (Law No. 1600 of October 28, 1994) ($istema de Regulaci6n Sectorial)
UNASBA         Basic Sanitation Departmental Unit (Unidad Departamental de Saneamiento Basico)
UNDP           United Nations Development Programme
UV             Neighborhood Unit (Santa Cruz de la Sierra) (Unidad Vecinal)
WB             World Bank
Vice President                            Shahid Javed Burki
Country Management Director              Isabel Guerrero
Sector Management Unit Director           Danny M. Leipziger
Task Manager                              Mena4em Libhaber



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ......                    ................................................................. i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......................................................................                                                                ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .......................................................................   1
A. STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ........................................................................ 1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ........................................................................ 5
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECTP IMPLEMENTATION  ...................................                                           ....................... 28
D. PROJECT  SUSTAINABILLTY .......................................................................                                                   29
E. IDAPERFORMANCE .......................................................................                                                            31
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .......................................................................                                                      32
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .......................................................................                                                     33
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS .......................................................................                                                         35
I.   LESSONS LEARNED  ........................................................................ 35
PART I: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ....................................................................... 37
TABLE  1:   SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ....................................................................... 37
TABLE  2:   RELATED  BANK  LOANS/CREDITS .......................................................................                                     38
TABLE  3:   PROJECT TIMETABLE .......................................................................                                                40
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED (SAR) AND ACTUAL ................ 41
TABLE 5:  KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ........................................................ 43
TABLE  6:   KEY  INDICATORS FOR  PROJECT  OPERATION ..................................................................... 44
TABLE 7:   STUDIES INCLUDED  IN  PROJECT .................................                                   ....................................... 45
TABLE  8A: PROJECT  COSTS ........................................................................                                                    47
TABLE  8B: PROJECT FINANCING .......................................................................                                                 47
TABLE 9:   ECONOMIC RATE  OF RETURN ....................................................................... 48
TABLE  10: STATUS OF LEGAL  COVENANTS ........................................................................                                       49
TABLE  10: STASTUS OF LEGAL  COVENANTS (CONTINUATION) ........................................................ 50
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS                                                                          . .   51
TABLE  12: BANK  RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ........................................................................ 51
TABLE  13: BANK  RESOURCES: M SSIONS ....................................................................... 52
ANNEX 1 ................................................................................................................... 53
ANNEX2 .............................................................................................................................. 54
ANNEX3 ................................................................................................................... 64
ANNEX   4A   ........................................................................... ....................................... 66
ANNEX 4B   .......................................................................... ........................................ 71
ANNEX     SA   ........................................................................... ....................................... 81
ANNEX SB .................................................................................................................. 98
ANNEX6A .................................................................................................................. 105
ANNEX6B ................................................................................................................. 122
ANNEX 7   .............................................................................................. ............................... 129
ANNEX8A ................................................................................................................. 147
ANNEX 8B ................................................................................................................. 153
This document has a restricted distribultion and may be used by recipients only in the
perforTnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.-=



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
MAJOR CrTIES WATER AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit 2187-BO
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Major Cities Water and
Sewerage Rehabilitation Project for which IDA Credit 2187-BO of SDR 25 million (US$35
million equivalent) was approved on December 4, 1990. The Credit Agreement was signed on
December 17, 1990 and became effective on September 17, 1991.
The Credit was closed on Decembier 31, 1997, 18 months after the original closing date
(June 30, 1996). Final disbursement took place on May 6, 1998, at which time a balance of US$
139,320.47 was canceled.
Cofinancing for the project was provided by: (a) the beneficiary water and sewerage
companies in three cities (La Paz, Cochabamba, and Santa Cruz de la Sierra); and (b) KfW of
Germany for sewerage in the city of El Alto de la Paz, through a grant of DM 23 million or
US$13.37 million equivalent.
This ICR was prepared by Mr. Menahem Libhaber (LCSFP) and Mr. Herbert Farrer
(Consultant) of the Latin America and the Caribbean Region, and reviewed by Ms. Susan
Goldmark (Sector Leader, LCSFP) and Mrs. Maria Victoria Lister (Quality Assurance Support
Unit, LCSFP).
Preparation of this ICR began during IDA's final supervision mission in December 1997.
It is based on material in the project files. The Borrower and KfW contributed by working closely
with the team that prepared the ICR and by providing comments on the draft, which have been
incorporated into the final document. The Borrower's comments are included in Annexes 5 to 8.
The sewerage project in the city of El Alto, financed by KfW, will be completed in the second half
of 1998. Annex 3 includes a note from the German agency explaining the reasons for the delay in
completing the works.



-ii-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
MAJOR CITIES WATER AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit 2187-BO
EVALUJATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.    Bolivia, with a population of close to 7.4 million, 61% of which is urban, has made
significant improvements in its water and sanitation sector in the past decade. Nevertheless, in
spite of these improvements, the demand for water and sanitation services in the country is still
very high and a lot remains to be done. Close to 76% of the urban population has now access to
potable water and 32% has sewerage connections. Over 60% of the country's urban population
resides in the three main cities: La Paz, Santa Cruz de la Sierra and Cochabamba. Water supply
coverage reaches 84% of the population in the capital La Paz and 80% in Santa Cruz, while the
respective figure for Cochabamba is 57%. Sewerage coverage in La Paz, Cochabamba and Santa
Cruz is 56%, 54%, and 33%, respectively. The water company of Santa Cruz, a cooperative
owned by its customers, demonstrated an excellent performance during project implementation.
In La Paz a 30 year concession of the waiter and sewerage services has been awarded to a private
operator. In Cochabamba, on the other hand, serious management operational problems continue
to persist as a result of political intervention. Similar problems also prevail in most other cities in
Bolivia. It is expected that with the history of good performance of Santa Cruz and the recent
improvements in La Paz, the authorities will facilitate a transition from public utilities to other
forms of management that will address existing problems, steer the companies toward an effective
and efficient management, and promote private investment, since this is the only way of
addressing the country's serious water and sanitation problems. Since 1980, the Bank has made
four loans to Bolivia for water and sanitaition projects (including the present one), for a total of
US$68.7 million. Part of the Municipal Development Project, Credit 2565-BO, is also being used
for construction of water and sanitation works.
Statement of Project Objectives
ii.    The main objectives of the project were to:
(a)   Improve and expand water and sanitation services in the major cities of Bolivia
(La Paz, Santa Cruz and Cochabamba), mainly by: (i) rehabilitating water
production facilities and increasing water distribution capacity in La Paz to
benefit a population of about 200,000 (13% of the metropolitan population in
1995); (ii) constructing sewerage systems in the municipality of El Alto, to
benefit a population of about 200,000 (13% of the metropolitan population in



1995); (iii) installing water production and distribution facilities in areas currently
not served in Santa Cruz, to benefit a population of about 300,000 (35% of the
population of Santa Cruz in 1995) and expanding sewerage systems to benefit a
population of about 30,000; and (iv) rehabilitating and expanding water
production, transmission and distribution facilities in Cochabamba, to benefit a
total population of about 300,000 (50% of the population of Cochabamba in
1995) with access to piped water and eliminating/reducing rationing;
(b)   Improve the operational efficiency and management systems of the water utilities
responsible for services in the above cities;
(c)   Introduce a framework of sector policies and the institutional arrangements
needed to accelerate the development of the water supply and sanitation sector
countrywide;
(d)   Improve the institutional capabilities of central agencies for overseeing the water
sector, mainly through the introduction of management systems; and
(e)   Improve coordination between the Bolivian authorities and donors in preparing
and financing sector-wide projects.
Achievement of Objectives
mii.   The physical works in the three cities were completed satisfactorily. However, by the
original closing date (June 30, 1996) only SAGUAPAC, the water company of Santa Cruz, had
completed its works, while SAMAPA, the water company of La Paz and SEMAPA, the water
company of Cochabamba, had barely initiated the implementation of their components, which
were only completed after two extensions of closing dates (the first for one year and the second
for six months). In La Paz, all of the original work program was completed by the new closing
date. In Cochabamba not all the works originally programmed were constructed, because of
physical opposition by farmers to drilling of new wells which would deprive them of water for
irrigation in favor of water supply to the urban sector. As a result, the increase achieved in the
water supply flow was only 35% of the flow increase initially envisaged and only 77% of the
original work program was carried out by closing date. At present there are no programs and no
funds to construct the rest of the works. In Santa Cruz, the works were completed ahead of
schedule with savings of 25% of the original budget. With IDA's authorization, the saved funds
were used to construct additional sewerage works in Santa Cruz and at closing date, 125% of
the original work program for this city has been completed.
iv.   The originally planned institutional strengthening programs for SAMAPA and SEMAPA
achieved only modest results. The President of Bolivia decided to privatize both companies and
IDA conditioned the extension of the closing date on the implementation of the privatization
processes during the extension period. The privatization of SAMAPA was completed
successfully and the concessionaire took over the responsibility for the provision of services in
August 1997, but the privatization effort of SEMAPA failed because: (i) the Government was



-1v-
too late in implementing it; and (ii) the p:rivatization concept was coupled with the construction
of the Corani water supply project, to which the Municipality of Cochabamba was opposed. The
institutional strengthening program which was carried out in SAMAPA prior to the privatization
improved the performance of the operations department but was unsuccessful in improving the
administration and the financial departments. A supervision mission which visited the privatized
company in November 1997 observed many organizational changes, better client service and, in
particular, improvements in implementation of the project works. It appears that efficiency has
also improved. It is expected that, as a result of the privatization, the performance of the
company wiDL continue to improve in all aspects. The privatization of the water and sewerage
services in La Paz is an impressive achievement that enabled attaining SAMAPA's institutional
development objectives. Prior to the privatization effort, an institutional strengthening program
(PROFISE) was carried out in SEMAPA and achieved modest results. Unfortunately, the
program is not sustainable because of the tumover in managers and senior administrative staff
which occurred after the change of Government in August 1997, and the institutional
development objectives of the SEMAPA. component were not achieved. In Santa Cruz the
priority institution development programrs were successfuDly carried out.
v.    The national program of improving the institutional capacity of the central
sector/Regional agencies, which was under the responsibility of Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo
Regional (FNDR), the National Fund for Regional Development, was only partly accomplished.
The development and implementation of a sectoral policy aimed at accelerating the development
of the country's water supply and sanitation systems was not achieved under the project. The
improvement of the institutional capabilities of central agencies for overseeing the water sector
did not materialize because the institutions and Ministries involved (MUA and MPC) were
dissolved in the early years of project implementation, as a result of reorganization of the
executive branch. Similarly, the national program for training in operation, maintenance and
commercial and financial management was not carried out; instead, each beneficiary company
used loan proceeds for training of its own staff. Nevertheless, the Government had established,
under the SIRESE Act in 1994, the Water Superintendency to regulate the water supply and
sanitation utilities in the country. It is currently preparing a water and sanitation Law to
establish the policy framework in the sector and define the responsibilities and the authority of
the water regulator. Through the activities of FNDR, the coordination between the Bolivian
authorities and donors in preparing and financing sector-wide projects has improved and various
sector financing programs have been processed (an IDB sector loan and an IDA municipal
development credit through which investments in the water sector are financed). Under the
credit, 99 water and sanitation systems were designed for rural areas as support for the
PROSABAR (Rural Basic sanitation) project. This activity was not included in the original
program but was added later at the Government's request.
Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation
vi.   The project was adversely affected by the following factors:
* Political intervention in the management of the companies in La Paz and
Cochabamba, in pursuit of interests that conflicted with the companies' obligation to



provide adequate services to the public; with the resulting lack of management
autonomy and high turnover of managers in these companies;
* The financial weakness of SEMAPA (Cochabamba) which could not provide the
counterpart funds on time and was finally bailed out through a Government loan;
* Weak technical capacity for project preparation and evaluation, particularly in the La
Paz and Cochabamba components, which resulted in retendering of works and
caused considerable delays. In the Cochabamba component, preparation of a master
plan prior to carrying out the emergency works significantly delayed the
implementation of these works;
* Difficulties in conforming to IDA's standard bidding documents delayed the
procurement processes by more than a year;
* Lack of experience by suppliers (representatives of foreign firms) in preparing bids
and honoring their contracts, which was, in some cases, the reason for retendering of
goods;
*  Weakness of the implementing units in La Paz and Cochabamba, whose staff lacked
management skills, experience and training. SEMAPA never had an independent
implementation unit and its planning unit, which was responsible for the
implementation of the project, was attending several other projects at the same time.
Project Sustainability
vii.  In La Paz the concession of water and sewerage services to a private operator will
promote: (i) continuity in managerial and other key staff, and (ii) the implementation of suitable
administrative, commercial, financial, operating and maintenance practices, and make investment
funds available, all of which are core elements for ensuring the sustainability of the enterprise and
the project.
viii.  In Cochabamba since SEMAPA has not been privatized, project sustainability is
doubtful because of: (i) political intervention in managing the company and weak managerial
capacity; (ii) frequent turnover of managers and key personnel; (iii) lack of stability in
administrative, commercial and financial management, and operating and maintenance programs;
and (iv) continuing financial weakness that will severely affect the company's operating and
maintenance performance and its debt repayment capacity. It is expected that the current
Government and the Water Superintendency will facilitate the transformation of SEMAPA into a
company capable of resolving these problems and of improving its performance. SEMAPA also
needs to urgently carry out a program to reduce Unaccounted for Water (UFW) to around 25%
(from the current figure of 52%) and strengthen the programs introduced under PROFISE.
Sources of water for urban use are scarce in Cochabamba and it will be necessary to carry out



-Vi-
the following actions in order to increase the supply of water to the city: (i) develop a new
surface water source; and (ii) reform SEM[APA through the introduction of private sector
participation (PSP) aimed at improving its performance and promoting private investment. The
two activities should be carried out simultaneously since they are closely related, i.e., it will be
impossible to reformn SEMAPA unless sufficient water is available to satisfy the demand, and it
will be impossible to recover the cost of developing a new water source without carrying out the
PSP reform which would transform SEMALPA into an efficient utility which would expand its
systems to permit meeting the demand. Siince the Municipality of Cochabamba and the National
Govermment have adopted the strategy of constructing the Misicuni project as the new water
source for the city, and since this project is too costly to be supported by the urban consumers
(see Annex 4), it is unlikely that SEMAPA will be privatized, unless the Government provides
heavy subsidies to finance the Misicuni project, thus it is unlikely that significant improvement in
the company's performance will take place in the near future.
ix.   In Santa Cruz, SAGUAPAC's sustainability is guaranteed by the stability, efficiency,
and effectiveness demonstrated by this company over the seven years of project implementation.
Nevertheless, the company has difficulties in obtaining loans from multilateral agencies and
bilateral donors because of the Governmeint's approach that the company needs to attract private
investments. The ability of the company to expand its services in response to the growing
demand will depend on the success in attracting private investments or commercial loans.
X.    As for the operation and maintenance of the installations and works constructed under
the project, it is expected that in Santa Cnrz and La Paz the works will be fully used to serve the
purposes they were built for since the water companies in those cities are efficient and
responsible. The installations and works constructed in Cochabamba will also be operated to
their full capacity because they are priority works in a city which suffers of severe water scarcity.
They might, however, not function properly due to the shortage of funds for operation and
maintenance.
IDA Performance
xi    Project identification, preparation, and appraisal were based on preliminary studies of the
works and not on final designs. This led to subsequent reformulations of the projects in La Paz
and Cochabamba and to delays in implementation.
xii.   The SAR adequately identified the rehabilitation and expansion requirements for the
water and sewerage systems and for institutional strengthening. IDA correctly identified the
main risks of the project, which in fact maLterialized, and not all were mitigated. It also correctly
identified the need to privatize the companies in La Paz and Cochabamba after finding out that
the originally proposed institutional strengthening strategy was not effective.
xiii. Political intervention in La Paz anid Cochabamba was promptly detected by IDA and
solutions were proposed (privatization of SAMAPA and SEMAPA). IDA was constructive in
convincing the authorities to implement the proposed solutions and provided all the technical



-vii-
assistance necessary to carry out the privatization process. Success, however, was only partial,
since SEMAPA was not privatized.
xiv.  Four task managers were involved with the project from its inception to completion.
During the period September 1991 to November 1994 procurement activities were delayed due
to slow response of 1DA in issuing no-objections to bidding processes. During the same period,
supervision of the national component was also weak, but improved from November 1994 on,
when IDA identified the problems and helped to resolve them. Intensive IDA's supervision
during the final implementation period enabled to ensure the satisfactory completion of works
within a reasonable period.
xv.   IDA's recommendations for carrying out specific groundwater studies in Cochabamba
and Santa Cruz and its insistence on having them carried out clarified the real capacity of the
aquifers and identified the risks of their contamination. In spite of the partially successful results
in the national component and in the Cochabamba component, considering the Bank activities in
preparation and supervision and the outcome of the project, overall, IDA's performance was
satisfactory.
Borrower Performance
xvi.  In La Paz and Cochabamba significant delays were experienced in completing the works
and in implementing the institutional strengthening programs. The institutional weakness of the
companies in the two cities, continued political intervention in their management, and turnover in
key staff led to delays in the implementation of the projects. Local political intervention also
contributed to the failure of the effort to privatize the water company of Cochabamba. In
contrast, the private concessionaire of the La Paz water company was able to resolve problems
and speed up the completion of works.
xvii.  The limited financial capacity of the Cochabamba water company delayed the
implementation of the project until it managed to obtain a Government loan to finance its
counterpart contribution. During project implementation, the company was not able to reduce
the high level of UFW which reached a value of 52% at closing date. The construction of the
Wara Wara project was unsatisfactory. An incompetent contractor was hired and completed the
work with a delay of 561 days rather than the 305 days agreed upon in the contract. Despite the
delay, SEMAPA refused to rescind the contract and insisted on completing the works with the
same contractor. This was, in fact, the reason for the delay in the completion of such an
important work which delayed the 100 V/s increase in the water supply flow to the city.
xviii. The water companies of La Paz and Cochabamba had difficulties in applying IDA's
standard procurement documents. Neither IDA nor FNDR identified this problem in a timely
fashion and this led to delays in preparation and approval of the bidding documents.
xix.  The Santa Cruz water company implemented the project efficiently and effectively. It
completed the works ahead of schedule and with significant savings, which were used to



-Viii-
implement additional sewerage works. Its performance indicators rank it as one of the best
water and sewerage companies in Latin Arnerica.
XX.   FNDR, which was in charge of managtng the credit, complied satisfactorily with its
financial intermediation function. However, it was not always successful in providing timely
support in the administrative aspects of tendering and implementation of contracts, and
sometimes delayed disbursements to the beneficiary water companies. Through the activities of
FNDR, the coordination between the Bolivian Authorities and donor agencies in preparing and
financing sector-wide projects has improved. The national program of improving the
institutional capacity of the central sector agencies was only partly accomplished, mainly because
the Mnistries involved (MAU and MPC) were dissolved in the early years of project
implementation as a result of reorganization of the executive branch. The development and
implementation of a sectoral policy aimed at accelerating the development of the country's water
supply and sanitation systems, was not achieved under the project because of weakness of the
agencies responsible for the sector.
Assessment of Outcome
xxi. The works in the three cities were completed satisfactorily, although with major delays in
La Paz and Cochabamba. In La Paz, 100%,-o of the works programmed under the project were
constructed. In Cochabamba the works were redesigned and the originally expected increase in
water flow was reduced by 65% (from an expected value of 630 I/s to 220 Lls) because of the
physical opposition of farmers to drilling new deep wells. Consequently, only 77% of the
programmed works were constructed. In Santa Cruz de la Sierra, additional sewerage works
were constructed using the funds saved in carrying out the original program, and so at the
closing date, 125% of the original work program has been completed.
xxii.  SAMAPA, the water company of La Paz, was privatized under a 30-year concession
contract. This represents a major institutional reform that will ensure the sustainability of the
city's water and sewerage services. In Cochabamba a broad institutional development program
(PROFISE) was implemented but achieved only limited success. The failure to privatize
SEMAPA casts doubt on the sustainability of the water and sewerage services in the city.
Moreover, the turnover of managers and senior staff after the change of Government in August
1997 undermined the progress made in training, management and the PROFISE program.
SAGUAPAC used the credit to address its priority needs in water supply but still needs to
expand its sewerage system.
xxmii. The objectives of improving the institutional capabilities of central agencies for
overseeing the water sector and of developing an institutional and policy framework to improve
the performance of the sector countrywide were not achieved, although a financial policy was
established by a supreme decree. The objective of improving coordination between the Bolivian
authorities and donors in preparing and financing sector-wide project was achieved through the
experience gained by FNDR and the improvement of its performance. In addition, 99 water and
sewerage systems for rural communities were designed under the national component and their
implementation could be financed under fiture rural development programs. Although the



-lx-
objectives of policy framework development and institutional capacity building of central
agencies were not achieved under the project, the Government established a Water
Superintendency which is supposed to take over the regulatory role in the sector, with FNDR
continuing to function as the financial support entity for the sector.
xxiv. The internal rate of return (IRR) for SAMAPA at closing date was 8.65% for the
combined water and sewerage project (compared to an expected value of 10% in the SAR). For
SAGUAPAC, the final IRR was 20.37% (compared to an expected value of 15% in the SAR).
SEMAPA achieved an IRR value of only 0.58% (compared to an expected value of 15% in the
SAR) since not all the project's benefits were achieved in terms of increased water flow and since
it did not manage to reduce the UFW level, which reached 52% at closing date, compared to a
value of 30% envisaged in the SAR.
xxv.  Although only partial success was achieved in the national component and in the
SEMAPA component, the results of the SAMAPA and SAGUAPAC components were
extremely successful and impressive. In view of the highly satisfactory results in the
SAGUAPAC and SAMAPA components, which outbalance the partial results obtained in the
SEMAPA component, overall, the project is ranked as moderately satisfactory.
Future Operations
xxvi. In 1994 the Government established, under the SIRESE Act, the Water Superintendency
as the regulator of the water and sewerage utilities in charge of monitoring technical,
administrative, commercial, and financial aspects, so as to guide the sector and ensure
implementation of institutional management policies. Although this reform is recent, it is
expected to improve the sector's performance over the medium term.
xxvii. Privatization of sector companies, which began with the long-term concession of
SAMAPA, is the route that other companies should follow. Support for these initiatives, which
would help to improve the operational efficiency of the water companies, is an area of interest
for future IDA operations. IFC operations can be used to support the privatized companies.
xxviii A Regulatory Reform and Privatization TA under preparation will support the
conversion of local water and sanitation utilities into efficient entities. This project will finance
technical assistance to: (i) assist the water Superintendency to establish performance indicators
that will be incorporated within each local water utility's concession contract; (ii) supervise these
entities to determine whether they comply with these obligations; and (iii) convert water
cooperatives into corporations with private investment in order to comply with investment and
operational requirements.



Lessons Learned
xidx. It is preferable that the preparation and evaluation of projects be based on final
engineering designs. Preparation based on feasibility studies may lead to delays caused by the
need to redesign works and make subsequent adjustments in the scope of works, which may
cause delays in achieving the expected benefits.
xxx.  It is extremely difficult to develop and implement institutional strengthening programs in
inefficient ailing public utilities that have no incentives to improve their performance and which
are subject to strong political control and complex administrative procedures. In such cases,
rather than investing in institutional strengthening, the Bank should condition its loans on
involving the private sector in the managenment and delivery of services. If Governments and
Borrowers do not accept this approach, IDA should not participate in financing the respective
projects.
xxxi. Privatization depends entirely on the political will to carry out the process. It was
successful in La Paz because the Government and Mayor were committed to it, and it failed in
Cochabamba because of the objection of the local authorities.
xxxii. Frequently politicians take decisions that are contradictory to the recommendations of
technical and financial studies, for reasons not related to the objective of benefiting the public,
thereby jeopardizing the achievement of the goal of providing water and sewerage services to a
population that does not receive these crucial services.
xxiii. High turnover of task managers does not foster sound supervision, does not support
implementation efforts and should be avoided.
xxxiv. The project objectives were too ambitious and the project design was too complicated.
It is preferable to design and implement simapler projects.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
MAJOR CITIES WATER AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit 2187-BO
PART Ik PROJECT IMPL;EMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
The main objectives of the project were to:
(a)   Improve and expand water amd sanitation services in the major cities of Bolivia
(La Paz, Santa Cruz and Cochabamba), mainly by: (i) rehabilitating water
production facilities and increasing water distribution capacity in La Paz to
benefit a population of about 200,000 (13% of the metropolitan population in
1995); (ii) constructing sewerage systems in the municipality of El Alto, to
benefit a population of about 200,000 (13% of the metropolitan population in
1995); (iii) installing water production and distribution facilities in areas currently
not served in Santa Cruz, to benefit a population of about 300,000 (35% of the
population of Santa Cruz in 1995) and expanding sewerage systems to benefit a
population of about 30,000; and (iv) rehabilitating and expanding water
production, transmission and distribution facilities in Cochabamba, to benefit a
total population of about 300,000 (50% of the population of Cochabamba in
1995) with access to piped water and eliminating/reducing rationing;
(b)   Improve the operational efficiency and management systems of the water utilities
responsible for services in the above cities;
(c)   Introduce a framework of sector policies and the institutional arrangements to
accelerate the development of the water supply and sanitation sector
countrywide;
(d)   Improve the institutional capabilities of central agencies for overseeing the water
sector, mainly through the introduction of management systems; and
(e)   Inprove coordination between the Bolivian authorities and donors in preparing
and financing sector-wide projects.



-2-
2.    The project components were:
Part A: SAMAPA
1.   Improvement and expansion of SAMAPA' s water supply systems including:
(a)   Expansion of the Pampahasi water treatment plant to increase its capacity from 400 liters
per second to 700 liters per second;
(b)   Construction of a storage tank,
(c)   Construction of a water transmission line from the Pampahasi water treatment plant to
the localities of Calacoto, Chasquipampa and Caiconi in southern La Paz; and
(d)   Construction of water distribution infrastructure in an area of about 240 hectares.
2.   Institutional strengthening of SAMAPA, including:
(a)   Preparation of the final designs for the transmission lines and distribution infrastructure
referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c) above respectively;
(b)   Advisory services to SAMAPA to strengthen its management systems, and training for
SAMAPA staff in management, operation and maintenance, and commercial and financial
administration; and
(c)   Acquisition and utilization of equipment and computer systems for improving its
operational, commercial and financial management.
3.    Rehabilitation of the El Alto sewerage system, including:
(a)   Construction of sewerage systems, including connections, covering an area of about 300
hectares in the municipality of El Alto; and
(b)   Construction of a sewage treatment plant in El Alto.
Part B: SAGUAPAC
1.    Expansion of SAGUAPAC's water and sewerage systems, including:
(a)   Expansion of the water system in the northern part of the city of Santa Cruz de la Sierra,
including drilling and equipment of two deep wells, construction of a storage tank and
pumping station and installation of distribution infrastructure;



-3-
(b)   Expansion of the water system in the southern part of the city of Santa Cruz de la Sierra,
including drilling and equipment of two deep wells, construction of a storage tank and
pumping station and installation of distribution infrastructure;
(c)   Expansion of the water system in the eastern part of the city of Santa Cruz de la Sierra,
including drilling and equipment of one deep well, construction of a storage tank and
pumping station and installation of distribution infrastructure;
(d)   Rehabilitation of production and distribution facilities (including replacement of about
one hundred kilometers of pipe);
(e)   Rehabilitation of a sedimentation pond; and
(f)    Construction of a sewerage system for about one hundred hectares under low-cost
technology.
2.    Institutional strengthening of SAGUAPAC, including:
(a)   Preparation of final designs under Part B. 1 of the project;
(b)   Consulting services for SAGUAPAC to improve its management systems, and training of
SAGUAPAC's staff in management, operation and maintenance, and commercial and
financial administration;
(c)   Acquisition and utilization of equipment, including computer systems, for improving its
operational, commercial and financial management; and
(d)   Construction of an office building.
Part C: SEMAPA
1.    Rehabilitation and expansion of SEMAPA's water supply system, including:
(a)   Rehabilitation of the Wara Wara reservoir including construction of transmission main
and storage tank and installation of filters to increase water flow about 100 liters per
second;
(b)   Rehabilitation of the Vinto well field including installation of a transmission main and
construction of a treatment plant to increase water production capacity by about 100
liters per second;
(c)   Rehabilitation of the Chungara water systems, including construction of a transmission
main and storage tank and installation of filters to achieve water production capacity of
about 60 liters per second;



-4-
(d)   Rehabilitation of the Cala Cala water treatment plant to increase its capacity to about 400
liters per second;
(e)   Rehabilitation of the Coila Cofna pumping station;
(f)   Expansion of distribution infrastructure throughout Cochabamba including the
construction of two storage tanks and the installation of distribution systems, water
connections and meters; and
(g)   Construction and equipment of four deep wells and construction of 13 kilometers of
transmission main for a production capacity of about 200 liters per second.
2.   Institutional strengthening of SEMAPA, including:
(a)   Preparation of: (i) final designs for investments under Part C. 1 of the project; and (ii) a
water supply master plan;
(b)   Advisory services for SEMAPA to strengthen its management systems, and training for
SEMAPA's staff in management, operation and maintenance, and commercial and
financial administration; and
(c)   Acquisition and utilization of equipment, including computer systems, for improving its
operational, commercial and financial management.
Part D: Institutional development of the borrower's water supply and sanitation sector
1.    Provision of technical assistance to prepare the following:
(a)   Guidelines for the analysis of water supply and sanitation projects to be applied by MPC;
(b)   A framework of tariff policies and a system of indicators for MUA to monitor the
performance of agencies operating in the urban subsector; and
(c)   Operating manuals and models for institutional, technical, financial and economic analysis
for FNDR.
2.    Acquisition and utilization of data processing equipment for MPC and MUA.
3.    Training for the staff of FNDR, MPC and MUA and other agencies in urban and rural
areas operating in the borrower's water sector but not carrying out investments under this
project, in management, operation and maintenance, and commercial and financial
administration.
4.    Preparation of a study to define a framework for the sector's operations, including the
identification of potential investment priorities in the urban subsector.



-5-
B. ACHI;EVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
3.    Project preparation. The project was placed on IDA's agenda in May 1983 when an
IDA mission discussed sector requirements with the Bolivian Government. In that month, the
Government requested a PPF advance to prepare a project for nine departmental capitals, which
was authorized in August of the sarme yeaer under PPF-444-BO. The first identification mission
in May 1987 proposed that the project be managed through COTEAS as the financial
intermediary and ANESAPA as the technical coordinating unit, but it was found that both were
too weak to undertake the functions considered for them. In October 1987 the project was
reduced to three cities (La Paz, Cochabamba and Santa Cruz) because of the high cost of the
initial project and the lack of capacity to imanage a large operation. It was decided that each city
would manage its own project and that a component would be included to prepare a subsequent
project for other departmental capitals. This did not materialize. In November 1987, the
manager of SEMAPA was appointed as the Government representative and coordinator of the
PPF. The estimated total cost of the project was US$35 million equivalent, and the financing
plan was: (i) IDA participation - US$15 million; (ii) cofinancing from unidentified sources -
US$12 million; and (iii) internal cash generation of the beneficiary companies - US$8 million.
4.    It was decided that a consulting firm would prepare the studies and designs for the three
cities, to be completed by October 31, 1988. The project was to be appraised in November
1988 and presented to the Board in March 1990. Tenders for selection of the consulting firm
were issued twice. No contract was awarded under the first competition since the Bolivian
authorities and the company that was placed first could not reach an agreement. In October
1988, IDA gave its no-objection to the second consulting contract which became effective in
January 1989, when the president of Bolivia signed a supreme decree approving it. The final
report by the consulting firm was received in April 1990. The implementation, investment and
financial plans for the three cities prepared by the firm were sent to IDA in July 1989.
5.   In March 1989, FNDR was identified as the central agency which would assume the role
of preparing viable water and sewerage projects, particularly for large and medium-sized cities.
It was agreed to include in the project a component for that purpose, denominated the national
component, and in October 1989, the Deputy Minister for Public Investments and Intemational
Cooperation made FNDR responsible for channeling and administering the program's financial
resources and for acting as the financial intermediary for investment projects in the sector.
6.    The appraisal mission of October 1989 established the conditions for negotiating the
credit and for declaring it effective, which were:
*     implementation of an increase in the tariffs charged by SAMAPA and SEMAPA,
which took place in April 1990 when the companies raised tariffs by 29% and
25% respectively.
*     Renegotiation of SAMAPA's debt with the KfW, which was done in September
1990 under the Ministry of Finance Resolutions 1198 and 1199, according to
which SAMAPA would pay the debt using its income from water services.



-6-
*     Issue of an official opinion from the Bolivian Attorney General stating that
CONATA is the sole authority with competence to set water and sewerage tariffs.
This condition was complied with on April 2, 1990.
*     Preparation of an operations manual by FNDR, which was completed in April
1990.
*     Establishment of a financial policy for the sector by the Government. A seminar
on this topic, in which a IDA officer took part, was carried out from April 5 to 7,
1990. In the second round of negotiations the document on financial policies was
discussed and IDA approved it. It was published as Supreme Decree 22627 on
November 1, 1991.
7.    The conditions for declaring the credit effective were: (i) approval of the financial policy
framework for the sector; (ii) approval of the loan of KfW; and (iii) signing of subsidiary
agreements between the Government and FNDR and between FNDR and the borrowing
companies.
8.   In March 1990, IDA prepared the SAR, the MOP and the Credit Agreements. The first
round of negotiations was held in April 1990. IDA proposed to increase the loan to US$3 5
million. It suggested that the credit be reformulated and included the additional condition that
Bolivia would not continue with the Misicuni project in Cochabamba and would demonstrate to
IDA's satisfaction that the project would be removed from the public investment program. The
condition was complied with in September 1990 through a note from the Minister of Planning
and Coordination.
9.   Internally, IDA discussed its concern that only three cities (instead of the original nine)
would be assisted and it was clarified that: (i) the IDB was preparing a project for secondary
cities; (ii) the credit would include a component for the preparation of a new project; and (iii) the
UNDP was preparing a project to assist rural areas with low-cost technology (none of these
plans materialized during the project implementation period).
10.  In August 1990, IDA updated the SAR and Bolivia complied with the negotiating
conditions. The final negotiations were held in September 1990. IDA credit 2187-BO for the
amount of SDR 25 million, equivalent to US$35 million, was approved on January 2, 1990
(three years after the date initially planned) and the Credit Agreement was signed on December
17, 1990. In June 1991, the Bolivian congress approved the credit, which became effective on
September 17, 1991 (10 months after it was signed).
11.   PART A: SAMAPA, La Paz. The water supply project partially financed by IDA was
intended to expand the Pampahasi system by increasing the capacity of the existing plant from
400 llsec to 700 I/sec, constructing a 11,550 meter high-pressure water transmission main, with
diameters varying from 12" to 30", and distribution systems covering an area of 240 hectares.
KfW also participated in the water project, financing the replacement of equipment and spare



-7-
parts for the three water treatment plants (El Alto, Achachicala, and Pampahasi). Expansion of
the plant and the water main were fully completed, the constructed distribution systems serve an
area of only 125 ha, and the equipment and parts for the treatment plants were being procured
when the credit was closed.
12.   The implementation of works lasteid two years and three months longer than planned (the
SAR projected completion in September 1995 but it was not completed until December 31,
1997) due to delays in preparing the detailed designs, difficulties in preparing the bidding and
contract documents, very slow contract negotiation procedures, slow decision making, confusion
in the technical specifications for the high pressure materials, bureaucracy and political
intervention in SAMAPA, and weakness of the equipment and materials suppliers (inability to
make suitable offers and to comply with thLe contracts) which made it necessary to re-bid part of
the supply of equipment. On the original closing date (June 30, 1996), SAMAPA had barely
begun the implementation of works (it had only constructed minor works, principally a storage
tank), which were only completed after two extensions for a period totaling six months.
13.   Aguas de Illimani S.A, the concessionaire of the water and sewerage services in La Paz,
took over the responsibility for the services in August 1997, and with assistance of an external
consultant speeded up the execution of works by renegotiating contracts and schedules with
suppliers, resolving problems in the field, amd reducing the time taken to pay its bills.
Consequently, it was possible to complete the works satisfactorily in March 1998.
14.   The sewerage project financed by the KfW was intended to expand the system in the
city of El Alto, serving an area of 300 ha with 5,000 connections by the end of the project. It
included construction of trunk and secondary sewers and a treatment plant (stabilization ponds)
to cover demand up to the year 2007, construction of an office building for El Alto,
rehabilitation of existing workshops in the city, and purchase of equipment to operate and
maintain the sewerage system. As of the closing date of IDA credit (December 31, 1997), KfW
was expecting that its component would be completed in the second half of 1998 (see Annex 3).
15.  Institutional strengthening program. The traditional institutional strengthening
program for SAMAPA, which was the original strategy adopted, achieved only modest results.
SAMAPA's operational area improved but not its organizational structure, nor its financial or
commercial management. The President of Bolivia decided to privatize the company and IDA
made the extension of the closing date conditional on the privatization of SAMAPA. The
privatization process was successfully completed as the water and sewerage services in La Paz
were transferred in August 1997 to the responsibility of a private operator under a 30-year
concession. A supervision mission which visited the company in November 1997, four months
after the transfer of responsibility to the private sector, observed many changes in administrative
organization, improved efficiency, better client service and, in particular, significant
improvements in the implementation of works. Privatization of water and sewerage services in
La Paz is an impressive achievement which permitted attaining SAMAPA's institutional
development objectives.



-8-
16.   The institutional strengthening activities for SAMAPA are presented in Table 1, which
also provides information on the works carried out.
17.   Part A-1 (a). Expansion of the Pampahasi treatment plant. This work was fuily
completed. The project was prepared by the consultants who made the initial project
identification for the three cities between October 1989 and October 1990. The works were
tendered, the construction contract was signed on February 1994 and construction lasted from
April 1994 to July 1995. Sand for the filters was contracted separately between January and
May 1995 and was laid between May and September 1995. The work was accepted in July
1995, with a delay of 4.5 years in relation to the SAR estimate.
18.   Part A-1 (b). Construction of a storage tank. A 2,500 rn3 storage tank for the
Pampahasi plant was constructed. The project was prepared by SAMAPA, and the work was
tendered between October 1992 and March 1993 and built between April 1993 and March 1994.
It was accepted in March 1994, with a delay of two years in relation to the SAR estimate.
19.   Part A-1 (c). Transmission main from Pampahasi to Ovejuyo. The project was
prepared by a foreign consulting firm between March 1991 and February 1992, using German
industrial specifications (DIN). The materials (pipes) and construction were tendered separately.
20.   The pipes for the Pampahasi-Ovejuyo main were put to tender twice. In March 1993,
SAMAPA requested IDA's no-objection to the bidding documents. IDA did not issue the no-
objection, requesting that the documents be made to conform to its procurement requirements.
The documents were adjusted and IDA gave its no-objection in September 1993, seven months
after the process had begun. The first bidding process was carried out between November 1993
and March 1994 and was declared void with IDA's no-objection since just one offer was
received. The second bidding process took place between April 1994 and June 1995, and IDA
gave its no-objection to the award in August 1994. On that date SAMAPA sought clarifications
from the procurement agency that was in charge of processing the bidding processes and
requested IDA to declare the process void because it lacked confidence in the capacity of the
supplier who had made the lowest responsive offer to comply with the contract, and wanted to
initiate a third bidding process. After a mission in November 1994, IDA answered that there
was no ground for declaring the process void and indicated that unless the contract were
awarded under its no-objection of August 1994, it would not be able to finance this project
component. SAMAPA negotiated the contract, forwarded the record of negotiation to IDA, and
received the final no-objection in May 1995. The contract was signed in June 1995, with a
delivery period of 270 calendar days, to be supplied in several lots. This long period from award
to contract signing (April 1994 to June 1995) was a result of preparation of reports by the
procurement agency and lengthy intemal discussions by SAMAPA's board of directors (political
intervention). The contract had to become effective once confirmation was received that a letter
of credit in favor of the supplier had been opened. At that stage two problems that delayed
effectiveness came up. The first was that the winning bidder took three months to present



-9-
Table 1: Works and Institutional Strengthening in La Paz
(SAMAPA Component)
Description          Expected Implementation    Implementation    Percentage of Execution
as defined in the Credit Achieved as of Dec. 31,    (%)
A2reement                1997
1. Improvement and expansion of the water system                                                 I
a. Expansion of the Pampahasi    An additional 300 V/sec    300 V/sec       100%
treatment plant               (expansion from 400 1/sec to
700 I/sec).
b. Construction of a storage tank   2500m3             2500m3               100%
. Conveyance system from      2,583.90m of 30"         2,280.90 of 30"      100%100%
Pampahasi to the southern part of  4,509.90m of 24"    4,509.90m of 24"     100%
the city (Calacoto, Chasquipampa,   651.50m of 20"      651.50m of 20"      100%
Ovejuyo and Caiconi)             62.90m of 16"           62.90m of 16"      100%
3,744.20m of 12"       3,744.20m of 12"      100%
11,549.90m =- Total    11,549.90m = Total    0%
Branch to Caiconi      Not constructed
d Distribution                240 ha                 1 125 ha              52%
2 Institutional strengthening
a Preparation of final designs for  Complete the studies  Studies completed  100%
orks (b) and (c) above                                                                         l
b Advisory services for       Perform the consulting  Consulting services  100%
engthening management systems services              provided
d training in management, O&M,
d commercial and financial
administration
c Purchase of equipment and   Complete purchase       Equipment not procured 0%
mputers to improve financial,
perational, and commercial
management                                                                 ______________________
3 Rehabilitation of the El Alto sewerage system 
a Construction of systems covering 300 ha             250 ha               83%
00 ha, including residential
connections                  8,455 connections       Under construction
Construction of a treatment plant Complete the construction  Under construction  50%
Construction of an office building Complete the construction  Construction completed 100%
El Alto and rehabilitation of
orkshops (Rumpel complex)
Purchase of vehicles, equipment, Complete purchase  Purchase completed    100%
d tools for operation and
tenance of the El Alto sewerage
system                         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                         _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _
e Purchase of spare parts for  Complete purchase      Procurements under wa 50%
xisting waterworks                                I_



-10-
the performance bond that SAMAPA required before opening the letter of credit. When the
bond was presented, the letter of credit was opened through a Bolivian bank that went bankrupt,
and it was necessary to make new arrangements with another bank. The second problem was
that the specifications given in the bidding documents were German industrial standards (DIN), a
fact that led to controversy regarding their equivalence with the United States' standards used by
the winning bidder. On IDA's recommendation, a consulting firm was hired from March to July
1995 to determine whether the equivalence of the American standard was correct. The firm
submitted in July 1995 a report regarding the pipes and in August 1995 a report regarding the
valves, confirming the equivalence of standards. The contract then became effective on
December 20, 1995 (for a period ending on September 17, 1996) and the materials were
supplied in partial deliveries between April and September 1996. The last materials were
delivered in August 1997 after the concessionaire, Aguas de Illimani S.A., settled some pending
problems with the supplier. Twenty-nine months elapsed between the call for bids and the time
the contract was signed.
21.   The bidding process for installation of the water main Pampahasi - Ovejuyo took place
between August and November 1995. IDA's no-objection to the contract was delayed until June
1996 since it was impossible to complete the work before closing date, and an extension of the
Credit Agreement (which expired on June 30, 1996) had to be negotiated before issuing the no-
objection. The contract was signed in July 1996 with an implementation period of 270 calendar
days. Another delay was caused by the need to redesign part of the layout. SAMAPA provided
the topographical information and the consulting firm hired to supervise the work produced the
new design between August 1996 and March 1997. In response to an inquiry by IDA, the
supervising firm issued an opinion that the steel sections of the pipe did not require cathodic
protection or anchors,. The work was completed in March 1998, with a delay of over four years
in relation to the SAR estimate, and officially inaugurated in April 1998.
22.   Part A-1 (d). Distribution. The design of the distribution system was prepared by the
same consultants who made the initial project identification for the three cities between October
1989 and October 1990. The areas to be covered were redefined by SAMAPA between April
and September 1997 since, because of the delays in project implementation, pipes had already
been laid in the areas originally proposed, using other financing sources.
23.   Two calls for bids were made for supply of pipes for the distribution networks. The first
competition, between August and December 1995, was declared void with IDA's no-objection,
since two bids were received - one with legal problems and the other of very high prices. The
second bidding process took place between July 1996 and January 1997. As a result of the
process three contracts were signed for the supply of: (i) ductile cast iron pipes and valves: (ii)
PVC pipes and accessories; and (iii) pressure reducing valves. Deliveries were made between
August and September 1997. A fourth contract for the supply of drainage chambers which had
been signed in March 1997 was not properly handled by SAMAPA, which was late in providing
the plans for manufacturing the chambers and allowed the performance bond to expire. The
contract was reactivated by Aguas de Illimani S.A_ in August 1997 and the materials were
delivered in October 1997.



-11-
24.   The contract for installation of the distribution networks was tendered between
September 1996 and March 1997. The contract was signed in March 1997, and the order to
proceed was only issued in August 1997 because the materials have not been delivered earlier.
In that month, Aguas del Illimani negotiated a new implementation schedule with the contractor,
to complete works by December 1997, four years behind the SAR estimated schedule.
25.   Part A-2 (a). Preparation of the designs for Part A-1. These designs were prepared
as originally planned, at the times indicated previously.
26.   Part A-2 (b). Strengthening of SAMAPA's management systems and training in
management, operation and maintenanice, and commercial and financial administration.
SAMAPA decided, with IDA's no-objection, to hire a consulting firm to develop and implement
the strengthening program, which consisted of defining an organizational and functional
structure for the company (manual of functions, organization chart, internal regulations, staffing
plan and general administrative procedures) and designing and implementing a cost accounting
system and a program to reduce UFW. T]he bidding process began in February 1991 with a
request for IDA's no-objection but IDA returned the documents since they did not conform to
standards. It took 11 months to correct the documents and IDA finally gave its no-objection in
December 1991. The bidding process lasted from February to August 1992 and the consulting
services were carried out from August 1992 to July 1993. By closing date, differences between
SAMAPA and the consulting firm regarding the work in the administrative and financial areas
had not been resolved. In a report dated February 1994, SAMAPA indicated that the manuals of
functions had not been provided. The proposed organizational structure was very similar to the
existing structure and was therefore of limrited benefit. The internal regulations were produced
with direct participation by company employees. The staffing table was not prepared. To
develop general administrative procedures the company signed an additional contract with one of
the firms that participated in the initial consortium, but the procedures designed were based on
the systems previously used and were not attuned to current legal requirements. Overall, the
work produced in this area was unsatisfactory and of little use to SAMAPA. Furthermore, since
the company was privatized on August 19,97, the institutional strengthening procedures designed
under the contract became practically useless, as the operator introduced its own procedures.
The February 1994 report notes that the work of the consultants on UFW was satisfactory.
They designed procedures for operational control, leakage control, and digitization of the water
system. In March 1995 FNDR used credit proceeds to hire a consultant to advise and provide
training to the three companies on implementing programs of operations and maintenance.
SAMAPA prepared a detailed action plan for operational control, bulk metering, domestic
metering, leakage control, and commercial control, which was annexed to the Aide Memoire of
the November 1995 supervision mission and was carried out. From August to December 1995
consulting services were hired to develop and implement a bulk metering program, which was
completed satisfactorily in December 1997.
27.   Part A-2 (b). Procurement of computer equipment. A PC was purchased for the
leakage control unit as was originally planned.



-12-
28.   Part A-3 (a) and (c). Rehabilitation of the sewerage system in El Alto. This
component was financed under contract 9065319 for financial support and project
implementation signed on June 20, 1991, by the Government of Bolivia and the KfW (a German
Government grant), with a local contribution from SEMAPA. According to the information
provided in the note from KfW (see Annex 3), works will be completed in the second half of
1998. The project is three years behind the schedule established in the contract because of
delays in: (i) signing the consulting services contract; (ii) the bidding process; and (iii) obtaining
land for the Puchucollo treatment plant (stabilization ponds).
29.   On August 1, 1997, the company Aguas del Illimani S.A. took over the responsibility for
the water and sewerage services for La Paz under a 30-year concession. During the supervision
mission of November 26 to December 5, 1997 many changes and improvements were observed
in the company with respect to: (i) administrative organization; (ii) better customer service; and
(iii) in particular, improved implementation of the project works. It appears that efficiency has
also improved. The provision of water and sewerage services by the private sector under a
concession contract is an impressive achievement in Latin America, which will ensure the
sustainability of the services for the next 30 years. As a result of this reform the institutional
development objectives of the La Paz component has been achieved.
30.   At closing date, the works of the La Paz component were 94% completed, 97% of the
credit had been disbursed, and the remainder had been fully committed. The works were
completed March 1998, and inaugurated on April 1998.
31.   After completion of works, water coverage in La Paz reached 88% and sewerage
coverage 55% (compared to the SAR estimates of 81% and 66% respectively). The target for
water was surpassed but the sewerage component, financed and supervised by the KfW, fell
short of the expected target.
32.   The indicators achieved by December 1996 (audited values) were: working ratio of 0.43
which coincides with the SAR's estimate for the end of the project; collection efficiency has
improved to the excellent value of 110.6% (higher than 100% owing to collection of old debts);
the number of employees per 1,000 water connections fell from 5.56 in 1994 to 4.43, which is
much better than estimated in the SAR (7.86 by the end of the project); and the percentage of
personnel costs in relation to operating costs reached a high value of 65.5%. The UFW index
was 25.65%, which is close to the SAR's target for the end of the project. These indicators
maintained similar values in July 1997, except for UFW, which increased to 32.73%. It is
expected that the company's performance will improve under private management and that the
investments needed to expand the water and sewerage systems will be forthcoming. Because of
the switchover to private management, it is difficult to present data for the second half of 1997.
33.  In summary, the achievements in the La Paz component are: (i) completion of all the
project works, benefiting some 97,000 people (35,000 directly with new connections and 62,000
indirectly by eliminating rationing); the water connection to the southern zone of La Paz through
the Pampahasi-Ovejuyo pipeline will enable to provide water to additional 191,800 inhabitants in
future (with new production works) for a total of 289,000; and (ii) the concession represents a



-13-
major reform in management of the water and sanitation sector in the city. The La Paz
component has been concluded satisfactorily, mainly due to the implementation of the reform
and to the improved performance of the concessionaire which was able to complete the works
within the term of the Credit Agreement. The completion of works would have been impossible
under SAMAPA's previous management whose performance has been very weak during the
seven years of project implementation.
34.   PART B. SAGUAPAC, Santa Cruz. The water project, partially financed by IDA,
was intended to expand three of the city's four water supply systems (north, southwest, and
northeast) by drilling production wells, building storage tanks and pumping stations, and
installing distribution networks in each zone. These works were fully completed within the
schedule agreed upon in the SAR.
35.   The sewerage project, partially financed by IDA, was intended to expand the collection
system over 100 ha and rehabilitate existing stabilization ponds. With IDA approval, 25% of
additional works were constructed, using funds saved due to SAGUAPAC's efficiency in
implementing the original program and by achieving lower construction costs. The additional
works included sewerage networks and expansion of the stabilization ponds.
36.   The institutional strengthening project was fully and successfully implemented and
attained the objectives of improving management, operation and maintenance and commercial
and financial administration, purchasing equipment for the commercial, operations and
maintenance areas, and constructing a newv office building. The works were identified in 1989 by
the consulting firm that prepared the initial project for the three cities, based on the 1982 city
development master plan. The works and institutional strengthening activities included in the
SAGUAPAC component are presented in Table 2.
37.   Part B-1 (a), (b), (c) and (d). Expansion of the north, southwest, and northeast
systems. The works of these systems were fully constructed and eleven wells (six more than the
five originally planned) were drilled.
38.   For the northern system, materials:, equipment and instruments were procured between
January 1993 and December 1996, and the following have been constructed: three wells
(numbers 20, 24, and 25) with a test production of 200 Vs, a 5,000 rn3 storage tank, and a
pumping station with a capacity of 570 I/s, equipped with four pumps (one as backup), a IDA of
transformers, control panels, chlorination systems and alarms systems. The installation were
inaugurated in April 1997 and are operating satisfactorily.
39.   For the southwestern system, materials, equipment, and instruments were procured
between January 1993 and March 1997 and the following have been constructed: seven wells
(numbers 17, 17A, 22, 23, 27, NP1 and NP2) which were completed in March 1997 with test
production of 488 Us, a 6,000 m3 storage tank and a pumping station with a capacity of 420 Us,
equipped with four pumps (one as backup), a bank of transformers, control panels, chlorination
systems, and alarm systems. The installations were inaugurated in June 1996 and are operating
satisfactorily.



-14-
Table 2: Works and Institutional Strengthening in Santa Cruz
(SAGUAPAC component)
Description               Expected Implementation as     Implementation       Percentage of
defined in the Credit       Achieved as of         Execution
Agreement             December 31, 1997
1.     Rehabilitation and expansion of the water and sewerage systems   .
a. Expansion of the water system in the  2 deep wells             3 deep wells             150%
northern part of Santa Cruz, including  1 storage tank of 4,000m3  1 storage tank, 5,000 m3   125%
drilling and equipping two deep wells,  1 pumping station for 500 Ils  1 pumping station for  100%
construction of a storage tank and a                              570 Ils
pumping station, and distribution networks  100 km of network and  (see section c below)   100%
connections                               _
b. Expansion of the water system in the  2 deep wells              7 deep wells            350%
southwestern part of Santa Cruz, including   1 storage tank of 4,000m3  1 storage tank 6,000 m3    150%
drilling and equipping two deep wells,  1 pumping station for 500 I/s  1 pumping station for  100%
construction of a storage tank and a                              420 Vls
pumping station, and distribution networks  100 km of network and  (see section c below)   100%
connections
c. Expansion of the water system in the  1 deep well               1 deep well             100%
northeastern part of Santa Cruz, including   1 storage tank of 4,000m3  1 storage tank 8,000 m3    200%
drilling and equipping one deep well,  50 km of networks and      365,950 meters of        100%
construction of a storage tank, and    connections                network purchased
distribution infiastructure                                       247,228 meters of        100%
network installed with
18,921 connections
d. Rehabilitation of production and    6 Wells                    6 wells rehabilitated    10lo
distribution systems including replacement
of some 100 km of network              100 km of networks         Networks installed (see    100%
section c above)
e. Rehabilitation of stabilization ponds  Complete the rehabilitation    Rehabilitation completed   100%
f. Expansion of stabilization ponds by 13.4  Not included in the original    Ponds expanded by 13.4   100%
ha                                     program                    ha
g. Construction of sewerage systems to  Construct networks for 100 ha  Networks for 142 ha  142%
serve 100 ha with low-cost technology                             constructed (64,946
meters of network with
5,665 connections)
2. Institutional strengthening
a. Preparation of final designs for the  Complete the designs     Designs completed        100%
investments in part B-1
b. Consulting services to improve      Complete the consulting     Services completed      100%
management systems and training in    services
management, O&, commercial and
administrative areas
c. Purchase and use of equipment       Complete the purchase      Purchase completed       100%
including computer systems to improve
operating, commercial, and financial
systeMS 
d. Construction of an office building  Complete the construction   Construction completed    100%



-15-
40.   For the northeastern system, materials, equipment, and instruments were procured
between January 1993 and March 1995 and the following have been constructed: one well
(number 21) with test production of 90 Vs, a 8,000 m3 storage tank and a pumping station with a
capacity of 480 Vs, equipped with four pumps (one as backup), a bank of transformers, control
panels, chlorination systems, and alarm systems.
41.   Between January 1991 and June 1997, 365,950 meters of main and secondary pipe and
materials for 41,800 connections were procured. A total of 247,228 m of pipe were installed,
with 30,388 m in the principal network and 216,840 m in the secondary network. In addition,
18,921 residential connections were instadled to benefit a population of about 272,000
inhabitants.
42.   Six wells (numbers 1, 6, 10, 11, 13, and 23) were rehabilitated between May 1993 and
June 1994. In addition, 44,795 domestic meters and 5,247 repair kits were purchased at the
same period.
43.   Part B-1 (e) and (f). Rehabilita,tion of the northern stabilization ponds and
construction of sewerage network to serve 100 ha with low-cost technology. Between
November 1989 and March 1990 the four old ponds in the northern treatment plant were
rehabilitated (cleaned) and between November 1995 and October 1997 new ponds covering 13.4
ha were constructed. The expansion was not included in the original work program and was
financed with savings in the construction of the original program. Between September 1990 and
June 1994, 28,220 meters of sewers were installed with 2,480 connections, covering an area of
about 42 ha. Between November 1995 and October 1997, credit proceeds were used to install
36,729 meters of sewers with 3,185 connections over an area of 142 ha, benefiting 46,736
inhabitants. Retroactive financing was used to build sewers for Neighborhood Unit 28 using
conventional technology. Between Nove:mber 1992 and June 1993, equipment was replaced and
sewage pumping station E-1 at the entrance to the new ponds was rehabilitated.
44.   Part B-2 (a) and (b). Institutional strengthening. The final designs of the works
included in part A were prepared by the company using its own resources. Bids were invited
between March 1991 and September 1993 for a consulting firm to carry out the component to
improve management systems and provide training in management, operation and maintenance,
and commercial and financial administration. The process was declared void with IDA's
no-objection because of the high cost of the proposals. In December 1993 SAGUAPAC decided
to contract some smaller scale studies with credit funds and the following studies were carried
out between April 1994 and June 1997:
* Recovery of investment through accumulated contributions by the cooperative's
members.
*  Economic and financial diagnostic study which compared the cooperative to the
SANEPAR company in Curitiba, Brazil. The study showed that SAGUAPAC is
close to achieving the Brazilian company's indicators.



-16-
* Manual of functions and procedures, the preparation of which was completed.
* Groundwater management to determine the capacity of the aquifer that supplies the
city and the risk of its contamination. The actions recommended in this study have
been included in the company's plan of operations.
* Control of leaks, which used a methodology for continuous analysis of the level of
leaks and their economic impact. Some of the recommendations of this study have
been included in the company's plan of operations.
* Methodology for managing corrective and preventive maintenance of water and
sewerage systems, including the use of the MAPRE software developed by
CEPIS/OPS, which is being implemented in the company.
* Environmental audit of the water and sewerage systems.
45.   Part B-2 (c). Procurement and use of equipment including computers to improve
operating, commercial and financial systems. From January to March 1991, SAGUAPAC
caled for bids to supply a main frame computer, which was subsequently declared void with
IDA's no-objection. After a second call, a contract was awarded in October 1992.
SAGUAPAC procured equipment to strengthen its operations area between January 1992 and
February 1994, including a portable tow excavator, bulk meters, pumps, motors and spare
control panels, a truck-mounted crane and accessories, cleaning equipment for sewerage, leak
detector, metal detector, and video equipment for pipes.
46.   Part B-2 (d). Construction of an office building. The construction of the building
was completed and the building was furnished between April 1995 and September 1997.
47.   SAGUAPAC's performance was very satisfactory during the entire project
implementation period. At closing date (December 31, 1997), all the original work program had
been completed as well as all the additional works constructed with the savings in the
implementation of the original program, for an increase of 25% over the SAR estimates.
48.   At closing date water coverage reached 80% and sewerage coverage 34%. These values
are close to the targets (78.5% for water and 39% for sewerage). The indicators for 1996
(audited values) were: an UWF index of 24%, which is better than the SAR's target of 25%;
the number of ernployees per 1,000 water connections fell from 8.5 at the start of the project to
4.26, which is better than the target of 6.06 in the SAR; the working ratio was 0.76, a value
which was not yet up to the target of 0.64 but which improved steadily over previous years. The
percentage of personnel costs in relation to operating costs was 59.78%; it also improved
steadily during the project implementation period. Collection efficiency was high at 96%. The



-17-
indicators had improved by September 1]997, with UFW at 23%, the number of employees per
1,000 connections at 4.04, and the working ratio at 0.72.
49.  In summary, 125% of the original works were constructed in the framework of the Santa
Cruz component. These works will benefit a population of 225,687 inhabitant with water
services and 46,736 with sewerage services. All the goals of the institutional development
program were achieved, and the project was concluded very satisfactorily. Nevertheless, the low
coverage of sewerage causes public health problems, environmental pollution, and pollution of
the aquifer which is the only water source of the city. The sustainability of the project will
depend on the access of the company to credits for investment to expand the sewerage system.
50.   PART C. SEMAPA, Cochabamba. The water project partially financed by IDA was
originally intended to: (i) increase production by an additional 630 Vs; (ii) rehabilitate and expand
the Wara Wara system (reservoir, transmission main and treatment plant); (iii) develop the Vinto
system (a new system with four deep wells, transmission main and treatment plant); (iv)
rehabilitate the Chungara system (improvements to the existing gallery); (v) expand the Cala
Cala system (expansion of the water treatment plant from 300 Vs to 400 Us); (vi) rehabilitate the
Coila Cofia storage tank and pumping system; and (vii)expand the distribution systems including
construction of two storage tanks (Cala Cala and La Coronilla). The Wara Wara project was
completed in full. The Vinto expansion was not implemented because: (i) of active physical
opposition by farmers to drilling new deep wells; and (ii) the credit amount was not sufficient to
cover the cost of all the project works. The Chungara gallery was not rehabilitated because of
its low production which made the workc economically unfeasible. The Cala Cala treatment plant
was expanded as planned. As a result of the works implemented the water flow increased only
by 220 Us (100 at Wara Wara, 100 at Cala Cala, and 20 by replacing equipment at the Vinto
wells), while in the SAR the estimate was an increase of 630 Us. The Cofia Cofia system was
rehabilitated and the pipes and tanks were constructed as planned. Overall, only 77% of the
works defined in the Credit Agreement were implemented. Consequently the expected benefits
were not achieved and the water shortage in the city is more severe than anticipated. In spite of
having implemented less works than programmed, all the funds allocated to the SEMAPA
component were used, resulting in cost overrun of about 25%. As of the original closing date
(June 30, 1996), SEMAPA had barely started implementing works (only minor works of the
Wara Wara system were initiated prior to the original closing date). Works have only been
completed after two extensions totaling 18 months. The works and institutional strengthening
activities of the SEMAPA component are presented in Table 3.
51.   The institutional strengthenin;g component. In the framework of this component,
PROFISE (the institutional strengthening program) was designed and implemented, except for
the system leak detection and control. The activities under PROFISE aimed at improving
operations, maintenance, commercial management, domestic metering and financial
administration were carried out. Water meters, computers, vehicles and equipment were
purchased. In spite of carrying out the ]PROFISE activities, the program has not achieved the
expected results and the company's performance did not improve. Moreover, after the change of
Government in August 1997, most of the managers and senior administrative staff of SEMAPA
were replaced. The consequences of this political intervention were: (i) loss of most of the



-18-
training efforts undertaken under the project; (ii) loss of continuity in management; and (iii)
further weakening of the company. During implementation IDA noted that the institutional
strengthening program was not achieving the expected results and concluded that improvement
in performance could only be achieved by involving the private sector in managing the water and
sewerage services. The President of Bolivia decided to privatize SEMAPA and IDA conditioned
the extension of the closing date on carrying out a privatization process during the extension
period. The Government supported the privatization effort it failed because: (i) the Government
was too late in implementing it; and (ii) the privatization concept was coupled with the
construction of the Corani water supply project, to which the Municipality of Cochabamba is
opposing.
52.   Part C-1 (a). Rehabilitation of the Wara Wara system. The project was prepared by
the consultants who was involved in project identification for the three cities, between October
1989 and August 1992. It was fully executed and consisted of rehabilitating the Wara Wara
dam, the Khomerkhocha dam, the collecting channel to Wara Wara, the conveyance system from
the dam to Aranjuez; and construction of a treatment plant with a capacity of 100 Uls, a
regulating tank, and the final conveyance system. The work was tendered between January and
August 1992 and was implemented between August 1992 and May 1995. It was supervised by
the consultant who prepared the project design, under an extension of the contract. The
contractor selected had difficulty in implementing the work and after the original term of 305
days had only built a small part. The contract was extended by 230 days and then by another
100 days. By the end of the second extension (December 1994), only 60% of the works had
been completed. SEMAPA opposed to terminating the contract. With IDA's no-objection and
in view of the urgency of concluding the work, SEMAPA hired a subcontractor who committed
to complete it in 150 days, but required an extension of 81 days. The work was finally
completed on May 1995, four years after the date estimated in the Credit Agreement.
53.   Parts C-1 (b) and (d) to (g). Vinto, Cohia Cofia, Cala Cala, distribution, and tanks.
Before preparing the water supply master plan, which was financed by a grant from the French
Government, and carried out from July to October 1988, a study of remote exploration of water
resources in Cochabamba was carried out between July 1989 and May 1990. The study
indicated that groundwater was available in the Cochabamba valley and could be feasibly tapped.
The results of this study served as the basis for the master plan, i.e., for justifying the proposed
works for drilling of deep wells in the Vinto and Sipe Sipe zone. The works were defined under
the master plan prepared by a consulting firm as part of the project. The firm was six months
late in presenting the final project documents, which were submitted in February 1995. The
bidding and contract documents for the supply of goods and construction of works were
prepared by the same consulting firm, assisted by a procurement specialist hired separately by
SEMAPA. The works were organized into six separate lots for supplies and construction for
which bids were invited between July and September 1995, with contracts scheduled for
signature in January 1996. The three bids for the supply and construction of the Vmto system,
drilling and equipping of the wells, transmission pipes and the treatment plant were declared void
with IDA's no-objection in May 1996 because of the physical opposition of farmers to drilling
new deep wells in the Vinto and Sipe Sipe zone and the high cost of the works compared



-19-
Table 3: Works and Institutional Strengthening in Cochabamba
(SEMALPA component)
Description                 Expected Implementation    Inplementation Achieved as of    Percentage of
as defined in the Credit         Dec. 31, 1997              Execution
Agreement                                                (%)
l1. Improvement and expansion of the water system
a. Rehabilitation of the Wara Wara reservoir,    Rehabilitate the reservoir,  Rehab completed        100%
including transmission pipes, storage tank, and   (2.25M m3)-;
filters for about 100 I/s                 6.6 km of trunsmission     Work completed                  100%
pipes;                                                     100%
100 l/s treatment plant   Work completed
b. Rehabilitation of the Vinto wells,     Complete works             The wells were not rehabilitated,    5%
installation of transmission pipes, construction                     the transmission pipes were not
of a treatment plant for 100 I/s                                     installed, and the treatment plant
was not built. However,
equipment was replaced at four
I _______________________________        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   -existing   w ells.
c. Rehabilitation of the Chungara infiltration  Complete work        Not executed                    0%
gallery, including transmission pipes, storage
tank, and filters for about 60 1/s
d. Rehabilitation of the Cala Cala treatment  Complete work          Work completed                  100%
plant, increasing its capacity from 300 i/s to 400
Vs
e. Rehabilitation of the Cofla Cofna pumping  Complete work          Work completed                  100%
station including covering the storage tank and
rplacement of equipment
f Expansion of the distribution system,   Istall 45,832 m of system  48,497 m installed              106%
installation of house connections and     Install 7,582 connections  7,582 connections installed     100%
construction of two storage tanks.        Build two tanks with total  Tanks constructed
l___________________________  storage capacity of 9,400m3
g. Construction of four deep wells wit a  Complete wAorks            Not executed                    0%
capacity of 200 l/s and 13 km transmission
pipes.
2. Institutional strengthening
a. Preparation of: (i) final designs; (ii) water    Complete designs and master  Designs and master plan  100%
maaster plan.                             plan                       completed
b. Hiring of Advisory services to strengthen  Complete imnplementation  Mostly completed except for the  80%
administrative systems and train personnel in                        leak detection and control system
aanagement, O&M, and commercial and
financial administration (PROFISE program)
c. Purchase of equipment including computers   Complete purchase     Purchase completed              100%
tD improve the operations, commercial and
financial areas



-20-
to the amount of credit resources available. In May 1996 IDA authorized new calls for bids with
a reduced scope of supplies and works, under limited local bidding. The successful bidders were
selected in July 1996 and in August of that year IDA gave its no-objection to the contracts. The
three bids for the supply and construction of the Cala Cala plant, tanks, and distribution system
were conducted over the period from July to September 1995 and the contracts were prepared
for signature in January 1996. A consulting firm was hired to supervise the construction and
rehabilitation works at Vinto and Cofia Cofia.. The no-objection to the call for bids was delayed
because of SEMAPA's difficulty in providing the counterpart funds. IDA disbursed 100% of the
payments for the final Wara Wara subcontract under a repayment formula specially authorized
by IDA, since the Wara Wara system was an emergency work. To be able to provide the
counterpart funds for other works, SEMAPA contracted a US$ 7 million loan from the Misicuni
Company (which is basically a Government loan), out of which it used US$3.077 million as the
counterpart for IDA credit. The closing date was extended twice: in June 1996 for one year and
in June 1997 for another six months. The completion of the Cala Cala treatment plant and
storage tank was delayed by five years and the completion of the distribution networks, by two
years.
54.   Part C-1 (c). Rehabilitation of the Chungara system. This work was not executed
because the master plan demonstrated that it was very expensive for the amount of water that
the rehabilitated project would produce. It execution might be reconsidered at a later date, if the
water scarcity crisis would worsen.
55.   The Misicuni project. From the outset of the project preparation (May 1987), the
management of SEMAPA, the authorities of Cochabamba and the Bolivian Government insisted
that IDA finance the Misicuni project works. A IDA mission which visited Bolivia during
February 15 to 26, 1988, indicated that the estimated project cost of US$60 million for 1 m3 of
water was six times higher than average annual investments in Bolivia in the water and sanitation
sector and four times higher per cubic meter than projects that were already considered to be
expensive in Latin America. As a result, IDA conditioned the credit on the withdrawal of the
Misicuni project from the public sector investment program. This condition was accepted by the
Government on September 1990. The Misicuni project estimated cost was subsequently reduced
to of US$46 million per I m3-. IDA recommended that a feasibility study is conducted before
further considering the project.. During a visit of a Bolivian mission in IDA on March 1991, it
was agreed that credit 2187-BO funds would be used to finance the feasibility study of the
Misicuni project. The study was completed in July 1992 and concluded that the cost of multiple-
purpose project would be US$295 million and that such project would have a high impact on the
country's public investments. IDA decided therefore, on April 1, 1993, not to authorize the use
of IDA funds to finance the Misicuni project. In July 1997 the Government requested IDA's
opinion on the Misicuni project in comparison to the Corani project. IDA's response given in
August 1997 (see Annex 4) suggests that, based on the information made available to it, the
Corani project is more feasible from the economic and financial standpoints. In spite of this
opinion, the new Government which took office in August 1997, immediately rejected the
Corani project and initiated the construction of the Misicuni tunnel, before having secured the
financing of the entire Misicuni project. Currently, the Government is expecting to finance the



-21-
Misicuni project under a BOT coupled with the privatization of SEMAPA. Both PSP processes
are under preparation.
56.   Part C-2 (a). Institutional strengthening, preparation of the water supply master
plan and of final designs for part C-1. The terms of reference and short list of consulting firms
for the water supply master plan were prepared between October 1989 and May 1991, while the
bidding and the preparation of the study took place between June 1991 and March 1993. The
final designs were prepared in two stages. The Wara Wara project was designed by the
consulting firm that carried out the initial project identification for the three cities, as an
extension of its contract from October 1989 to August 1992. The other project works were
designed by the consulting firm that had prepared the water supply master plan.. The work
began in March 1993 and lasted for 14 months. The consultant required a six month extension
and completed the work in November 1994. The bidding and contract documents which were
part of the product, have been revised by a procurement specialist hired by SEMAPA. The final
version was submitted in February 1995 and the study was accepted in March 1995.
57.   Part C-2 (b). Consulting services for institutional strengthening. SEMAPA decided
to hire a consulting firm to design and implement an institutional strengthening program
simultaneously for all its areas of activity (the PROFISE program). Between April and
December 1991 it prepared the terms of reference and the short list. The bidding took place
between December 1991 and May 1992, and IDA gave its no-objection to the contract in
November 1992. The contract became effective in January 1993 for 13 months, expiring in
February 1994. The consultant developed six modules which were fully implemented, with some
subsequent modifications to adapt them to conditions in the company. Development and
implementation are considered satisfactory, although implementation took two years longer than
originally planned since the company did not have the capacity to introduce all the modules
simultaneously. However, the PROFISE program did not obtain the expected results since it did
not improve the company's performance indicators, which are still far below SAR estimates. The
tumover in SEMAPA's managers and senior administrators as a result of the change of
Govermnent in August 1997 led to the loss of most of the benefits of the institutional
strengthening program, the training efforts and continuity of management. The modules and
levels of implementation of the PROFISE program were the following:
* Module 1. Organization (new organizational structure, formalization of normative
procedures, and communications) was fully implemented with some adjustments to
adapt to conditions in the company.
* Module 2. Human resources (definition of policies, training programs, and job
safety) was fully implemented.
* Module 3. Information technology (development of applied systems and
infrastructure) was designed and introduced in the commercial, administrative,
financial, and technical (operations control) areas. The projects control module was
not introduced.



-22-
* Module 4: Operation and maintenance. The submodels for the technical cadaster,
domestic metering, system maintenance and operations control were implemented.
The submodel for bulk metering was developed under the French assistance program,
which will finance its implementation. The submodel for electromechanical
maintenance was not developed. However a course on maintenance was offered in
September 1995 and a start was made on using the software developed by
CEPIS/OPS. The credit financed the design, construction, and equipping of a new
meter workshop between May 1994 and December 1997, purchase of 4,000 meters
and 5,000 repair kits for meters in poor condition, rehabilitation of all existing cases
and supports, and replacement of old meters with repaired ones. In August 1996, a
detailed program for implementing PROFISE in the technical area was prepared with
the help of a foreign consultant and fully carried out.
* Module 5: Commercial (billing, marketing, collections through the banking system,
meter reading, service disconnections and reconnections). The entire module was
successfully developed and implemented. The new users' cadastre was tendered from
December 1995 to July 1996 and was completed in November 1997.
* Module 6: Administrative and financial management (personnel, materials, fixed
assets, accounting and integrated budget) was developed and fully implemented.
58.   Part C-2 (c). Procurement of computers and equipment to improve the operating,
commercial and financial systems. SEMAPA made suitable use of the allocation for
equipment to support the institution-building program, purchasing and installing the necessary
computer equipment for all the company's areas and acquiring vehicles and tools for its
maintenance teams.
59.   The Intent to Privatize SEMAPA. Although SEMAPA's board of directors agreed on
March 19, 1996 to privatize the company, the process did not reach a successful end. The
privatization was established as a condition for the first extension of the loan from June 30,
1996, to June 30, 1997. For that purpose, a new section (3.09) was added to the credit
agreement, and was accepted and signed by the Minister of Finance on May 24, 1996. In July
1996 a consulting company hired by the Ministry of Capitalization performed the financial study
for the privatization, and in April 1997 a memorandum of information on the concession of the
water and sewerage services in the city of Cochabamba and neighboring municipalities has been
prepared. The privatization was based on construction of the Corani project as the new water
supply source for Cochabamba and negotiations with the Corani company were held in parallel
to the preparation of the concession. The bidding process for the concession of SEMAPA
initiated on May 1997 and offers were to be submitted by July 17, 1997. Despite IDA's efforts
through Credits 2187-BO and 2134-BO, this bidding process was declared void by the Supreme
Court in response to a claim filed by the municipal authorities of Cochabamba, which objects to
the Corani project and prefers the Misicuni project. The claim was sustained by the court on the



-23-
basis of a technicality which resulted from the Government's delay in processing the
privatization process.
60.   On closing date the water coverage was 56% and sewerage coverage 52%. The Water
coverage is much lower than the target value of 80%, while sewerage service also falls short of
the 56% target value. Some performance and financial indicators for 1996 (audited values) are:
working ratio of 0.74, which represents an improvement over previous years but is still
considerably below the SAR's target (0.54 by the end of the project); collection efficiency fell to
70%; the number of employees per thousand water connections dropped from 8.5 in 1994 to
6.45 and was better than the SAR's target (8.37 by the end of the project); and the percentage of
personnel costs in relation to operating costs dropped from 59% in 1994 to 43.9%. There is still
no reduction in the rate of UTFW, which in 1996 rose to 54%, a high figure that indicates a low
operating inefficiency. In August 1997 the indicator values were similar except for collection
efficiency, which dropped further to 61%, a low figure that demonstrates the company's financial
inefficiency. This indicator has been losing ground in recent years, denoting a deterioration in
the company's performance. The percentage of personnel costs in relation to operating costs rose
in 1997 to 48.9%.
61.  In view of the performance and financial indicators of SEMAPA as presented above, it is
evident that the project's institutional development objectives of the SEMAPA component were
not achieved. Unless: (i) SEMAPA is privatized in the near future; and (ii) a new affordable
water supply source is developed in parallel to the implementation of the privatization process,
the quality of water and sewerage services will continue to deteriorate as a result of SEMAPA's
financial crisis. According to recent infornation provided to IDA, the Government intends to
initiate a new bidding process for the concession of SEMAPA, in combination with developing
the Misicuni project as the new water source for the city. The selection of the Misicuni project
as the water supply source puts in risk the success of the SEMAPA concession bidding process
(see Annex 4 regarding IDA's position on, the new water source for Cochabamba).
62.  In summary, all the works of the C'ochabamba component agreed upon during project
implementation were completed. These works, represent, however, only 77% of the work
program defined in the Credit Agreement. The implemented works benefit a population of
53,074 inhabitant, which is far below the SAR estimate of 300,000. In addition, the institutional
development objects of SEMAPA were not fully achieved. The future sustainability of the
provision of water and sewerage services in Cochabamba will depend on the success in
privatizing SEMAPA.
63.   PART D. NATIONAL COMPONENT (FNDR). The national component, totally
financed by IDA, was intended to strengthen FNDR in the development and application of
guidelines and manuals for institutional, technical, financial, and economic analysis of water and
sanitation projects; support the Ministry of Urban Affairs (MAU) in establishing tariff policies
and a system of indicators to monitor the performance of the sector companies; provide
assistance to the Ministry of Planning and Coordination (MPC) and the MAU in procuring
computer equipment; and provide training in management, operation and maintenance, and
commercial and financial administration to: (i) FNDR; (ii) the two Ministries; and (iii) other



-24-
urban and rural agencies which did not benefit from the Credit. The objectives were partially
achieved. The national program of improving the institutional capacity of the central
sector/Regional agencies, which was under the responsibility of Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo
Regional (FNDR), the National Fund for Regional Development, was only partly accomplished.
The development and implementation of a sectoral policy aimed at accelerating the development
of the country's water supply and sanitation systems was not achieved under the project. The
improvement of the institutional capabilities of central agencies for overseeing the water sector
did not materialize because the institutions and Ministries involved (MUA and MPC) were
dissolved in the early years of project implementation, as a result of reorganization of the
executive branch. Similarly, the national program for training in operation, maintenance and
commercial and financial management was not carried out; instead, each beneficiary company
used loan proceeds for training of its own staff. Nevertheless, the Government had established,
under the SIRESE Act in 1994, the Water Superintendency to regulate the water supply and
sanitation utilities in the country. It is currently preparing a water and sanitation Law to
establish the policy framework in the sector and define the responsibilities and the authority of
the water regulator. FNDR fulfilled its role as financial intermediary of the credit but did not: (i)
monitor compliance with the schedule; (ii) act as program leader; and (iii) assist the
inplementation of works. On various occasions it delayed disbursements. Through the
activities of FNDR, the coordination between the Bolivian authorities and donors in preparing
and financing sector-wide projects has improved and various sector financing programs have
been processed (an 1DB sector loan and an IDA municipal development credit through which
investments in the water sector are financed). Under the credit, 99 water and sanitation systems
were designed for rural areas as support for the PROSABAR (Rural Basic sanitation) project.
This activity was not included in the original program but was added later at the Government's
request. The institutional strengthening activities included in component D are presented in
Table 4.
64.   Part D-1 (a) and (c). Guidelines for the analysis of water and sanitation projects
and operating manuals for FNDR for institutional, technical, financial, and economic
analysis. The manuals for project analysis were prepared by FNDR consultants between March
1995 and December 1996 under the IDB project PRODURSA 2: Regional Development and
Sanitation Program (IDB 777-OC/BO and 914-OC/BO). In 1989-1990 FNDR prepared an
operations manual and submitted it to IDA. Between July and December 1992, FNDR used
consulting services to prepare standard bidding documents for works, goods, and services,
procurement of computer equipment, and consulting services, and to develop internal
procedures to administer and supervise Credit 2187-BO. By May 1997, the National Secretariat
of Popular Participation of the Ministry of Human Development (MDH) had established and
published the following rules and regulations:
* Technical design standards for water systems
* Technical design standards for sewerage systems
*  Standards for solid waste systems
* Standards for sanitation systems construction materials
* Technical regulations for designing water systems



-25-
*  Technical regulations for designing sewerage systems
*  Technical regulations for designing unmechanized treatment units for water and
sewage
*  Project presentation regulations
*  Model and regulations for management in water and sanitation
65.   Part D-1 (b). Tariff policy framlework and system of indicators. In April 1989,
MPC launched the Economic and Social Development Strategy for 1989-2000. The framework
for tariff policies was developed under an institutional agreement with the UNDP signed in April
1993, with IDA's no-objection. It included a pilot program to detect potential areas for
privatization in SAMAPA as a complement to the decentralization studies already prepared by
the UNDP. Between April 1993 and April 1994, FNDR conducted a study revising the local,
national, and regional financing by the agencies for the sector. As a condition for negotiating the
Credit (in February 1990) IDA requested that a financial policy be established for the basic
sanitation sector, which was published as Supreme Decree 22627 in October 1990. Article 1
(Investment Recovery) of the decree establishes that: "All investments supported by funds from
the national treasury or external financing for potable water and sewerage services shall have the
following main characteristics: (a) investments to establish, expand, and upgrade basic sanitation
services shall be recovered through tariff charges; and (b) the tariff structures for water and
sewerage services shall prevent misuse of water and reflect the real cost of the services, in strict
compliance with the new tariff policies established in Resolution 120 of the Ministry of Urban
Affairs of February 20, 1990". Through consulting services financed from the Credit, SAMAPA
developed a model for establishing tariff; that could be used by other companies. FNDR
developed a system of indicators applicable to the companies that benefited from the Credit,
concluding the work in May 1997. The system covers indicators, definitions, application, means
of comparison, and comments on the results. It is a suitable tool for monitoring business
management and has been included in the companies' operating plans. In 1992 the Ministry of
Planning and Coordination prepared a national development strategy which contains a chapter
on basic sanitation, using German technical cooperation funds through the GTZ. With respect to
the institutional situation in the sector, the strategy document notes that: "Supreme Decree
22965 promulgated in 1991 established the restructuring and distribution of the functions of the
different entities working in the sector in order to prevent duplication and render the country's
sanitation services more efficient. Coordination takes place on different levels and includes
projects for rural development, primary health care, sanitary education, and the use of water
resources from irrigation programs and electric power generation". Today the Water
Superintendency is responsible for approving tariffs on the national level.



-26-
Table 4: Institutional Development Activities Under the National Component
(FNDR Component)
Description              Expected         Implementation      Percentage of Execution
Implementation as   Achieved as of Dec.
defined in the        31, 1997                 (%)
Credit Agreement
1. Technical assistance in preparing the following:                                          |
a. Preparation of     Complete           Prepared under an    100%
guidelines for the    preparation        1DB program
analysis of water and
sanitation projects to be
applied by MPC
b. Development of a    Complete          Not prepared         0%                       l
tariff policy framework  preparation
and a system of
indicators for MAU to
monitor the
performance of
operators
c. Preparation of a   Complete           Prepared under an    100%
Manual of Operations   preparation        IDB program
for FNDR and for the
institutional, technical,
financial, and
economic analysis of
projects                                
2. Purchase and use of data  Complete            procured only for   Partial
processing equipment by MPC    procurement       DINASBA of MDH
and MUC
3. Training personnel of     Provide training    Not provided        0%
FNDR, MPC, MUA and other
urban and rural agencies not
participating in the Credit in
management, operation and
maintenance, and commercial
and financial administration
4. Preparation of a study to  Prepare the study  Not prepared        0%
define sector investment needs
and priorities
5. Preparation of the        Not included in the   Prepared, in response  100%
PROPRAAL component; design  original program    to the Government's
of 99 rural water and sanitation                request
systems for the PROSBAR
program



-27-
66.   Part D2. Procurement and use of data processing equipment for MPC and MUC.
With Credit proceeds, FNDR purchased three PCs, a photocopying machine and a fax machine.
It acquired a computers and printers for DINASBA and remodeled and furnished the office for
the PROSABAR project.
67.   Part D-3. Training for FNDR, MIPC, MUA and other urban and rural agencies not
participating in the Credit in management, in operation and maintenance and commercial
and financial administration. In January 1990, ANESAPA sent IDA a profile for a national
human resource training and development program in the water and sanitation sector in Bolivia.
This program was not approved. Training; was mainly restricted to visits of personnel of the
borrowing companies to Brazil to study general management, operation and maintenance and
commercial aspects that focused more on engineering than on service administration; studies in
English in the United States; participation in various seminars on private sector participation in
water utility management; and participation of employees of the borrowing companies in
different international courses and congresses. Four formal training activities were carried out.
The seminars contributed to the designs developed by DINASBA for rural water and sanitation
systems (PRORPAAL) and to establishing design standards. The following events were held:
*  A seminar in January 1995 on innovative water treatment systems for small and
medium-sized cities given by Cinara of Cali, Colombia.
O  A seminar on unconventional sewage treatment systems and the reuse of effluents in
agriculture, given by foreign specialists.
*  A formal course in September 1995 on the MAPRE software, given by CEPIS/OPS,
to enable the beneficiary companies to use the software for their preventive and
corrective maintenance programs.
*  A formal course in operation and maintenance of water and sewerage systems given
by a foreign consultant on behalf of FNDR to Bolivian sector companies.
68.   Part D-4. Study to define sector investments including national priorities. This
component was not implemented. Instead, at the Government's request, a program was carried
out by DINASBA between December 1994 and June 1997 to design 99 systems (59 for water
and 40 for sewerage) known as PRORPAAL. The works, if implemented, would provide water
for 60,144 people and sanitation services for 63,695 and will cost US$13.7 million.
69.  In summary, management of the Credit proceeds for the national component under
FNDR's control was satisfactory. However, FNDR did not assume a leadership role in the
sector. Nonetheless, the Water Superintendency established in 1994 under the SIRESE Act is
beginning to assume that role.



-28-
70.   The consulting services to design the water and sewerage systems under the PRORPAAL
component prepared by two consulting companies (Galindo which designed 46 projects and
Contegral which designed 54) were completed and the designs were received by DINASBA to
its satisfaction.
71.   All the funds in the national component (D) were disbursed prior to the credit closing
date (December 31, 1997).
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
72.   Project implementation was negatively affected by a number of factors that can be
grouped into the following categories:
(a) Political intervention in the water companies in La Paz and Cochabamba. Political
intervention by the Mayors in their capacity as presidents of the boards of directors of the
companies affected decisions relating to: (i) the award of contracts; (ii) timely application of
tariffs; (iii) privatization of the companies; (iv) bureaucratic delays in carrying out the
decisions of the boards of directors; and (v) turnover in company managers and personnel.
This situation applied to the companies of La Paz and Cochabamba during the seven years of
project implementation, in contrast to the Santa Cruz Cooperative which did not experience
political interference and implemented the project in a climate of managerial and personnel
stability (the manager did not change during the project implementation period) and excellent
relations between management and the board of directors appointed by the cooperative's
members. An example to the results of political intervention is the failure in privatizing
SEMAPA (Cochabamba) due to the opposition of the local authorities who favored
construction of the Misicuni project, to the clear disadvantage of the residents of the city
who will, as a result, experience delays in: (i) gaining access to a much needed new water
source; and (ii) a reduction in water rationing. The political intervention resulted in lack of
autonomy in decision-making, which forced managers to obtain approval of administrative
decisions by the boards of directors, hampered timely decisions for project implementation.
Also, since managers were political appointees of the Mayors, the turnover of managers in
the La Paz and Cochabamba companies was very high.
(b) Financial weakness of SEMAPA (Cochabamba). During the project implementation
period (December 1990 to December 1997) SEMAPA was financially very weak, and was
not able to provide the counterpart funds on time. One of IDA's conditions for extending
the closing date was that SEMAPA obtains the required fund. On the basis of this condition,
SEMAPA obtained Government funds through a loan from the Misicuni company.
(c) Weak technical base for project preparation and evaluation. Preparation of the project
and the SAR for La Paz and Cochabamba was based on preliminary engineering studies.
After the detailed design it was necessary to readjust the scope of works to the available
funds and this caused considerable delays. Also, SEMAPA decided to prepare the master



-29-
plan for water supply before beginning the emergency works. This approach delayed the
implementation of the emergency works by three years.
(d) Difficulties with standard bidding documents. SEMAPA and SAMAPA had difficulties
in preparing the bidding documents and other administrative documents in conformity with
IDA standards. This delayed the initiation of bidding processes by more than a year. After
considerable delays in Cochabamba, IDA insisted that an expert be hired to help out in
preparing bidding documents and resolve the problems.
(e) Weakness of local suppliers (represenitatives of foreign manufacturers). The response
to the calls for bids, particularly by suppliers of goods, was deficient since local suppliers did
not have enough professional experience. This hampered the timely award of contracts and in
various cases made it necessary to resort to retendering. Suppliers were also late in the
delivery of goods because of their lack of experience.
(f) Weakness of the implementing units in La Paz and Cochabamba. The project
implementing units, which were staffed with inexperienced and untrained personnel with very
weak managerial skills who had to consult the general managers of the companies regarding
all their decisions, hampered expeditious project implementation. SEMAPA never had an
independent implementing unit and its planning unit which was responsible for project
implementation, was handling several other projects at the same time.
D. PROJEICT SUSTAINABILITY
73.  In La Paz, the concession of water and sewerage services to a private company
guarantees: (i) continuity in managerial and other key staff; (ii) implementation of suitable
administrative, commercial, financial, operating and maintenance practices; and (iii) the
availability of investment funds, all of which are core elements for ensuring the sustainability of
the project and of the provision of services. The concessionaire, Aguas del Illimani S.A, will be
able to make the investments required over the 30 years of the contract period and was in fact
negotiating, before the closing date, new loans with multilateral institutions such as IFC, CAF,
IDB, and EIB. The institutional reform in La Paz is an example that many Latin American
companies should follow.
74.  In Cochabamba, since SEMAPA was not privatized, the project's sustainability is in
doubt because: (i) intervention by local politicians in managing the company and the resulting
weak management and administrative performance; (ii) frequent turnover of managers and key
company personnel; (iii) lack of stability in administrative, commercial, financial and operating
and maintenance programs; and (iv) contirnuing financial weakness which will negatively affect
the companys operation and maintenance activities. Thus, project sustainability depends on the
commitment of local politicians and leaders, particularly the Municipality, to achieving continuity
in company management and to addressing the problems of low coverage of services, water
rationing and high losses in the water system (water coverage of 56%, sewerage coverage of
52% and UFW of 52% in August 1997). it is expected that the Government and the Water



-30-
Superintendency will facilitate the privatization of SEMAPA, since this is the only way for
resolving the water and sewerage problems of the city. The methodology should be:
* The adoption of an appropriate institutional structure that will shield the company
from political intervention;
*  Support for achieving efficiency and effectiveness and monitoring of operational,
commercial, administrative and financial performance and of the quality and
continuity of water and sewerage services;
*  Development of a new water supply source for the city at an affordable cost to the
consumers;
*  Approval of periodic tariff increases to enable the company to finance its: (i)
operating costs; (ii) maintenance costs; (iii) equipment renewal; (iv) investments to
expand coverage; (v) debt service; and (vi) adequate returns on its fixed investments.
75.   Sustainability will also depend on continuously monitoring performance indicators and on
the efficient management of technical, commercial and financial aspects. It will depend in
particular on:
*  Urgently implementing a program to reduce the percentage of UFW to about 25%
(from the current figure of 52%);
*  Continuing the implementation of the PROFISE program, with emphasis on
introducing the modules for operational control and maintenance, including hiring
and training skilled staff.
*  Introducing a program to improve finances through tariff adjustments and leakage
control, which is crucial if the company is to achieve and maintain adequate service
levels.
76.   The only way of achieving all of the above is to privatize SEMAPA.
77.  In Santa Cruz SAGUAPAC's sustainability is guaranteed due to the stability, efficiency,
and effectiveness demonstrated by the company over the seven years of project implementation.
The company needs, however, to accelerate the implementation of the programs to expand
sewerage coverage and to protect the Santa Cruz aquifer, which is the only water source in
operation. Similarly, It will have to improve and expand the sewage treatment system to comply
with Bolivian standards for the discharge of treated wastes. One challenge for SAGUAPAC is
to obtain financing for investment, mainly for expansion of sewerage networks.



-31-
78.   As for the operation and maintenance of the installations and works constructed under
the project, there is no doubt that in Santa Cruz and La Paz the works will be fully used to serve
the purposes they were built for since the water companies in those cities are efficient and
responsible. The installations and works constructed in Cochabamba will also be operated to
their fill capacity because they are priority works in a city which suffers of severe water scarcity.
They might, however, not function properly due to the shortage of funds for operation and
maintenance.
E. IDA PERFORMANCE
79.   Project identification, preparation and appraisal were based on information existing in the
companies and information provided by the consultants which were retained to prepare the
project for the three cities under PPF-444-]30. The preparation was based on preliminary
studies of the works and not on final designs. This led to delays and subsequent reformulation of
the projects for La Paz and Cochabamba.
80.   The SAR adequately identified the rehabilitation and expansion requirements for the
water and sewerage systems and for institutional strengthening. IDA subsequently identified the
need to privatize the companies in La Paz amd Cochabamba, and these objectives were included
in the amendment to the Credit Agreements which was signed before the first extension.
81.   The project's main risks were identified in the SAR as follows: (i) the Government might
fail to effectively implement the policy and institutional framework to improve sector
performance countrywide, which was partially mitigated with a financial policy established under
a supreme decree, but no administrative policy was introduced to improve the management of
the water companies; (ii) FNDR might fail to become an effective sector lead agency. FNDR
failed in fact to assume the leadership role, and today the Water Superintendency is taking over
that role; and (iii) delays in the timely application of tariff increases, which occurred in La Paz
and Cochabamba and confirmed the risk pointed out in the SAR regarding Government
weakness in applying the policies agreed upon.
82.   Political intervention in La Paz and Cochabamba was promptly detected by IDA and
solutions were proposed (privatization of SAMAPA and SEMAPA). IDA was constructive in
convincing the authorities to implement the proposed solutions and provided all the technical
assistance necessary to carry out the privatization process. Success, however, was only partial,
since SEMAPA was not privatized. Even so, the privatization of SAMAPA was a major
achievement in the Latin American context.
83.   The companies encountered difficulties in using IDA's standard procurement documents.
IDA did not identify this problem on time and this led to delays in the preparation and approval
of bidding documents.
Four task managers were involved with the project from its inception to completion. During the
period September 1991 to November 1994 procurement activities were delayed due to slow



-32-
response of IDA in issuing no-objections to bidding processes. During the same period,
supervision of the national component was also weak, but improved from November 1994 on,
when IDA identified the problems and helped to resolve them. Intensive IDA's supervision
during the final implementation period enabled to ensure the satisfactory completion of works
within a reasonable period.
84.   Four task managers were involved with the project from its inception to completion, two
prior to signing the Credit Agreement and two during the implementation stage. IDA provided
adequate advise to the Bolivian authorities during the identification and appraisal stage. The
conditions of negotiation were complied with by the Government. During the period September
1991 to November 1994 procurement activities were delayed due to slow response of IDA in
issuing no-objections to bidding processes. During the same period, also the supervision of the
national component was weak and the objectives of this component were not achieved, but the
situation improved from November 1994 on, when IDA identified the problems and helped to
resolve them. Intensive IDA supervision during the final implementation period enabled to
ensure satisfactory completion of works within a reasonable time frame.
85.  1DA's recommendations for undertaking specific groundwater studies in Cochabamba
and Santa Cruz and its insistence in their implementation helped to clarify the information
regarding the capacity of the aquifers and the risks of their contamination.
86.   A total of 14 supervision missions were carried out over the seven years of the project
implementation. The back to office reports and the aide-memoires permit tracing project
implementation, the problems encountered, monitoring of the legal commitments, and the agreed
plans of action. Overall, IDA's performance in project preparation and supervision was
satisfactory.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
87.   The institutional weakness of the companies in La Paz and Cochabamba, continuous
intervention in their management by local politicians, and tumover in key staff led to delays in
project implementation. Political intervention was also the reason for the failure of the effort to
privatize the water company of Cochabamba. The private concessionaire of the water company
of La Paz, in contrast, was able to resolve the implementation problems, and proceed to
complete the project works.
88.   The limited financial capacity of the water company of Cochabamba delayed project
implementation until it obtained a Government loan to finance its counterpart contribution.
During the project, the company was unable to reduce the high UFW level (52% at closing date)
or to improve collections (61% at closing date), which demonstrate its operational and financial
inefficiency. The implementation of the Wara Wara project was not satisfactory. An
incompetent contractor was hired and completed the works after a delay of 561 days in relation
to the period agreed upon in the contract (305 days), SEMAPA refused to rescind the contract
and IDA had to accept this approach, which delayed by four years the completion of this



-33-
important work, that could have increased much earlier the water supply flow to the city by 100
I/s.
89.   The Santa Cruz water company implemented the project efficiently and effectively,
completed the works defined in the SAR ahead of schedule and with significant savings, and
used the savings to construct additional sewerage works which were completed prior to the
closing date. In regard to institutional development, it used the Credit proceeds to make the
most urgent improvements, which were adequately identified and prioritized. It made good use
of IDA's recommendations and demonstrated a high sense of institutional responsibility. Its
performance indicators rank it as one of the lbest water and sewerage companies in Latin
America.
90.   FNDR, which was in charge of managing the credit, complied satisfactorily with its
financial intermediation function. However, it was not always successful in providing timely
support in the administrative aspects of tendering and implementation of contracts, and
sometimes delayed disbursements to the beneficiary water companies. Through the activities of
FNDR, the coordination between the Bolivian Authorities and donor agencies in preparing and
financing sector-wide projects has improved. The national program of improving the
institutional capacity of the central sector agencies was only partly accomplished, mainly because
the Ministries involved (MAU and MPC) were dissolved in the early years of project
implementation as a result of reorganization of the executive branch. The development and
implementation of a sectoral policy aimed at accelerating the development of the country's water
supply and sanitation systems, was not achieved under the project because of weakness of the
agencies responsible for the sector.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
91.   General assessment of project achievements The works of the SAMAPA and
SAGUAPAC components were completed. SAGUAPAC has in fact completed 25% of
additional works. SEMAPA, on the other hand has completed only 77% of its works. A major
institutional reform was carried out in the water sector in La Paz and will ensure the
sustainability of water and sewerage service in that city. The institutional performance of
SAGUAPAC in Santa Cruz has been very satisfactory all along. The institutional development
objectives of SEMAPA in Cochabamba were, however, not achieved and the company's future
sustainability is uncertain and will depend on its successful transfer to the private sector. In view
of the highly satisfactory results achieved in the SAGUAPAC and SAMAPA components and
the partial achievements in the SEMAPA component, the project as a whole is ranked as
moderately satisfactory.
92.   SAMAPA's institutional strengthening was achieved through privatization of the
company under a 30-year concession which ensures the sustainability of the water and sewerage
services in La Paz. In SEMAPA a broad institutional development program (PROFISE) was
designed and implemented, covering the commercial, financial, information technology, and
operation and maintenance areas. It success has been limited. Since the company has not been



-34-
privatized, the sustainability of water and sewerage services in Cochabamba is uncertain.
Moreover, the turnover of managers and senior staff as a result of the change of Government in
August 1997 led to the loss of the progress made in training, management improvement and the
achievements of PROFISE. SAGUAPAC used the credit funds to address its priority
institutional development needs.
93.   The objectives of improving the institutional capabilities of central agencies for
overseeing the water sector and of developing an institutional and policy framework to improve
the performance of the sector countrywide were not achieved, although a financial policy was
established by a supreme decree. The objective of improving coordination between the Bolivian
authorities and donors in preparing and financing sector-wide project was achieved through the
experience gained by FNDR and the improvement of its performance. In addition, 99 water and
sewerage systems for rural communities were designed under the national component and their
implementation could be financed under future rural development programs. Although the
objectives of policy framework development and institutional capacity building of central
agencies were not achieved under the project, the Government established a Water
Superintendency which is supposed to take over the regulatory role in the sector, with FNDR
continuing to function as the financial support entity for the sector.
94.   The internal rate of return (IRR) for SAMAPA at closing date was 8.65% for the
combined water and sewerage project (compared to an expected value of 10% in the SAR).
This value is lower than the SAR estimate because in the SAR it was assumed that US$7.6
million would be contributed by the KfW to finance sewerage works in El Alto, while after the
detailed design it was found that cost of the sewerage works amounted to US$13.37 million,
which is the grant amount awarded by KfW. The final number of sewerage connections in El
Alto is expected to be about 5,000 and not 8,455 as originally estimated. The IRR for the La
Paz water project alone is 34.97%. For the SAGUAPAC project, the IRR at closing date was
20.37% (compared to an expected value of 15% in the SAR). The higher than expected value is
a result of the construction of 25% additional sewerage works. For SEMAPA, the IRR at
closing date was 0.58% (compared to an expected value of 15% in the SAR). The reasons for
this disappointing result are: (i) not all the projects benefits were achieved in terms of increased
water flow; and (ii) UFW was not reduced (reaching a value of 52% at the closing date,
compared to an expected value of 3 0% in the SAR). SEMAPA will have to make a priority
effort to reduce its water losses if it intends to improve service to the community and improve its
financial situation.
95.   Although only partial success was achieved in the national component and in the
SEMAPA component, the results of the SAMAPA and SAGUAPAC components were
extremely successful and impressive. In view of the highly satisfactory results in the
SAGUAPAC and SAMAPA components, which outbalance the partial results obtained in the
SEMAPA component, overall, the project is ranked as moderately satisfactory.



-35-
H. FUITURE OPERATIONS
96.   In 1994 the Government established, under the SIRESE Act, the Water Superintendency
as the regulator of the water and sewerage utilities in charge of monitoring technical,
administrative, commercial, and financial aspects, so as to guide the sector and ensure
implementation of institutional management policies. Although this reform is recent, it is
expected to improve the sector's performance over the medium term.
97.   Privatization of sector companies, which began with the long-term concession of
SAMAPA, is the route that other companies should follow. Support for these initiatives, which
would help to improve the operational efficiency of the water companies, is an area of interest
for future IDA operations. IFC operations can be used to support the privatized companies.
98.   A Regulatory Reform and Privatization TA under preparation will support the conversion
of local water and sanitation utilities into efficient entities. This project will finance technical
assistance to: (i) assist the water Superintendency to establish performance indicators that will be
incorporated within each local water utility's concession contract; (ii) supervise these entities to
determine whether they comply with these obligations; and (iii) convert water cooperatives into
corporations with private investment in order to comply with investment and operational
requirements.
L LESSONS LEARNED
99.  It is preferable that the preparatio,n and evaluation of projects be based on final
engineering designs. Preparation based on feasibility studies may lead to delays caused by the
need to redesign works and make subsequent adjustments in the scope of works, which may
cause delays in achieving the expected benefits
100.  It is extremely difficult to develop and implement institutional strengthening programs in
inefficient ailing public utilities that have no incentives to improve their performance and which
are subject to strong political control and complex administrative procedures. In such cases,
rather than investing in institutional strengthening, IDA should make its loans conditional on
involving the private sector in the management and delivery of services. If Governments and
Borrowers do not accept this approach, IDA should not participate in financing the respective
projects.
101.  Privatization depends entirely on the political will to carry out the process. It was
successful in La Paz because the Government and Mayor were committed to it, and it failed in
Cochabamba because of the objection of the local authorities.
102.  Frequently politicians take decisions that are contradictory to the recommendations of
technical and financial studies, for reasons not related to the objective of benefiting the public,
thereby jeopardizing the achievement of the goal of providing water and sewerage services to a
population that does receive with these crucial services.



-36-
103. High turnover of task managers does not foster sound supervision, does not support
implementation efforts and should be avoided.
104.  The project objectives were too ambitious and the project design was too complicated.
It is preferable to design and implement simpler projects.



-37-
PART I: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of objectives    Substantiall      Partial        Nezligible       Not aplicable
Macro policies                                                                          X
Sector policies                                      X
Financial objectives                                 X       ___
Institutional development             X                            .
Physical objectives                   X                        .
Poverty reduction                                    X
Gender issues                                                                          X
Other social objectives                                                                 X
Enviromnental objectives                             X
Public sector management                                      _
Private sector development            X
Other (specify)                                                                        X
B. Project sustainability           Likely        Unlikely       Uncertain
x__
C. Bank performance                 Highly      Satisfactory     Deficient
satisfactDry
Identificacion                                                    X                 _
Preparation assistance                            X
Appraisal                                         X
Supervision                                       x
D. Borrower performance             Highly      Satisfactory    Moderately          Deficient
Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
DI: SAMAPA             =      =                               _     _=        _=_
Preparation                   _              _                    x
Implementation                _   _ __X__ _ _                        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Covenant compliance           _                   X x
Operation (if applicable)          X         _ r                            _
D2: SAGUAPAC                     _         =
Preparation                                       x
Implementation                      X                      _
Covenant compliance                x   _
Operation (if applicable)          X   _
D3: SEMPA                            _
Preparation                                                       X
Implementation                _                                   X
Covenant compliance                               X
Operation (if applicable)                                         X
D4: FNDR
Preparation                                                       X
Implementation                                    X 
Covenant compliance                               x
Operation (if applicable)               _
E. Assessment of outcome            Highby      Moderately    Unsatisfactory         Highly
satisf actory    Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory
x



-38-
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/Credit title                         Purpose               Yearof |  Status
I                                I approval 
Proceeding Operations
CR 948-BO: Water and Sewerage Rehabilitation and expansion of the  1979   Completed
for Santa Cruz de la Sierra  Santa Cruz de la Sierra Water and          1986
Sewerage Systems
Cr 1324-BO: Water and        70 rural communities with 170.000   1976   Canceled
Sewerage for Urban and Rural   people
Communities
Cr 1842-BO: La Paz Municipal   The project aims at: (i) strengthening    1987   Completed
Development Project          the institutional, managerial and fiscal    1996
capacity of the city of La Paz; (ii)
promoting municipal investment, the
provision of basic municipal services,
and the maintenance of urban
infrastructure; and (iii) alleviating the
effects of economic stabilization and
adjustment on the population.
Cr 1977-BO: Economic         This project aims to support        1998   Completed
Management Strengthening     institutional development and facilitate   1995
Operations Project (EMSO)    the sustained implementation and
consolidation of the Government's
medium term macro-economic reform
program
Cr 2134-BO: Private Enterprise  This credit is directed at strengthening   1990   Closing
Development Project          the private industrial sector,             6/30/98
broadening the client base and range
of financial instruments available from
the banking system, improving the
effectiveness of public and private
institutions providing services to
industry, minimizing bureacratic
impediments to industrial
development, improving managerial,
accounting andmarketing skills among
manufacturers, and promoting
I entrepreneurial development.



-39-
Loan/Credit title            j            Purpose             | Year of |  Status
_ _ _ _ _                         approval
Proceeding Operations
Cr. Cr. 2806-BO:Rural Water and Increasing coverage and sustainable  1996   Closing
sanitation Project           use of water and sanitation services in    12/31/00
rural communities and municipaliteis
in Bolivia
Cr 2565-BO: Municipal        Promoting efficient municipal       1994   Closing
Development Project          management in support of effective         12/31/99
decentralization; improving resource
mobilization and allocation of
municipal investment projects;
alleviating urban poverty and
encouraging balanced regional
development.
Cr 2647-BO: Regulatory Reform  The project's objectives are to assist    1994   Closing
and Capitalization Technical  the Government in the planning,           6/30/98
Assistance Program           design and execution of its
capitalization program and to ensure
that the Government has at its
disposal the varied and complex
advice needed for such a program.



-40-
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                Date planned      Date actual/latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project       23 Apr 87              11-Oct.-89
Summary)
Preparation                             01-Mar.-88             04-Mar.-89
Appraisal                                Nov.-88               07-Oct.-89
Negotiations                               NA            30-Abr-90 and 24-Sep-90
Letter of development policy (if
applicable)
Board presentation                      27-Mar.-90             04-Dic.-90
Credit Signing                                                 17-Dic.-90
Effectiveness                           18-Mar.-91             17-Sep.-91
First tranche release (if applicable)__________
Mdterm review (if applicable)    l
Second (and third) tranche release
Project completion                      31-Dec-96              31-Dec-97
Loan closing                            30-Jun.-96             31-Dec-97
NA: Not Available



-41-
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED (SAR) AND
ACTUAL
(USS Thousands)
Company/FY   Total   89        90   911       92      93     94      95     96      97
SAMAPA                           _
SAR             6,795          1,061   1,383  2,909   1,402     40              -
Actual          6,558             -      240    271    198       -     419  4,457| 1,388
Cum. SAR (1)                    1,061  2,444  5,353   6,755   6,795   6,795  6,795   6,795
Cum. Actual (2) _____     -       -      240    511    709    709   1,128  5,585   6,973
(2) as % of (1)                           10     10      10     10      17      82    103
SAGUAFAC
SAR            12,687            210  4,792  3,137  3,761    632    155         -       -
Actual         12,706             -      160    977  4,258  2,790   1,835   1,814   1,433
Cum. SAR(1)  _            -      210  5,002  8,139 11,900 12,532  12,687  12,687  12,687
Cum. Actual (2)      T    -       -      160  1,138  5,395  8,185  10,020 11,834  13,277
(2)as   of(1)                     -        3     14      45     65      79     93    105
SAMAPA
SAR            13,834     -      960  3,071  2,387  4,314  2,594    508         -       -
Actual         13,616     -       -      277    357   1,520   1,590   1,488  5,389   3,695
Cum. SAR(1)               -      960  4,031  6,418  10,732  13,326  13,834  13,834  13,834
Cum. Actual (2)           -       -      277    634  2,154  3,743   5,231  10,620  14,315
(2)as%of(1)                       -        7     10      20     28      38     77    103
FNDR
SAR             1,3001                - _                  I       I       _   _   _______
Actual          1,1581    -       -       -      22    2851   3521   163    191    145
Cum. Actual (2)      T_r ___                     22    307J   6591   821  1,013   1,158
Total
SAR            34,616     -    2,231  9,246  8,433   9,477  3,266    663        -       -
Actual         35,722     -       -      677   1,627  6,261  4,731  3,904  11,851   6,671
Cum. SAR(1)               -    2,231 11,477 19,935 29,733 33,396 34,243  34,459  34,616
Cum. Actual (2)           -       -     677  2,304, 8,565| 13,296| 17,201| 29,052| 35,722
(2)as%of(1)                       -        61    121    291    401    501    84L   103
(1) Information based on SAR data
(2) Information based on accounting data of FNDR



42-
DISBURSEMENT CHARTS
AWAPA Indp Vm&                                                       IAMAPM UA  Trtabls SR y Rsal Aomub
91   91   93   94   95 ff               ff     n                                9091929391 9X97
AS- ."
SAGUAPAC.luwenl6nmprog,nvulm (SAR)y Real                                    SAOUA?AC: T4.W. SAR yX.W A..*I.d.
6,000
4,00  in             K-                                         'I
9     91    92    93    94    95    96    97                                 3n 9n          949f 597
AM..
Afiw
SEMAPA lnv*erl6nPnigmnda (SAR) y Real                                       SI rA. T.Md. IAkR .dI A-..I*d
I   6,000  -                                                        I -    -        1- -- 
t4,0PO SiA R1
*2,000                            ~l                                                                          
90    91                                                         | 9   96    97
Alas                                                      89 9.91 91 93 94 9) 95 97
AS..
|NDR: lvena real                            |                                D A-.I.
4  200               _                                                              ElM41                -9
J -                                                              R.a             4   0                      .l.        -R.
I   ^      so90    9    92    93    94    95    96    97            1                      
I.w~~~~A.
4W~~                                                          AA.
CraditO 2187-BO: imveulfn Total PIrograuda (SAR)y Real                          Cd^. ZI87: T4d- &ARy R.W AA..Id..
|Saup, SapmA Snspa y INDR)
10,00  Mm                                                                      18.9a]
90    91    92    93   94    95    96    97            I        I                        A  a
AAm                               A&-l      l



43-
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key implementation indicators    Estimated SAR (1990)            Actual (1997)
in SAR/Presidents Report     l                           l
5A: SAMAPA
Increment in water production and 200,000 additional inhabitants  97,000 additional inhabitants
supply in La Paz              served in 1995 (increase of 300 served (with the additional 300
V/s in water supply)       Vs), and inatsllation of a
capacity to serve in the future
191,800 additional inhabitants
(through the increse of
conveyance capacity of 1,000
I/s to the southern part of the
city), achieving a total benefited
population of 289,000
inhabitants
Increment in the sewerage service  200,000 additional inhabitants  KfW indicates that works will
in La Paz and El Alto         served in 1995             be completed in the second half
of 1998 (see Annex 3)
5B: SAGUAPAC                                                                      _
Increment in water production and 300,000 additional inhabitants  272,000 additional inhabitants
supply in Santa Cruz          served in 1995              served, with a production
increase of 840 I/s
Increment in the sewerage service  30,000 additional inhabitants   46,736 additional inhabitants
in Santa Cruz                 served in 1995              served with sewerage networks
and wastewater treatment in
oxidation ponds
5C: SEMAPA
Increment in water production and 300,000 additional inhabitants  47,520 additional inhabitants
supply in Cochabamba          servecd in 1995             served, with a production
increase of 220 1/s



-44-
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Key implementation indicators in             Estimated SAR (1995)         Actual (1997)
SAR/Presidents Report                     l                        l
6A: SAMAPA(Non Audited Data)
Operations
Water produced (M3 Thousands)                             66,962,570               65,284,914
Water sold ( M3 Thousands)                                48,942,940               43,801,315
Unaccounted for water (V.)                                     26.9                      32.9
Service Coverage Water (ie)                                   80.7                      84.0
Sewerage Coverage (/O)                                        65.6                      56.0
Metered water comections/water connections                       85                        98
Employoes/1000 water connections                               7.86                      3.57
Financial
Average Water Tariff US$/m3 sold                               0.371
Working Ratio                                                  0.431                     0.69
6B: SAGUAPAC(Audited Data)
Operations
Water produced (M3 Thousands)                             40,230,000               38,176,960
Water sold (M3 Thousands)                                 30,172,500               30,672,662
Unaccounted for water (%/6)                                    25.0                      23.0
Service Coverage Water (%)                                     78.5                      80.0
Sewerage Coverage (%/6)                                        39.0                      33.0
Metered water connections/water connections (%)                 100                       100
Employees/1000 water connections                               6.06                      4.02
Financial
Average Water Tariff US$/m3 sold          1                   0.1741                     0.55
Working Ratio                             j                    0.641                     0.72
6C: SEMAPA(Non Audited Data)
Operations
Water produced (M3 Thousands)                             28,230,000               23,622,236
Water sold ( M3 Thousands)                                19,760,000                11,476,010
Unaccounted for water (%)                                      30.0                      52.0
Service Coverage Water (o)                                     79.5                      57.0
Sewerage Coverage (%/-)                                        56.1                      54.0
Metered water connections/water connections (%/6)                80                        64
Employees/1000 water connections                               8.37                      6.49
Financial
Average Water Tariff US$/m3 sold                               0.281                     0.63
Worldng Ratio                                                  0.54                      0.71



-45-
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Location/Study        Purpose as defined at SAR      Status             Impact of study
Oct 89/Jul 89: Project     To prepare engintering project Completed     Allowed to execute the project.
preparation for the three cities. components, preliminary
designs and costs.
SAMAPA, La Paz
Oct 89/Feb 92: Final designs:  To prepare engineering final   Completed.  Very positive. Allowed the
Pampahasi water treatment    designs, bidding documents                 works to be executed.
plant expansion, conveyance   and costs estimates.
system to the south and
distribution
Aug 91/Jul 93: Institutional    To strenghten organizational,  Leakeage control  Positive impact in leak detection
strengthening              commercial, financial and   completed and    and control. Negligible impact.
operations (leakeage control)  implemented.
areas.                     Other components
partially
completed.
1996: Private sector       To prepare the PSP process in  Completed.   Very positive resulted in the
participation              La Paz.                                      concession of SAMAPA (which
was awarded in mid 1997).
1996: Tariff satudy        To prepare financial projections Completed  Allowed SAMAPA to propoese
and tariff study to be                      and Conata to approve the tariff
submmited to Coinata.                       adjustment in 1996.
Dec 95: Operation and      To introduce a methodology for Partially     Positive impact in maintenance
Maintenance                maintenance planning and    implemented      planning and control
control                    (electromechanical
equipment in
water treatment
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ p lan ts)_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
SAGUAPAC: Santa Cmz de la Sierra
Institutional Strengthening  To strenghten organizational,  Completed.  Very positive impact.
commercial, financial and
operational areas.
Dec 95: Operations and     To introduce a methodology for Not implemented  No impact
Maintenance                maintenance planning and
control
Jun 96: Management of      Assess capacity and        Recomendations   Very positive impact in
Groundwater Resources in   contamination risks in the  partially included  updating the water master plan
Santa Cruz                 Santa Cruz aquifer         in Operational    in relation to capacity and
Plan             contnination risk of the
aquifer
Jun 96: Leakeage management Define a strategy to cope with  Strategy included  Very positive indirecting actions
unaccount for water        in Operational    on leak detection and leakeage
Plan             control
Jul 97: Environmental Auditing Assesing the environmental    Mitigation  Positive in updating and
of Water and Sewerage Systems impact of existing installations measures included orientation of the sewerage
in Operational    master plan
Plan



-46-
Location/Study      | Purpose as defined at SAR  |   Status             m act of study
SEMAPA: Cochabamba         _                                                                      |
Jul/Oct 88: Ground water   To assess the quantity and  Completed       Positive, allowed to develop
assesment in Cochabamba    quality of ground water in the              ground water alternatives in the
Cochabamba Valley and                       master plan.
extraction areas.
Mar 93/Mar 95: Water Supply  To prepare medium and long   Completed.   Very positive as a tool to
Master Plan               term development strategy, to                implement services dircted to
identify projeCtS to satisfy               satisfy demand.
demand in both services and to
prepare a long term investment
iplan.
Institutional Strengthening  To strenghten organizational,  Completed and    Positive, but still SEMAPA's
commercial, financial and  implemented     performance indicators are not
operational areas.         except leakeage   satisfactory.
control.
Dec 95: Operations and     To introduce a methodology for Not implemented  No impact
Maintenance                maintenance planning and
control
Sep 96: Preliminary        Assess capacity and        Results were used  Used as a planning tool for
Assessment of Groundwater   contamination risks in the  to confirm ground  aquifers exploitation.
Resources in VaUe Alto and    Cochabamba and Valle Alto    water resources
Evaluation of Previous     Aquifers. The study provided   and their
Estimates of the Groundwater  clarification on capacity and    contamination
in Valle de Cochabamba     contaminations risks, in order  risks.
to plan their utilization
1996: Private sector       To prepare the PSP process in  Completed..  No impact since the process was
participation              Cochabamba.                                 suspended by the Mayor of
Cochabamba.



47-
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Item               Appraiisal Estimate (US$    Actual/Latest Estimate (US$)
Million)
Local    Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign     Total
Costs     Costs              Costs     Costs
SAMAPA, La Paz                  7.00'      7.40    14.40     17.04    12.747      29.78
Water                            2.10C     4.70     6.80      5.82      6.10       11.92
Sewerage (1)                    4.90       2.70     7.60     11.22      6.64       17.86
SAGUAPAC, Santa Cruz             4.70'     8.00    12.70     11.26      7.73       18.99
SEMAPA, Cochabamba              5.10       8.60    13.70     12.88      7.55      20.43
National Component               0.50      0.80     1.30      0.84      0.39        1.23
Total Base Costs                17.30     24.80    42.10     42.02     28.31      70.43
Physical Contingencies           1.70      2.50     4.20      0.00      0.00       0.00
Price Contingencies              2.50      4.00     6.50      0.00      0.00       0.00
Total Project Cost             21.50      31.30    52.80     42.02     28.41      70.43
Taxes                           3.40       0.00     3.40      0.00      0.00       0.00
PPF (444-BO)                     0.10      0.70     0.80      0.00      0.68       0.68
Total Investment Cost          25.00      32.00    57.00.    42.02     29.09      71.11
(1): The acual cost refers to the Grant Agreement signed between the Goverunent of Bolivia and KfW on June
20, 1991.
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Item                            Aplpraisal Estimate          ActuaULatest Estimate
JJSS$ Million)                    S$ Million)
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
_  Costs    Costs               Costs     Costs   _ __
SAMAPA, La Paz                  5.10      0.00      5.10      9.68      0.00       9.68
SAGUAPAC, Santa Cruz            4.10C     0.00      4.10      5.87      0.00       5.87
SEMAPA, Cochabamba              4.80      0.00      4.80      6.04      0.00       6.40
FNDR                            0.00      0.00      0.00      0.07      0.00       0.07
KfW                             4.40      3.60      8.00      6.73      6.64      13.37
IDA                             6.60     28.40     35.00     22.44     13.28      34.72
Total Project Cost             25.00     32.00     57.00     51.19     19.92      71.11!



-48-
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Institution   ANC   Average Actual Tariff  IRR SAR    IRR (Actual)         Comments
(%)     (Dec 96) USSIm3       (%)         Dec 96
SAMAPA        25.00         0.28         Not Calculated    34.97    Actual water project only
in the SAR             (without taking in account the
_______               ___________              sewerage project)
25.00         0.28            10.00        8.65 l'   Actual combined water and
sewerage projects
SAGUAPAC    24.00           0.40            15.00        20.37    Actual combined water and
sewerage projects
SEMAPA        52.00         0.41             15.00       0.58 2'   Actual water project
25.00         0.41            15.00        9.47    Considering future decrease in
Unaccounted for Water (UFW)
down to 24%.
25.00         0.53            15.00        14.25    Considering future decrease in
UFW down to 25% and an
increase in water tariff of 300%.
1/ Althogh the IRR of the water project alone is very high, the IRR of the combined water and
sewerage project did not reach the SAR value because: (i) the cost of the sewerage component,
financed by KfW was highly underestimated in the SAR; and (ii) the number of sewerage
connections was over estimated in the SAR.
2/ The IRR resulted much lower than the SAR estimate because: (i) the expected increment of
630 Ils of water supply to Cochabamba was not achieved as a result of the physical objection of
the farmers to perforation of deep wells. The actual water supply increment achieved was only
220 Vs; and (ii) the expected reduction in Unnacounted for Water was not achieved as well and
the UFW value at the credit closing date was 52%, compared to an expected value of 30%.



49-
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement   sction   Coventm    status    Oimial            Revised        Desription of covent                Co_ments
I Type              fulillhnent   Fulflllment
l_______   _____   ________  date        date
CREDIT AG REEMENT (with the Gewrnent'
2.02 (b)  1            C                                   Open Special Accot under the
Projec
3.04 (a)  5            C                                   Review amually project        KfW does not take part in the
implementation satus with     review.
FNDR, the Executing Agencies
KfW, and IDA, and take
remedial actions as needed to
improve implementation.
3.05 (a)  5            C        Continuous                 Cause Executing Agencies      This requirement has been lifted
(except SAGUAPAC) to use      as of 1995, as a result of an
prourement agent.             amendment of the Bolivian law
.___________ __________ _   of proc er nent
3.06 (a)  5            C        Decemiber                  Fumish to IDA plan of         Related ("Misicuni') study has
31, 1992                  allocation of water raoure    prvided recmmendations to
between agriculture and other    the Bank, the capital
uses in the Cochabamba ares   investments for the
reconmnended multipurpose dam
project are outside the reach of
the Government. A medium
term solution involving ground
water is being explored.
3.06 (b)  5            CD       January                    Commence implementation of    See convert under 3.06 (a);
1994                     the above plan.                French Government is providing
assistance to SEMAPAto
explore ground water.
3.07     2             C        Continuous                 Shall not commit capital
expenditures for any water
projed in excess ofUSSIO
million in the areas ofLa Paz,
Cochabamba and Santa Cruz
without IDA approvaL
3.08 (a)  5            C        December                   Fumish to IDA  safacry
31,1991                   proposal for the reorganization
ofthe water supply sector based
on ongoing of studies
3.08 (b)  5            C        June 3D,                   Commence implementation of
1992                     the reorgnization.
4.01 (a)  1            C        May 30,                    Maintain Projed Account for
& (b)                           each year                  expenditures under Part D ofthe
projed; arrange for independent
auditing ofthe Special Account
and submit annual audit report.
4.01 (c)  1            C        May30,                     Maintain records for aU SOE
each year                 accounts and provide separate
auditors' opinion for SOEL



-50-
TABLE 10: STASTUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUATION)
PROJECT AGREEMENT (with SEMAPA, SAMAPA & SAGUAPAC)
2.06     5    CP                                  Furnish an Institutional   SAGUAPAC complies,
Improvement plan and a    SAMAPA and SEMAPA do
financial plan (together with  not. IDA mission of July
5-year financial projections);  1995 prepared action plans
and provide and implement   for SAMAPA and
action plan to meet       SEMAPA. On June 1996,
performance targets as    the GOB initiated thr
necessary.                processes of privatizing
SAMAPA and SEMAPA.
2.07     9    C      May 31 and Feb               Submit semi-annual project
28 each year                 progress report
4.01     1    C      May 30 each year             Maintain a project account;
arrange for independent
auditing of annual financial
statements, and SOE
accounts; and submit audit
reports and separate opinion
on SOEs.
4.02     2     CP   October 1 each                Shall not exceed the annual   SAGUAPAC complied,
year                         operating rations specified    SEMAPA and SAMPA did
in the Credit Agreement and  not.
provide remedial actions as
needed.
4.03     2     C     12 months period             Miaintain net Revenues at
basis                       least 1.3 times the debt
service requirements.
4.04 (a)  2    C     During project               Shall not undertake capital
& (b)                period                       expenditures exceeding
following amounts without
IDA approval:
US$2.0 million (SAMAPA)
US$1.5 million (SEMAPA)
US$1.5 million
(SAGUAPAC)
4.04(c)  2     C     Continuous                   Introduce an automatic tariff  The "Dollarization" of the
adjustment system (on a   monthly tariffs has been
quarterly basis, in line with   successfully applied; this
Consumer Price Index).    needs to be supplemented by
additional increase to match
________   _ __________ ___   _____ ____   _____ __________ _________ inflation.
Status Legend:
C       - Complied with
CD      - Compliance after Delay
NC      - Not complied with
SOON   - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Tine
CP      - Complied with Partially
NYD    - Not YetDue



-51-
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITL: OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
No significant lack of compliance with applicable Bank Operational Statement (OD or OP/BP)
TABLE 12: BANK ]RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of Project Cycle           Planned                 Revised                      Actual
Weeks      US$ (1)      Weeks       US$ (1)     Weeks             US$
Through Appraisal             20                                              20                 37,500.00
Appraisal/Board               2                                                2                  3,750.00
Board/Effectiveness           0                                                0
Supervision                   27                                              27                70,950.00
Completion                                                                                        9,000.00
TOTAL                         49                                             49 (2)            121,200.00
(1) Information not available
(2) Excluding time for preparation of the ICR



-52-
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Stage of    Month   Number   Days    Specialized             Performance rating          Types of
project     year   of persons   In      staff skills                                    problems
field   represented
Implementation    Development
status          impact
Through    May.-87        2        10           SE/FA           -                -
appraisalI
Sep.-87       2        10           SE/FA          -                 -
Feb.-88       2        10           SE/FA          -                 -
Abr.-89       2        10           SE/FA          -                 -
Sep.-89       2        10           SE/FA          -                 -
Appraisal   Apr 90        1        10              FA
through
Board
approval                                                  .
Board                              158
approval
through
effectiveness
Supervision  Sep.-91      1        19              SE          1                 1        CLC, PM
Mar.-92       1        19               SE         1                 1        CLC, PM
Jul.-92       1        12              FA          1                 1        CLC
Nov.-92       1        12              SE          2                 1        CLC, PM
Jul.-93       1        15              SE          2                 1        PM
Feb.-94       2        6             E/FA                                     PM
Nov.-94       1        10              SE          3                          PM/AF
Mar.-95       1        10              LY                                     CLC
Jul.-95       1        10              SE          3                          PM/AF
Nov.-95       2        10           SE/EN          3                          PM
Feb.-96       1        5               SE                                     PM
Oct.-96       1        12              SE          2                         PM/AF/C
LC
Apr 97        1        7               SE                                    PM
Jul.-97       2        11              SE                                    P
Supervision  Dic 97       2        10              SE
and ICR  _
TOTAL                             315
SE = Sanitary Engineer              AF  = Availability of Funds
EN  Engineer                        PM  = Project Manager Performance
C = Consultant                      CLC = Compliance Legal Covenants
FA = Financial Analyst              P   = Privatization
LY = Lawyer



-53-
Annex I
Tarifas promedio de agua y p6rdidas
Year   Volume    Volume       %      Water   Sewerage    Total   Average Exchan  Average  Average
produced    billed    Losses   Billed    Billed     Billed    water  ge Rate wster tarif  water
(m3)      (m3)                (Bs)      (Bs)       (Bs)      and     30      US$/m3    and
sewerage  June             sewerage
tariff.  Bs/USS            tariff.
_______  _______         ______    ______     ~~~~~Bs/mn3      __  _  _  US$/m3
SAMAPA
1990                                                                          3.15
1991 48,639,946   37,703,304   22.48 30,286,240  9,014,139 39,300,378  1.04    3.75     0.21     0.28
1992 48,338,977   36,843,881   23.78 32,678,584 10,651,316 43,329,900  1.18   4.10      0.22     0.29
1993 45,223,720   39,471,703   12.72 34,388,036 14,229,288 48,617,324  1.23    4.48     0.19     0.27
1994 52,896,967   39,480,980   25.36 39,667,780  16,849,443 56,517,223  1.43    4.70    0.21     0.30
1995 57,743,383   44,804,556   22.41 42,683,093 18,151,839 60,83.4,932  1.36   4.94     0.19     0.27
1996 62,503,407   47,198,144   24.49 47,370,866 20,169,418 67,540,284  1.43    5.07     0.20     0.28
SAGUAPAC
1990                                                                          3.15
1991                                                                          3.75
1992 28,070,000   20,910,000   25.51 16,758,950  8,197,250 24,956,200  1.19   4.10      0.20     0.29
1993 31,091,000   22,731,000   26.89 20,395,130  9,786,250 30,181,380  1.33   4.48      0.20     0.30
1994 35,141,000   25,258,000   28.12 26,877,720  12,926,750 39,804,470  1.58   4.70     0.23     0.34
1995 36,540,000   27,021,000   26.05 29,585,750 13,970,680 43,556,430  1.61    4.94     0.22     0.33
1996 138,107,000   28,958,000   24.01 39,793,220 119,164,270 58,957,490  2.04    5.07   0.27     0.40
SEMAPA                                                                 -  
1990 14,058,450    9,262,230   34.12  5,509,500  2,374,200  7,883,7001    0.85    3.151  0.19    0.27
1991 16,430,240   10,553,980   35.76  7,328,900  3,172,000  10,500,900    0.99    3.75  0.19     0.27
1992 14,175,190    9,134,400   35.56  8,729,500  3,660,000  12,389,500    1.36   4.10   0.23     0.33
1993 16,746,960    9,687,850   42.15 10,428,000  4,457,700  14,885,700    1.54   4.48   0.24     0.34
1994 16,385,000    9,294,970   43.27 13,907,710  5,796,090  19,703,800    2.12   4.701  0.32     0.45
1995 19,459,750   10,248,920   47.33 15,306,350  6,786,090  22,092,440    2.16    4.94  0.30     0.44
1996 20,601,150    9,889,720   51.99 20,423,666  8,975,370  29,399,036    2.97    5.07  0.41     0.59



-54-
Annex 2
Ayuda Memoria de supervisi6n e ICR
Misi6n de Supervisi6n y ICR al Cr6dito 2187-BO, Proyecto de Rehabilitacion de
Agua Potable y Alcantarillado en las Ciudades Mayores
(del 26 de noviembre al 5 de diciembre de 1997)
Ayuda Memoria
Introducci6n
1.    Una misi6n del AIF conformada por el Sr. Menahem Libhaber, Ingeniero, oficial del
proyecto, Sr. Herbert Farrer, consultor y Sr. Alberto Nogales de la misi6n residente del Banco en
Bolivia visit6 Bolivia durante los dias 26 de noviembre al 5 de diciembre de 1997, con el fin de
evaluar el avance en las actividades del Credito 2187-BO y de iniciar la preparaci6n del informe
de cumplimiento de implementaci6n del proyecto, ICR. La misi6n fue acompafiada por el Dr.
Vicente Aguilar, coordinador del proyecto por parte de FNDR (Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo
Regional), por la Sefiora Moira Rollano, especialista en el area financiera y por el Sr. Juan Carlos
Ruiz, analista financiero, ambos del FNDR. La misi6n se reuni6 con el Ministro de Vivienda y
Servicios Basicos, con la Vice-Ministro de Inversi6n y Privatizaci6n, con la Alcaldesa de La Paz,
con el Alcalde de Cochabamba, con la Directora de Financiamiento Externo del Ministerio de
Hacienda, con el Superintendente de Aguas, y con las gerencias del FNDR, de Aguas del Illimani
S .A. (Oa empresa de agua y alcantarillado de La Paz), de SEMAPA (la empresa de agua y
alcantarillado de Cochabamba) y de SAGUAPAC (la empresa de agua y alcantarillado de Santa
Cruz). La misi6n agradece a todas las personas entrevistadas y a todas las instituciones visitadas
la hospitalidad y la cooperaci6n brindadas. Esta ayuda memoria resume los principales hallazgos
de la visita y los acuerdos alcanzados con las autoridades de las instituciones citadas.
SAMAPA (La Paz)
2.    Desde el I de Agosto de 1997 la empresa Aguas del Illimani S.A-, asumi6 la concesion de
los servicios de agua potable y alcantarillado de la Ciudad de La Paz, a trav6s de un contrato de
concesi6n de 30 afios. La Misi6n observ6 muchos cambios positivos en la empresa en: (i)
organizacion administrativa; (ii) aumento de eficiencia; (iii) mejoramiento de atenci6n al publico; y
(iv) especialmente en la ejecuci6n de las obras del proyecto. La Mision considera que la
incorporaci6n del sector privado en la prestaci6n de los servicios de agua potable y alcantarillado,
a traves de un contrato de gesti6n e inversi6n, es un logro impresionante a nivel latinoamericano,
el cual garantizari la sostenibilidad de los servicios para los pr6ximos treinta aflos. Esta reforma
representa un desarrollo institucional con el cual se logran los objetivos de mejoramiento
institucional en el componente de La Paz.
3.    El avance en la ejecucion de las obras del componente de La Paz alcanza actualmente un
valor de 94%, y el porcentaje de los desembolsos de este componente alcanza un valor de 97%.
Asimismo, todos los demas fondos del credito ya estin comprometidos. Durante la misi6n se



-55-
actualiz6 el programa de ejecuci6n de las obras del componente de La Paz, el cual se presenta en
el Anexo 1. Segun este cronograma la ejecuci6n de las obras del proyecto concluira el 15 de
febrero de 1998 y se inaugurarin el 15 de marzo de 1998.
4.    Al terminar las obras del proyecto, la cobertura del servicio de agua alcanza 88% y la del
servicio de alcantarillado alcanza 55% (comparado con 80.76% en agua potable y 65.64% para
alcantarillado en el SAR para la finalizaci6n del proyecto). En agua potable la meta fue superada
pero en alcantarillado sanitario qued6 por debajo. A continuacion se presentan varios indicadores
de desempefno y financieros alcanzados por SAMAPA durante el afno 1996 y parte de 1997. Los
indicadores alcanzados a diciembre de 1997 (valores auditados) son los siguientes: la razon de
trabajo alcanz6 un valor de 0.43, que coincide con la estimaci6n del SAR para la finalizacion del
proyecto; la eficiencia de cobro ha subido y alcanz6 un valor excelente de 110.6%; el niumero de
empleados por mil conexiones de agua baj6 de 5.56 en 1994 a un valor de 4.43, alcanzado un
valor mucho mejor a los objetivos del SAR (7.86 para la finalizaci6n del proyecto), y el porcentaje
de los costos de personal en relaci6n a los costos operacionales se encuentra en 65.4% lo cual es
un valor elevado. El indice de agua no conatabilizada, ANC, alcanz6 un valor de 25.65%, que se
encuentra alrededor de los objetivos del SAR para la finalizaci6n del proyecto. Para julio de 1997
estos indicadores se mantienen en forma siimilar, salvo el ANC que subi6 a 32.73%. La misi6n
espera que bajo la administraci6n privada ise mejore el desempefno de la empresa y se obtengan las
inversiones necesarias para extender los sistemas de acueducto y alcantarillado.
5.    En resumen, los logros del componente de La Paz son: (i) conclusion de todas las obras
del proyecto, beneficiando a una poblaci6n directa de 35.000 personas e indirecta de 289.000,
para un total de 324.000; y (ii) a trav6s de la concesi6n se llev6 a cabo una reforma muy
importante en el manejo del sector agua y saneamiento en La Paz. La mision considera que el
componente de La Paz fue concluido en forma muy satisfactoria. No obstante, el 6xito se debe a
la implementaci6n de la reforma y al buen desempefno de la empresa concesionaria, que logr6
concluir las obras dentro del plazo del Acuierdo de Credito, lo que no hubiera sido posible lograr
de ninguna manera con la anterior administraci6n de SAMAPA, cuyo desempefno fue muy debil
durante los siete afnos que administr6 el proyecto.
SEMAPA (Cochabamba)
6.    Las fuentes de abastecimiento de agua para uso urbano de Cochabamba son escasas. Para
resolver el problema de abastecimiento urbano para Cochabamba, seri necesario encarar las
siguientes acciones: (i) desarrollar una nueva fuente de abastecimiento superficial; y (ii) ilevar a
cabo una transformaci6n institucional de SEMAPA a traves de la participacion del sector privado
(PSP) para mejorar su desempeflo y fomenitar la inversi6n privada. Ambas actividades deben ser
efectuadas en forma simultanea, es decir que no sera suficiente ejecutar solo una de estas
actividades, ya que las mismas se encuentran intimamente interrelacionadas. No existiri la
posibilidad de reformar SEMAPA sin asegurar la disponibilidad del recurso agua, como por otro
lado no sera posible encarar un costoso proyecto de desarrollo de una nueva fuente, sin asegurar
la expansi6n de las redes y de esta manera satisfacer la demanda del recurso.



-56-
7.    El Gobierno anterior intent6 lievar a cabo la privatizaci6n de SEMAPA en forma similar a
la de SAMAPA. El proceso de licitaci6n para la concesi6n, cuyas ofertas se esperaba recibir el 17
de julio de 1997, fue interrumpido por un recurso legal planteado por la Alcaldia de Cochabamba,
aceptado por la Corte Suprema. En agosto de 1997 el nuevo Gobierno tom6 posesi6n y como
resultado, la mayoria del personal de gerencia y de la administraci6n superior de SEMAPA fue
reemplazado como consecuencia de una muy fuerte ingerencia politica, con lo que se perdi6 la
capacitaci6n provista por el proyecto y la continuidad gerencial debilitando aun mas la empresa.
Ademas, teniendo en cuenta los indicadores que se presentan en el parrafo 10 adelante, no se
puede afirmar que se lograron los objetivos de desarrollo institucional del proyecto. La Misi6n
considera que si no se lleva a cabo en el futuro cercano la privatizaci6n de SEMAPA
simultaneamente con el desarrollo de la nueva fuente, los servicios de agua potable y de
alcantarillado sanitario desmejoraran como resultado del deterioro financiero de SEMAPA. De
acuerdo con la informaci6n suministrada a la misi6n por los funcionarios entrevistados, el
Gobierno pretende iniciar en breve la preparaci6n de un nuevo proceso de concesi6n de
SEMAPA.
8.    De acuerdo con la informaci6n suministrada y lo comprobado en las visitas de campo, las
obras del componente de SEMAPA convenidas durante la ejecuci6n del proyecto, se concluiran
en su totalidad el 15 de diciembre de 1997. Se debe anotar que las obras concluidas no
corresponden al total del proyecto original. Las obras de perforaci6n de pozos profundos en
Vinto, aducciones y planta de tratamiento, no se ejecutaron por oposici6n de los agricultores a la
perforaci6n de pozos; y la rehabilitaci6n de la Galeria de Chungara no se llev6 a cabo por la baja
rentabilidad econ6mica de este componente que rendiria un caudal bajo. Como resultado de lo
anterior, en acuerdo con el Banco, el caudal a incrementar por el proyecto baj6 de 640 litros por
segundo a uinicamente 220 litros por segundo, reduciendose a un 35% de lo programado en el
Acuerdo de Credito. Asimismo las obras realizadas corresponden a un 77% de lo inicialmente
programado en el Acuerdo de Credito.
9.    El porcentaje de los desembolsos del componente de SEMAPA alcanza un valor de 95%.
Los demas fondos del proyecto ya estan comprometidos y seran desembolsados antes de la fecha
de cierre (31 de diciembre de 1997).
10.   Desde julio de 1995, SEMAPA ha iniciado una serie de actividades destinadas a ejecutar
el plan de acci6n acordado con la misi6n de julio de 1995, y a implementar el programa de
fortalecimiento institucional (PROFISE) desarrollado en el marco del proyecto. Al terminar las
obras del proyecto, la cobertura del servicio de agua alcanza 56% y la del servicio de
alcantarillado alcanza 52%, siendo la de agua potable aun mucho menor que la meta del proyecto
(79.55% en agua potable y 56.15% para alcantarillado en el SAR para la finalizaci6n del
proyecto). A continuacion se presentan varios indicadores de desempeflo y financieros
alcanzados durante el afio 1996 y parte de 1997. Los indicadores alcanzados en 1996 con valores
auditados son los siguientes: la raz6n de trabajo alcanz6 un valor de 0.74, lo que representa un
mejoramiento con relacion a los valores de aflos anteriores pero esta todavia bastante lejos para
alcanzar los objetivos del SAR (0.54 para la finalizaci6n del proyecto). La eficiencia de cobro
baj6 a 70%. El numero de empleados por mil conexiones de agua baj6 de 8.5 en 1994 a un valor
de 6.45 y ha alcanzado un valor mejor a los objetivos del SAR (8.37 para la finalizaci6n del



-57-
proyecto). El porcentaje de los costos de personal con relaci6n a los costos operacionales baj6 de
59% en 1994, a un valor de 43.9%. No se ha detectado todavia una reduccion del indice de agua
no contabilizada, que en 1996 se incremento a un valor de 54%, lo que representa un valor
elevado que demuestra la ineficiencia operacional de la empresa. Para agosto de 1997 estos
valores se mantienen en forma similar salvo la eficiencia de cobro que disminuyo a 61%, lo que
representa un valor muy bajo y demuestra la ineficiencia financiera de la empresa. Ademas, este
indicador ha venido bajando durante los ulltimos anios, lo que implica un deterioro en el
desempeflo de la empresa. Ademas el porcentaje de los costos de personal con relaci6n a los
costos operacionales aument6 a 48.9%. La misi6n considera que solo a traves de participaci6n del
sector privado en la gesti6n se puede alcanzar un mejoramiento sostenible en el desempenlo de la
empresa.
11.   En resumen, en el componente de Cochabamba se logr6 la conclusi6n de todas las obras
acordadas durante la ejecuci6n del proyecto, beneficiando a una poblaci6n de 53,074 personas, lo
que representa un valor muy por debajo (le lo estimado en el SAR de 300,000 habitantes para la
terminaci6n del proyecto. Ademis no se puede afirmar que se lograron los objetivos de
desarrollo institucional de SEMAPA y la sostenibilidad futura de la empresa dependera de la
culminaci6n exitosa del proceso de concesi6n.
SAGUAPAC (Santa Cruz)
12.   El desempefio de SAGUAPAC fuie muy satisfactorio a lo largo de la ejecuci6n del
proyecto. A la fecha se ha ejecutado el 100% de las obras del proyecto originalmente defmido, ademas
se ejecut6 el 100% de las obras adicionales, que representan un incremento de obras de 25%.
Asimismo, se alcanz6 un porcentaje de desembolsos de 96% y el resto esta comprometido y en
proceso de desembolso.
13.   Al terminar las obras del proyecto, la cobertura del servicio de agua alcanza 79.85% y la
del servicio de alcantarillado alcanza 33.85%, los cuales son cercanos a las metas del proyecto
(78.5% en agua potable y 39% para alcaitarillado en el SAR para la finalizaci6n del proyecto). A
continuaci6n se presentan varios indicadores de desempefio y financieros alcanzados durante el
afho 1996 y parte de 1997. Los indicadores alcanzados en 1996 con valores auditados son los
siguientes: el indice de agua no contabilizada (ANC) fue de 24%, lo cual es mejor que la meta de
25% del SAR. El nuimero de empleados por mil conexiones de agua baj6 de un valor de 8.5 al
inicio del proyecto, a un valor de 4.26, lo cual es mejor que la meta de 6.06 del SAR para el final
del proyecto. La raz6n de trabajo alcanzo un valor de 0.76, lo cual todavia no alcanza la meta de
0.64 pero fue mejorando continuamente con relaci6n a los valores de los afnos anteriores. El
porcentaje de los costos de personal con relaci6n a los costos operacionales alcanz6 un valor de
59.78% y fue mejorando continuamente durante la ejecuci6n del proyecto y la eficiencia de cobro
alcanz6 un valor alto de 96%. Para septiembre de 1997 estos indicadores han mejorado: el ANC
es de 23%, el numero de empleados por jmil conexiones es de 4.04 y la raz6n de trabajo es de
0.72.
14.   En resumen, en el componente de Santa Cruz se logr6 la conclusion de todas las obras
acordadas durante la ejecuci6n del proyecto (125% de las obras originales), que beneficiaran a



-58-
una poblaci6n de 225,687 personas en agua potable y a una poblacion de 46,736 personas en
alcantarillado sanitario. Asimismo se alcanzaron todos los logros del programa de desarrollo
institucional, concluyendo el proyecto en forma muy satisfactoria. No obstante, la baja cobertura
de alcantarillado sanitario genera problemas de salud publica, contaminaci6n ambiental y
contaminaci6n del acuifero que sirve como unica fuente de abastecimiento de agua potable. Por lo
tanto la sostenibilidad del proyecto depende de la accesibilidad de la empresa a fondos para
inversi6n en ampliaci6n del sistema de alcantarillado sanitario.
FiNDR (Coimponente D)
15.   Ya se ha desembolsado el 98% de los fondos del componente D y el resto esta
comprometido.
16.   El trabajo de diseflo de los sistemas de abastecimiento de agua y alcantarillado bajo el
componente PRORPAAL, preparado por dos empresas consultoras (Galindo, encargada de
disefnar 46 proyectos y Contegral, encargada de diseflar 54 proyectos), ya fue concluido y los
diseinios recibidos a satisfacci6n por DINASBA.
17.   El manejo de los recursos del credito fue satisfactorio. Por otra parte no se logr6 que el FNDR
asurniera el liderazgo del sector, sin embargo a traves de otros mecanismos la Superintendencia de
Aguas, creada en 1994 como resultado de la ley SIRESE, esta logrando este liderazgo.
Evaluaci6n General del Estado del Proyecto
18.   En terminos practicos, se logr6 completar las obras de los componentes de SAMAPA y
SAGUAPAC. Asimismo se completaron las obras convenidas del componente de SEMAPA, las cuales
representan solo el 77% de las obras definidas en el Acuerdo de Credito. Ademas, se llev6 a cabo una
reforna institucional inportante en el sector de agua en La Paz, lo que asegura la sostenibilidad de los
servicios de agua y alcantarillado en esta ciudad. El desempefno institucional de SAGUAPAC en Santa
Cruz es tambien muy satisfactorio. No obstante, en el componente de Cochabamba no se puede
afirmar que se lograron los objetivos de desarrollo institucional de SEMAPA y la sostenibilidad
futura de la empresa dependeri de la culninaci6n exitosa del proceso de concesion que el
Gobiemo pretende llevar a cabo. Como resultado de lo anterior, la misi6n considera que teniendo
en cuenta los resultados altamente satisfactorios en los componentes de SAMAPA y SAGUAPAC
y los logros parciales en las obras del componente de SEMAPA, en conjunto se logr6 terminar el
proyecto en forma satisfactoria.
Preparaci6n del Informe de Cumplimiento del Proyecto
19.   Durante las reuniones con las tres empresas (Aguas de llimnani S.A., SEMAPAy
SAGUAPAC) y con el FNDR, la misi6n explic6 a cada una los procedimientos de la preparaci6n del
informe de cumpliniento de la implementaci6n del proyecto y el cronograma respectivo. Asi mismo, la
niision dej6 en cada empresa un documento de Terminos de Referencia para su contribuci6n a la
preparaci6n del ICR y para la elaboraci6n de los planes operacionales correspondientes, lo cual se
adjunta como Apendice 1. Durante la misi6n, los miembros de la misma recopilaron la mayoria de la



-59-
infonmaci6n necesaria para la elaboraci6n del ICR y recibieron la plena cooperacion de las cuatro
empresas. La misi6n indic6 que al inicio de febrero de 1998 se espera enviar a cada empresa un
borrador del ICR y que se espera recibir, antes del fin de febrero, los comentarios y la opini6n escrita
de cada una sobre el ICR, junto con el matenal adicional definido en el Apendice 1. Los representantes
de las cuatro ernpresas ofrecieron elaborar er la fornma solicitada su contnbuci6n al ICR y se
comprometieron a suministrar la misma en la fecha convenida.



-60-
Por el Banco Mundial                                  Por FNDR
Menahem Libhaber                                      Sergio Arenas M., Gerente
Oficial del Proyecto                                 General
Por AGUAS DEL ILLIMANI S.A.
Alain Carbonel, Gerente
General
Por SEMAPA
Arturo Coca S., Gerente
General
Por SAGUAPAC
Carlos Medrano, Gerente
General
Santa Cruz de la Sierra, Bolivia, 5 de diciembre de 1997.



-61-
Apendix 1, Annex 2
TERMINOS DE REFERENCIA PARA LA CONTRIBUCION DE LAS EMPRESAS
BENEFICIARIAS DEL CREDrTO 21l87 A LA ELABORACI6N DEL INFORME DE
CUMPLIMlENTO DE LA IMPLENMENTACION (ICR) DEL PROYECTO Y PLAN
PARA LA FASE DE OPERACION
Asociaci6n Internacional de Desarrollo - Credito No. 2187-BO
Antecedentes
Las condiciones generales aplicables al crdiito establecen en la Seccion 9.06: Registros e
Informes, el requerimiento de que las empresas beneficiarias del credito, presenten a la
Asociaci6n, en un periodo no mayor de seis meses despues de la Fecha de Cierre (31 de diciembre
para el Credito 2187-BO), u otra si asi se conviniere, un informe con el contenido y alcance que la
Asociaci6n razonablemente solicite, sobre la ejecuci6n y operaci6n inicial del Proyecto, sus costos
y beneficios derivados o a ser derivados del proyecto, el desempefno del prestatario y de la
Asociacion sobre sus obligaciones respectivas bajo los contratos del credito.
Asimismo cada empresa debe preparar simulltaneamente con el Informe de Cierre, un Plan para la
Fase de Operaci6n, incluyendo indicadores que le permitan monitorear las operaciones.
Estos terminos de referencia resumen el contenido y alcance del informe de cierre de proyecto y
del plan operacional que debe ser preparado por las empresas Saguapac, Semapa, Samapa y
FNDR.
Informe de Cumplimiento de la Tmplementaci6n del Proyecto
El informe de cierre de proyecto debera contener, sin estar limitado a ello, los aspectos siguientes:
* Objetivos iniciales y grado de cumplimiento de estos objetivos: fisicos, financieros,
institucionales, sociales, etc.
*  Grado de cumplimiento de los cronogramas iniciales del proyecto y factores que
mayormente afectaron la implementaci6n del proyecto: gubemamentales,
institucionales, de la Asociaci6n.
* Sostenibilidad del proyecto en sus aspectos fisicos (operaci6n y mantenimiento);
institucionales (continuidad); impacto social.
* Performance de la Asociaci6n en las fases del proyecto: identificaci6n, asistencia en la
preparaci6n, evaluaci6n y supervisi6n.
*  Performance del prestatario en las etapas anteriormente indicadas.



-62-
* Evaluaci6n de los resultados: alcance de objetivos y sostenibilidad de los logros.
* Operaciones futuras que daran continuidad al proceso, maximizaci6n de los beneficios
del proyecto, indicadores para monitorear y evaluar futuras operaciones.
* Opini6n sobre los consultores y contratistas del proyecto.
* Lecciones claves aprendidas en el proceso de implementaci6n del proyecto.
* Costos iniciales y finales de os componentes del proyecto.
* Anexos
* Proyecciones financieras en formato LCPWS, 90/97 real y 98/2005
proyectado.
* Hoja de indicadores (SAR paginas 79/80/81 segun corresponda para cada
empresa), real para los afnos 90/97.
 Descripci6n del Plan de Inversiones 98/2005.
Plan para la Fase de Operaci6n
Conjuntamente con el Informe de Cierre del Proyecto la Asociaci6n requiere de un Plan para la
Fase de Operaci6n del Proyecto encaminado a conservar las obras y a maximizar los beneficios
del proyecto, el cual debera contener:
-  Un plan de operaci6n y de mantenimiento encaminado a la conservacion y explotaci6n
adecuados de las obras del proyecto, mecanismos de financiamiento para su ejecuci6n,
monitoreo y control, indicando las acciones a tomar que fueren necesarias para la
sostenibilidad del programa.
* Un plan de acciones a seguir derivadas de la ejecuci6n del proyecto de orden
institucional, tecnico, comercial, administrativo, legal, etc., seg4n corresponda.
* Un conjunto de indicadores que permitan monitorear los planes arriba indicados con la
metodologia de calculo y los valores actuales, dentro de los cuales se incluiran los que
se han venido manejando a lo largo de la implementaci6n del proyecto.
Fecha de Entrega de los Documentos por las E:mpresas
El Banco espera enviar a cada empresa el borrador del ICR al inicio de febrero de 1998 y espera
recibir, antes del fin de febrero de 1998, los comentarios y la opini6n escrita de cada empresa sobre el
ICR, junto con el material adicional definido en estos Terninos de Referencia. El documento final



-63-
preparado por cada empresa no deberi tener mis de diez (10) paginas tamafio carta, mas los
anexos.
Documentos Adicionales a prepara por el FNDR
*  Indicadores incluidos en el documento preparado en mayo 97 por el Lic. Juan Carlos
Ruiz y remitido al consultor Ing. Herbert Farrer, incluyendo ademas todos los
indicadores del SAR paginas 79/80/81 para cada empresa.
*  Opinion sobre la ejecuci6n del credito: de su propia gesti6n; de la gesti6n del Banco,
lecciones aprendidas.



-64-
Annex 3
The Contribution of KfW to the ICR
Telefax directo de la          I           gj    Krgditanstalt
Division Paises Andinos                     KiWff  fiur Wiederaufbau
.f~9) 74~1-3SO5                        Posifach 11 11 41
,Sq) 7411-3605  Bo0045 franxruf   am main
officer in cenrge.   Mr. Weridtich
September 29, 1997                           ourtro.: rcyr
eAtenrion:     2580
date:          September 29, 1997
The world Bank
LA3EU
Att. Menahem Libhaber
Washington, D.C. USA
Lib. German Financial cooperation with Bolivia
Sewerage El Alto project - 90 65 319
Dear Sirs:
Regarding your intention to prepare the Implementation Completion Report (ICR), we have to
inform you that the project "Sewerage El Alto" - co-financed with a donation of DM23.000.000
from the German official cooperation budget - is currently about three years behind schedule
(compared to the schedule established at time of appraisal). The infrastructure will not be finished
before the second half of 1998. This is due to various delays:
* delayed signing of the contract for consultant services;
* delayed public tenders, caused among other things by the requirement to invoice
procurement agents in the process;
* delayed start of works for the waist water treatment plant Puchucollo due to legal
problems with the purchase of the real estate.



-65-
With the project still in plain implementation, we think the preparation of a implementation
completion report would be premature. Thus, we are not able to give you the required
performance judgments with respect to the achievement of project objectives, implementation
record and sustainability of operation and maintenance.
Additionally, any judgments on these issues would lack a safe basis, since just some weeks ago
the new implementation agency Aguas del Illimani S.A. has taken responsibility for the rest of
implementation of the project as well as for operation and maintenance. Donors may first want to
gain some experience with the new institution.
A KfW mission traveling to Bolivia for a progress control of the Sewerage El Alto project
(among other projects to visit), will have the first contact with Aguas del Illimani S.A. in La Paz
on October 1st, 1997. We will provide you with information about the main results of this
mission. Since our mission is in Bolivia now, we would like to ask for your understanding that
KfW will not join the world Bank mission scheduled for early December. However, we are
interested in knowing the results of your mission.
Yours faithfullu,
KREDITANSTALT FUR WIEDERAUFBAU
Braun                Dr. Strangrmannr



-66-
Annex 4A
IDA's Position Regarding the Improvement of Water Supply to Cochabamba
Executive Summary
Introduction
1.    Water resources in the Cochabamba region are scarce. In addition, the performance of
SEMAPA, the water and sewerage company of Cochabamba, has not been satisfactory and it
does not have access to the financial resources required to ensure the investments needed for the
water sector. Consequently, only 60% of the city's population is connected to the water supply
network and receives a non-continuous supply of about four hours a day. Groundwater is
pumped for urban and agricultural supply at a higher rate than the natural recharge. This results
in an unsustainable situation which requires the urgent development of a new surface water supply
source.
2.    The previous Government decided to resolve the water problem of Cochabamba by: (a)
selecting the Corani project as the new water supply source; and (b) incorporating the private
sector in the provision of the water and sewerage services in the city through a concession of
SEMAPA. The SEMAPA concession process has been prepared with the assistance of the Bank,
based on the assumption that Corani will be the water supply source. In parallel, the water supply
contract was negotiated with the Corani company, a privately owned company which is ready to
construct the project with private funding and recover the investment through a 30 years contract
of water sale to the SEMAPA concessionaire. The bidding process for the SEMAPA concession
was initiated, but has been derailed by the Mayor of Cochabamba, who filed against the process a
petition which was accepted by the Supreme Court. The Mayor and other local organizations
object to the Corani project and support another water supply alternative, the Misicuni project.
They have no objection, however, to the concept of the concession of SEMAPA.
3.    In order to be able to achieve progress in resolving the water sector crisis in Cochabamba,
a decision regarding the appropriate new water supply source (Corani or Misicuni) has to be
taken. To our best knowledge, a comparison between these two project has not been carried out
by independent competent consultants. An IDA mission which visited Cochabamba during July
8-9, 1997, has concluded, on the basis of the information submitted to it, that the Corani Project
is the better alternative for water supply to Cochabamba. This documents sets out the rationale
behind that conclusion.
The Available Information about the Corani and Misicuni Projects
Corani
4.    The estimated investment in the first phase of the Corani project, for supply of up to 4
m3/s, is US$ 70 million. Most of the investment is required for construction of a 20 km. tunnel



-67-
(with a capacity of 10 m3/s). The Coranri reservoir has been constructed 30 years ago as part of a
hydroelectric power project, and can serve also for the purpose of water supply to Cochabamnba.
The Corani company, a privately owned power company, is willing to construct the project with
private funding, without any public invesitment or subsidy. A 30 years water sale contract
supported by adequate guaranties has already been negotiated. The price of water for urban uses,
supplied by Corani to satisfy a demand curve defined by SEMAPA, is 0.216 US$/m3 for the first
four years of supply and 0.235 US$/m3 thereafter. The price of water for irrigation is 0.08
US$/m3. There is no obligation on part of SEMAPA to buy water for irrigation and the purchase
of water for irrigation or lack of it has no bearing on the price of water for urban use. The
available flow of water for irrigation is the difference between 4 m3/s and flow consumed for
urban uses. The bidding documents for the concession of SEMAPA, with Corani as the water
supply source, are available and ready for re-initiation of the bidding process.
Misicuni
5.    Two sets of economic and financiial data are available in regard to the Misicuni project: (i)
data prepared by the Misicuni company, a public company responsible for design and
implementation of the project; and (ii) data derived from an unsolicited proposal of a private
company, the consortium ASTALDI-ICE, to construct the project. We consider that the
ASTALDI-ICE proposal represents a more realistic approach to the implementation of the
Misicuni project and therefore have used the data provided in this proposal as representative of
the Misicuni project. It should, however, be emphasized that the final conclusion of the
comparison between the two project would not be different, had the data provided by the
Misicuni company been used for the comTLparison.
6.    For construction of the first phase of the Misicuni project, for supply of 3.9 m3/s under a
BOT contract for a period of 40 years, ASTALDI-ICE requires a public subsidy of between US $
75 -85 million (the proposal specifies a sum of US$ 70 to 80 million, without cost of land and
rights of way, which we estimate in an additional US$ 5 million) and comnmits to invest an
additional amount of US$ 100 million of its own resources. The total estimated investment in the
Misicuni project amounts therefore to somewhere between US$ 175 and 185 million. According
to the proposal, the price of water for urban uses, supplied to satisfy a demand curve defined by
SEMAPA, will be 0.25 US$/m3 and the price of water for irrigation will be between 0.08-1.0
US$/m3. It requires that all the water not consumed for urban use will be consumed for
irrigation. If the farmers will not purchase the water available for irrigation, the price of water for
urban supply will increase so as to ensure that the revenues of ASTALDI-ICE reach the
forecasted value.
Comparison of the Corani and Misicuni Projects
7.    Economic aspects: The supporters of the Misicuni project justify their support to
implement a higher investment project by claiming that it also has higher benefits. We consider
that the benefits of both projects are equivalent. According to the information provided to us,
both projects have a potential to supply equivalent amounts of water. Once a certain amount of
water is conveyed to the Cochabamba valley, the benefits which can be generated from it are



-68-
independent of its origin, i.e., 4 m3/s of water from Corani can generate the same benefits as 4
m3/s of water from Misicuni. Also, if in the future, the consumption will be higher than 4 m3/s,
each of the projects has the potential to supply the additional amount required. For the purpose
of comparison we also assume that the
operation and maintenance costs of both projects are similar (although in fact we estimate that the
O&M cost of the Misicuni project will be higher). Considering the above, the favorable project
from an economic point of view is the lower investment project, which is clearly the Corani
project which requires an investment of US$ 70 million, while Misicuni requires an investment of
about US$ 185 million.
8.    Financial aspects: According to the Corani proposal, the entire Corani project will be
financed by the private sector, while according to the ASTALDI-ICE proposal, a public sector
subsidy of about US$ 85 million is required for the Misicuni project. Although US$ 32 million of
public funds have been earmarked for investment in the Misicuni project, the rest of the subsidy
has not yet been secured and it is doubtful that the Government would be able to provide the
required subsidy funds, so the entire financing plan of the Misicuni project is stili quite shaky.
Moreover, even with such a high level of subsidy, the price of the Misicuni water is still higher
than that of the Corani water. The Corani project is therefore clearly favorable also from the
financial standpoint.
9.    Implementation period: The Corani company is ready to commit to implement the
project and supply the water within 3.25 years. This commitment is supported by a US$ 10
million guarantee and penalties of US$ 20,000 for each day of delay. The bidding process for the
SEMAPA concession, which forms part of the package, can be initiated immediately and
completed within 2-3 months. The implementation period of the Misicuni project is a source of
controversy. Previously retained consulting firms estimated the implementation period as 5 years.
ASTALDI-ICE proposes to construct the project within 3.5 years. We consider that this
proposal is overly optimistic and that when having to sign a contract supported by guarantees and
penalties for delays, the ASALDI-ICE proposed construction period will be more than 3.5 years.
But even considering a construction period of 3,5 years, an additional period of about two years
will be necessary to prepare the BOT process for the Misicuni project and for the SEMAPA
concession process based on the Misicuni project (the preparation of both processes has not yet
started). So in the best case scenario, the Misicuni implementation period is 5.5 years, while
according to a realistic scenario, a period of 7 years would be required before the Misicuni water
could be conveyed to Cochabamba. Considering the water crisis in Cochabamba, the advantage
of Corani is significant, since it will be difficult to keep people without additional water for
another 7 years, and on the other hand, the continuation of overdrawing of groundwater for such
a long period will result in dwindling of the existing resources.
10.   Flexibility: The willingness of the agricultural sector to pay the high price required for
irrigation water is yet unknown. The financial scheme of the Corani project does not include sale
of water for irrigation. If there will be no demand of water for irrigation at the proposed price,
this water can be used for generation of energy in the Corani and Santa Isabel hydropower plants.
On the other hand, the financial scheme of the Misicuni project is based on sale of water for



-69-
irrigation at a price of 0.08-0.1 US$/m3 and if the agricultural sector will not be willing to pay
that price, the price of water for the urban sector will be increased. In this respect Corani is a
more flexible project.
11.   Risks: The level of risk associated with Misicuni is much higher than that of Corani. The
Corani contract has been negotiated and is ready for signature with supporting guarantees. The
financial package of the SEMAPA concession based on Corani as the supply source was found to
be viable and six companies have bought the bidding documents and demonstrated interest in the
deal. The Misicuni deal has not yet been prepared, the financing plan does not exist, it depends
on a high subsidy which has not yet been secured, the construction and cost overruns risks are
higher for a project of US$ 185 million than for a project of US$ 70 million, and the entire
Misicuni deal has not yet been put to the test of the private sector. There is a risk that after two
years of preparation, the potential concessionaires of SEMAPA will find the Misicuni project to
be too risky. In addition, because of its dependency on sale of water for irrigation and the
uncertainty regarding the willingness of the farmers to pay the high price of 0.08-0.1 US$/m3 for
irrigation water, the Misicuni project presents the risk of increased price of water for the urban
sector.
12.   Environmental Aspects: Since thLe Corani reservoir has already been constructed 30
years ago, the potential negative environmental impact of the Corani project is much smaller than
that of the Misicuni project, under which a big reservoir still has to be constructed and rivers need
to be diverted from their natural course.
Conclusion and Recommendations
13.   Considering the numerous advantages of the Corani project, IDA considers that it is the
favorable project for supply of water to the Cochabamba region. The Corani project can generate
the same benefits as the Misicuni project, while requiring a much lower investment. It can be
totally financed by the private sector and does not require any subsidies, produces water at a
lower price, is more flexible, the risk level associated with it is lower, its potential negative
environmental impact is lower and it can supply water within 3.25 years, in comparison to a
period of 7 years required by the Misicuni project (if a financing plan for Misicuni, including the
subsidy, is secured and everything goes well).
14.   The existing opportunity for constructing the Corani project with private funding will only
be available for a short time, since the Corani company will not wait much longer and will invest
elsewhere the funds earmarked for the Cochabamba project. In our opinion, this opportunity
should not be missed. Even if the local auathorities consider that the Misicuni project is favorable
(although we fail to see why), they must admit that Corani also represents an adequate solution
for resolving the water crisis of Cochabamba, and sometimes it is necessary to settle for the
second best option.
15.  In addition, IDA recommends to use the funds available in the account "Water for
Cochabamba"', for the amount of US$ 32 million, either for extending the water supply and



-70-
sewerage networks in the city, with the resulting effect of reduction in the water tariff for urban
consumers, or for the development of irrigation systems in the region.



-71-
Annex 4B
La posicion del Banco Mundial sobre la alternativa mis viable para el abastecimiento de
agua para la ciudad de Cochabamba (Documento principal)
kgosto - 1997
INTRODUCCION
1.    Durante una inision del Banco Mundial en Bolivia, efectuada durante los dias 8 y 9 de
julio de 1997, para participar en el seminaiio "Agua para Cochabamba", la Sra. Isabelle
Girardot-Berg, Representante del Banco en Bolivia, aclar6, durante una conferencia de prensa
celebrada el 9 de julio de 1997, que, en base a la informaci6n disponible hasta ese momento, la
institucion que ella representa consideraba que el proyecto Corani constitula la soluci6n mas
viable para el abastecimiento de agua para Cochabamba.
2.    El presente documento explica los motivos por los que el Banco considera que el proyecto
Corani se presenta como la soluci6n mas viable para el abastecimiento de agua para Cochabamba.
Se debe destacar que esta posici6n del Banco esta basada en la informaci6n disponible al
momento de generar este documento, funclamentalmente la informaci6n presentada a la misi6n del
Banco Mundial por los responsables de ambos proyectos, durante el desarrollo del referido
seminario.
LA PROBLEMATICA DEL ABASTECIMIENTO DE AGUA A COCHABAMBA
3.    Las fuentes de abastecimiento de agua para uso urbano de Cochabamba son escasas. Al
respecto existen solo tres fuentes potenciales que se podrian utilizar, las que corresponden a las
fbentes superficiales de Misicuni y Corani por un lado, y las fuentes subterrineas del Valle de
Cochabamba por otro. La situaci6n actual de sobre explotaci6n del acuifero, tal cual lo sefnalado
en el informe del consultor Dr. Abraham M4ercado, hace que dicha alternativa no sea sostenible,
siendo necesario desarrollar urgentemente alguna de las dos alternativas para abastecimiento de
agua superficial a la ciudad de Cochabamba y eventualmente a sus areas circundantes, compuestas
por un conjunto de municipalidades adyacentes a la misma.
4.    Por otra parte, la empresa SEMAPA no dispone de los fondos necesarios para invertir en
una fuerte expansi6n de las redes de sumilnistro de agua potable y de alcantarillado asi como en las
instalaciones adicionales necesarias. Como consecuencia, solo alrededor del 60% de la poblaci6n
de la ciudad esta conectada a la red de aguia potable, recibiendo en muchos casos un servicio
discontinuo y de deficiente calidad.
5.    El Banco entiende que, adicionalmente a los problemas de escasez de agua potable para
abastecimiento urbano principalmente para consumo humano, la regi6n de Cochabamba necesita
de agua para riego con el objeto de mantener y expandir su area cultivada, la que, de otra manera,
se veria irremediablemente reducida en un futuro mediato. Sin embargo, el Banco considera que



-72-
el problema de escasez de agua potable para uso humano debe ser resuelto con prioridad,
en relaci6n con la escasez de agua para uso agricola. Para resolver el problema de
abastecimiento urbano, sera necesario encarar las siguientes acciones: (i) desarrollar una de las
nuevas fuentes de abastecimiento superficial; y (ii) modificar la estructura institucional de
SEMAPA para mejorar su desempen'o y fomentar la inversion privada. Ambas actividades deben
ser efectuadas en forma simultanea, es decir que no seri suficiente ejecutar solo una de estas
actividades, ya que las mismas se encuentran intimamente interrelacionadas. No existiri la
posibilidad de reestructurar SEMAPA sin asegurar la disponibilidad del recurso agua, como por
otro lado no sera posible encarar un costoso proyecto de desarrollo de una nueva fuente, sin
asegurar la expansion de las redes y de esta manera la demanda necesaria del recurso. En lo que
se refiere a la actividad (ii), existe consenso en sentido que se debe incorporar al sector privado en
la provisi6n de los servicios de agua y alcantarillado a traves de un modelo de concesi6n. En
relacion a la actividad (i), el desarrollo de una nueva fuente, no existe consenso sobre el tema,
sino mas bien una vieja disputa entre los partidarios de los dos proyectos, Corani y Misicuni.
Siendo que ambas actividades estan intimamente relacionadas, no se puede firmar un contrato
para la concesi6n de SEMAPA antes de que se determine la nueva fuente de abastecimiento
de agua, ya que cualquier empresa privada interesada en participar en la licitaci6n de la concesi6n
de SEMAPA, que ademas debe comprometerse a abastecer el area concesionada con agua en
suficiente cantidad y calidad por un periodo de 30 anios, debe saber, antes de poder preparar su
propuesta, cual es la fuente en cuesti6n, el precio que debera pagar para el agua cruda de la
misma fuente y el dia a partir del cual el agua estara disponible, con el objeto de estimar sus
costos y plan de inversiones.
6.    Para poder avanzar con el programa global de abastecimiento de agua para Cochabamba,
es necesario tomar la decisi6n lo antes posible, sobre la fuente de agua superficial a utilizarse: el
proyecto Corani o el proyecto Misicuni. Esta decisi6n establecera las condiciones del contrato de
concesion y la tarifa de agua en Cochabamba. De acuerdo con la informaci6n disponible
presentada a la misi6n durante el seminario "Agua para Cochabamba", no existe informaci6n
sobre una comparaci6n de ambos proyectos llevada a cabo por consultores independientes.
LA INFORMACI6N DISPONIBLE SOBRE EL PROYECTO CORANI
7.    La administraci6n del Presidente Sanchez de Lozada tom6 la decisi6n de ejecutar en la
primera etapa el proyecto Corani, dejando abierta la posibilidad de implementar el proyecto
Msicuni en un futuro mediato, si la demanda futura de agua en el Valle de Cochabamba asi lo
determinase. Durante los uiltimos dos afios el Gobierno negoci6 con la empresa Corani el
contrato de suministro de agua y se lleg6 a un acuerdo sobre un borrador de contrato que deberia
ser firmado entre la empresa Corani y el adjudicatario de la concesi6n de SEMAPA. En paralelo
se prepar6 el proceso de concesi6n de SEMAPA, incluyendo el desarrollo del modelo financiero
que incorpora el proyecto Corani como la futura fuente de agua de suministro, y la preparaci6n de
los pliegos de la licitaci6n. Se inici6 el proceso de la licitaci6n pero no se logr6 concluirlo, ya que
dicho proceso fue anulado por la Corte Suprema como resultado de un recurso presentado por la
Alcaldia de Cochabamba.



-73-
8.    La inversi6n estimada en el proyecto Corani es de US$ 70 millones y la empresa Corani se
compromete entregar hasta 4 m3/s de agua en el valle de SACABA (en Molino Blanco). Se
estima que la inversi6n adicional requerida para conducir el agua desde Molino Blanco a Cala
Cala en el valle central asciende a US$ 17.7 millones, la cual no correria por cuenta de la empresa
Corani, sino que constituiria una obligaci6n del futuro concesionario de SEMAPA. La capacidad
de conducci6n de agua en el tCnel Corani es de 10 m3/s, no obstante el compromiso en el
contracto es de abastecer solo hasta 4 m3/s. Potencialmente, el proyecto Corani podria abastecer
6 m3/s y ain mis, pero para efectuarlo se requeririan inversiones adicionales para aumentar la
captacion desde otras cuencas aledanias y asi aumentar el suministro de agua al embalse Corani.
9.    En el Cuadro 1 se presentan los caudales para abastecimiento urbano que se estima que
debe comprar el concesionario y el precio fijado para la compra de dicha agua.
Cuadro 1: Caudales de Agua para Abastecimiento Urbano Suministrados por el Proyecto
Corani y Precios Promedios de Agua para este Tipo de Abastecimiento
Afio                    Caudal                Precio Promedio
* m3/s)                 (US$/m3)
2001                    1].154                     0.216
2002                    1].266                     0.216
2003                    1].384                     0.216
2004                     1.508                     0.216
2005                      L.640                    0.235
2006                      l.687                    0.235
2007                     1.811                     0.235
2008                     :1.950                    0.235
2009                     2.000                     0.235
2010-2027                  :2.000                     0.235
10.   El retorno de toda la inversi6n del proyecto Corani para el inversionista privado esta
basado en la venta de los caudales y los precios presentados en el Cuadro 1. La empresa esta
dispuesta a suministrar en cada momento un caudal mayor, hasta un maximo de 4 m3/s. Los
caudales incrementales (por encima de los caudales presentados en el Cuadro 1) pueden ser
utilizados para riego. Para este tipo de usc, la empresa Corani cobrari el costo de oportunidad de
la utilizaci6n de esa agua para generaci6n ele energia en las centrales de Santa Isabel y Corani, lo
cual se traduciria en un precio cercano a los 0.08 US$/m3.
11.   Se debe destacar que el contrato de Corani obliga al concesionario comprar los caudales
presentados en el Cuadro 1 y pagar los precios alli indicados. No obstante, el contrato de
Corani no obliga comprar agua para riego. El concesionario puede elegir comprar agua
para riego por un precio de 0.08 US$/mn3, pero si no utiliza dicha opci6n no debera pagar
ninguna suma de dinero para agua de riiego, manteni6ndose inalterado el precio de venta
de agua para consumo urbano. El concesionario tamnpoco tendra ninguna obligaci6n de



-74-
comprar agua para abastecimiento de la poblaci6n por encima de los caudales indicados en el
Cuadro 1.
12.   La empresa Corani se compromete a completar las obras en 39 meses, de los cuales 6
meses son necesarios para ilevar a cabo la licitaci6n y 33 meses es el tiempo de ejecuci6n de las
obras. La empresa esta dispuesta a presentar una garantia de cumplimiento de US$ 10 millones y
pagar una multa de US$ 20,000 por cada dia de atraso en el cumplimiento de la obra. Asi mnismo,
la empresa Corani esti dispuesta a firmar el contrato con el concesionario de SEMAPA en forma
inmediata, e iniciar el suministro de agua a fines del afio 2000.
LA INFORMACI6N DISPONIBLE SOBRE EL PROYECTO MISICUNI
Informaci6n Suministrada por la Gerencia de la Empresa Misicuni
13.   Por muchos anlos el proyecto Misicuni fiue considerado como la unica altemativa para el
abastecimiento de agua para Cochabamba. Se han erogado mas de US$ 12 millones en estudios
relacionados a este proyecto pero hasta la fecha el proyecto no fue ejecutado. La gerencia de la
empresa Misicuni inform6 a la misi6n que se puede ejecutar el proyecto en etapas, de acuerdo con
lo presentado en el Cuadro 2.
Cuadro 2: Etapas de Ejecucion y Costos del Proyecto Misicuni
EtaDa                          Caudalde    Costo Estimado  Costo Estimado
Producci6n   sin Sistemas de  con Sistemas de
(m3/s)     Abastecimiento  Abastecimiento
para Riego      para Riego
(US$ millones)  (US$ millones)
Misicuni I (solo agua)            3.9             132              159
Misicuni I (con 80 MW energia)    3.9             204              226
Misicuni II                       5.6              -                -
Misicuni HI (con 120 MW           6.6             292              339
energia)
14.   Se present6 a la mision algunos de los resultados del analisis financiero del proyecto
Misicuni I solo agua, segun los cuales el precio de agua para abastecimniento urbano varia entre
0.235 y 0.287 US$/zn3, de acuerdo con los supuestos establecidos sobre la financiaci6n del
proyecto. Para obtener el retorno establecido en el analisis financiero y mantener los precios del
agua para consumo urbano, el proyecto debe vender toda el agua que produce (3.9 m3/s) de
forma que el agua no consumida para abastecimiento urbano debe ser consumida para riego, a un
precio de venta de 0.08 US$/m3. En el caso de que no exista dicha demanda para riego, el
precio del agua para abastecimiento urbano debera necesariamente aumentar con el objeto
de mantener el equilibrio financiero del proyecto. Esto iutimo representa de por si una
diferencia imnportante entre los dos proyectos en cuesti6n, ya que como se recordara, el proyecto



-75-
Corani es mas flexible al no requerir la venta de toda el agua producida para mantener su
equilibrio financiero.
15.   Todas las altemativas de financiaci6n presentadas, tienen un componente de subsidio muy
importante. Ademas, los supuestos financieros adoptados en todas las alternativas parecen
demasiado optimistas para las condiciones comerciales imperantes en los mercados de capital en
la actualidad. De suponerse condiciones mas restrictivas y cercanas a la realidad de los mercados,
seria necesario incrementar el costo del agua por encima de los valores estimados por la gerencia
de la empresa Misicuni. En este contexto, el nivel de la preparacion del analisis financiero del
proyecto Misicuni es solamente preliminar, -n entras que el precio real del agua dependera de la
oferta del mercado, despues de haber solicitado al sector privado presentar propuestas
competitivas para la financiaci6n del proyecto.
16.   Segun la informaci6n suministrada por la gerencia de la empresa Misicuni, el tiempo
estimado de la ejecuci6n de las obras del proyecto Misicuni I es de 5 afos. En la informaci6n
entregada por la empresa Misicuni no se detalla si este tiempo incluye los periodos de licitaci6n de
los diferentes componentes.
Informaci6n Suministrada por el Conscorcio ASTALDI-ICE
17.   El consorcio ASTALDI-ICE present6 en fecha 6 de abril de 1997 una propuesta, en
caricter de iniciativa propia, para financiar y ejecutar el proyecto Misicuni I bajo la modalidad de
BOT. Considerarnos que esta propuesta representa un enfoque mas real que el enfoque
presentado por la gerencia de la empresa Misicuni y por lo tanto se presentan a continuaci6n las
condiciones de esta propuesta.
18.   En esta propuesta el consorcio solicita recibir un subsidio de entre US$ 70 y 80 millones y
se compromete a invertir US$ 100 millones adicionales, siempre y cuando se le adjudique todo el
proyecto en forma de BOT por un periodo de 40 afios. El punto de la entrega de agua es Molle
Molle, en el valle central, y para la entrega del agua en Cala Cala se requiere un monto adicional
de US$ 10 millones para ejecutar obras de conducci6n. La propuesta no incluye adquisici6n de
terrenos y servidumbres, las cuales deben ser entregadas al Consorcio sin costo, lo que equivale a
un subsidio adicional estimado en US$ 5 mnillones. De esta forma, el monto total del subsidio
solicitado esta entre US$ 85 y 95 millones. Durante el periodo del BOT el consorcio cobrari los
siguientes precios para el agua suministrada:
* para un consumo urbano de hasta 2 m3/s - 0.2 US$/m3
* para un caudal incremental de 1 m3/s utilizado para riego - 0.18 US$/m3
*  para un caudal incremental adicional de 0.9 m3/s utilizado para riego - 0.16 US$/m3
19.   En un documento presentado a la misi6n el 8 de julio de 1997, el representante del
consorcio explica que, como resultado de la solicitud de la empresa Misicuni que consider6 que el
precio propuesto de venta del agua para riego era demasiado alto, el consorcio modific6 los



-76-
precios de venta explicitados en su propuesta original y propone los siguientes precios de venta
del agua:
* para un consumo urbano de hasta 2 m3/s - 0.25 US$/m3
* para un caudal incremental de 1.9 m3/s utilizado para riego - 0.08 o 0. 1 US$/m3
20.   El plazo propuesto para la ejecuci6n del proyecto Misicuni I es de 3.5 afios.
21.   La oferta del consorcio no esta respaldada por garantias y multas por atrasos, por lo tanto,
no incluye los efectos financieros de los mismos.
COMPARACION DE LOS PROYECTOS CORANI Y MISICUNI
Comparaci6on Econ6mica
22.   El supuesto basico de los partidarios del proyecto Misicuni parajustificar dicho proyecto,
a pesar de que requiere una inversi6n mucho mayor, es que el mismo constituye un proyecto
regional con beneficios econ6micos y sociales para toda la region, que son dificiles de cuantificar,
pero ciertamente positivos en lo referente a la degradacion del medio ambiente, las condiciones de
vida de la poblaci6n, el mantenimiento de la poblaci6n en sus lugares de origen y la reactivaci6n
de toda la economia regional, fundamentalmente aquella relacionada con la producci6n primaria y
su industrializacion. Se menciona al respecto que el proyecto Corani solo puede abastecer el agua
necesaria para consumo humano, mientras que el proyecto Misicuni responderia mejor a las
necesidades de Cochabamba ya que podria abastecer tanto con agua potable como con agua para
riego a la regi6n. Consideramos que este supuesto es equivocado. De acuerdo con la
informaci6n suministrada a la misi6n, el potencial de suministro de agua de ambos
proyectos es equivalente. Asimismo, consideramos que los beneficios que se puede generar
del agua proveniente del proyecto Corani son equivalentes a los que se puede generar del
agua proveniente del proyecto Misicuni. Es verdad que el punto de entrega del proyecto
Misicuni se encuentra en el valle central mientras que el punto de entrega del proyecto Corani es
en el valle de Sacaba, pero en el momento que el proyecto Corani inicie el suministro de agua para
consumo urbano, se liberarian todas las fuentes actuales de SEMAPA, por un caudal de alrededor
de 1 m3/s, el que quedaria disponible para riego en el valle central. Ademas, en caso de
necesitarse mayores volumenes de agua para riego en el valle central, se podria utilizar para este
fin aguas servidas tratadas, en cantidades que en el futuro podrian alcanzar unos 1.5 m3/s. En el
caso de que la demanda de agua para riego sea aun mayor, se podra utilizar tecnologias de riego
mas eficientes, o traer mas agua del valle de Sacaba, con origen del proyecto Corani.
23.   Es importante destacar que la misi6n considera que un suministro de 4 m3/s de agua a la
regi6n de Cochabamba, ya sea su origen Corani o Misicuni, puede resolver el problema de agua
para riego sin necesidad de incrementar este caudal. Con las fuentes existentes de SEMAPA, el
caudal total disponible alcanzari 5 m3/s, del cual un ma'xmo de 2 m3/s se utilizara para consumo
urbano, dejando 3 m3/s para riego. Se puede reutilizar para riego un caudal de 1.5 m3/s de aguas
negras tratadas, lo que resultaria en un caudal total disponible para riego de alrededor de 4.5



-77-
m3/s. Utilizando tecnologias de riego eficiente y teniendo en cuenta otros proyectos de riego que
se estan desarrollando en la regi6n (no relacionados a Corani o Misicuni), estimamos que la
disponibilidad de agua para riego sera suficiente para satisfacer la demanda que podria surgir, sin
la necesidad de incrementar el suministro de agua de la nueva fuente por encima de 4 m3/s.
24.   Teniendo en cuenta que los beneficios de ambos proyectos son equivalentes y suponiendo
que los costos de operacion y mantenimiento de ambos proyectos son similares (a pesar que
estimamos que estos costos seran considerablemente mayores en el proyecto Misicuni), el
proyecto favorable desde el punto de viista econ6mico es el proyecto de menor costo de
inversi6n. Considerando los costos de inversi6n para la entrega de agua en Cala Cala, se tiene lo
siguiente: (i) la inversi6n en el proyecto Corani asciende a US$ 87.7 millones; (ii) la inversi6n en
el proyecto Misicuni I seguin la gerencia de la empresa Misicuni esta estimada en US$ 147
millones (incluyendo la conducci6n a CaleL Cala y la compra de terrenos y servidumbres); y (iii) la
inversi6n en el proyecto Misicuni I seguin la propuesta de ASTALDI-ICE esta estimada entre US$
185 y 195 millones. Estos datos demuest:ran que desde el punto de vista econ6mico, el
proyecto Corani es mucho mas favorable, ya que para obtener los mismos beneficios se
necesita invertir en el proyecto Misicunii I por lo menos un monto 2.1 a 2.2 veces mayor de
lo que se necesita invertir en el proyecto Corani (las cifras de 2.1-2.2 estan basadas en la
estimaci6n de ASTALDI-ICE, la que parece mas ajustada a la realidad).
25.   El valor presente de los ingresos de la empresa Corani por la venta de 4 m3/s de agua
(parte para consumo urbano y parte para riego) durante los primeros 30 anlos del funcionaniiento
del proyecto Corani asciende a US$ 162.9 millones, segun se infiere de los datos entregados por
la empresa Corani y los analisis lievados a cabo con hip6tesis propias. Por otra parte, el valor
presente de los ingresos del consorcio ASTALDI-ICE por la venta de 4 m3/s de agua originados
en ei proyecto Misicuni I (parte para consumo urbano y parte para riego, en distribuci6n identica
a la del proyecto Corani) durante los prim,eros 30 afios del funcionamiento del proyecto Misicuni I
asciende a US$ 172.9 millones. Ademas, el consorcio solicita un subsidio de US$ 85 a 95
millones en el inicio del proyecto, lo cual aumenta sus ingresos a US$ 257.9 (suponiendo que el
subsidio sera solo de US$ 85 millones). I)e esta manera, para obtener cantidades de agua y
beneficios similares, la sociedad pagara por el agua proveniente del proyecto Corani US$ 162.9
millones, mientras que para el agua prove.niente del proyecto Misicuni la sociedad pagara US$
257.9 millones. Esta comparaci6n demuestra en otra forma la ventaja econ6mica del proyecto
Corani.
Comparaci6n Financiera
26.   Desde el punto de vista financiero la propuesta de la empresa Corani es mucho mas s6lida
y respaldada por garantias adecuadas. El analisis financiero preparado por la gerencia de la
empresa Misicuni no parece confiable, puesto que esta basado en supuestos de financiacion
demasiado optimistas, ademas de no considerar ninguna condici6n de reparo para el cr6dito
italiano. La propuesta de ASTALDI-ICE es sin duda mis confiable que las estimaciones de la
gerencia de la empresa Misicuni, sin embargo, es menos confiable que la propuesta de Corani, ya
que no esta respaldada por garantias.



-78-
27.   Segun la propuesta de la empresa Corani, todo el proyecto Corani seri financiado
por el sector privado. Por otra parte la propuesta de ASTALDI-ICE requiere un subsidio
de entre US$ 85 y 95 millones para construir el proyecto Misicuni I, mientras que el resto de
la inversi6n sera financiada por el sector privado. El proyecto Corani tiene entonces una ventaja
considerable en relacion al proyecto Misicuni, el cual depende de un gran subsidio que todavia no
esta disponible y que, a nuestro juicio, el Gobierno tendra dificultades de financiar . Ademas,
consideramos que el monto del subsidio necesario puede aumentar una vez que se solicite una
propuesta firme para el proyecto Misicuni, respaldada por garantias adecuadas.
28.   Aun con el supuesto de que Cochabamba recibira un subsidio (regalo del Gobierno) de
US$ 85 millones, el pueblo de Cochabamba tendra que pagar por el agua de Misicuni durante los
primeros 30 afios un monto de US$ 172.9 millones (en terminos de valor presente), o sea un
monto mayor que el que pagaria por la misma cantidad de agua proveniente del proyecto Corani
(US$ 162.9 millones). Esto se traduce en un precio mayor del agua para uso urbano proveniente
del proyecto Misicuni, que asciende a 0.25 US$/m3, en comparaci6n a un precio de 0.216 a 0.235
US$/m3 de agua para uso urbano proveniente del proyecto Corani. Las estimaciones sobre el
valor presente se han realizado considerando un 12% de costo de oportunidad del capital.
Comparaci6n de los Tiempos de Ejecuci6n
29.   La empresa Corani se compromete a ejecutar las obras en un plazo de 39 meses (3.25
aflos), de los cuales, los primeros seis meses son necesarios para encarar el proceso de licitaciones
y los 33 meses restantes para la ejecuci6n de las obras. El compromiso esta respaldado por
garantias y por multas por atrasos, lo que otorga confiabilidad a la propuesta y a la determinacion
de cumplir con los tiempos estipulados. Por otra parte, el proyecto no representa un grado de
complejidad elevado en cuanto a su construcci6n, lo que despeja incertidumbres sobre
importantes retrasos en la finalizaci6n del mismo. En cuanto al proyecto Misicuni I, la gerencia de
la empresa Misicuni estima que el periodo de ejecuci6n del proyecto seria de 5 afnos, sin
especificar si este periodo incluye el tiempo necesario para preparar los documentos licitatorios y
llevar a cabo dicho proceso. En estudios anteriores sobre el proyecto Misicuni, el tiempo
estimado para la ejecuci6n del mismo es mayor de 5 afnos. El consorcio ASTALDI-ICE propone
ejecutar el proyecto Misicuni I en 3.5 anos, pero su propuesta, presentada como una propuesta
prehminar, no esta respaldada con garantias y multas por atrasos. Por otra parte, la construcci6n
del proyecto Misicuni es mas compleja que la del proyecto Corani (puesto que la inversion en este
proyecto es mucho mayor) lo que implica que los riesgos relacionados con posibles atrasos en los
plazos de finalizaci6n del proyecto son mayores. Consideramos que un plazo de ejecuci6n de 5
afios es mas realista para el proyecto Misicuni I.
30.   En el caso del proyecto Misicuni, ademias del periodo de ejecuci6n, se requiere tiempo
para la preparaci6n de los Terminos de Referencia (TOR) y los pliegos de licitacion para el BOT,
asi como la ejecuci6n de la licitaci6n, la adjudicaci6n del contrato y su negociaci6n y firma.
Asimismo, se requiere preparar la concesi6n de SEMAPA con base en el suministro de agua a
trav6s de Misicuni, los TOR para la concesi6n, los pliegos de licitaci6n, la ejecuci6n de la
licitaci6n, la adjudicaci6n del contrato y su negociaci6n y firna. Se estima que todos estos
procedimientos duraran entre 1 a 2 aflos. En este sentido, el proyecto Misicuni se encuentra



-79-
atrasado de 1 a 2 afios con relaci6n al proyecto Corani, o sea, en el caso de Corani se puede
firmar el contrato en los proximos 4 meses, mientras que en el caso de Misicuni, solo dentro de 1
a 2 aflos (con el riesgo de que quizas este paso no pueda concretarse nunca por no resultar
suficientemente atractivo para el sector privado).
31.   En resumen, se podria disponer, con un gran nivel de confiabilidad, del agua
proveniente del proyecto Corani dentro de 3.25 afnos, mientras que el agua del proyecto
Misicuni estaria disponible dentro de un plazo de 4.5 aios (en la estimaci6n mas optimista)
a 7 afios (en la estimaci6n real), con un alto nivel de riesgo. Esta diferencia en el tiempo en el
cual cada proyecto puede asegurar el suninistro de agua tiene una gran importancia dentro del
contexto de la aguda crisis de agua potable en Cochabamba, de modo que el proyecto Corani
tiene una gran ventaja desde el punto de vista del periodo de ejecucion.
Comparaci6n de la Flexibilidad
32.   De acuerdo con nuestro conocimi'ento, el sector agricola en Cochabamba no esta
dispuesto todavia a pagar un precio real por el agua para riego y se requiere tiempo para el
desarrollo del mercado consumidor. El modelo financiero del proyecto Corani esta basado
unicamente en el abastecimiento de agua para consumo urbano, de modo que si no hubiese una
demanda de agua para riego, no se suministraria agua para este uso sino que se utilizaria el agua
para generaci6n de energia en las centrales Santa Isabel y Corani, sin afectar la ecuaci6n financiera
del proyecto. Por otra parte, el proyecto Misicuni I esta basado en el abastecimiento de agua
tanto para uso urbano como para riego, y tiene que hacerlo obligatoriamente, tanto desde el punto
de vista ingenieril como financiero. Es decir que, incluso si el sector agricola no estuviese
dispuesto a pagar por el agua de riego, habria que suministrar la cantidad planeada para riego
(puesto que no habria otra manera de vaciar el embalse Misicuni) y aumentar la tarifa para el
abastecimiento urbano, con el fin de mantener el equilibrio financiero del proyecto. Por lo tanto,
el proyecto Misicuni es menos flexible y presenta el riesgo de imponer al sector urbano una
tarifa mayor de la programada.
Comparaci6n de los Riesgos
33.   El nivel del riesgo asociado con c1 proyecto Misicuni es mucho mayor al riesgo del
proyecto Corani. El paquete del proyecto Corani mas la concesi6n de SEMAPA ya esta listo,
requiriendo solo ajustes menores, de manera que la transacci6n completa se podria realizar en el
transcurso de los proximos cuatro meses. El paquete del proyecto Misicuni todavia no esta listo y
para lievarlo al mismo grado de avance que el proyecto Corani se necesita preparar ambas
operaciones (el BOT de Misicuni y la concesi6n de SEMAPA), o sea los modelos financieros, los
TOR's y las licitaciones, asi como asegurar la disponibilidad de un subsidio gubernamental, con
un gran riesgo de fracasar en conseguirio. Ademas, existe el riesgo que despues de 1 a 2 aflos de
la preparaci6n de las licitaciones, el sector privado no este dispuesto a enfrentar los riesgos
asociados con el proyecto Misicuni (disponibilidad del subsidio, riesgos de atrasos, sector agricola
que no esta dispuesto a pagar para agua de riego y riesgos de construcci6n). De esta forma existe
el riesgo de que despues de 1 a 2 aflos la regi6n continue sin contar con la necesaria nueva fuente
de agua, ya que la empresa Corani no mantendra su oferta en vigencia por tanto tiempo, sino que



-80-
podria invertir los fondos actualmente disponibles para el proyecto Corani en proyectos
alternativos en otras regiones. Ademas, aun en caso de que el proyecto Misicuni sea ejecutado, se
presenta el riesgo de imponer al sector urbano una tarifa mayor de la programada, si no se
materializan las proyecciones sobre la disposici6n del sector agricola a pagar por el agua de riego.
Comparacion del Impacto Ambiental
34.   El componente de mayor impacto ambiental en un proyecto multiple de este tipo es el
embalse de almacenamiento de agua. El embalse del proyecto Corani ya esta construido y se
encuentra en operaci6n desde hace 30 anios, por lo que el impacto ambiental negativo del
proyecto Corani seria minimo. Por el contrario, el embalse del proyecto Misicuni aun no esta
construido, asi que el riesgo ambiental asociado con este proyecto puede ser mayor.
CONCLUSIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES
35.   En base a las numerosas ventajas del proyccto Corani, el Banco Mundial considera que
este proyecto es el mas favorable para resolver el problema de abastecimiento de agua para la
regi6n de Cochabamba. El proyecto Corani generaria, con una menor inversi6n, beneficios
equivalentes a los que puede generar el proyecto Misicuni I, ademas: (i) puede ser financiado
totalmente con capital privado sin necesidad de subsidios; (ii) suministraria agua por un precio
menor; (iii) es mas flexible; (iv) puede asegurar el suministro de agua dentro de 3.25 afios (un
tiempo mucho menor que el proyecto Misicuni) y, (iv) el nivel de los riesgos asociados con este
proyccto es menor que el nivel de los riesgos del proyecto Misicuni.
36.   Actualmente existe una oportunidad unica para firmar el contrato de Corani, pero esta
oportunidad estara vigente solo por un tiempo limitado. La empresa Corani ha estado esperando
por mis de dos afilos para firmar el contrato y si decidiera invertir los fondos actualmente
disponibles en otros proyectos, la regi6n de Cochabamba perdera la oportunidad de concretar el
anhelado deseo de suministrar a sus habitantes agua en cantidad y calidad adecuados.
37.   El Banco recomienda firmar inmediatamente el paquete de la concesi6n de SEMAPA con
el proyecto Corani como fuente de abastecimiento de agua. Las autoridades regionales de
Cochabamba deberian aprovechar la oportunidad existente de ejecutar el proyecto Corani antes de
que 6sta se diluya para siempre. El Banco Mundial sostiene que el proyecto Corani resuelve el
problema de agua en la regi6n, es mis conveniente y constituye una opci6n realizable.
38.   Asimismo, el Banco Mundial tambien recomienda invertir los aproximadamente US$ 32
millones disponibles en la cuenta de "Agua para Cochabamba", en la ampliacion de las redes de
agua y alcantarillado en la ciudad, lo que permitiria una reduccion de la tarifa de agua para uso
urbano, o el desarrollo de los sistemas de riego en la regi6n.
39.   Finalmente y en forma complementaria el Banco Mundial considera necesario aclarar que
la ejecuci6n del proyecto Corani, inviabilizaria el proyecto Misicuni puesto que la demanda tanto
de agua potable como de riego estaria pnncipalmente atendida por el proyecto Corani, dejando
practicamente sin mercado al proyecto Misicuni.



-81-
Annex 5A
Project Reviewv from the Borrower's Perspective
The Opinion of Aguas del Illimani, La Paz
(In Spanish)
Aguas del Illimani
La Paz, marzo 19 de 1998
EJF/afm.    GG - 235
Seflores
BANCO MUNDIAL
1818 H. STREET N.W.
WASHINGTON DC 20433
E.E.U.U.
ATN. Ing. Menahem Libahaber
TASK MANAGER
REF. INFORME DE CUMIPLIMIENTO DE LA IMPLEMENTACION
CREDITO AIF 2187-BO.
De nuestra consideraci6n:
En atenci6n a su nota, nos permitimnos hacer llegar la documentaci6n adjunta:
*  Desempehio del Banco.
*  Informe de Cumplimiento del l'royecto.
* Manual de Operacion y Mantenimiento de la Tuberia Pampahasi - Ovejuyo.
Con relacion al contenido del Bonrador de Informe de Cumplimiento puesto a nuestro
conocimiento, al no tener ningun comentario, damos nuestra conformidad.
Con este motivo, saludo a ustedes mnuy atentamente.
GEREIT    PL NIFICA
ESTRATEGICA
AGUAS DEL ILLIMANI S.A.
Adj. Lo citado.



-82-
PROYECTO AGUA POTABLE LA PAZ
CREDITO 2187-BO
PRESTATARIO REPUBLICA DE BOLIVIA
EJECUCION AGUAS DEL ILLIMANI S.A.
DESEMPENO DEL BANCO
En relaci6n a este tema debemos sefialar que el programa de La Paz, cont6 con el apoyo
adecuado de los Funcionarios del Banco para la culminaci6n del Proyecto.
Como experiencia corresponde manifestar que seria deseable para futuros proyectos
simplificar los documentos estandar del Banco para adquisici6n de bienes y servicios, asi
como su compatibilizaci6n con las regulaciones sobre el tema en los paises.
CUMPLIMIENTO Y DESARROLLO DEL PROYECTO
L   ANTECEDENTES.
En fecha 17 de diciembre de 1990, el Servicio Aut6nomo Municipal de Agua
Potable y Alcantarillado (SAMAPA), suscribi6 el Acuerdo de Credito N 2187 -
BO con la Asociaci6n Intemacional de Fomento (AIF), como resultado del
Convenio de Credito firmado en la misma fecha por la Repuiblica de Bolivia.
Segun lo establece el Articulo VI, secci6n 6.01 inciso b) del Convenio de Credito de
Desarrollo N 2187-BO en fecha 2 de agosto de 1991 SAMAPA suscribi6 el
Convenio Subsidiario de prestamo con el Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Regional
(FNDR), como agente financiero de gobiemo.
Segun lo estipula la Clausula Sexta del Convenio Subsidiario de Prestamo, la
estructura de financiamiento considera 6 categorias, las cuales deberan ser cubiertos
con fondos del Credito N 2187-BO por la AIF y con el aporte propio de SAMAPA.
En fecha 20 de junio de 1991, el Gobiemo de Bolivia firm6 con el KfW el contrato
de aporte financiero y de ejecuci6n "Del Sistema Alcantarillado de El Alto La Paz"
niumero 9065319 de un aporte no reembolsable por DM 23.000.000 (Veintitrks



-83-
Millones 00/100 de Marcos Alemanes), cumpliendo de esta manera el Considerando
(B) del Convenio de Credito de Desarrollo para financiar la parte A3 del proyecto a
ser ejecutado por SAMAPA.
II.   DESCRIPCION.
Segurn el Anexo 2 del Convenio de Credito, la parte "A" corresponde a SAMAPA
que tiene como componentes principales a los siguientes:
1. Mejoramiento y expansion die los sistemas de agua potable que incluye:
a. Ampliaci6n de la Planta dLe Tratamiento de Pampahasi, para incrementar su
capacidad de 400 I/seg. a 705 I/seg.
b. Construcci6n de un tanque de almacenamiento en Ho.Ao. para un volumen
de 2.500 m3.
c. Instalaci6n de tuberias dLe conexi6n desde la Planta de Tratamiento de
Pampahasi hasta Calacoto - Alto Ovejuyo (altura Chasquipampa).
d. Redes de distribuci6n de agua potable para zonas de expansi6n en 125 Has.
2. Fortalecimiento Institucionail de SAMAPA que incluye:
a. Disefio final para las tuberias de conexi6n y la infraestructura para las redes
de distribuci6n parrafos b, c, y d. del numeral 1.
b. Fortalecimiento Institucional de SAMAPA, que incluye control de perdidas,
estructura organizacional y contabilidad de costos.
c. Adquisici6n de utilizaci6n de equipos y sistemas de computaci6n para
mejorar los sistemas de operaci6n, administraci6n, comercial y financiera.
3. Rehabilitaci6n del sistema de alcantarillado de El Alto que incluye:
a. Instalaci6n de redes de alcantarillado incluyendo conexiones, a un drea
aproximadamente 300 Has. en la ciudad de El Alto.



-84-
b. Construcci6n de una planta de tratamiento de aguas servidas en El Alto.
III. EJECUCION DEL PROYECTO.
III.1 Componente "A" AGUA POTABLE.
A.2 y A.3 Tuberia de Conexi6n Pampahasi - Calacoto - Alto Ovejuyo.
A.2.1 v A.3.1 Suministro de Materiales.
De acuerdo a Contrato AJ/0.1.0/021/95, la provisi6n y suministro de
materiales esta a cargo de la firma MARIENCO SRL. El detalle de los
antecedentes se muestra a continuaci6n:
Resoluci6n de Directorio       004/95 del 12-01-95
Inicio Actividades             15-01-96
Plazo segun Contrato           10 meses
Fecha Conclusi6n s/Contrato    15-09-96
Ampliaci6n de Plazo            30 dias calendario
Fecha Conclusi6n               15-10-96
Boletas de Garantia
Cumplimiento de Contrato       Banco  BBA  N  00775/96    $us.
994.927.oo
15-09-96
Monto del Contrato             $us. 4.974.636.67
t COMENTARIO. La falta de experiencia de MARIENCO en el manejo
de este tipo de materiales ocasion6 importantes retrasos en la Obra.
A.2.2. Instalaci6n de la Tuberia Pampahasi - Calacoto Alto Ovejuvo.
De acuerdo a Contrato firmado N AJ/0. 1.0/044/96, la responsabilidad de la
ejecuci6n de las obras del Proyecto esta a cargo de la Empresa Constructora
TAURO SRL. El detalle de los antecedentes se muestra a continuaci6n:
Resoluci6n de Directorio       071/96 de fecha 17-11-95
Inicio Actividades             09-09-96
Plazo segun Contrato           9 meses - 270 dias calendario



-85-
Fecha Conclusi6n s/Contrato    05-06-97
Fecha Recepci6n Definitiva     05-06-98 despues de 12 meses
Boletas de Garantia
Cumplimiento de Contrato  10%   Banco BISA N 006066-01 01
$us. 65.113.46
04-08-97
Buen Uso de Anticipo    20%   Banco BISA N 006066-0101
$us. 130.226.921
28-04-97
Buena Ejecuci6n          10%   Banco BISA No 006066-0101
$us.65.113.460
05-09-98
Monto del Contrato             $us. 651.234.58
Orden de proceder
La orden de proceder fue emitida por la Supervisi6n en fecha 09-09-96 pese
a no contar con todo el mnaterial necesario en almacenes, en raz6n a que de
acuerdo a los terminos ccintractuales se establece que el plazo de ejecuci6n
entra en vigencia a partir (le la entrega del anticipo, monto que fue cancelado
por SAMAPA en fecha 05-09-96.
Equipo, Personal y Maquinaria Empleado por la Empresa Constructora
Los equipos, Personal y imaquinaria empleados por la Empresa Contratista
en la ejecuci6n de los trabajos realizados, guardan relaci6n con lo ofertado
en la propuesta presentada y adjudicada.
> COMENTARIO. El desempefio de la Constructora fue adecuado y el
retraso se debi6 principalmente al Proveedor.
A.6   Redes de Distribuci6n Sistema Pampahasi
6.1 Contrato N0 AJ/008/97 Suministro de Materiales para
Cimaras de Desa!iie.
Proveedor           IRCE LTDA.



-86-
Firma Contrato       28 Enero 97
Inicio               13 Marzo 97 Apertura Carta de Credito
Plazo                105 dias calendario
Vencimiento          28 Junio 97
Garantia            N 041357 del Banco BNB
Monto del Contrato    $us. 43.630.67
> COMENTARIO. El Proveedor cumpli6 su Contrato con
retraso.
6.2 Contrato N AJ/096/97 Suministro de Materiales para
Camaras de Desaguie y Va41vulas Reductoras de Presi6n.
Proveedor            MARKETING BOLIVIA S.R.L.
Firma Contrato       29 Enero 97
Inicio               14 Abril 97
Plazo                150 dias calendario
Vencimiento          10 Septiembre 97
Garantia            N 7209 del Banco de la Uni6n, vence
10 Octubre 97, Cumplimiento de
Contrato
Ampliaciones         No se han dado
Monto del Contrato    $us. 303.908.21
> COMENTARIO. Este fue el unico Contrato de Provisi6n
que no tuvo dificultades.
6.3 Contrato NO AJ/094197 Suministro de Tuberias y Accesorios
de PVC y Viilvulas de Compuerta.
Proveedor            MARIENCO SRL.
Inicio               14 Abril 97
Plazo                120 dias calendario
Vencimiento          11 Agosto 97
Garantia            No 007188 del Banco de la Uni6n SA.
Ampliaci6n de plazo   No se han dado
Monto del Contrato    $us. 210.544.96



-87-
COMENTARIO.   En  este Contrato  AGUAS  DEL
ILLIMANI S.A. rechaz6 los Accesorios de PVC, porque no
satisfaciant la calidad requerida.
6.4 Contrato NO AJ/095/96 Tuberia y Accesorios de Hierro
Fundido Duictil
Proveedor            MARIENCO SRL.
Inicio               14 Abril 97
Plazo                120 dias calendario
Vencimiento          11 Agosto 97
Garantia            N0 006574 del Banco de la Uni6n SA.
Ampliaciones de Plazo No se han dado
Monto del Contrato    $us. 194.331.96
6.5 Contrato NO AJ/012/97   Construcci6n de las Redes de
Distribuci6n.
Proveedor            Consorcio CICSA-ASBUN SRL.
Firma Contrato       21 Marzo 97
Inicio               13 Agosto 97
Plazo                180 dias calendario
Vencimiento          13 Febrero 97
Garantia             LP-BG-1-97-23968 Banco Santa Cruz
LP-BG-1-97-24607 Banco Santa Cruz
Monto del Co0ntrato    $us. 413.402.33
Ejecuci6n            Se emiti6 la orden de proceder a partir
del 13 Agosto 97.
> COMENTARIO. El rendimiento  del Consorcio  es
sumamente bajo y se realizan esfuerzos para evitar que se
ocasione im retraso considerable.
III.2 Componente "B" MEJORAMIENTO INSTITUCIONAL
B.1.2 y B.1.3 Sistema de Costos y estructura organizacional



-88-
El Contrato tuvo una reconducci6n en los meses de Enero a Junio por parte
de SAMAPA, desarrollando el Sistema Computarizado de Costos.
> COMENTARIO. Por diferentes circunstancias este componente no dio
el resultado esperado.
III.3  Componente "C" CONSULTORIA
C.2  Supervisi6n de la Construcci6n.
De acuerdo a contrato firmado N AJ/0.1.0/045/96, SAMAPA contrat6 los
servicios del Consorcio Hazen and Sawyer - CAEM, para la supervisi6n del
Proyecto "Tendido de Tuberia Pampahasi - Ovejuyo", bajo las siguientes
condiciones y caracteristicas:
Resoluci6n de Directorio      084/96 del 28-12-95
Inicio Actividades            05-09-96
Plazo segun Contrato          10 meses
Cumplimiento de Contrato      Banco Nacional de Bolivia N 34814
$us. 34.767.60 al 27-06-97
Monto del Contrato            $us. 347.676.oo
Las actividades desarrolladas por la Supervisi6n a la fecha indicada fueron
las siguientes:
Replanteo de Obras de general
Supervisi6n de obras civiles y tendido tub. FFD Zona Chasquipampa Alto
Ovejuyo.
Supervisi6n obras civiles y tendido tub. de acero 24" y 20" Zona Alto Irpavi,
Calacoto, Achumani
Examenes de soldadura a personal especializado.
Procedimiento de soldadura
Estudio de modificaci6n de trazo de la tuberia en el sector Pampahasi-Irpavi.
Verificaci6n del material recibido.
> COMENTARIO. La Supervisi6n tuvo dificultades en definir si la
tuberia requeria o no anclajes, lo que demor6 la toma de decisiones en
este tema.



-89-
Control de Soldadura.
De acuerdo a los Terminos de Referencia y Pliego de Licitaci6n N 01/95-
BM, se establece que SAMAPA, contratara los servicios de una Instituci6n
Descentralizada para la realizaci6n del Control Radiografico de las
Soldaduras.
En este sentido SAMAP'A, firm6 un Convenio Interinstitucional con el
Instituto de Investigaciones Fisicas (IIF) de la Universidad Mayor de San
Andr6s, para el control radiografico de las soldaduras en fecha 11-11-96. El
alcance de trabajo a realizarse bajo este convenio, es el siguiente:
- Control de cien por ciento de la longitud total de las juntas soldadas en
las tuberias mediante :rayos X..
* El IIF es responsable de la interpretaci6n y conclusiones respectivas
concemientes a la aceptaci6n o rechazo de las soldaduras.
La estructura fmanciera del Convenio es la siguiente:
Control Radiografico de Soldadura    $us. 99.844.oo
Examenes a Soldadores                $us.   1 OO.oo /persona
Capacitaci6n Personal de SAMAPA      $us.   500.oo
La evaluaci6n de examenes al personal especialista en soldadura de la
Empresa Constructora y control radiografico de todo el tendido de la tuberia
de acero, se cumpli6 satisfactoriamente.



-90-
PLAN FASE DE OPERACION
PROYECTO PAMPAHASI - OVEJUYO
1.- ANTECEDENTES
La empresa Aguas del Illimani con fmanciamiento del Banco mundial y participaci6n de la firma
MARIENCO como proveedor, el consorcio de consultoria Hazen and Sawyer-CAEM  Ltda. como
supervisor del proyecto y la Empresa TAURO como constructor, se hallan en la etapa final del tendido de
tuberias de conexi6n, desde la planta de tratamiento de Pampahasi hasta la zona sur de la ciudad en
Ovejuyo.
El area en la que estan siendo tendidas las tuberias de conexi6n, esta situada en el radio urbano de la
ciudad de La Paz y consiste en el tendido de tuberia de acero y FFD de diferentes diametros.
En general el sistema tiene los siguientes componentes:
Tuberia de conexi6n Pampahasi - Calacoto, con una longitud aproximada de 7,742.30 ml. de tuberia de
acero, soldada uni6n tope a tope en diametros nominales de 30", 24" y 20".
Tuberia de conexi6n Calacoto - Alto Ovejuyo, con una longitud aproximada de 1,606.30 ml. de tuberia de
acero, soldada tope a tope, mediante el uso de CCB's (manguitos de conexi6n), de DN 12.75" y 1,516.90
ml. de tuberia de FFD K9 en DN de 300 mm.
Interconexi6n con la red existente en los ramales Z-31, Z-40 y Z-41 en una longitud de 739.40 ml. de
tuberia de acero en DN 16" y 12.75".
Elementos hidromecdnicos como ser: Estaci6n de seguridad, estaciones reductoras de presi6n, cAmaras de
entrada y purga de aire, camaras de desagiue y valvulas compuerta.
Obras complementarias, como ser: Camaras de Ho.Ao. para estaciones y valvulas, cruce de rios, gaviones
y anclajes.
2.- IMPORTANCIA DE LA OPERACION Y MANTENIMIENTO.
Si bien el sistema puede estar adecuadamente diseflado y construido, el momento de la entrega de obra,
comienza la vida uitil del proyecto y por lo tanto la fase mas delicada que es el poner en marcha el sistema
y lo que es mas importante el operarlo y mantenerlo.
Se distingue claramente que la fase de operaci6n y mantenimiento, constituye una tarea importante en la
conservaci6n del sistema y por lo tanto un deficiente manejo, implicaria una disminucion de la vida util de
la obra.
3.- TRANSFERENCIA DE LA NUEVA INFRAESTRUCTURA
De acuerdo a la programaci6n de obras, la linea de aducci6n Pampahasi-Ovejuyo, debera estar concluido
hasta mediados del mes de Abril de 1998. Una vez recibidas las obras y concluido el proyecto, el sistema
sera transferido al Dpto. de operaciones, dependiente de la Gerencia Regional La Paz, quienes a partir de
ese momento deberan hacerse cargo de la operaci6n y mantenimiento de las nuevas obras.
4.- MAGNITUD DE LA NUEVA INFRAESTRUCTURA
La nueva infraestructura se compone de lo siguiente:
*  10,088.00 metros lineales de tub. de acero en DN 30", 24", 20", 16" y 12.75"



-91-
*   1,516.90 metros lineales de tub. de FFD D)N 300 mm.
*  Una estaci6n de Seguridad.
*  Cuatro estaciones reductoras de presi6n
*   16 camaras para valvulas de entrada y purga de aire.
* 15 camaras para valvulas de desagile.
*  28 valvulas compuerta.
*  Obras complementarias.
5.- MANTENIMIENTO
El proceso de mantenimiento de un sistema de agua potable, es un conjunto de actividades tendientes a
restituir las condiciones originales de funcionamiento y a prever cualquier deterioro futuro.
En un programa de mantenimiento se deberan considerar dos ambitos:
*  Reparaci6n de dafios
*  Prevenci6n.
Tanto el mantenimiento referido a la reparaci6n de dafios como a la prevenci6n, juegan un rol importante
en el adecuado funcionamiento del sistema y el tiempo de vida uitil.
5.1.- Reparaci6n de dafios.
La reparaci6n de dafios esta dirigida a actuar en el momento en que se presente algun deterioro en un
componente del sistema
Causas:
Los dafios en el sistema se pueden originar por fallas en la operaci6n del sistema, por debilidad del
material en un determinado punto o por accidentes extemos que destruyan algun elemento.
Las fallas en la fase de operaci6n pueden evitarse en la medida en que los operadores puedan cumplir
adecuadamente con las recomendaciones provistas por los fabricantes de los equipos. Cuando una
falla de operaci6n ha sido localizada y existe dafio en algfu componente, se debera realizar una
evaluaci6n, indicando de fonna inmediata la magnitud y celeridad con la que debe actuarse en la
reparaci6n de este dafio.
Otra causa en la aparici6n de dafios en el sistema, puede presentarse por la debilidad de la estructura
del material empleado en la fabricaci6n o ensamblaje de las piezas. La causa es dificil de verificar, ya
que la ruptura o el deterioro aparece generalmente de forma brusca. Las fallas de fabricaci6n son
dificiles de identificar en la puesta en marcha del sistema , puesto que por lo general estas recien se
manifiestan despues de un tiempo de funcionamiento. En el caso de la tuberia de aducci6n, del
presente proyecto, se efectuaron pruebas de testeo en fabrica, como tambien pruebas hidraulicas en
sitio, para verificar las condiciones de flncionamiento extremas tanto a nivel estructural de la tuberia
como a nivel de las juntas realizadas.
* Reparaci6n de los dafios:
Una de las caracteristicas de la aparici6n de dafios, es que se producen en forma inesperada, por lo
cual es dificil crear un programa de reparaci6n de dafios.
Una vez aparecido el deterioro, se debera actuar con la mayor celeridad para reparar el dafno y una de
las condiciones fundamentales para encontrar la soluci6n, es de disponer para cada caso de los
medios necesarios para cumplir dicha tarea.



-92-
5.2.- Mantenimiento Preventivo.
La reparaci6n de danlos no debe ser el objetivo final del programa de mantenimiento, es decir no se debe
esperar que el dafno ocurra, es posible realizar un mantenimiento preventivo antes de la aparici6n de
algun dafio.
Fases del mantenimiento preventivo.
Las fases a seguir en el programa de mantenimiento preventivo son:
* Clasificaci6n de los componentes del sistema.
* Inventariaci6n de cada componente del sistema
* Programa de mantenimiento por componente.
* Personal y equipo requerido.
Clasificaci6n de los componentes del sistema:
Los componentes a considerarse son los siguientes:
Elementos hidromecanicos
* Estaci6n de seguridad
* VClavulas compuerta
* Valvulas de entrada y purga de aire
* Valvulas de desaguie
* Estaciones reductoras de presi6n
*  Tuberias
* Tuberia de acero y accesorios
* Tuberia de FFD y accesorios
*  Obras complementarias
* Camaras Ho.Ao. para elementos hidromecanicos
* Cruce rios - Encamisado Ho.Ao. tuberia
* Protecci6n taludes - gaviones - canales de drenaje
* Bloques de anclaje
Inventariaci6n del sistema:
Este item se refiere a una inventariaci6n tecnica, que comprende el registro de cada una de las
instalaciones del sistema de acuerdo a su clasificaci6n. Se deberi crear una ficha que contenga toda la
informaci6n necesaria.
Programa de mantenimiento por componente:
* Estaci6n de Seguridad.
Esta prevista su instalaci6n en caso de una rotura de la tuberia. Las valvulas de la estaci6n de
seguridad tendran que cerrarse automaticamente a objeto de evitar dafios personales, a bienes asi
como perdidas de agua. Su funcionamiento es hidraulico - mecanico.
La instalaci6n hidromecanica esta compuesta de los siguientes elementos:
*  M6dulo hidraulico independiente - dispositivo de cierre automatico y/o manual.
* Valvula mariposa de cierre automatico movida a palanca.



-93-
*  Dispositivo antivacio entrada y purga de aire automatico y manual
*  Valvula compuerta.
*  Interruptor de flujo.
Mantenimiento:
*  M6dulo hidraulico indepenciente
Control periodico de:
*  Man6metro baja y alta presi6n.
*  Posici6n del selector de operaci6n de cierre, automatico - manual.
*  Nivel liquido hidraulico
*  Control piloto de presi6n
*  Filtraciones en valvulas de alivio de alta y baja presi6n.
Mantenimiento anual (o cuandlo se requiera):
*  Drenar la humedad acumulada en el dep6sito del liquido hidraulico
-  Verificar la limpieza o reemplazar el filtro.
-  Verificar la presi6n de las v:dlvulas de alivio y ajustar a sus valores establecidos
-  Si es posible verificar la operaci6n y calibraci6n del control piloto de presi6n y de la
valvula solenoide.
-  Llenar el dep6sito de liquido hidraulico hasta su nivel maximo, con liquido compatible.
-  Las valvulas Mariposa, no requieren mantenimiento o lubricaci6n regular
Viilvulas Comnuerta:
Las valvulas de compuerta, operaclas manualmente son los dispositivos mas simples en el
sistema, no requeriendo instrucciones particulares para la operacion, como tampoco, para su
mantenimiento. Si bien las valvulas pueden proporcionar afios de funcionamiento libres de
mantenimiento, hay ocasiones en que la reparaci6n de las valvulas es necesaria.
Se considera de utilidad tomar en cuenta algunas recomendacciones, en atenci6n a asegurar que
la operaci6n sea efectuada en la mejor forma posible.
Controles Peri6dicos
*  Durante la prueba de presi6n clel sistema, se recomienda que el torque en los elementos
roscados debe ser verificado, para asegurar que las cargas en las juntas sea el adecuado.
*  Detener cualquier filtraci6n visible de las empaquetaduras de la caja del vastago, ajustando
los pemos del buje de la valvula. La filtraci6n debe ser detenida lo mas pronto posible para
prevenir el deterioro de las piezas de la valvula.
*  Si se observa alguna filtraci6n entre el cuerpo y el bonete de la valvula ajustar las tuercas en
forma gradual y cruzada.
*  Si despiues de esta operaci6n, la filtraci6n continua, es necesario reemplazar la
empaquetadura.
*  Lubricar los vastagos y tuercas cle los vastagos periodicamente, usando grasa de alta calidad
bien gradada.



-94-
*  Preservar la identificaci6n de todas las valvulas. La numeraci6n es usada para identificar la
valvula. Estos niumeros, son de utilidad cuando se requiere reemplazar piezas.
*  No desarmar ninguna valvula, a no ser que se requiera reparar un danio. La gran mayoria de
las valvulas nunca requieren un mantenimiento que contemple el desarmado total, durante la
vida util del producto, si el mismo esta adecuadamente instalado, operado y mantenido.
Valvulas de Entrada v Pur2a de Aire:
Estas valvulas son instaladas para la ventilaci6n automatica de las tuberias de conexi6n. Liberan
una gran cantidad de aire durante el llenado de la tuberia y permiten tambidn, que una cantidad
reingrese a la tuberia para romper el vacio y elimninar cualquier peligro o colapso.
Los elementos principales de esta purga de aire son:
*  Valvula de globo
  Valvula de admision y escape de aire
*  VAlvula de compuerta
Controles Peri6dicos:
En todas las valvulas, detener cualquier posibilidad de filtraciones a travez de las
empaquetaduras de las juntas bridadas, ajustando las tuercas  de los pemos en forma
cruzada. Si no se logra detener las filtraciones se debe cambiar las empaquetaduras.
La vAlvula de globo puede ser completamente desarmada en campo, para reemplazar
asientos o para una completa revisi6n, sin la necesidad de herramientas especiales.
-  Viilvula de desague:
Ubicadas en los puntos bajos de las tuberias de conexi6n y aguas arriba de las valvulas de cierre.
Su elemento principal es la valvula de globo.
Su mantenimiento es similar al indicado para las valvulas de purga de aire.
* Estaciones reductoras de presi6n.
Las estaciones reductoras de presi6n son instaladas, con el fin de reducir las altas presiones que
rigen en el ramal principal de la tuberia de conexi6n y sus ramales a presiones adecuadas para las
redes de distribuci6n. Seran instaladas en los extremos finales de los ramales de la tuberia.
Una estaci6n de reducci6n de presi6n esta compuesta de uno o dos ramales, cada uno con sus
instalaciones respectivas.
En el sistema de Pampahasi - Ovejuyo seran instaladas cuatro (4) estaciones reductoras de
presi6n:
* Reductora R-201 (Ramal Z-3 1)
* Reductora R-79 (Ramal Z-41)
* Reductora R-78 (Ramal Z-40)
*  Reductora R-77  (Ramal Z-40)



-95-
Los componentes de cada estaci6n reductora de presi6n son:
*  Valvula reductora de presion.
*  Valvula de cierre (globo)
*  Actuador hidraulico
*  Valvulas compuerta (cinco pzas.)
*  Valvula de alivio
*  Recolector de suciedad
*  Sistema parada de emergencia
El mantenimiento de los diferentes elementos hidromecanicos de las reductoras de presi6n,
practicamente esta dada en los pArrafos precedentes. Sin embargo, enumeramos los mismos para
relacionarlos con las instalacciones anotadas:'
Controles Peri6dicos
* VAlvula reductora de presion
Los controles que se deben efectuar en estas valvulas, se refieren particularmente a los
danios de los mecanismos de la valvula por cavitacci6n. Es por ello que, un control adecuado
de caudales y presiones a los que ha sido diseflada la tuberia de conexi6n evitari que se
acelere o retrase el danio por cavitaci6n de estas valvulas.
*  Las demas valvulas que componen una estaci6n reductora de presi6n y el sistema de parada
de emergencia, deben controlarse de la misma manera que lo explicado en parrafos
anteriores.
*  Recolector de suciedad
Drenar peri6dicamente el recipiente de recolecci6n de suciedad
De cualquier manera, tratandose de varios elementos bridados, es imprescindible evitar
filtraciones de las juntas, mediante el ajuste de las tuercas de los pemos en forma cruzada.
Tuberias
Rutinariamente ( por ejem. cada dos semanas) los operadores deberan recorrer la traza de la
tuberia de Acero y FFD, comprobando su buen funcionamiento y verificar si hay indicios de
fugas en algun punto de las tuberias.
En el caso de la tuberia de acero, se debera verificar el revestimiento interior a intervalos de
cinco afnos, en lo posible, inpeccionando en forma interna toda la tuberia. mediante personal con
equipo adecuado y/o con el empleo de videocamras.
Los tramos que presenten defectos o deterioro agudo deberan ser reparados o repuestos.
* Accesorios
Todos los accesorios o piezas especiales instaladas en camaras deberan ser inspeccionadas
peri6dicamente y comprobar su estado. Bianualmente se debera reforzar sus revestimiento
exteriores mediante el pintado y/o revestidos con materiales aprobados por la AWWA



-96-
* Obras Complementarias
Camaras HA
El mantenimiento referido a estas estructuras, deberi efectuarse peri6dicamente. Al
comprobarse algun dailo tanto intemo como externo, se deberi seguir lo establecido en el
Codigo Boliviano de HIA en lo que ha reparaciones se refiere.
* Otras Obras
La inspecci6n peri6dica de las obras complementarias, en especial aquellas de protecci6n a las
tuberias, se hace imprescindible, a efectos de prever cualquier colapso en la tuberia, dada las
presiones con la que se disefio el sistema.
Se debe tener cuidado especial en los cruces de rios realizando una inspecci6n anual a dichos
sectores, antes de la epoca de lluvias, a efectos de tomar las medidas correctivas o mejoras
necesanias en encamisados de HA y gaviones de protecci6n.
Por otra parte en sectores de pendiente pronunciada se debe verificar si los gaviones de
protecci6n tepes y canaletas de drenaje estan en condiciones 6ptimas, antes de enfrentar la dpoca
de lluvias.
- Personal v Eouipo
El personal para la operaci6n y mantenimiento de las instalaciones sera entrenado durante la
etapa de puesta en operaci6n y funcionamiento de la tuberia y como resultado de esta actividad,
se estableceran las necesidades de equipos y herranmnientas, asi como la complementaci6n del
presente manual



-97-
ANEXO
FICHA DE INVENTARIO DIE INSTALACIONES Y EQUIPOS
CODIGO
......................
1.  COMPONENTE DEL SISTEMA:
2.  PARTE DEL COMPONENTE:
3.  NOMBRE DEL EQUIPO:
4.  FECHA DE INSTALACION:
5.  NUMERO DE IDENTIFICACI6N:
6.  DATOS DEL FABRICANTE:
Nombre del Fabricante:
Direcci6n:
........................................
7. DISPONIBILIDAD DE INFORMACION DEL FABRICANTE
Manual de montaje       si .........  no ...no.
Manual de operaci6n     si .........  no .......no
Manual de mantenimiento  si .........  no.........
8. PLACA DE IDENTIFICACI6N Y OTROS DATOS TECNICOS:



-98-
Annex 5B
Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective
The Opinion of Aguas del illimani, La Paz
(In English)
La Paz
March 19, 1998
EJF/afm GG-235
World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C., 20433
Attention: Mr. Menahem Libhaber
Task Manager
Subject:  Implementation Completion Report, IDA Credit 2187-BO
Dear Sir:
We are attaching the following documents in reply to your note:
* Bank performance
Project completion report
Operating and maintenance manual for the Pampahasi-Ovejuyo line
We accept the draft Implementation Completion Report and have no comments to make on it.
Yours sincerely,
Eddy Jaen Fuentes
Strategic Planning Manager
Aguas del Illimani S.A.
Attachments



-99-
LA PAZ POTABLE WATER PROJECT
CREDIT 2187-BO
BORROWER: REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
IMPLEMENTING AGENCY: AGUAS DEL ILLIMANI S.A.
BANK PERFORMANCE
The La Paz program received adequate support from Bank staff for its completion.
For future projects, it would be desirable to simplify the Bank's standard procurement documents,
making them compatible with regulations on this subject in the borrowing countries.
TEHE PROJECT
L BACKGROUND
On December 17, 1990, the Servicio Aut6nomo Municipal de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado
(SAMAPA) signed Credit Agreement 21'37-BO with the International Development Association
(IDA) pursuant to the Credit Agreement signed on the same day by the Republic of Bolivia.
As established in Article VI, Section 6.01 subsection (b) of the Development Credit Agreement
2187-BO, a Subsidiary Agreement was signed on August 2, 1991, by SAMAPA and the National
Regional Development Fund (FNDR) as the government's financial agent.
As stipulated in clause six of the Subsidiary Agreement, the structure of the financing included six
categories to be covered with proceeds fi-om IDA Credit 2187-BO and SAMAPA contributions.
On June 20, 1991, the Government of Bolivia and KfW signed contract 9065319 for
nonreirnbursable financing of DM 23 million for the El Alto La Paz sewerage system, thereby
complying with clause B of the Development Credit Agreement to finance part A.3 of the project
to be carried out by SAMAPA.
IL DESCRIPTION
According to Annex 3 of the Credit Agreement, part A contained the following main components
for SAMAPA:
1.   Improvement and expansion of the potable water systems, including:
(a)   Expansion of the Pampahasi water treatment plant to increase its capacity from 400 I/s to
705 uls;
(b)   Construction of a 2,500 m3 storage tank;



-100-
(c)   Installation of pipelines connecting the Pampahasi water treatment plant to Calacoto-Alto
Ovejuyo (at Chasquipampa); and
(d)   Construction of potable water distribution systems in an expansion area of about 125
hectares.
2.    Institutional strengthening of SAMAPA, including:
(a)   Preparation of the final designs for the pipelines and distribution infrastructure referred to
in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) above;   -
(b)   Institutional strengthening for SAMAPA, including loss control, organizational structure
and cost accounting; and
(c)   Acquisition and utilization of equipment and computer systems to improve its operational,
commercial and financial management.
3.    Rehabilitation of the El Alto sewerage system, including:
(a)   Installation of sewerage systems, including connections, covering an area of about 300
hectares in the municipality of El Alto; and
(b)   Construction of a sewage treatment plant in El Alto.
MlL PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.1   Component A: Potable Water
A.2 and A.3. Pampahasi-Calacoto-Alto Ovejuyo pipeline
A.2.1 and A.3.1 Supply of materials
Under contract AJ/0. 1.0/021/95, the firm Marienco S.R.L. was to supply the materials, as
follows:
Board of Directors decision:   004/95 of January 12, 1995
Start of activities:           January 15, 1996
Contract term:                 10 months
Contractual date of completion:    September 15, 1996
Extension:                     30 calendar days
Date of completion:            October 15, 1996
Contract performance guarantee:   Bank BBA 00775/96 for US$ 994,927, September 15, 1996
Amount of contract:            US$4,974,636.67



-101-
Comment: Marienco's lack of experience in handling materials of this kind led to major delays in
the work.
A.2.2. Installation of the PamWahasi-Calacoto-Alto Ovejuyo pipelines
Under contract AJ/0. 1.0/044/96, the construction company Tauro S.R.L. was responsible for
performing the work, as follows:
Board of Directors decision:   071/96 of November 17, 1995
Start of activities:           September 9, 1996
Contract term:                 9 months (270 calendar days)
Contractual date of completion:    June 5, 1997
Date of final acceptance      June 5, 1998 (12 months late)
Guarantees:
Contract compliance:    10%". Bank BISA 006066-0101 for US$65,113.46, August
4, 1997
Advance paymnent:       20%. Bank BISA 006066-0101 for US$130,226.92, April
28, 1997
Good performance:       10%. Bank BISA 006066-0101 for US$65,113.46,
September 5, 1998
Amount of contract:            US$651,234.58
Order to proceed. The order to proceecd was issued by the supervisor on September 9, 1996,
despite the fact that not all the materials were on hand, since the contract stipulated that the
execution period would begin on the date of the advance payment, which was made by SAMAPA
on September 5, 1996.
Equipment, personnel and machinery used by the construction company. The contractor's
equipment, personnel and machinery were as offered in its contract.
Comment. The construction company's performance was adequate and the delays were mainly
due to the supplier.
A.6. Pampahasi distribution svstem
6.1 Contract AJ/008/97 for the supply of materials for the drainage chambers
Supplier:     IRCE Ltda.
Contract signed: January 28, 1997
Starting date:  March 13, 1997. Opening of letter of credit
Term:         105 calendar days
Due date:     June 28, 1997
Guarantee     Bank BNB No. 041357
Amount:       US$43,630.67
Comment: The supplier was late in conapleting the contract.



-102-
6.2 Contract AJ/096/97. Supply of materials for the drainage chambers and pressure
reducing valves
Supplier:            Marketing Bolivia S.R.L.
Contract signed:     January 29, 1997
Starting date:       April 14, 1997
Term:                150 calendar days
Due date:             September 10, 1997
Guarantee:           Banco de la Union No. 7209, expiry October 10, 1997, contract
performed
Extensions:          None
Amount:              US$303,908.21
Comment. This was the only contract for supplies that did not encounter difficulties.
6.3 Contract AJ/094/97. Supply of PVC pipes and accessories and gate valves
Supplier:            Marienco S.R.L.
Starting date:       April 14, 1997
Term:                120 calendar days
Due date:            August 11, 1997
Guarantee:           Banco de la Union No. 007188
Extensions:          None
Amount:              US$210,544.96
Comment. Aguas del Illimani S.A. rejected the PVC accessories since they did not meet quality
standards.
6.4 Contract AJ/095/96. Ductile cast iron pipes and accessories
Supplier:            Marienco S.R.L.
Starting date:       April 14, 1997
Term:                120 calendar days
Due date:            August 11, 1997
Guarantee:           Banco de la Union No. 006574
Extensions:          None
Amount:              US$194,331.96
6.5 Contract AJ/012/97. Construction of distribution systems
Supplier:            Consortium CICSA-ASBUN S.R.L.
Contract signed:     March 21, 1997
Starting date:       August 13, 1997
Term:                180 calendar days



-103-
Due date:            February 13, 1997
Guarantees:          Banco Santa Cruz LP-BG-1-97-23968
Banco Santa Cnrz LP-BG-1-97-24607
Amount:              US$413,402.33
Implementation:      The order to proceed was issued for August 13, 1997
Comment. The consortium's performance is very poor and efforts are being made to prevent
major delays.
3.2   Component B: Institutional Strengthening
B.1.2 and B.1.3. Cost system and orgamizational structure
The contract was renewed from January to June by SAMAPA to develop a computerized cost
system.
Comment. For various reasons this component did not produce the expected results.
3.3 Component C. Consulting Serviices
C.2. Construction supervision
Under contract AJ/0. 1.0/045/96, SAMAPA contracted the services of the Hazen and Sawyer -
CAEM Consortium to supervise the contract to lay the pipeline between Pampahasi and Ovejuyo,
under the following terms and conditions:
Board of Directors decision: 084/96 of December 28, 1995
Start of activities:             September 5, 1996
Contract term:           10 months
Performance guarantee:    BNB No. 34814 for US$34,767.60 to June 27, 1997
Amount:                 US$347,676
The supervisory activities carried out were:
General review of the works
Supervision of the civil works and laying FFD pipe in the Chasquipampa-Alto Ovejuyo zone
Supervision of the civil works and laying the 24" and 20" steel pipe, Alto Irpavi, Calacoto,
Achumani zone
Welding tests by specialists
Welding procedures
Study to modify the layout of the pipeline in the Pampahasi-Irpavi sector
Inspection of the materials received
Comment. The supervising firm had difficulties in determining whether the pipe required anchors
which led to delays in decisions.



-104-
Welding Control
The terms of reference and bidding documents No. 01/95-BM established that SAMAPA would
hire the services of a decentralized agency to perform x-ray inspections of the welding.
On November 11, 1996, SAMAPA signed an inter-institutional agreement with the Physical
Research Institute (IHF) of San Andres University to x-ray the welding. The scope of the work
under the agreement is:
X-ray inspection of 100% of the welded joints
The HF is responsible for interpreting the x-rays and determining whether the welding
should be accepted.
The agreement's financing structure is:
X-rays of the welding:   US$99,844
Tests of welders:       US$100/person
Training for SAMAPA staff: US$500
The evaluation of the tests administered to the construction company's welders and the x-ray
examination of the entire steel pipeline were performed satisfactorily.



-105-
Annex 6A
Project Review fron the Borrower's Perspective
The Opinion of SAGUAPAC, Santa Cruz
(In Spanish)
COOPERATIVA DE SERVICIOS PUBLICOS SANTA CRUZ LTDA.
SAGUAPAC
SANTA CRUZ - BOLIVIA
Santa Cruz 19 de Marzo de 1998
Of. GG. 906/98 AF/GPS
Se.-or:
Ing. Menahem Libhaber
DIVISION DE MEDIO AMBIENTE Y DESARROLLO URBANO
DEPARTAMENTO III - OFICINA, REGIONAL
PARA AMERICA LATINA Y EL CARIBE - INTBAFRAD
LA31N
THE WORLD BANK - 1818 H Street, N.W.
Washinaton, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ref. INFORME DE CUMIPLBIIENTO DEL PROYECTO
CREDITO 21871BO - A.I.F.
De nuestra consideraci6n:
Acusarnos recibo de su atento oficio mediante el cual nos envia el Informe de
Cumplimiento de la Implementaci6n (ICR) del Credito 2187,BO. Nos complace de
sobremanera las opiniones vertidas por el Banco Mundial, sobre el desempenio de
SAGUAPAC durante el periodo de ejecuci6n del Credito 2187/30.
Adjunto al presente oficio, enviarnos a ustedes la opinion de SAGUAPAC sobre la
implementaci6n del Proyecto y -el plan para la fase de operaci6n. El Informe de
Progreso final y las Proyecciones financieras con los datos financieros definitivos
previa conciliaci6n con el FNDR, seran remitidas a ustedes a la brevedad posible.
A tiempo de agradecerle por s valiosa colaboraci6n durante el desarrollo del Credito,
saludamos a usted muy atenta ente,
lng. Carlos NMedrano V
GERE7jrE G{;EIRAL



-106-
COOPERATIVA DE SERVICIOS PUBLICOS "SANTA CRUZ" LTDA.
SAGUAPAC
SANTA CRUZ - BOLIVIA



-107-
INFORME DE CUMPLIMIENTO DE LA IMPLEMENTACION DEL PROYECTO
COOPERATIVA DE SERVICIOS PUBLICOS "SANTA CRUZ" LTDA.
(',AGUAPAC)
ANTECEDENTES
En fecha 17 de diciembre de 1990, la Cooperativa de Servicios Publicos "Santa Cruz" Ltda.
(SAGUAPAC), suscribi6 el Convenio de Credito de Fomento 2187/BO con la Asociaci6n
Intemacional de Fomento (AIF), como resultado del Convenio de Credito firmado en la
misma fecha por la Republica de Bolivia.
De acuerdo a lo establecido en el articulo VI, secci6n 6.01, inciso b), del Convenio de
Credito de Fomento; En fecha 2 de agosto de 1991, fue suscrito el Convenio Subsidiario de
Prestamo entre el Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Regional (FNDR) como agente financiero
del Gobiemo y la Cooperativa de Servicios Publicos "Santa Cruz" Ltda. (SAGUAPAC). La
puesta en marcha del Convenio fue a partir del 17 de Septiembre de 1991.
Segun lo definido en la clausula sexta del Convenio Subsidiario de Prestamo y considerando
la programaci6n inicial, la estructura de financiamiento consideraba 6 categorias, las cuales
deberian ser cubiertas con fondos del credito por AIF y con el aporte propio de SAGUAPAC,
totalizando los siguientes montos:
ESTRUCTURA DE FINANCIAMIENTO
CATEGORIAS           A.LF            SAGUAPAC            TOTAL
1. OBRASCIV.ES          3.547.000)        2.365.000          5.912.000
2. EQUIPOS Y                                                 6039.000
IATERIALES            6.039.000
3. CONSIJLTORIAS         772.0(0)                             772.000
4. REPAGCOPPF-444        158.000)                             158.000
5. INIPUF.ST0S                             1.294.000         1.294.000
6. NO ASIGNAIX)         2.366.009          531.000           2.897.000
-O T A I. E S      12.882.000         4. 190 .000       17.072.000
Tipo de cambio DEG x $US. =1,39
Debido a la variaci6n del tipo de cambio del DEG con relaci6n al d6lar, se originaron
incrementos en las cantidades en d6lares asignadas a las diferentes Categorias.
Durante la Misi6n del Banco Mundial que visit6 Bolivia del 18 al 26 de julio de 1995, se
autoriz6 reprogramar los fondos disponibles e invertir en obras complementarias de



-108-
Alcantarillado Sanitario (colectores secundarios) y ampliaci6n de las lagunas de oxidaci6n.
De acuerdo con lo mencionado, en fecha 23 de Noviembre de 1995 se procedi6 a la firma del
Convenio Modificatorio al Convenio Subsidiario 2187/B0, resultando la siguiente estructura
de financiainiento:
ESTRUCTURA DE FINANCIAMIENTO
CATEGORIAS              A.I.F.            SAGUAPAC              TOTAL
I ()HRAS CIVILES         5.606.104,W0          3.777.402.67        9.443.506.67
MA2ERIALES              7.798.348,40           13.205,62          7.811.554,02
3. CONS1LTORIAS            193.840,40                                193.840,40
4. REPA0O PPF-444          160.143,78            13.120.00           173.263,78
5 IRMUSTOS                                     1.635.490,21         1.635.490,21
T 0 lTA 1. E S       13.818.436.58        5.439.218,50        19.257.655,08
- Tipo de cambio DEG x $US. = 1,49 10
11.  OBJETIVOS DEL PROYECTO
En el Anexo N 2, Parte B, del Convenio de Credito suscrito entre el Gobiemo de Bolivia y
la A.I.F. se describen los objetivos del Proyecto como sigue:
I. Expansi6n de los sistemas de agua potable y alcantarillado de SAGUAPAC, incluyendo:
a) Expansi6n del sistema de agua en el area Norte de la ciudad de Santa Cruz de Sierra,
incluyendo perforaci6n y equipo de dos pozos profundos e instalaci6n de infraestructura
de distribuci6n
b) Expansi6n del sistema de agua en el area Sur de la ciudad de Santa Cruz de la Sierra,
incluyendo perforaci6n y equipo de dos pozos profundos e instalaci6n de infraestructura
de distribuci6n.
c) Expansi6n del sistema de agua en el area Este de la ciudad de Santa Cruz de la Sierra,
incluyendo perforaci6n y equipo de un pozo profundo e instalaci6n de infraestructura de
distribuci6n.
d) Rehabilitaci6n de instalaciones de producci6n y distribuci6n (incluyendo la reposici6n de
100 km. de tuberia)
e) Rehabilitaci6n de las lagunas de tratamiento



-109-
f) Construcci6n de una red piloto de alcantarillado con tecnologia de bajo costo.
2. El fortalecimiento institucional de SAGUAPAC contemplado en este proyecto se detalla a
continuaci6n:
a) Preparaci6n de los disefios finales para las inversiones de la parte C. I del proyecto
b) Servicios de consultoria para mejorar sus sistemas de gesti6n, y entrenar al personal de
SAGUAPAC en gerenciamiento, operaci6n y mantenimiento, y administraci6n comercial
y financiera.
c) Adquisici6n y utilizaci6n de equipo, incluyendo sistemas de computaci6n, para el
mejoramiento de su manejo operacional, comercial y financiero.
d) Construcci6n del edificio para oficinas
III.   EJECUCION DEL PROYECTO
Los objetivos del proyecto fueron alcanzados en su totalidad, cubriendo las expectativas en un 100%
de los trabajos planificados. Se ejecutaron obras adicionales a las previstas inicialmente que
permitieron mejorar y ampliar los servicios de los sistemas de agua potable y alcantarillado
sanitario de las zonas Norte, Sudoeste y Noreste de la ciudad de Santa Cruz:
Sistema Norte.- Dentro del periodo previsto en el Credito 2187/B0, se ejecutaron tres pozos de
producci6n de agua, denominados No. 20, 24 y 25 con profundidad de 336m, 315m y 186m
respectivamente y una capacidad de producci6n inicial de 220 I/s, una Estaci6n de Bombeo con
capacidad de 570 1/s y un tanque de almiacenamiento de 5.000m3; asimismo se adquirieron los
materiales y equipos necesarios para la ejecuci6n de las obras mencionadas. En esta zona se
ejecut6 un pozo adicional a lo previsto, optimizando los recursos hidricos disponibles y las
caracteristicas hidrogeol6gicas de subsuelo de nuestra ciudad.
Sistema Sudoeste.- En esta zona y durante el periodo previsto, se ejecutaron siete pozos de
producci6n de agua potable denominados 17, 17A, 22, 23, 27, NPI y NP2 con profundidad de
294m, 80m, 320m, 327m, 204m, 308m y 320m respectivamente, con capacidad de producci6n
en la fase de prueba de 488 I/s, una Estaci6n de Bombeo con capacidad de 4201/s y un tanque de
almacenamiento de 6.000m3 Los materiales requeridos para la ejecuci6n de las obras, como ser
bombas, motores, tableros de control, transformadores etc. fueron adquiridos oportunamente
dentro de los plazos establecidos en los contratos. En el anexo 3 se muestra el estado de los
contratos. En este sistema, se ejecutaron 5 pozos adicionales a los previstos en el plan inicial,
optimizando los recursos hidricos y financieros disponibles.
Sistema Noreste.- Para este sistema se construy6 un pozo No. 21 de 318m de profundidad con
capacidad de producci6n de 90 I/s, un tanque de almacenamiento para 3800m3 y la interconexi6n



-110-
de pozo. Se compraron materiales y equipos para implementar los trabajos mencionados
antenormente.
Red de Distribuci6n.- Este componente comprende la compra 303.950 m de tuberia
secundaria (diametros entre 75mm y 200mm), y 62.000 m de tuberia principal (diametros
superiores a 200mm.), haciendo un total de 365.950 m de tuberia para la red de agua potable.
Durante el periodo de ejecuci6n, con recursos del Credito se instalaron 242.498 m de tuberia
secundaria y 19.835m, de tuberia principal, sumando un total de 262.243m de tuberia instalada,
para habilitar 21.772 conexiones domiciliarias. Con recursos de SAGUAPAC para las obras y
materiales del Credito se instalaron 61.452 m de tuberia secundaria y 42.165 m. de tuberia
principal, para beneficiar a una poblaci6n de 225.900 personas.
La construcci6n de tres tanques de almacenamiento y las respectivas estaciones de bombeo
mencionada anteriormente, permiten asegurar una distribuci6n y presi6n mas uniforme en los
sistemas de agua potable.
Materiales para conexiones.- Durante el periodo de ejecuci6n del proyecto se adquirieron
44.795 medidores domiciliarios y 7.947 kitts para reparaci6n y materiales para conexiones.
Mantenimiento de pozos.- Se rehabilitaron los pozo* I I y 13. para recuperar un caudal de
producci6n de 154 I/s                        1 t
Alcantarillado Sanitario. Se ejecutaron obras de ampliaci6n en la red de alcantarillado
sanitario en las Unidades Vecinales (UV) 28, 23, ,26, 31, 33, 15(parcial), 32, 35(parcial), 39 y
62, sumando un total de 78.182.m, permitiendo la incorporaci6n de 5.665 conexiones
domiciliarias que benefician a 46.736 personas. La UV-28 fue ejecutada con financiamiento
retroactivo.
Lagunas de estabilizaci6n.- Las lagunas antiguas de estabilizaci6n de la zona norte fueron
sometidas a un proceso de limpieza de 54.000 m3 de desechos s6lidos, durante el periodo
noviembre/89 a marzo/90; el financiamiento de esta obra fue de caracter retroactivo. Durante el
periodo noviembre/95 a diciembre/97 se realizaron obras de ampliaci6n de 13,4 Has. en las
lagunas de estabilizaci6n, trabajos que no estaban contemplados en el proyecto inicial y que
fueron financiadas con el remanente financiero del Credito.
Estaci6n de Bombeo El.- Se compraron equipos que fueron usados en la rehabilitaci6n de la
estaci6n de Bombeo EIde aguas servidas, con capacidad de bombeo de 381 I/s.
Mejoramiento Institucional.- SAGUAPAC realiz6 los estudios de mejoramiento institucional
mediante consultores independientes con contratos menores, conforme al siguiente detalle:
* Estudio de Recuperaci6n de Inversiones
* Estudio de diagn6stico econ6mico - financiero, comparativamente con otras empresas de
agua



-111-
* Estudios de Manuales de Funciones y Procedimientos
* Mejoramiento de operaci6n y mantenimiento de redes y agua no contabilizada (ANC)
* Manejo de recursos de aguas subterraneas
* Control de fugas en la red de agua
Construcci6n del Edificio.- Se construy6 el edificio administrativo de SAGUAPAC, equipado con
todo el mobiliario necesario para el buen flincionamiento del mismo.
IV GRADO DE CUMPLIMIENTO
Los objetivos planteados en el proyecto fueron concluidos dentro de los plazos establecidos, se
realizaron trabajos adicionales a los planificados inicialmente que representan un 25%. El FNDR no
desembols6 el total del monto en dWlares estadounidenses que estipula el Convenio Modificatorio al
Convenio Subsidiario 2187/BO. En el periodo diciembre/91 hasta diciembre/97 se enviaron al
FNDR 52 solicitudes de Reembolsos (ver anexo 2), de las cuales hasta la 50 fueron atendidas en un
100% y la solicitud No. 51 parcialmente, sumando un total 13.295.637,44, en el monto mencionado
se incluye la suma de $us 46.296,55 en fase de pago por parte, del FNDR. La solicitud No. 52 no fue
atendida por el FNDR aduciendo la falta de fondos en marco del Credito, debido a la variaci6n del
DEG con relaci6n al D61ar.
V SOSTENIBILIDAD DEL PROYECTO
SAGUAPAC a traves de su estructura administrativa financiera, garantiza la sostenibilidad del
Proyecto, incluyendo en sus presupuestos anuales los recursos necesarios para operar y mantener las
obras ejecutadas, dando de esta manera continuidad a los servicios que presta en la dotaci6n de agua
potable y servicio de alcantarillado sanitario.
VI PERFORMANCE DE LA ASOCIACION
A lo largo de la ejecuci6n del Proyecto el desempeio de la Asociaci6n fue muy positivo y
determinante para el logro de los objetivos. El exito alcanzado se debe fundamentalmente al buen
desempenio de los representantes del Banco Mundial, que supieron decidir de manera agil y oportuna
a los requerimientos de SAGUAPAC. Durante el periodo enero/92 a diciembrel 96 se realizaron 46
licitaciones, las cuales obtuvieron la debida no objeci6n de parte del Banco Mundial, ademas de 3
licitaciones que fueron reconocidas por el Banco con caracter retroactivo.
Las misiones de supervisi6n y evaluaci6n del Banco Mundial, que visitaron SAGUAPAC en varias
oportunidades para evaluar el avance del Credito 2187/BO, fueron muy positivas y agiles, definiendo
con eficiencia y responsabilidad las situaciones que merecian su definici6n. Las sugerencias
planteadas por los personeros del Banco, fueron asimiladas por nuestra Cooperativa, situaci6n que
fue determinante para el exito del Proyecto.



-112-
VII. PERFORMANCE DEL PRESTATARIO
Durante la ejecuci6n del Proyecto SAGUAPAC se propuso realizar las obras contempladas en el
plan de inversiones en el tiempo mas corto posible, buscando la economia y eficiencia sin descuidar
la calidad en la ejecuci6n de los trabajos, situaci6n que origin6 una mayor cantidad de obras(25%)
dentro del plan establecido. Durante el proceso de solicitudes de reembolso se presentaron algunos
atrasos por parte del FNDR, situaciones que fueron corregidas sin causar retraso en el desarrollo del
Proyecto.
VIII. EVALUACION DE LOS RESULTADOS
Evaluacion de los resultados.- Los objetivos del Proyecto fueron alcanzados. Se adicionaron al
sistema de agua potable 225.900 personas, el numero de conexiones habilitadas es de 21.772 lo
cual origina un incremento de la poblaci6n atendida en la ciudad de Santa Cruz, incidiendo en el
aumento de la cobertura de 65% en 1992 a 80% en 1996, Al sistema de alcantarillado sanitario se
incorporaron 5.665 conexiones que benefician a 46.736 personas, aumentando la cobertura de 26%
en la gesti6n 1992 al 32% en 1996. En ambos sistemas el total de personas beneficiadas
directamente con el proyecto es de 272.636 personas, lo cual influye directamente en el
mejoramiento de las condiciones de vida de la poblaci6n, salud y medio ambiente.
Referente a los objetivos institucionales, se contrat6 asistencia tecnica en el area administrativa y
consultores en las areas tecnicas de operaci6n y mantenimiento, estudios que vinieron a potenciar la
gesti6n de la empresa; se adquirieron equipos de computaci6n que garantiza un procesamiento
continuo de la informaci6n y se compraron equipos para mejorar la operaci6n y mantenimiento de
los sistemas de agua y alcantarillado.
IX. OPINION DE CONSULTORES Y CONTRATISTAS
En forma general el cumplimiento de los contratistas en la ejecuci6n de obras fue satisfactorio, salvo
en algunas circunstancias, se presentaron atrasos debido a las situaciones climatol6gicas. Referente a
las empresas que realizaron provisi6n de bienes, estos lo hicieron a entera satisfacci6n de
SAGUAPAC. Los consultores contratados desempefiaron las tareas asignadas de manera eficiente y
puntual.
X. LECCIONES APRENDIDAS
Finalmente, las lecciones aprendidas en el desarrollo del Credito, que a pesar de la falta de recursos
asignados en la reprogramaci6n de los fondos del Credito, las obras fueron concluidas con recursos
propios. El FNDR no cumpli6 su compromiso en desembolsar la totalidad de los montos
reprogramados conforme lo establece Convenio Modificatorio al Convenio Subsidiario 2187/30 de
fecha 23 de Noviembre de 1995, debido a la variacibn del DEG con relaci6n al d6lar.



-1 13-
XI. COSTOS DEL PROYECTO
El costo total del proyecto es de $us. 19.151.290 para la ejecuci6n de obras civiles, compra de
equipos y materiales, consultorias, y repago del PPF-444. El monto total del Credito 21 87/B0 es de
13.295.637 y el aporte local de SAGUAPAC de $us. 5.855.653. En el Anexo 1 se presentan los
montos de inversi6n por Categoria y en el Anexo 3 se presentan los costos por componentes de
inversi6n.



-114-
COOPERATIVA DE SERVICIOS PUBLICOS "SANTA CRUZ" LTDA.
SANA G ]LT  P AOLVC
_                   Dv
\ 9
SANTA CRUZ - BOLIVIA



-115-
PLAN DE OPERACION Y MANTENIMIENTO
El Plan de operaci6n y mantenimiento esta orienteado a dar mayor eficiencia a los sistemas de agua
potable y alcantarillado sanitario, para garantizar el funcionamiento y continuidad de estos servicios.
Ante la importancia de contar con un plan para las obras ejecutadas con fondos provenientes del
Credito 2187/B0, este se estructur6 en base a lo siguiente:
a).- Agua Potable
En este rubro las obras contempladas para el Plan de Operaci6n y Mantenimiento, se refieren a
pozos de producci6n de agua, estaciones de bombeo y tanques de almacenamiento, redes de
distribuci6n principales y secundarias.
En base al software de mantenimiento preventivo MAPRE, se lleva un control y registro hist6rico de
todo el equipamiento como ser motores, boimbas, equipos de. medici6n y control, etc., a las cuales
oportunamente se los revisa y mantiene en suIs partes mecanicas, electricas, lubricaci6n, etc.
Se cuenta tambien en stock con las principalles piezas de recambio determinadas por nuestra propia
expenencia que permite ante una emergenciaL agilizar la soluci6n de los problemas.
Se realiza tambien peri6dicamente el mantenimiento de los servicios generales de las instalaciones,
de las estaciones de bombeo, pozos, etc., evitando de esa manera su deterioro.
Cada dos anos se hace la limpieza y rehabilitaci6n de los pozos para restituir los parametros
originales de disefio.
En la red de agua se estan siguiendo las recomendaciones del estudio sobre manejo y control de
fugas y perdidas (BABE), como ser disminuci6n de presiones en las horas de menor consumo y
sectorizaci6n de la red mediante colocaci6n de valvulas a fin de permitir un mej or manejo de las
fugas en el sistema
Los indicadores que manejamos son en el caso de los pozos, el caudal, niveles estaticos y dinamicos
y los ensayos de calidad del agua fisico-quimicos y bacteriol6gicos.
En las estaciones de bombeo, se registran los valores de presi6n y calidad del agua en los tanques de
almacenamiento.  El analisis de estos valores nos permite detectar cualquier desviaci6n
oportunamente para tomar las acciones correctivas correspondientes.
1



-116-
b).- Alcantarillado Sanitario
En este sistema estan conprendidas las redes principales y secundarias, lagunas de tratamiento y
estaciones de bombeo.
En las redes de alcantarillado se realizan inspecciones peri6dicas de las camaras y colectores para
monitorear niveles de sedimentaci6n, infiltraci6n o presencia de cuerpos extrafios para luego
proceder con la limpieza de los mismos, sobre la base de un programa sectorizado de la ciudad.
SAGUAPAC cuenta para estos trabajos con personal de muchos afios de experiencia, como asi
tambien con equipos. Se tiene un cami6n de limpieza cistema Jet, y un equipo de video para la
inspecci6n de tuberia, aunque este equipo debe ser reforzado en el futuro.
En las plantas de tratamiento se mantienen los equipos y las instalaciones de las estaciones de
bombeo, los caminos de acceso a las lagunas, los diques contra la acci6n de roedores, la arborizaci6n
circundante, etc.
Se monitorean los valores de reduccion del DBO, coliformes y se controla tambien la sedimentaci6n
de las lagunas para programar su limpieza. El analisis de estos datos nos permite ver la eficiencia
con que trabajan las plantas, y encuadramos dentro de los valores normativos.



-117-
COOPERATIVA DE SERVICIOS PUBLICOS "SANTA CRUZ" LTDA.
SAGUAPAC
SANTA ICRUZ - BOLIVIA



PROYECTO                               : "REHABIUTACION DE ALCANTARILLADO Y AGUA POTABLE EN CIUDADES PRINCIPALES
ENTIDAD FINANCIERA                     : AIF No 2187-BO
AGENTE FINANCIERO                      : FONDO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLLO REGIONAL (FNDR)
EMPRESA EJECUTORA                      : COOPERATIVA DE SERVICIOS PUBLICOS SANTA CRUZ LTDA (SAGUAPAC)
CIUDAD                                 : SANTA CRUZ DE LA SIERRA
CONTROL DE EJECUCION POR CATEGORIAS
(EN DOLARES AMERICANOS)
ANEXO I
PROGRAMADO                            EJECUTADO
CATEGORIAS                _                                          ACUMULADO
AIF           PROPIO          T oTAL
AIF    PROPIO   TOTAL      MONTO     %     MONTO     %    MONTO    %
1. OBRAS CIVILE5                       ____4__ ri Ari                          1461 4,pROIOTTA7_
2. EQUIPOS Y MATERIALES        -. r!r         .i               I a -3                  .-KK.1      _!1___,__  13
13. coNsuLroRlA - nfil-, I-l-ll-! I trl r.9 Wl 14 r!a-}4-r i too) I-- I. !-G 179~~~~~~~~30%  4   JO   ----1 -1311
3. CONSULTORIA                                                                                          . _4 _   .  17.
4. REPAGO ADELANTO (PPF.444)             i i    i(I I -IF   I '. ,4 ,                101 V  1I                11 0"_ I
5. IMPUESTOS                            __ __  _. .!. -hi  R             1l   10    I .,-f    1339
6. NO ASIGNADO                         K -_tI__ _
TOTAL                 |       ii 4. p-' I                      10             140St      _ X  41



-119-
PROYECTO                          :REHAMW TACION DE ALCANTARILLADO Y AGUA POTABLE EN CIUDADES PRINCIPALES
ENTIDAD FINANCIERA                 AiF No 2187-BO
AGENTE flNANCIERO                   FONDO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO REGIONAL (FNDR)
EMPRESA EJECUTORA                   COOPERATIVA DE SERVICIOS PUBUCOS SANTA CRUZ LTDA (SAGUAPAC)
CIUDAD                              SANTA CRUZ DE LA SIERRA
CONTROL DE DESEMBOLSOS POR CATEGORIAS
(EN DOUARES AMERICANOS)                                                                             AEXO 2
Bb       XI 0 0  A. 1.                      183.000 _7.728A A.AU1UAA
|SOLICITUDES DE             INVERSION ES POR C/ATEGORIAS                   _     MONTO5                    I NVERMSIN  POR CATGRAS                                    MONTOS I
LDESEMBOLSOS        1. OBFRAS    2z EOUIPOS Y    3. CONSULTORIA    4 FIEPAGO        DE       1.OBRAS       2. EOUIPOS Y    3. CONSULTORA 4, REPAGO    5. IMPUESiTO-S     DE
|UERIC  FECHA       CFVtLES       UATERIALES                     PPF/444    DESEMBOLOS   CIVILES           MATEPIALES                   PPF/444                  DESEMBOLSOS
1 II71t7/3                        51.80,M1a.i1SW00.1                                                                                                                    0,w00
1    1332           40B.81899     418.0U75                             _        1.73.74      348.082,U       5.400.32                                 82.55,78     4386.041,94
2 1 89e              72.191.96     71.462.20         7.022.0S                  1850.S7124     85.353.S7                      738724                   10.44KO        I3.24,92
3    101/13193      24B.742,1S    17.27325                                     402_ 2S.83,41  225.83W                                                 38.77,36     2448039,95
4    031/083                      12e.935,15                                   128.935.15                                                                              0.00 I
5     t47/93        t1 274231,63                                               700.298.W0    1t5.440,01                                              117.331,50     672.514,5
1    2502J7 4                     465.987.05                                   264 5.917805                                                          144.8811      184846OS,
7    * 19/93                       9S.072,17                           _        9S.072,17                                                              9.W1,e9       9.SS1,e9
a    021/093 8                     B3.101.                                     1BB011.W2                                                              17.729.12     17.729,12
9    *1 -7107/93                  51 8.950,18S                                 51 S.95,1 S                                                                              0,00
17   06 /06/04       4411 .523.7                                                7 4171.5230                                                            6.574.20     4B.5742
1     10593         116.621603 ,O                                              186.3216,30                                                            5i.344,21     51.3421
1     12 /018193     215.91923     197.7183.B9         _1211 94 33,18 2                       20.07163                                                24,031.69     44.103,32
13    17/09                        12.35.15                                    12.935,15                                                             149.941.52 749.841,52
14   17/11/93                      Bt 2.91 0.5S                 =     _        B1.010.56                                                              S7.545,BO     S7.5 45,SO
15    25i0V94        1696222.B5    95.802807                                    286.86852     154.311.16                                              23 1.311165
1S   012/1OV4                      101.1382                             _      101.S1382                                                             13 4.0SO.3    131 090,36
-17  O0DO194         42Za14.03     318.121                                     23.317024      39.087,18                                                5.475.42     448552.42
1a   *17/0094       14 5831S3      2                                           1746.3,31        47 514.3170355                                                      117f.4581,37
129   1726/94       215.644        1B.718.30         114.810.00         _      407.982.94      4.756.45                                              10S1410.58    252.1685.8
20   20709/94         3.9410.12,0  31.40 411.5                                                   68.1832.53  0247.41                                  89.7S4S       92.3927,9
21   20/09/*4                      235.5n7S _8                                 235.5n7.7B                    3.813,92                                 S 3.S19,4S    67.433,41
22   *2910994-       31.9S5.73      55.902.90                           _        7.8S9,53     21 .311,1 S                                                           21 .311 ,18
24    22/12/94      1a.845JIS    119.94125,1                                  2OSZ99704'     95.897.18                                                              95.B97.1S
25   22/1V294         70.135.82    27&I 9S,54                           _      345.332,3S     46.757.21                                               70.712,51     11 7.459.72
27   27/01/95        974403BO0    331.M.40          L                   _      4315402.20     864289,21                                               47.107,4S     113.3B5.6
28    16/03295        36.SZ52                                                   36872.52      245B1 ,88                                                             24.581,88
29   05/06/95        55.21  7        7.4840           8.081.04                  71.664,20     38.7353                                                  2.474 55     392103
30   22/06/95        17e.838.49     12.253,95         4983,80                  193886,24      117.758,80                                               2.577,25     120.336,24
31    W0/008         149.962502    170.799,57         7.512.93                 328.274,52     99.9748S9                                               25.044 91     125.019,SO
32    05/095                       1It7.441,4f1_                               197.44141                     4B93,44                                  47203,0B      52.09S52
33   23/10/95        151 .25,13     S.953803                                   232.578,18     101,B3.42                                               12.096,43     113.1798B
34   01/12/S5        108.205.09     29.791,20                                  137.99S629     72.136,73                                                4.451,58     70.58629
35   27/12/95        88.e07.53      40.236,02         9.801,05                  11S.B4,80      40.458,35                                               1.S1425      48.372,eO
3e    1 s5 Iss       2m7sDB27                                                 B277.5027       1 85, W50                                                            185.008s0
37    1 s/01 tss     45.D30344                                                  45.303.44     30.20Z30                                                                20 20 0
36   07/03/06        217.505,91      3.740,70                                  221.255,61     145.003,93                                                 560,30    145.564,23
39    20/05/96       500.37,e2       5.e24,ss                                  315.462,17     206.f55841                                                 840.45    207.3S6,96
40   OB107lss       159910o.ss9_                                               159.10O9      10895 0720                                                             106.807,30
41    16/7/0s        15180067        5.795,94        374468D0                  104.83.51     101011                                                    8.350,65     107.41778
42   16/1010         433.887,07      3.749,70        18375,0    _              456.011,77    288.2584                                                  3.422.24    292.6S.28
43    1411106        139.SB5,02      3.748.70                                  143.834,72       25,88                                                   s56.36      83.91 8,8
44    130/96         17.4,50        40,24656                                   237251 08 121,51,3                                                      8.013,0      137.35019
45   13/03/96                                      77.83775                      7.870         5.80                                                                 51.891600
46   52/04/97        99.481,75      50.132.84                                  146.614,28     60.321J18                                                7,481,07      73.812,23
47    17/0S07         88.388,96    140.004,08         60073                   235.092,75     5w.wt5,64                                               18 548,10 7O.14D,74
4B    30/07/07       105.70261                                                  102.702Zs1    ss.46s40                                                               88.   40
49     25/08/97      e.soe.28       80.510,15                                  148.416,44     45.937,52                                               12030.25       57.567.77
50    27/02t/0                     2s40uw00                            2_4.04,w                                                                                          Om 0,o
51   27/            200.084,32      15 ,25ss_                           _      215.313,W0     185,150,58                                               2.20,03     167.430,61
52    P.ndiwo.                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                              ~         ~~~~~1325.012333  13.080,37  2.026839    147.130,55
|           P                 .                                     _    _                       36034295 7     78.74,33       1                          84164,97     540232.27
|TOTALES              5.192.068230    7.832.732,z3     110.692,53   160.143,a7  13.265.637,44   4.011.524,16 S    .922,        20.41t6,61    13.1 20.00   1.717.660,25    5.850.853,03
* 3JLICLIHJO No.5, deserboisado parcialrente Sus 61'.376,20
* SGLICITUOSF  No. 6 y '  en dos pagos parcialp- de Sus 21H.009.2 g$js 39,989.50
t SOLICITtJO Nc. 9  oalizadas en dos desembolsos de $us. 318.950.18 .i Sus. 200.0001
* SOLIClftJD No. 10 realizadas en dos paqos de Sn 26.1523.77 eni fecha 23D''93 y $Sus. I50.000 en lecha 58.93
* SOLICITUO No. 18 desembolso en dos pagos Nus it.03.,0o en fecha  7,08.9  t  1 1.2.'9,30 en9r  erha 20,09,94
* SOLICITUD No. ?2 en dos pagos $us 31.966,73 el 29 09 9t u Sus 55.9102,90 el 19, 105iC
SOLICITUO No. t9 en dos paqos, el 25,9,97 t8.906.28 Ca,. I   l 27.2,98 5 80.510, 15 0a'.
(PV  501 ICITUD No. Sl paqo pJrCIal, PI 27.2,98 SuS. 169.016,45 u saldo pendiente dc Sus. 46.296,55



PNOYECTO                                                           :'*EHAIF&ff*cfoN DE ALCANrANNIA00 V AWA POTAOLE EN CAIDADRS PRINCIPALES'
OMAD PWNICIPA                                                        AP ft $107-50
AOWMM PWAW-ift                                                       FONDO NACHMAL DE OESAIDIOLUO REGIONAL (FNOR)
EAPRUA EXCUrOMA                                                      COOPMATWA Of BERVICtOS PUSLICOI BANrA CRUZ LTDA (SAOUAPAC)
CIIJOAO                                                            :SAKTACRUZONLASIMA
CONTROL OE EJECUC#ON DE UCtrACIONES V CONFOIATOS                                                                                          ANEXO 3
PAGINA I DE 2
CON'".1,                                                                                            uno" xm Sul
COPP.                         DESCDJPCIDN                                LICF        NO COX-                                                                         MMK  DEL                   IONIO             kw-[                        INNS
T       T.-       CION loiu-         qc           WKPD                CMTIDIO                     MMEDOD                      DEL                                                         *.t-
E      .ID4        DiAlm                                                                          CUNW IST.                 Lvrl  0        lisi-    rl-            k  1. 1.              11101:0              TDTK
0 COWACTOO                  S.,             CO      cltv;                                            I            -
. . . ...................                                                                                                                               IR9 1061lk
SISTV% SkMEST                                                                            ........                                                                                   2mg.W3,01                                                                             3"55.13
UMNISTPO lailm  V MTEDIKCS                                                                                                                                                           1. or. 2r. OD                            1. pic, 196, la                          1,010-296,19
1.1.1      EDJIM  CE KIKO O"    2 MZ05                                    I-D 92                      Q2 h, 3;         zip 1    , 'o         T.              -%Io  LT.                          17.. m. go      C        iw               I                                        V-, 29.1 Po
1.1.2      VIE.1-LES C,'NSW EIEN DE 2                                     IC 9;                        13 -    q4      (F)Cq4                                  nilco                                              c        W.                                                       'Ce 6a...9
PIEZ& D,[-T. LIM Q                         2       9.9,       19    -91       2,' -    '-,  I10111  POS                               II)LOIR  LTD'.                      326. W,                 100                   ]pp.; I
-93  I  19--g.              30--  3-   1131,9-   11 19                                       7                                                                                                           3116.1
1. I.-     R0164    VtMES O,ESI. BM D                                                                                                                         -DEW        L                                       C        )OD:                                                      117,259,
1. 1.5     EIYJIM  LE OM O COZD NI. 17                             2                  03-t--                  B.      M. '.  II .9 ,'t T,                      INSCDTEC                           121. U5. 00     c                           "6-T                                   '12,269.02
.:.2        CWSM=IOWS (OPM    CIUILES'                            -J-                                                            I                                                                1, D7     93          1   IW              73. 13S.M          490.-23.57          1,227,9".95
.2.       COKTPJLCICN 2 MM    C INTEPCCWXION                                                                        -           2-(222.111 1                                                      161.921.54                               174.39:.,'         92.921.51            ".310",
NNISMiCCION POZOS Ib. 22 y 27                                 !9d95                                        340 95   1(,22-It            I                                                             c        lo               0.14 ,            42.                  105.3%.1
.;.22.1.2    CONSTWJCCION PDM    W. 23                                      19,?5                                       340 95   IE222,11-M, I 3                - %L                              '.91Q.77      c        i2c              E 1. 159, 1-        -0. 17P, %
2   CMTPaICN OM  ADICIOWUS                                         -                                                                                                                          40C. 164, 53 _    _                      VD, 599, 13    J&DA1.0                   5 V, $66, Z2
CD%M.KCION  PM .. 17 , '179'                                  VS,93                                        19- IT)   rp.,T, ko.".                  Iwoslx-t a w-                     20.,1C.00       c        I 17'.               -Q- 'D        IOQ. 190, 46          252 -51.16
W.':'L                                                             I      D, .3-                                                                 11)                                              2.S,93       t        W.
2'.2    CDGWIEIDN 2 OM            1101 y IP2)                                                                                                             -C"111                                                                       160. in,                                 711.21S,56
ESTICION OE om o y tN"            ILIKEWIEW-0                                                                                                                                                                                  J012!L&             jW.6,9,59             5N
:2" I L   CSTACION DE gOtM                                        1      2-,93       ID-N-          13-%1-9.        D09 94   IN                             tIEDITEPOWICO                       109.215,14      c        117".           793.)32.12          195.554.75           49B. 396, r
L. 2.3.2    TN"        OL RLIKEWRItENTO                                                                               009 -,   6-OQ .3                                                            3%.760.%        c
.1.2.3.3   HNIECCIN  EST. OW-0                                                            --95                          230/95    15e   t-tsh Pr               EIKW                                 1-.156,06     C        93".              7.312. i6           5.271.R3             0.1911,03
. 2         SISIEM  KPtE                                                                                            IT                                                                           1.6.4.221.95               ID-%                                "g. I.,Q,           1. 7110. lo?. -S
:2,          114111 11 I 11111                                      2                                                1                                                                            1. W. 5". Be              991,
2.         EUJI-O DE OM O P    2 POWS                             2      Da .92   1  S5              02-0, 32         vi 92  1: .8                           WIRP L T.                          I,-. 99-, LID=         im,                                                            99., P.)
.2.1.2         M-IILCS P,CO%TPUCCIN  OE 2 POZM                      2       !0,9.   I  10--g.           II-%, 9-        090 1.  1.122Z.11-132.11                oilto                              21F.992.09      C        95
2.1.3        TEOIkES 0,ESt.CIOWS DE OM D                           x      19292                                        W    9?   400 ,                        IIEVIEL LTD..                      15I.M.00        C        IOD.
2.1.4      ORSIS I ICTO-ES P,cst. OM O                                    (,6,93                                      136,9...  4  0-ml Ill",                  -LVP  LTA,                        236, 3 U. 00    C        99%                                                                P
Z2         COMTRI)CCIOWS (OWAS CIVIL"                                                                                                                                                             600,538,01                                                                                 L.
2.2.,      IDISTR. 2 Pons E 14TEWKXIDN                                                                                           2(222.(r,-I32.(11J                                                14. 496,19                                                                          ffi J4
L   Z T.1"N   .... ...  .                                    I     F,9,        29 11-15                       m  9,       = 2-0 -IN-11                  lwl*                               62.%5.02       1        lic,                                                          fT. De
':I                                                                                                             I'D 95       U222.1t, 1)2-11                                                                                                                31,92-.01            9-, %Q. 06
2.2.1      Owt-JCEION PDZM  Ib. 21                                         19,95                                                                               CWT%L-                              W.910.7'       C        Ill.
2.2.2      ESTKI-N  X OM D I T."              WKEWIC.'D                                                                                                                                           465M2.29  -                                                  212,670.16            531,674.91
2.2. 2.,   LSTKZN  OC wwq                                                 ' 2,9-                      CS-0-14          291 9.   M                              cotrvw,                             Wwg.6.        c                        319.006, tS         W670,76             511.676.9L
T-QX CE k-Kr-ENTb                                               2.94                                       .93       S'"  .3                                                         32E.032.61      L
SjStE  WJKSTE                                                                                                                                                                        69. I".                 IDT,            m?. 2 12. 59         tD. 155,43            L,. 36g. .2
3.         SLMINISTOO COiJIM  Y VTEDIKES                                                                                                                                                          433, M& 4-               91%                                        O.Op           426,97-.05
2      D-,92                                                                                       L'-.                                        c       im,
3.          Mipo DE DM O -            I POZO                                                                            10 42   1 !D M TeTt 1                                                                                                                                         87.077.60
.3 1.2                                           'D                         T-W         10-1-94                         OT  94              - BN                                                                   c        95%
-'E-:kE3 D,CC1,STOLrCIN  DE I 02                      2                                                              11222-4,           1         WICO                                iol %6. U.                                                                       104.3-7
.i.:.3         IEC:%[S -,EST-CI'.WS DE BM                          2       ;9 92       19bt,-93        22-        3--  IN  91   1'.                            IIKOILC L'Oll                       2-.10.00       L        too:+                                                     135 W.M
.3 2          ONS                    LIVILES'                                                                                                                                                                                                W. Z33,14           J20,155.43           3DD, )98.57
TOUCE104's logwl                                   I                                                                                                                              262.292.33
.?.                  ISZO *. 21                                      1     33 94       28-1-95         IS-1-9F         O'l      111222.,T,JI2. J              cwl-g                              Q. S*. 02      C        I I I-lb                             21 71,11              69,365.42
.3.2.2       '-OX  DE ALWE-IENTO                                     1     26 9.       .3-C-94                          ODI       --fKo .3                      T.1 LT[..                           166.1901911    L        I W,             117. ?5, 1. I      n.,(4,00             196. 4-1),GI
IIVEOCmul IC I-%                                       1      0,95        02--gs                           Z-.! W,   Z 4- - T,                                                        ?--.51,34      C        103',                                13 ?41,26            3.601.14
DisloisLEIM                                                                                                                                                                         4,,07.761lf               96'1          3.952. 112.10         273 917, 1.       -, M. M. D3
'M    WE41FLES RED DISTDIMION                                                                                                                                                                                  95           2..4R. 926, n_               O.V)        2,148,926.9'T
KLESMIOG, QED SEEVIMI.                             N  90        %3 02 f5i                       1C,1 1   '6       k,                                                                                               2,'..74,',5                             279.-,T,
.1.1.2       TLKQI-   KC. KD SECM. ANOKS'                                   1-                                           -        --      -1 '  --- _            rCWW(1 IfW--Et                    P2,11e.77      c        DC,.            :62. I 11. s 1                           162,116.25
ALI          IVDEOI   KCESUPIOS, PED SECVIDVI                            N  92       15-W-92                          1.9 91   U,         k,                  Qu-%,, S.                                 3?     c        96"             4 IP, 100, '4                              le"CE, .
.11.4      TUI?Olt   KCESUPICS, Ma SECMWI                               QZ q2       15-C', -92      09-1k.-K         R  M  K    2mm                         lclml  ij,                                         c       '85                                                       60 79,,'O
.1.5      TWEPN    ACECSMOS, KO MIKTPk                            2      C, K        15-CII-92       26-11-3   1211 `I2   50 1-                             IIIKDTIC S.L-A.                   1.269,25',-O      1        lm            1. 269.2La                               1. 269. I5 1, so
.:.21.6      TU9EQ;- OCK. I SECM. REIX  -k                                07.9,       10-1-9.         23-_A-          12, 9,   iz --56. J,                  IXP-LMI SA                          29b.-% L 3-  _L          1.             --                                             10-.67
. .          DiST&kM  PED DE DISCIMCION                                                                                                                                                            64, 219.                                 06.'55.69          "I I'D."             cl.916.v
.:.2.1       IWIKK13 KO IKWJPES,                                                                                       .-105   vo.g.0 0            "d.         cm- P  [W"
27-     -1                                                                         'ES                    1. .54R. S   C   I   'W               2N.                                         1. 4e. N.
2.2      .IWIN  -ED DE W,  M"&[ I                              I      1;-97       24--gj         n4.Ot I.         -19 4?   W  - ,.                       UW * r(L EST[                        2B.983,00      C    __IL_                IV, ?D', 30            z7A,
.1.2.3       NIOLIKIN  CEO OE  (IA  WT-aC 1:                         1      16,93      29-D-93          10 L  '1-      oll 9.                                   JUUUSE.1ILL                        %, a 10, A     C        W,               51 940 I'         )4-116L- 1              CD 'I,
.4.2.4      -LIK.IN  MD DE &A  OCT,&[ 1:!                          1      2c 93       29 D-9)         10,T,  3-        OU  ,1   4.S-P1,I, 11,                 IN1%NS                               2'. 01. U     I        93,              jj.01.               9 k%               22, qg,
VLWION -ED 'V)U W11W                                 1      C-9.        10-1-9,         23-.  a.        IX  94   L1,01-115, 111S               .10WAWILL                          .40, ?36, PO    C        I ;6             9'.1,31 x           Is ISI.Co            162. -3. OL,
A2.6         0IOLLkCIDN -EO DE KA -DTABLE 11                              N-95         19^v w9S        5--bl 9-        HB 95   1,3 1-1-0,1 I-S                 (W   JtA.                           Im,,9,01    I          Ill'                 I,-. 31         4,114,%              11,912,31
,1.2.7      Wwpzo MD m1w.10K  wol-Il                               I       A %        VD-D, -7,      01b.-y-          r  %    O.I.,V                         IKSKOW                                             C        mi                                   13                   31.316. -,
.4.3         ,W. -TEPITILU  PAOWflM                                 2               1                                            1                                                               1. 1712C.                               1.                      Q,                  105, M. 97
M11OKES -, COICIIMS                  G-)              2      0.192       3D.0-92         26 1            0-- P)    -66'                         Eql  )J.                                         C        W-               -?, :e I, 'S                              13, 28 1.
'..12        WEQTG  01 cow.11PIES                NE 1              2      01,92       30-0-92          I I -[ -9,     019 9,   1,416'                                                                            C        QT,              3,-Io, ,                                 33. 230.91
A3.3         WERIkES 0, CONEIIDKS I . ...... .1                     2      NW          30-C-92          2,1-3,          oil 93   T, .,6"                                                                           C                         T. m F                                 50, D,, Im El,
AI..         WER!kcs P'COIC.1011ES OWICILI-I-S                      2      3' g,        11--t-95       22-             IW95   --*-                             N                                       14. "'     E                         2-. 64. )3                               I  Of., II
:1,1.:       11:1E1 P41MOICS 1011CILI-1K                            2       3,9.        1 1--b- -95    04-1-9          128 WS   O`t  '.M'         KLE          Gwfft'                                 1-3.D4,     C        9-             a., l'o. ??                               121, V?, 9p
4.3.          TEOAES P,CONEXIMS DOMICILI-15                              37 "        11-IV-9S                         115 95   kG, 16, T                      11M.KU-K                               140,85rj    C        0-.._                                                    122,539.50
.4.3.7       '01DODES ODICILIViOS (C W-                                    C-m          15-0-92                             9 2   '. 120 d.&-                  0110  .-A-                         1.4..60,01    C         W.               12. 1%, L                               1'3.199, 0.
4.3.8       'CO10DOES DOMICILIAPIDS CC KL-                                LIP 93      02-1-93                            'C      11210 - 2`00                  V-1,LITERGE1                       2.57,.-I?    1    -_IPL_                         Is           1 8 11, 92         In. 391, 70
:-Aa         bCDIDDDES ONCILIWIDS DE K-L-                                  ijF 9.      18--94                            U        l(M    dd.-                KLK[Mr.                            :61. m. no     C        W                W. 'g-1. 71                              167. 11. 00
.4.3.10      'COIDODES MMICILIIOICS                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
Ll- :,91    291,b-95                            :1     HIM                            SCILLMPCEI                          157,44 [.II    C        113'                                                     112,331.91
'I'st-L-Cim Cm,lycs                                      I                  -
WW CIDN OLD  towliuws                                                                                                                                                                                                          V1. i0l p                               99
SL-14 !ST    EDJMS  -tiPlItES                         2                                                                                                                                                                        W, -.0. 'o                9. cfj         S4.1%,4.
.5,:. I      WEC.kEOS P, COWIIXS                  WG-l                     0,92                        264-91          D-- 93    ,%DO                          Qvw  J,    Q.1                    21.014..S      C        P5                   '-6.                                 ;O, I26. Q4
-*T[.-Lcs 9, CNEIM S                PkIC                     CA 32       30-0-97          II-E-S3         0 L% %3    50M                         k*w                                                C                                 I.                                IW'011 IC
S' I.-      -1EPAC3 P, EOICIIOICS 1-          .1-1                 2      0- 91,    1301-D-92                          DII P    I, 50M                        I-C.L,                               II. 32-.90     C        X                3 1. n.'. 16                             31.
.5.2         X-M%104 DED
--Vts"IN (OK"010
.6          "TENIMICNIO OE .0205                                     I                                                                                                                             124,9E,99                                                     53. 10,             133.2'6.
;     D' 3       10-.  9-                          2 9)   F t N."   131,  II            I'l                                     .9% ig      C        [w
.6.1         "EB:-;1-c:N  KZC         :J                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -e,..
-1             r-       --                           I      cl 1.      10-.  9.                                  IV Eb-11 I 11.1              I(.;                                         9! --L-         loy 1                      1                               '4, _'(Kel
-LL- EL-*:



RM4                                                                  4IIUDUA00145O?0145W000000
.1110iiiii ~ ~   ~        ~        ~        ~       94044
.1.1   0(  (1(1443 06-2                              I     04.0         0<-   ~          26-   -         06<96    12.13 I                         0 0.9                                531T.3          'l,2379 ~_               .  .                     1
* .2    (  (aEMOES  (02<<20-3                                           99       .......-9.                                                                  .......                             .4-V  32750,92  3.095311."511
.     R.ED( C3L((TO5ES 0-280(0  (06-261                         I      10.9!       iy6   9.9        06-Ki-9    992        2      .275                         OJA9I1                                                                ~        0.9  .                531                  V   5,9
.1.4         QE0 C00E403ES W-2<1< I(0U-3 11                           I      I1-SI        i<-6,6 92       7346-2            092    05.326                           (094 LTD..                          200. 200 7<      1                          Th  20 .15 (914.09.  93                  20.124.02
.1.5        0E9 (00(CT95(  W-20<0> (W6-331                            I      (2.92       P9-6.5-93          -6-O          052         3.632 c-o.1119.-                                                                            2                2     I79~2,'                               ,  0.i
.     MD (  (10E420(S 1JR-IS  (C1000C4.TO(4<9                          12,95       20-N6-95         0649.9          346,95      5.091 >PVT39210                                                                             l                5..5.EI             1, .1  92516
.     QED0(  CL(CT3(ES 95-32IS.3031104410( 49<M.I1(3V95                                                                                                                                                                          --1.s9194.0<65-96Z(63.96  6.106
1.3.8        94        (052.040(     4.0                             2      (,5~9        29 2<92         <5-*,-95          0-1       II'5<4<'00.   <~                                                   1<1   6         C ~       6                <.'07                                     <   '
'3E6 C061E9 069 E  1160100107                                          <69           -O-2          91-.0             X9119    9I   1                         11401-QIt                             016327 105    C   I l,                                              -
.37         (64   C1022 L1  .(51M1L9I     <09                                             0-.9            1-.-9             693      I996019.95 M.  C3                                                                           106               420.6  26.                                IC  70
:2.1   ~ I~W;.ECZA L-r   5,171LIZK2                        99I93        <0-6. .91       29-6 .9          9<9       6 -m<41                        6iwam 911104,                        <19,606.          00c    '2"              S2O.2   06                12.4.  100 04
.3.  0926206S4<IATI00(4634*4                                 2       (~M         106694          202.<,9 N-   ~       94     I   .,,4,<T  169 5                                                 00.137 1  20D 23    9    95'                6906.064 IoIv.k                        1 2940.109 
.3.12       (04    041 , E006 E   M    0626                                09-96         009             17-W6-V          299 1929   211                                   LID-74.  [1.                 59.641$ 0      2        (00.              91  1  0                                    l2<l
I             -1 C042CI95O  E(0TCIVI E MOE-                           1     309.0          -69           26-,`b29          V 16    I 093< 1010L ES[..9.3                                                                 c        D,n 6.431 64                         264. -94  2-       12     0.   50
.3  96909. SILiLO, 911114(9 < <410.15               2~    ~~ 06.97      99.9<6.96        1 -06-96         223>91616.46564,A.I09...                 19<17.6
E4 1 0924      PE9(CUPEAC(54D<I0D0        NE I(                    0 W         69,9            26061-9'         12.71' e-, oo:- C460126                                                        I-,4 --0                                  121?Q1,51 
;.0          ES911<1.6C 1 00 0I I I(01                               2 E00   1            0.067 ,9        2-0'.            242       '.<6-,O     I'*6IO- 211I.                                            9.406 76      C   I0fv                     . 2<2. 16                                 0.62
.6     IC66  0010016   . <  9112                               2        14 INTO0OP.7                23.E0ES9'         23 I'           -Ia' . , 1,WSM.l         C9LD1   I                             6012. 220    1    I.09  4                                                           699   1
W7 (40'4l1<DEL        IA   01(011C                             2        1000G9412-   -'                               61TEICo..4 ,.&.,a                       64                                   2210  0        2203  6                                                               1763  6
.2     (444.                                                   6                                                                                                    47. 254                                                                       4 1  7          II. 63 I
I            M4                  '4.                                                                                                                                                           ,56r,)                                    .  XS  .                4 4<7, Q,D
AC0IA044A        DODS WV4 C44ADI4D,          O2                              L99           ---1960-                                                                                                                                                  3.  0."                   C.15el0
1002344        " LLI(IC06195' < D24L2.24620(120<  0900(240  4-2I4'.I.L.:DLI'L14<i4(0 IAM.0on4411464. 610010
110.3        E<4(0*7  I 1(0tATI4 TID 10(0140:                                 1342 501,0920400-2 1102                                                                                                          0. o 44041(5.IU.
1.34*5106 '07         <<D .461W40'I       , <91r464&(0 (  (Q4(-00I920 4  44.15                    .1101P0  00 <[0.0.44o   '.12        6192   06 41- 06   6.4695(0(41(1(16697 3.'20(079  10(14(621'
El7) 4 IDE-C'(00 ME I0C0t  4T(01aE (5  2(95   (. 5/092(5   <*4' -9201    4(40   -9.  ,      co.61'93 <14240:       "(91(   (461(06-C42001<  ,.'0~14l   0  60  <6 19>1961122460-9, 3
10(134* '0.34CC  4 1' 3(a     NTOS                                                     D  2c.-9                                                                                                                                                761,'
10444.                4404141D64(40  60(0G4(   0.A0                           14064<00    ID0              el2.237,953.0                                                                                                 C5, .,  
44(4       (   4   40440fl 07              .  44 E Do    46  20 1E444D44.  (0 A4.AP044 10  Its *4I44rb  04  154'44-93  I4 -T.4 4426                                                                                                                    . %,u10 Y.11
(99644440AS4440a'044r0 .00' I64464   s01-<000dl                                                                                       d, 0a1A9I',o                                                  24,0 2(07,                                 2.2D. 14 01,
3 4 9604  0o 44.0la9O 020.0OR.4044Mg..olo                                     .  60  4'4(4i44o44440 
44   6   U64    20 IO       ET   PPKOC0                                                                                                                       GAD4'424*1,1 *  304400404   044644474<*4>   10434    o4440424.9
.1444540 4E         4040644  0  0I05. 4I"4.  PEVA(0N       4       24444  4004444# 91EQE                                                                                                                         OW                              3t  113                                    3.31.3
.3.1> 209-2.14-Il.(12            S                                                                             Z_!          `2  7AI.LCA                                                                    6.0,0                      4308~_02.lo                                               F,1-



-122-
Annex 6B
Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective
The Opinion of SAGUAPAC, Santa Cruz
(In English)
COOPERATIVA DE SERVICIOS PUBLICOS SANTA CRUZ LTDA.
SAGUAPAC
Santa Cruz, Bolivia
Santa Cruz
March 19, 1998
Note No. GG.906/98 AF/GPS
Mr. Menahem Libhaber
Environment and Urban Development Division
Department HI, Regional Office for Latin America and the Caribbean
INTBAFRAD LA31N
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Subject:  Implementation Completion Report. IDA Credit 2187-BO
Dear Sir:
We have received your note forwarding the Implementation Completion Report for Credit
2187-BO. We are very pleased with the World Bank's opinion of SAGUAPAC's performance
during implementation of Credit 2187-BO.
We are attaching SAGUAPAC's opinion on project implementation and the plan for the operating
stage. We will send the final progress report and financial projections, including final financial
data after conciliation with FNDR, as soon as possible.
Thank you for your valuable cooperation during the project.
Yours sincerely
Carlos Medrano V.
General Manager



-123-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CREDIT 2187-BO
COOPERATIVA DE SERVIICIOS PUBLICOS SANTA CRUZ LTDA.
SAGUAPAC
L   BACKGROUND
On December 17, 1990, the Cooperativa de Servicios Publicos "Santa Cruz" Ltda. (SAGUAPAC)
signed Development Credit Agreement 21'37-BO with the International Development Association
(IDA) pursuant to the Credit Agreement siigned on the same day by the Republic of Bolivia.
As established in Article VI, Section 6.01 subsection (b) of the Development Credit Agreement, a
Subsidiary Agreement was signed on August 2, 1991, by the National Regional Development
Fund (FNDR) as the government's financial agent and Cooperativa de Servicios Publicos "Santa
Cruz" Ltda. (SAGUAPAC). The agreement became effective on September 17, 1991.
As stipulated in clause six of the Subsidiary Agreement and based on the initial programming, the
structure of the financing included six categories to be covered with proceeds from IDA credit
and SAGUAPAC contributions, as follows:
Financ:ing Structure
Category                 IDA              SAGUAAC          Total
1. Civil works           3,547,000        2,365,000        5,912,000
2. Equipment and materials  6,039,000                      6,039,000
3. Consultancies         772,000                           772,000
4. Repayment of PPF-444    158,000                         158,000
5. Taxes                                  1,294,000        1,294,000
6. Unallocated           2,366,000        531,000          2,897,000
Total                     12,882,000      4,190,000        17,072,000
* Exchange rate SDR x US$ = 1.39
Owing to changes in the SDR-US$ exchange rate, the amounts in dollars assigned to the different
categories increased.
During the Bank Mission that visited Bolivia from July 18 to 26, 1995, authorization was given to
reallocate the available funds and invest in supplementary sewerage works (secondary sewers) and
expansion of the stabilization ponds.



-124-
An agreement amending the Subsidiary Agreement 2187-BO was signed on November 23, 1995,
which provided for the following financing structure:
Financing Structure
Category                  IDA             SAGUAPAC         Total
1. Civil works            5,666,104.00    3,777,402.67    9,443,506.6
2. Equipment and materials  7,798,348.40  13,205.62        7,8F11W,.02
3. Consultancies        j 193,840.40                       1 193,840.40
4. Repayment PPF-444      160,143.78      13,120.00        173,263.78
Total                     13,818,436.58   | 5,439,218.50   19,257,655.08
* Exchange rate SDRxUS$  1.4910
IL    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Annex 2, Part B, of the Credit Agreement between the Government of Bolivia and IDA describes
the project objectives as follows:
1.    Expansion of SAGUAPAC's water and sewerage systems, including:
(a)   Expansion of the water system in the northern part of the city of Santa Cruz de la Sierra,
including drilling and equipping of two deep wells and installation of distribution
infrastructure;
(b)   Expansion of the water system in the southern part of the city of Santa Cruz de la Sierra,
including drilling and equipping of two deep wells and installation of distribution
infrastructure;
(c)   Expansion of the water system in the eastern part of the city of Santa Cruz de la Sierra,
including drilling and equipping of one deep well and installation of distribution
infrastructure;
(d)   Rehabilitation of production and distribution facilities (including replacement of one
hundred kilometers of pipe);
(e)   Rehabilitation of the sedimentation ponds; and
(f)   Construction of a pilot sewerage system using low-cost technology.



-125-
2.   Institutional strengthening of SAGIJAPAC, including:
(a)   Preparation of final designs under Part C. 1 of the project;
(b)   Consulting services for SAGUAPAC to improve its management systems, and training of
SAGUAPAC's staff in management, operation and maintenance, and commercial and
financial administration;
(c)   Acquisition and utilization of equipiment, including computer systems, for improving its
operational, commercial and financial management; and
(d)   Construction of an office building.
m1 PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
The project's objectives were fully achieved, meeting 100 percent of expectations for the work
planned. Additional works to those initially planned were built which improved and expanded
potable water and sewerage services in the northern, southwestern, and northeastern parts of the
city of Santa Cruz.
Northern system. Three water wells (numbers 20, 24 and 25 at depths of 336 m, 315 m, and
186 m, respectively, with an initial production capacity of 220 I/s), a 570 Vs pumping station, and
a 5,000 m3 storage tank were built within the period envisaged in Credit 2187-BO. Materials and
equipment were also procured to carry out the works. An additional well was built in this zone,
optinizing water resources and the hydrogeological characteristics of the city's subsoil.
Southwestern system. Six potable water wells (numbers 17, 17A, 22, 23, 27, NP1 and NP2 at
depths of 294 zn, 80 zn, 320 in, 327 m. 204 mn, 308 m and 320 in, respectively, with a production
capacity in the test phase of 488 Vs), a 420 Vs pumping station, and a 6,000 m3 storage tanks were
built within the period envisaged. The materials needed for the works, such as pumps, motors,
control panels and transformers, were acquired within the periods established in the contracts.
Annex 3 shows the status of the contracts. In this system, five additional wells were built,
optimizing water and financial resources.
Northeastern system. Well number 21 (318 m deep, with a production capacity of 90 Vs), a
3,800 m3 storage tank, and a well interconnection were built for this system. Materials and
equipment were purchased for the works.
Distribution system. This component included the purchase of 303,950 m of secondary pipe
(diameters from 75 mm to 200 mm), and 62,000 m of main pipe (diameters over 200 mm) for a
total of 365,950 m of potable water pipe.



-126-
Proceeds from the credit were used to install 242,498 m of secondary pipe and 19,835 m of main
pipe, for a total of 262,243 m to serve 21,772 house connections. SAGUAPAC counterpart
funds for works and materials were used to install 61,452 m of secondary pipe and 42,165 m of
main pipe, benefiting 225,900 people.
Construction of the three storage tanks and pumping stations mentioned above ensure more
uniform distribution and pressure in the potable water systems.
Materials for connections. During the project, 44,795 house meters, 7,947 repair kits and
materials for connections were procured.
Well maintenance. Wells 11 and 13 were rehabilitated to obtain a production flow of 154 Vs.
Sanitary sewers. Works were built to expand the sewerage system in neighborhood units 28, 23,
26, 31, 33, 15 (partial), 32, 35 (partial), 39 and 62, for a total of 78,182 m, with 5,665 house
connections, to the benefit of 46,736 people. Neighborhood unit 28 was built with retroactive
financing.
Stabilization ponds. The old stabilization ponds in the northern zone were cleaned, removing
54,000 m3 of solid waste between November 1989 and March 1990. The work was done with
retroactive financing. From November 1995 to December 1997, the stabilization ponds were
expanded by 13.4 ha. The work was not included in the original project and was financed with
the surplus from the credit.
Pumping station E1. Equipment was purchased to rehabilitate wastewater pumping station E-
1, with a capacity of 381 Vs.
Institutional improvement. SAGUAPAC conducted institutional strengthening studies using
independent consultants under small contracts, as follows:
*     Investment recovery study
*     Economic and financial diagnostic study based on a comparison with other water
companies
*     Studies on manuals of functions and procedures
*     Improvement in the operation and maintenance of systems and Unaccounted for Water
*     Management of groundwater resources
*     Control of leaks in the water system
Construction of an office building. SAGUAPAC's office building was constructed and fully
furnished.



-127-
IV. COMPLIANCE
The project objectives were attained within the deadlines and 25 percent of additional work was
done. FNDR did not disburse the total in Jnited States dollars stipulated in the amendment to
Subsidiary Agreement 2187-BO. From December 1991 to December 1997, 52 reimbursement
requests were sent to FNDR (see Annex 2), 50 of which were fully covered and one partially
covered, for a total of US$13,295,637.44. This total includes US$46,296.55 which FNDR is
currently processing. Request number 52 was not covered by FNDR because the variation in the
SDR-US$ exchange rate for SDRs meant that no Credit funds were available.
V. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
SAGUAPAC's administrative and financial structure ensures sustainability of the project. It has
included the funds needed to operate and maintain the works in its annual budgets, thereby
providing continuity for its potable water and sanitary sewerage services.
VL IDA PERFORMANCE
During the project, IDA's strong performance was a detenrining factor in achieving the
objectives. The project's success was largely due to the assistance provided by Bank staff; who
responded flexibly and expeditiously to SAGUAPAC's requirements. Forty-six bidding processes
were held between January 1992 and December 1996, which received the Bank's nonobjection.
Three other bids were recognized retroactively by the Bank.
The Bank's supervision and evaluation missions to SAGUAPAC to monitor progress in Credit
2187-BO were very positive and responsivre and dealt with the different situations efficiently and
competently. The suggestions made by Bamk staff were acted on by SAGUAPAC, which was
essential for the success of the project.
VIL BORROWER PERFORMANCE
During the project, SAGUAPAC aimed to carry out the works included in the investment plan as
quickly as possible, seeking economy and efficiency without neglecting quality. The result was a
larger quantity of works than originally planned (25%). FNDR was responsible for delays in
processing the reimbursement requests but the situation was corrected without holding up the
project.



-128-
VIHL ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
The project's objectives were achieved. Access to the potable water system was extended to an
additional 225,900 people and 21,772 house connections were made, which contributed to an
increase in service coverage in Santa Cruz from 65% in 1992 to 80% in 1996. Sewerage services
were expanded through 5,665 connections which benefited 46,736 people, with coverage
increasing from 26% in 1992 to 32% in 1996. Under the two systems, 272,636 people benefited
directly from the project which improved the standard of living, health situation, and the
environment.
As for the institutional objectives, technical assistance was contracted in the administrative area
and consulting services were hired in the technical operations and maintenance areas. The studies
improved company management. Computer equipment was procured for continuous data
processing and equipment was purchased to improve the operation and maintenance of the water
and sewerage systems.
IV. PERFORMANCE OF CONSULTANTS AND CONTRACTORS
In general, the contractors performed satisfactorily, although there were some delays owing to
weather conditions. The suppliers performed to SAGUAPAC's full satisfaction. The consultants
performed their tasks efficiently and expeditiously.
X. LESSONS LEARNED
Although resources were insufficient when the credit proceeds were reallocated, SAGUAPAC
concluded the works with its own resources. FNDR did not comply with its commitment to
disburse all the reallocated funds as established in the amending agreement to Subsidiary
Agreement 2187-BO of November 23, 1995, owing to the variation in the SDR exchange rate.
XL PROJECT COST
The project cost a total of US$19,151,290 for the civil works, equipment and materials,
consultancies, and repayment of PPF-444. Credit 2187-BO totaled US$13,295,637 and
SAGUAPAC contributed US$5,855,635. Annex 1 presents investments by category and Annex 3
shows the costs for the different investment components.



-129-
Annex 7
Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective
The Opinion of SEMAPA, Cochabamba
(Ia Spanish)
SERVICIO DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANIrTLADE COCHABAMBA
,,,  .~, *'   . .,!t 
24 de abrl de 1.998
*DDG.100/DPLUGCAR334/98
Sehor
James Wolfensohn
PRESIDENTE BANCO MUNDIAL
Washington D.C.
De mi consideracion:
Asunto:ENVIO COPIA DE NOTA DDG.1000/DPL.CAR-331/98
Para su conocimiento, adjunto remito a Ud. copia del informe enviado al Sr. Menahem
Libhaber referente al   Cumplimienrto de Rehabilitaci6n de Agua Potable y
Alcantarillado Sanitario en Ciudades Mayores (Credito IDA-21 87/BO).
Con este motivo, saludamos a Ud. atentamente.
Ing. Arturo Coca Seleme
GERENTE GENERAL SEMAPA
ACS/hsc
Adj.: Lo indicado
c.c.: Arch.



-130-
SERVICIO DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE COCHABAMBA
23 de abril de 1.998
DDG.1000/DPL.CAR-331/98
Senores
BANCO MUNDIAL
Washington D. C.
Atn.:  Sr. Menahem Libhaber
TASK MANAGER
De mi consideraci6n:
Asunto: INFORME DE CUMPLIMIENTO DE REHABILITACION DE AGUA POTABLE Y
ALCANTARILLADO SANITARIO EN CIUDADES MAYORES (CREDITO IDA-2187/BO)
Conforme a vuestra solicitud de fecha 17 de febrero de 1.998 remitida a SEMAPA, tenemos a bien emitir
nuestra opini6n y efectuar algunas observaciones al Informe presentado por su persona, referente al
CUMPLIMIENTO DE LA IMPLEMENTACION (ICR) DEL CREDITO 2187-BO correspondiente a la ciudad de
Cochabamba, de acuerdo a puntos espec(ficos que nos ha parecido necesario aclarar. Asi mismo se hace
conocer el Plan para la Fase de Operaci6n solicitada.
I.-    DEFINICI6N DE LOS OBJETIVOS
Los objetivos iniciales previstos para la ejecuci6n de la rehabilitaci6n del-Sistema de Agua Potable para la
ciudad de Cochabamba, con recursos provenientes del cr6dito IDA-2187/BO y contraparte de SEMAPA,
incluyeron los siguientes componentes:
1.1    Rehabilitaci6n y Expansi6n del Sistema de Agua Potable:
a) Rehabilitaci6n del campo de pozos de Vinto, instalaci6n de la tuberia de impulsi6n y construcci6n de
una planta de tratamiento con una capacidad de 100 I/s.
b) Rehabilitaci6n del embalse de Wara Wara, construcci6n de la tuberfa de aducci6n, tanque de
almacenamiento e instalaci6n de filtros para un caudal de 100 /s.
c) Rehabilitaci6n de la Galerfa fiitrante de Chungara, incluyendo tuberia de impuisi6n, tanque de
almacenamiento y filtros para una producci6n de 60 I/s.
d) Rehabilitaci6n de la planta de tratamiento de Cala Cala e incremento de su capacidad, de 235 a 400
I/s.
e) Rehabilitaci6n de la Estaci6n Elevadora de Conia Cona, incluyendo el colocado de la cubierta al
tanque antiguo y sustituci6n de equipos de bombeo y tableros de control.
Calle Kapac Yupanqui No. 2336 Casilla 1647 Telefonos 90751 -90756 Fax. (591) (42) 90752 Cochabamba - Bolivia



-131-
SERVICIO DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE COCHABAMBA
23/04/98
DDG.1 000/DPL.CAR-331/98
Pag. 2
f) Ampliaci6n de la red de distribuci6n incluyendo conexiones domiciliarias con medidores y
construcci6n de dos (2) tanques de almacenamiento.
g) Construcci6n y equipamiento de 4 pozos profundos, incluyendo 13 Km., de tuberfa de impulsi6n para
un caudal de 200 Vs.
1.2    Fortalecimiento Institucional
a) Preparaci6n de i) disenos finales ii) Plan maestro de agua potable.
b) Programa PROFISE que incluye los servicios de asesoria para fortalecer los sistemas de
administraci6n y capacitaci6n del personal de SEMAPA, en Gerencia, Operaci6n y Mantenimiento,
Administraci6n Comercial y Financiera..
c) Adquisici6n de equipos de computaci6n para mejorar las dreas de operaci6n, comercial y financiera.
2.-    LOGRO DE LOS OBJETIVOS
A la conclusi6n de la fecha final establecida para el cierre del proyecto, consideramos que una buena parte
de los objetivos previstos no fueron logrados por una mala administraci6n de la gesti6n anterior a
septiembre de 1.997, al respecto nos permitimos a continuaci6n analizar uno a uno los proyectos realizados
con fondos del Credito 2187-BO.
i) Objetivos Ffsicos
Los objetivos relativos a ampliaci6n de redes, mejoramiento y ampliaci6n de las plantas de tratamiento,
ampliaci6n de tanques de almacenamiento, mejoramiento de sistemas de bombeo, refacci6n y ampliaci6n
de la fuente superficial de Wara Wara, se curnplieron pero con atrasos significativos.
Los objetivos relativos a otras fuentes de abastecimiento como ser pozos profundos de las zonas de Vinto y
Sipe Sipe, no fueron cumplidos como se esperaba por problemas politicos generados debido a la fuerte
oposici6n de parte de los municipios del \talle Bajo y la poca o ninguna negociaci6n con los directos
interesados. Consideramos que de haber obrado de manera adecuada se debia perforar los pozos e
implementar el total de las obras programadas.
a) En efecto, la postergaci6n de las obras programadas de los pozos profundos de Vinto, planta de
tratamiento de dichas aguas, construcci6n de los conductos de las mismas, se debe a conflictos socio-
politicos y a la ausencia de recursos legales, para un aprovechamiento de las aguas subterraneas de
dicha regi6n.
El incumplimiento en la ampliaci6n de dichas fuentes en el periodo del proyecto afecta sensiblemente a
la efectividad del mismo, puesto que el aumento en la cobertura no es seguido por [a cantidad de agua
suficiente para responder a la misma.
Calle Kapac Yupanqui No. 2336 Casilla 1647 Tel6fonos 90751 - 90756 Fax. (591) (42) 90752 Cochabamba - Bolivia



-132-
SERVICIO DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE COCHABAMBA
23/04/98
DDG. 1 OOO/DPL.CAR-331/98
Pag. 3
La no obtenci6n de un caudal adicional previsto de 630 I/s., afecta seriamente la obtenci6n de resultados
positivos que benefician al proyecto. El mayor caudal adicional a obtener provenla de la perforaci6n de
pozos, en Vinto, lo que no fue posible por la soberbia con que la anterior administraci6n quiso imponer a
la fuerza estas obras.
A esta situaci6n se suma el hecho de que los 2 pozos profundos perforados por LAYNE con recursos
nacionales en el Paso y Tiquipaya, no fueron con resultados satisfactorios. En el pozo de El Paso se ha
perforado un pozo que solo capta acufferos profundos cuya recarga es dudosa, por los analisis
geofisicos realizados en la zona y los distintos informes en contra elaborados por la Sociedad de
Ingenieros (SIB), por el Convenio Boliviano Aleman de Aguas Subterraneas (CABAS) y por el Servicio
Nacional de Geologia y Minerfa - SERGEOMWN, que recomiendan claramente la perforaci6n de pozos
con profundidades no mayores a 200 m.
A pesar de todas las advertencias, SEMAPA perfora el pozo de El paso, a un costo de 1.477.000 US$.
logrando a la fecha producir un caudal de 40 I/s. en lugar de 120 I/s. originalmente esperados. Es
necesario hacer notar que este caudal de 40 I/s. se obtiene en varios pozos de El Paso, llegando incluso
a 50 I/s con una inversi6n mucho menor a un pozo profundo, raz6n por la que no se justifica haber
realizado inversiones tan onerosas.
No podemos dejar de mencionar que en el pozo de El Paso, la empresa LAYNE coloc6 el chupador de la
bomba a la misma altura del primer filtro, hecho que bajo ninguna circunstancia es admitida por norma
alguna, lo que ha ocasionado danos en la estructura del pozo.
El pozo Tiquipaya perforado por LAYNE a un costo de 1.007.000.- US$., fue abandonado por ei
Contratista sin haber realizado la prueba de bombeo y menos entregado oficialmente a SEMAPA, se
espera obtener de este pozo, luego de una inversi6n adicional, un caudal no mayor a 20 I/s.
Como pueden notar estos 2 pozos que juntos debian aportar 240 I/s., apenas incrementaran el caudal en
60 I/s. que representa el 25% del caudal previsto.
Es necesario hacer notar que estos 4 pozos profundos debian ser perforados en Vinto, pero los
resultados son los mismos debido a que los estudios incluyen los mismos acufferos profundos, cuyos
resultados son desastrosos.
b) Como es de vuestro conocimiento, el proyecto Wara Wara tue ejecutado con enormes dificultades que
ocasionaron danos econ6micos a nuestra entidad antes que una correcta terminaci6n de la obra, una
parte de los canales de abastecimiento a la presa no fueron revestidos; la tuberfa de aducci6n a la planta
de Aranjuez no cumple con las exigencias requeridas para las condiciones de operaci6n, debido a que el
recubrimiento interior bituminoso de la misma se esta desprendiendo continuamente y ello ocasiona
problemas de taponamiento en las valvulas reductoras de presi6n y consecuentemente una sobre presi6n
en la linea que ya ha causado varias roturas de esta tuberia, con las l6gicas consecuencias de paralizar
el sistema para reparar los danos ocasionados.
c) Se anul6 ia implementaci6n de la galerfa Chungara, que fue incluida inicialmente entre las obras que
debian ser ejecutadas, por razones totalmente ajenas. La concepci6n original de dicho proyecto debia
permitir captar 60 Vs. adicionales, caudal que no se halla disponible.
Calfe Kapec Yupgnqui No. 2336 Cesilla 1647 Tel6fonos 90751 - 90756 Fax. (591) (42) 90752 Cochabamba - Bolivia



-133-
SERVICIO DE AGUA PFOTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE COCHABAMBA
23/04/98
DDG. 1 OOO/DPL.CAR-331/98
Pag. 4
d) La rehabilitaci6n de la planta de tratamiento es una de las pocas obras ejecutadas sin problemas,
excepto por las demoras que ha sufrido por las llegadas tardias de los materiales requeridos de
importaci6n. Esta Planta se halla en operaci6n y su capacidad sera ocupada al maximo.
e) La rehabilitaci6n de la Estaci6n Elevadora de Cona Cona en relaci6n a la sustituci6n de los equipos de
bombeo y tableros, tiene deficiencias debido a que se adjudic6 a ROGHUR LTDA. el tablero y a
EQUITEC BOLIVIANA S.R.L. Ia bomba, y por esta causa el conjunto bomba - tablero no es el mas
adecuado, porque ROGHUR LTDA. entreg6 un tablero de 200 HP y EQUITEC BOLIVIANA S.R.L. entreg6
un motor de 250 HP, lo que esta causando muchos inconvenientes de tipo operacional que se estan
superando con mucha dificultad y que todavia a estas alturas nos encontramos en espera de la
fabricaci6n de dispositivos para los tableros que permitan resolver de manera definitiva estos detalles.
f) La ampliaci6n de la red no se salva de la falta de experiencia del personal de Planificaci6n de la gesti6n
anterior, asi, no comprendemos como fue posible obligar a los Contratistas ejecutar las obras en la mitad
del tiempo propuesto cuando sabfan muy bien que no se disponfa de los materiales que debia entregar
Barbara, sobre todo accesorios y valvulas que son imprescindibles para estas instalaciones.
Esta situaci6n ha provocado que en lugar de una instalaci6n contfnua de las redes, se instale solo
tuberfas sin accesorios y una vez llegados los mismos a la obra, el contratista se vea obligado a fabricar
niples en cantidad y con ello se demore la ejecuci6n y se incremente el costo de la obra, al final esta
quedando un exagerado numero de accesorios sin uso y ello tiene un costo ocioso para la obra que no
sera recuperado.
Asf mismo, no concebimos como se puede ampliar redes para abarcar mas areas de servicio cuando no
se ha logrado incrementar el caudal de agua disponible en las fuentes, en este caso se hace notorio el no
contar con 630 Is. que se prometieron al comienzo del proyecto, que en este momento hacen mucha
falta en las redes, aspecto que ocasiona serios problemas sociales y hace que los ingresos de SEMAPA
se vean perjudicados por la falta de agua disponible para su distribuci6n, a traves de dichas redes
nuevas, financiadas con fondos del credito.
La construcci6n de los tanques de la planta de Cala Cala y Coronilla permitiran a SEMAPA almacenar
mayor volumen de agua y mejorar la distribuci6n, pero mientras no se incremente el caudal requerido,
no sera ninguna soluci6n, porque actualmionte se hallan permanentemente vacfos por falta de agua
disponible para su almacenamiento.
Consideramos que una inversi6n mas acertada hubiera constituido el mejoramiento del sistema
Escalerani (por ejemplo el revestimiento del canal de cuencas vecinas de Escalerani - La Cumbre), como
tambien el control de perdidas fisicas en la red y en otros sistemas de aducci6n.
g) La construcci6n y equipamiento de 4 pozos profundos, incluyendo 13 Km. de tuberfa de impulsi6n no se
hizo realidad y se qued6 en proyecto. Este sistema nuevo debia permitir un incremento de 200 I/s. lo que
tampoco ha sucedido, raz6n por ia cual se puede establecer claramente que este componente del
proyecto fue un fracaso total.
Como puede observarse, cada uno de los componentes del proyecto en general, no han significado un
aporte real para el mejoramiento del servicio a la poblaci6n, sobre todo considerando que no se ha
incrementado para nada el caudal requerido. A falta de este incremento la implementaci6n del proyecto
Calle Kapac Yupanqui No. 2336 Casilla 1647 Tel6fonos 90751 - 90756 Fax. (591) (42) 90752 Cochabamba - Bolivia



-134-
SERVICIO DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE COCHABAMBA
23/04/98
DDG. 1 OO0/DPL.CAR-331/98
Pag. 5
en su conjunto se puede decir que fue un fracaso, excepto pequenos componentes que lo salvan de ser
un total fracaso.
En relaci6n a la segunda parte de este componente como es el Fortalecimiento Institucional, podemos
mencionar lo siguiente:
a) La preparaci6n y diserno final del plan maestro, tiene deficiencias, pues hemos comprobado que por
razones que se encuentran fuera del aspecto tecnico, la administraci6n anterior de SEMAPA ha reducido
dristicamente la demanda per-capita, lo que origina un caudal proyectado fuera de lo real . No
comprendemos como es posible que al no poder resolver la captaci6n de nuevas fuentes de
abastecimiento, se limiten a disminuir la demanda por habitante/dra y se quiera forzar a que la
poblacion no consuma el ano 2015 mas de 147 IlHabld(a, cuando estos valores no se ajustan a la
realidad ni siquiera actual, consideramos que
forzar datos para justificar algo no es la manera responsable de llevar adelante un proyecto de magnitud
que debe resolver los problemas de la poblaci6n y no a la inversa.
b) El programa PROFISE que ha demandado una inversi6n mayor a un mill6n de d6lares, no ha logrado
resolver temas de importancia para SEMAPA. Consideramos que la situaci6n anterior al PROFISE se
ha mantenido hasta el cambio de administraci6n debido a que dicho fortalecimiento no se ha visto en
cifras. Actualmente SEMAPA, ha mejorado su administraci6n, prueba de ello es que en un corto tiempo
se han incrementado sus ingresos lo que ha permitido cumplir obligaciones por mas de 2 millones de
d6lares con el Banco Mundial, BID, gobierno Frances y FNDR.
Para lograr buenos resultados, SEMAPA ha incrementado sus fuentes de producci6n de agua con un
caudal de producci6n inmediato, cuyo resumen es:
*    Pozos el cercado (nuevos)     13 I/s.
*    Pozo El Paso (nuevos)         35 Is.
*    Pozo Profundo El Paso         40 I/s.
- Incremento inmediato          88 vs.
Por otra parte, actualmente se esta ejecutando el contrato con el protocolo Frances que permitira
disponer en los pr6ximos 6 meses de 240 Is. adicionales.
Con otros proyectos similares se pretende ilegar a explotar lo siguiente:
*    Incremento inmediato           88 /s.
*    Pozos protocolo Francia 240 I/s.
*    Contrato Sinergia               45 /s.
*    Proyecto Titiri                130 I/s.
*    Recuperaci6n pozos Vinto 40 I/s.
*    Otros Dozos Cercado             40 I/s.
Incremento inmediato          543 I/s.
Calle Kapac Yupgnqui No. 2336 Cosilla 1647 Tel6fonos 90751 - 90756 Fax. (591) (42) 90752 Cochobamba - Bolivia



-135-
SERVICIO DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE COCHABAMBA
23/04/98
DDG.1 OOO/DPL.CAR-331/98
Pag. 4
d) La rehabilitaci6n de la planta de tratamiento es una de las pocas obras ejecutadas sin problemas,
excepto por las demoras que ha sufrido por las llegadas tardfas de los materiales requeridos de
importaci6n. Esta Planta se halla en operaci6n y su capacidad sera ocupada al maximo.
e) La rehabilitaci6n de la Estaci6n Elevadora de Cona Cona en relaci6n a la sustituci6n de los equipos de
bombeo y tableros, tiene deficiencias debido a que se adjudic6 a ROGHUR LTDA. el tablero y a
EQUITEC BOLIVIANA S.R.L. Ia bomba, y por esta causa el conjunto bomba - tablero no es el mas
adecuado, porque ROGHUR LTDA. entreg6 un tablero de 200 HP y EQUITEC BOLIVIANA S.R.L. entreg6
un motor de 250 HP, lo que esta causando muchos inconvenientes de tipo operacional que se estan
superando con mucha dificultad y que tc,davfa a estas alturas nos encontramos en espera de la
fabricaci6n de dispositivos para los tableros que permitan resolver de manera definitiva estos detalles.
f) La ampliaci6n de la red no se salva de la falta de experiencia del personal de Planificaci6n de la gesti6n
anterior, asi, no comprendemos como fue posible obligar a los Contratistas ejecutar las obras en la mitad
del tiempo propuesto cuando sabian muy bien que no se disponta de los materiales que debfa entregar
Barbara, sobre todo accesorios y valvulas que son imprescindibles para estas instalaciones.
Esta situaci6n ha provocado que en lugar de una instalaci6n continua de las redes, se instale solo
tuberfas sin accesorios y una vez llegados los mismos a la obra, el contratista se vea obligado a fabricar
niples en cantidad y con ello se demore ia ejecuci6n y se incremente el costo de la obra, al final esta
quedando un exagerado numero de accesorios sin uso y ello tiene un costo ocioso para la obra que no
sera recuperado.
Ast mismo, no concebimos como se puede ampliar redes para abarcar mas areas de servicio cuando no
se ha logrado incrementar el caudal de agua disponible en las fuentes, en este caso se hace notorio el no
contar con 630 Is-. que se prometieron al comienzo del proyecto, que en este momento hacen mucha
falta en las redes, aspecto que ocasiona serios problemas sociales y hace que los ingresos de SEMAPA
se vean perjudicados por la falta de agua disponible para su distribuci6n, a traves de dichas redes
nuevas, financiadas con fondos del cr6dito.
La construccion de los tanques de la planta de Cala Cala y Coronilla permitiran a SEMAPA almacenar
mayor volumen de agua y mejorar la distribuci6n, pero mientras no se incremente el caudal requerido,
no sera ninguna soluci6n, porque actualrnente se hallan permanentemente vacfos por falta de agua
disponible para su almacenamiento.
Consideramos que una inversi6n mas acertada hubiera constituido el mejoramiento del sistema
Escalerani (por ejemplo el revestimiento de l canal de cuencas vecinas de Escalerani - La Cumbre), como
tambien el control de perdidas ffsicas en la red y en otros sistemas de aducci6n.
g) La construccion y equipamiento de 4 pozos profundos, incluyendo 13 Km. de tuberia de impulsi6n no se
hizo realidad y se qued6 en proyecto. Este sistema nuevo debta permitir un incremento de 200 I/s. Io que
tampoco ha sucedido, raz6n por la cual se puede establecer claramente que este componente del
proyecto fue un fracaso total.
Como puede observarse, cada uno de los componentes del proyecto en general, no han significado un
aporte real para el mejoramiento del servicio a Ia poblaci6n, sobre todo considerando que no se ha
incrementado para nada el caudal requeridio. A falta de este incremento la implementaci6n del proyecto
Calle Kapac Yuppnqui No. 2336 Casilla 1647 Tel6fonos 90751 - 90756 Fax. (591) (42) 90752 Cochabamba - Bolivia



-136-
SERVICIO DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE COCHABAMBA
23/04/98
DDG. 1 000/DPL.CAR-331/98
Pag. 5
en su conjunto se puede decir que fue un fracaso, excepto pequenos componentes que lo salvan de ser
un total fracaso.
En relaci6n a la segunda parte de este componente como es el Fortalecimiento Institucional, podemos
mencionar lo siguiente:
a) La preparaci6n y diseno final del plan maestro, tiene deficiencias, pues hemos comprobado que por
razones que se encuentran fuera del aspecto tecnico, la administraci6n anterior de SEMAPA ha reducido
drasticamente la demanda per-capita, lo que origina un caudal proyectado fuera de lo real . No
comprendemos como es posible que al no poder resolver la captacion de nuevas fuentes de
abastecimiento, se limiten a disminuir la demanda por habitante/dfa y se quiera forzar a que la
poblaci6n no consuma el ano 2015 mas de 147 I/Hab/d[a, cuando estos valores no se ajustan a la
realidad ni siquiera actual, consideramos que
forzar datos para justificar algo no es la manera responsable de llevar adelante un proyecto de magnitud
que debe resolver los problemas de la poblaci6n y no a la inversa.
b) El programa PROFISE que ha demandado una inversi6n mayor a un mill6n de d6lares, no ha logrado
resolver temas de importancia para SEMAPA. Consideramos que la situaci6n anterior al PROFISE se
ha mantenido hasta el cambio de administraci6n debido a que dicho fortalecimiento no se ha visto en
cifras. Actualmente SEMAPA, ha mejorado su administraci6n, prueba de ello es que en un corto tiempo
se han incrementado sus ingresos lo que ha permitido cumplir obligaciones por mas de 2 millones de
d6lares con el Banco Mundial, BID, gobierno Frances y FNDR.
Para lograr buenos resultados, SEMAPA ha incrementado sus fuentes de producci6n de agua con un
caudal de producci6n inmediato, cuyo resumen es:
*    Pozos el cercado (nuevos)     13 I/s.
*    Pozo El Paso (nuevos)         35 I/s.
*    Pozo Profundo El Paso         40 I/s.
Incremento inmediato         88 Vs.
Por otra parte, actualmente se esta ejecutando el contrato con el protocolo Frances que permitira
disponer en los pr6ximos 6 meses de 240 Vs. adicionales.
Con otros proyectos similares se pretende Ilegar a explotar lo siguiente:
*    Incremento inmediato           88 I/s.
*    Pozos protocolo Francia 240 I/s.
*    Contrato Sinergfa              45 Vs.
*    Proyecto Titiri                130 I/s.
*    Recuperaci6n pozos Vinto 40 I/s.
*    Otros pozos Cercado            40 I/s.
Incremento inmediato         543 Vs.
Calle Kapac Yupgnqui No. 2336 Casilla 1647 Tel6fonos 90751 - 90756 Fax. (591) (42) 90752 Cochabomba - Bolivia



-137-
dl----   SERVICIO DE AGUA FPOTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE COCHABAMBA
23/04/98
DDG. 1 000/DPL.CAR-331/98
Pag. 6
Consideramos que estas acciones que ya se hallan en ejecuci6n con recursos propios de SEMAPA,
resolveran los problemas inmediatos de Cochabamba, aspecto que estuvo descuidado por la anterior
administraci6n, raz6n por la cual esperamos disponer de todas estas aguas en un plazo no mayor a los 8
mese3.
Ademas de estas fuentes, SEMAPA se encuentra empenada en llevar adelante nuevas alternativas, lo
que redundara en beneficio directo para las obras realizadas con el pr6stamo 2187 y permitira a nuestra
entidad mejorar sus ingresos y disminuir la morosidad heredada de la administraci6n pasada, cuyos
recursos haran posible enfrentar en mejores condiciones las necesidades de la poblaci6n.
La escasez de agua obliga a SEMAPA a un racionamiento en las horas de servicio, mas agudo que el
practicado anteriormente y que se ha acentuado por el fen6meno climatol6gico del Nino, el cual ha
castigado a Cochabamba este ultimo ano, con una sequia considerada como una de las mas agudas en
los Ciltimos 50 ahos. En efecto, los embalses de Escalerani y Wara Wara este aino han sufrido la recarga
mas baja registrada en su historia, hallandose actualmente vac[os y sin reservas que permitan a
SEMAPA otorgar un servicio minimo a ia poblaci6n.
c) La adquisici6n de los equipos de computacion permiti6 en alguna medida mejorar el sistema, pero no los
ingresos debido a la fuerte corrupci6n que existfa en dicha Direcci6n Comercial. Actualmente se ha
adquirido un nuevo lote de computadoras y programas de Oltima generaci6n, ello permitira mejorar aun
mas los ingresos actuales.
ii) Objetivos financieros
Estos objetivos seran dificilmente alcanzados mientras las fuentes de agua sean insuficientes y mientras la
micro-medici6n domiciliaria no sea implementetda para toda la poblaci6n, ambos programas seran hechos
realidad en los pr6ximos meses y se tiene como meta resolver esta situaci6n. Inicialmente se ha licitado la
compra de 500 medidores de 1" lo que permitira un control permanente a los clientes con mayor consumo,
sobre todo comerciales e industriales.
No obstante la actual gesti6n de SEMAPA, ha iniciado una campana de recuperaci6n de ia mora dejada por
la gesti6n precedente y un trabajo efectivo de cortes en los casos de clientes que no cumplen con el pago del
servicio, dentro los 30 dias posteriores al vencimiento, lo que ha permitido que desde el mes de octubre
pasado se incrementen las recaudaciones diarias respecto a los montos recaudados por la gesti6n anterior.
iii) Objetivos institucionales
Se ha confiado a la consultora brasileoa ENCIIBRA ei estudio del fortalecimiento institucional de SEMAPA
(Proyecto PROFISE) cuyo costo de contratc fue muy elevado ( $us 1.000.000.oo) siendo financiado
parcialmente por el Banco Mundial. Los manuales de operaci6n elaborados por dicha empresa, aunque
tienen muchos aspectos positivos, no responden en gran parte a las necesidades de SEMAPA y son una
copia de simples manuales usados en paises con otra realidad econ6mica y social, totalmente distinta a
nuestra entidad.
Calle Kapac Yupanqui No. 2336 Casilla 1647 Telefonos 90751 - 90756 Fax. (591) (42) 90752 Cochabamba - Bolivia



-138-
SERVICIO DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE COCHABAMBA
23/04/98
DDG. 1 000/DPL.CAR-331/98
Pag. 7
El manejo institucional de SEMAPA sera modificado por el operador privado que aplicara alternativas
acordes a su estructura empresarial, por lo tanto consideramos que fue inutil invertir sumas de dinero tan
importantes, si se tenia proyectada la concesi6n de SEMAPA al sector privado hecho que sucedera como
maximo en agosto de la presente gesti6n.
iv) Objetivos sociales
Estos objetivos no podran ser alcanzados sino se ampl(an las fuentes de agua. Ampliar la cobertura no es
suficiente sin fortalecer las fuentes de abastecimiento de agua. Actualmente se estan ejecutando proyectos
para ampliar fuentes y redes secundarias de distribuci6n en zonas donde no existfa aun el servicio. Estas
ampliaciones son posibles de ejecutar con la participaci6n de los vecinos que aportan con un 80% de la
inversi6n directa y SEMAPA aporta el 20% restante, ademas de la Supervisi6n de las obras.
Consideramos que se obtendra un mejoramiento sustancial cuando entre en servicio el proyecto Misicuni, el
cual resolvera la escasez de agua por mas de 30 a-nos y cuya puesta en servicio esta prevista para el aho
2001.
3.- FACTORES PRINCIPALES QUE AFECTARON LA IMPLEMENTACION DEL PROYECTO
Creemos en la racionalidad de sus comentarios, cuando menciona que la implementaci6n del proyecto se
vi6 afectada negativamente por varios factores, es decir:
*      La injerencia polftica en la empresa, lo que ocasion6 la inestabilidad y autonomfa gerencial.
*      Debilidad financiera.
*      Base tecnica d6bil en la preparaci6n y evaluaci6n del proyecto.
*      Dificultades con la implementaci6n de los documentos estandares del Banco (lo que signific6 el
atraso en las publicaciones de licitaci6n, falta de experiencia de los proveedores, en la proporci6n
de ofertas).
*      Debilidad de las unidades ejecutoras que contaron con personal de escasa capacitaci6n y en una
gran mayoria sin experiencia.
Pero tambien estamos conscientes que todos estos factores negativos han sido producto del descuido en el
cumplimiento de funciones de los anteriores ejecutivos y funcionarios de la empresa, que ademas de contar
con las limitaciones propias de la empresa, no realizaron un trabajo responsable capaz de asumir un
proyecto de tat magnitud.
Las demoras en el cumplimiento de los cronogramas iniciales del proyecto se relacionan a factores externos,
entre los que se destacan los problemas sociales-antes mencionados, al postergarse hasta la fecha la
ampliaci6n de fuentes, que afectan sensiblemente al proyecto.
Ademas influy6 sensiblemente en el cumplimiento de los cronogramas iniciales la falta de financiamiento
para la contraparte local, la misma que tuvo que ser resuelta con un prestamo sin intereses de 7 millones de
US$ otorgado por la empresa Misicuni, la cual tenia previsto recuperar dicho monto en un futuro inmediato
Calle Kapac Yupanqui No. 2336 Casilla 1647 Telefonos 90751 - 90756 Fax, (591) (42) 90752 Cochabamba - Bolivia



-139-
SERVICIO DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE COCHABAMBA
23/04/98
DDG. 1000/DPL.CAR-331/98
Pag. 8
mediante la venta de agua, lo que no sucedi6, pues la anterior gesti6n de SEMAPA no fue consecuente con
la implementaci6n del proyecto Misicuni, que tenia el prop6sito de resolver en un plazo mediato la
problematica del agua de Cochabamba.
Asimismo, se encontraron durante la ejecuci6n de obras, imprevistos en la construcci6n, que demoraron la
conclusi6n de las mismas, pues muchos elernentos susceptibles de litigio con las empresas, no fueron
debidamente evaluados por la anterior gesti6n de SEMAPA, antes de la firma de los contratos con las
empresas (deficiencias en la evaluaci6n de la calidad de los suelos, atrasos en la importaci6n de materiales,
por falta de experiencia de quienes lievaron adelante la implementaci6n de los proyectos, etc.).
Ademas la anterior gesti6n impuso a los contratistas la disminuci6n de los plazos propuestos para cada
contrato a la mitad del tiempo originalmente previsto, con el fin de obtener exitos politicos (elecciones
nacionales de 1997); sin haber previsto que los materiales no iban a estar fabricados en la mitad de dicho
tiempo, puesto que ninguna fabrica en el mundlo, para una cantidad tan importante de materiales requeridos
podia lograr abastecer los mismos bajo condiciones tan limitadas de tiempo, lo que demuestra una vez mas
la total falta de experiencia de los ejecutivos anteriores y que las obras de este tipo no se hacen por
capricho, sino bajo una programaci6n coordinada en el suministro de los materiales y la instalaci6n de los
mismos. En realidad los proyectos fueron concluidos en los plazos inicialmente previstos en las propuestas
de los contratistas.
Todos estos elementos ocasionaron sobre-costos importantes, que tuvieron que ser soportados por
SEMAPA, puesto que la AIF no acept6 compartir estos gastos adicionales.
4.- SOSTENIBILIDAD DEL PROYECTO
La sostenibilidad del proyecto en el plazo inmediato esta garantizada con la implementaci6n de nuevos
proyectos de captaci6n de aguas subterraneas (construcci6n de 4 pozos semi-profundos con el credito
frances), con la explotaci6n de las aguas del rfo Titiri, con la reducci6n de p6rdidas con el proyecto de
Sinergia (entubamiento de la cafda de las aguas de Escalerani) y con la explotaci6n de aguas subterraneas
en el Cercado que ya ha sido iniciada con la perforaci6n de dos pozos que ingresaron en servicio en dfas
pasados, a esto se ahade el desarrollo adicional y habilitaci6n del pozo profundo que fue abandonado por la
anterior gesti6n. El caudal estimado de todas estas fuentes superan los 540 I/s, que responderan a la
demanda actual de la poblaci6n.
En el mediano y largo plazo, la sostenibilida,d del proyecto sera garantizada por la implementaci6n del
proyecto Misicuni, el cual fue reiniciado a principios del mes de marzo de 1998 y se espera este concluido a
mediados del ano 2001.
La concesi6n de SEMAPA a manos privadas, prevista para mediados de 1998, garantizara la sostenibilidad
de todos estos proyectos en lo que se refiere a mantenimiento y servicio.
Es de notar que el proyecto de la zona Sudeste, abandonado por la anterior gesti6n, tue concluido en su
diseno final en noviembre pasado, tramitando actualmente nuestra gesti6n la pronta aprobaci6n por parte
del BID, cuya implementaci6n permitira realizar una inversi6n adicional de 25 millones de US$ para la
construcci6n de las redes de agua y alcantarillado, que daran servicio a 100.000 habitantes de los barrios
mas pobres de nuestra ciudad.
;
Calle Kpapc Yupanqui No. 2336 Casilla 1647 lelefonos 90751 - 90756 Fox. (59 l) (42) 90752 Cochabamba - Bolivia



4'  ji-140-
SERVICIO DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE COCHABAMBA
23/04/98
DDG. 1 OOO/DPL.CAR-331/98
Pag. 9
5.- DESEMPENO DEL BANCO
Ignoramos cual fue la performance de la AIF en la etapa de ejecuci6n del proyecto, consideramos que la
misma se refleja por los resultados obtenidos a la conclusi6n del proyecto.
6.-    DESEMPENO DE LOS PRESTATARIOS
La anterior gesti6n de SEMAPA no prest6 la celeridad que requeria la implementaron del proyecto. Si bien
es cierto que se tropez6 con problemas de tipo legal y social que impidieron que las fuentes previstas para el
mejoramiento del abastecimiento de agua (pozos de Vinto) no puedan ser viabilizadas, ia gesti6n anterior
mostr6 inexperiencia en la planificaci6n y en las decisiones oportunas que deberfa adoptar.  Como
consecuencia, las obras no fueron concluidas segun el cronograma previsto, ocasionando sobre-costos
onerosos a la economra de SEMAPA.
Pero mas aun, se constata que la planificaci6n del proyecto fue llena de improvisaciones y los resultados
obtenidos no son los inicialmente esperados, puesto que:
* No se incrementaron las fuentes de producci6n de agua pero si se increment6 la capacidad de
almacenamiento y las redes (incremento de ia cobertura), quedando actualmente las tuberias vacras
gran parte del dfa, ocasionando un gran descontento en la poblaci6n usuaria de SEMAPA y restando
credibilidad a la entidad, to que se refleja claramente en el incremento de la morosidad.
 Se ampli6 la capacidad de la planta de tratamiento, sin que exista la garant[a de contar con los 400 I/s
provenientes de las presas de La Cumbre, pues no se ampliaron ni mejQraron los canales de aducci6n
desde cuencas vecina,scomo Escalerani - La Cumbre -Tolapujro - Saloneo y Planta de Tratamiento.
Estos principales componentes del proyecto que a pesar de ser identificados oportunamente por el Plan
Maestro no fueron realizados en forma adecuada, influiran sensiblemente en la sostenibilidad del mismo
Es importante notar que gran parte de las deficiencias provenientes por el menor volumen de agua generado
por el proyecto se estan superando con recursos propios de SEMAPA y con fondos provenientes del
Protocolo Franco-Boliviano.
7.-    EVALUACI6N DE LOS RESULTADOS
Al momento, la sostenibilidad de los logros esta garantizada por la implementaci6n de proyectos alternativos
orientados a aumentar ia capacidad de producci6n. Dichos proyectos se llevan a cabo con recursos propios
y provenientes del Protocolo Franco-Boliviano, y permitiran reemplazar medianamente la escasez de las
fuentes de agua superficial, los mismos que se ejecutan en la gesti6n 1998, de acuerdo al siguiente plan:
Calle Kapac Yupanqui No. 2336 Casilla 1647 Telefonos 90751 - 90756 Fox. (591) (42) 90752 Cochabamba - Bolivia



L                                   ~~~~~       ~      ~~~-141-  
SERVICIO DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE COCHABAMBA
23/04/98
DDG. 1 000/DPL.CAR-331/98
Pag. 10
S -bn,-kpDe ri cion..               Caudal                                   Fn EstadoFanciamient  
6 Nuevos, pozos El Paso         6 x 40 = 240 I/s    En construcci6n        Gb. Francia
2 pozos Cercado                 2 x 6.5 = 13 I/s    En operaci6n            Recursos propios
Proyecto Titiri                 130 I/s             En construcci6n         Emp. Misicuni
Recuperaci6n agua Tolapujro     45 I/s              En construcci6n         Empresa privada
entubamiento y generacion energia
electrica, empresa SINERGIA S.A.
2 Pozos Vinto rehabilitaci6n    2 x 20 = 40 I/s     En ejecuci6n            Recursos propios
Pozo semiprofundo zona El Paso ( 1 x 35 = 35 Vs     En construcci6n         Recursos propios
zona el Paso il)
Pozo profundo H= 400 m.        40 Vs                En servicio             Recursos propios
TOTAL CAUDAL ADICIONAL          543 I/s
Las nuevas fuentes sumadas a las construidas con el proyecto Wara Wara 70 Ifs, la Galeria de Chungara
20 I/s (no mejorada) y los pozos actualmente en explotaci6n (450 Ifs) totalizan 1.083 Ils, lo que garantiza
la sostenibilidad del proyecto de manera inmecliata.
En el largo y mediano plazo, Ia fuente de Misicuni ofrecera la garantia de sostenibilidad por mas de 30 anos.
7.1    Operaciones futuras que daran continuidad al proceso, maximizaci6n de los beneficios,
indicadores para monitores y evaluaci6n de operaciones futuras.
Se ha instalado en las fuentes de producci6n un sistema de telemetrfa (con fondos del Protocolo
Franco-Boliviano), el mismo que ha ingresado en operaci6n. Este programa contribuira a la
determinaci6n diaria y oportuna de la eficiencia en las aducciones y proporcionara los datos para
la elaboraci6n de los balances hidricos, tanto en los subsistemas de producci6n, como en los de
distribuci6n a la red, los cuales asociados con el programa de micromedici6n permitirAn determinar:
peri6dicamente el fndice de agua no contabilizada (ANC), la identificaci6n de factores de perdidas,
la formulaci6n y aplicaci6n de progranas de reducci6n de ANC de mayor significaci6n.
La maximizaci6n de los beneficios se! lograra con la ampliaci6n de las redes secundarias de agua
potable (diametros de 75 y 100 mm  en material de PVC), con recursos propios y participaci6n
comunitaria, programas que estan en plena realizaci6n.
Como acciones complementarias se senalan los programas educativos y de difusi6n del uso
eficiente del agua, el pago oportuno cie las tarifas y el propio desarrollo de la empresa.
Calle Kapac Yupanqui No. 2336 CasilIa 1647 Toel6fonos 90751 - 90756 Fax. (591) (42) 90752 Cochabamba - Bolivia



-142-
SERVICIO DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE COCHABAMBA
23/04/98
DDG.1OOO01PL.CAR-331198
Pag. 1 1
7.2    Opini6n sobre consultores y contratistas
El criterio de SEMAPA sobre los consultores y los contratistas se resume en:
Consultores
CGL                   -      Aceptable, recomendable para otros proyectos
BRGM                  -      Aceptable, recomendable para otros proyectos
ENCIBRA               -      Malo, no recomendable para proyectos especiales
ICSAICLAURE PEREIRA -        Aceptable, recomendable para otros proyectos.
Proveedores:
BARBARA               -      Aceptable, recomendable para otros proyectos.
ROGHUR                -      Deficiente, no recomendable
EQUITEC               -      Deficiente. no recomendable
Contratistas:
OLMEDO                -      Aceptable, recomendable para otros proyectos.
CBI - IST             -      Aceptable, recomendable para otros proyectos.
ALFA                  -      Aceptable, recomendable para otros proyectos.
CONCORT             -        Malo, no recomendable para contratos con financiamiento
externo.
7.3    Lecciones aprendidas
Los proyectos deben basarse en lo posible en disenios finales, con clara definici6n de los alcances para
asegurar los plazos de ejecuci6n y costos finales de inversi6n.
Los programas de desarrollo institucional son lentos pero progresivos y sostenidos.
Los alcances del programa deben abarcar a las otras partes del sistema como ser fuentes, redes
secundarias y conexiones para lograr los beneficios programados en los plazos.
7.4.    Fortalecimiento institucional
El Fortalecimiento Institucional actualizado, se halla en su fase de implementaci6n, ejecutando las siguientes
acciones:
Colle Kapac Yupanqui No. 2336 Cosilla 1647 Tel6fonos 90751 - 90756 Fax. (591) (42) 90752 Cochabamba - Bolivia



-143-
SERVICIO DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE COCHABAMBA
23104/98
DDG.1000/DPL.CAR-331/98
Pag. 12
EI programa de control de fugas para reducir el ANC ha comprendido la identificaci6n, priorizaci6n y
ejecuci6n de actividades de mayor impacto como ser la sustituci6n en un 81.15 % de los medidores en
servicio, la limpieza y rehabilitaci6n de 6.012 cajas de medidor.
Con el programa de instalaci6n de macromedidores, el macromedidor ultras6nico portatil y la telemetrfa en
su primera fase, estamos en condiciones de establecer los balances hidraulicos en la producci6n y
distribuci6n, para identificaci6n y priorizaci6n de programas de reducci6n de ANC.
Las acciones complementarias de reducci6n de ANC se orientan al control operacional, reducci6n de
tiempos de intervenci6n, sistemas de evaluaci6n y control de mantenimiento.
La expansi6n de la red secundaria, la misma que hasta la fecha se ha efectuado con esfuerzo propio y del
vecindario organizado, en un total de 11.000 m, incluido el medidor para 650 conexiones y estan en
ejecuci6n 50.000 m de red en diametros de 7'5 y 100 mm. para 3.000 nuevas conexiones domiciliarias.
El desarrollo institucional de la empresa ha alcanzado 6,56 funcionarios por 1000 conexiones.
Se han organizado a traves de contratistas particulares, las tareas de construcci6n de nuevas conexiones de
agua potable y alcantarillado lo que significa rnenor tiempo de atenci6n a las solicitudes.
La construcci6n de la red secundaria y conexiones domiciliarias, complementando la red principal construida
de FgFg, con material de PVC en diametros menores como 100, 75 mm y eventualmente de 50 mm,
superando dificultades financieras al no haber alcanzado el credito para este ftem, se ha logrado con el
programa de capacitaci6n comunitaria en 25 barrios para su participaci6n en la construcci6n.
La negativa de la poblaci6n de Vinto y zonas aledanas para la construcci6n de los pozos de ampliacion de
fuentes, ha permitido identificar el marco regulatorio sobre el recurso agua (solicitud de concesi6n a la,
Superintendencia de aguas), que permita la iclentificaci6n, priorizaci6n de usos en forma eficiente en toda la
regi6n, sin considerar limites jurisdicciones de municipios y cantones.
7.5  Consideraciones generales del inforrne con relaci6n a PROFISE
Cursa en el informe, que en la ciudad de Cochabamba se desarroll6 e implemento el PROGRAMA
DE MEJORAMIENTO INSTITUCIONAL DE SEMAPA (PROFISE) y de acuerdo al mismo su
efectividad no serfa sostenible por los cambios frecuentes en la gerencia y personal de alta
administraci6n. Sin embargo, es necesario mencionar que cuando se habla de SOSTENIBILIDAD
del programa esta no depende necesariamente de las personas, sino del proceso mismo,
funciones y de la estructura de la organizacion.
La inestabilidad en los programas de administraci6n, manejo comercial, gesti6n financiera,:
operaci6n y mantenimiento que se indica en el informe, no es evidente, por lo menos durante la
nueva administraci6n que inici6 sus funciones en septiembre de 1997.
Calle Kapoc Yupgnqui No. 2336 Casilla 1647 Telefonos 90751 - 90756 Fax. (591) (42) 90752 Cochabamba - Bolivia



-144-
SERVICIO DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE COCHABAMBA
23/04/98
DDG. 1 000/DPL.CAR-331198
Pag. 13
Sin embargo, el sistema administrativo en que se basa SEMAPA no es precisamente el mas
adecuado, toda vez que se cuenta con varios niveles directivos, gerenciales, jefes, etc., y que
debido a la organizaci6n y atribuciones, se tiene una recarga considerable de funciones, situaci6n
que no es tomada en cuenta por el Gobierno de Bolivia, por ejemplo para reformular la politica
salarial existente, lo que dificulta mejorar la administraci6n de SEMAPA como empresa municipal
descentralizada de derecho publico.
En este entendido creemos que (PROFISE) es un programa que no ha logrado adecuarse
totaimente al sistema administrativo con que cuenta SEMAPA.
La debilidad financiera de la empresa se debe a que no existe presupuesto estatal asignado al
programa (PROFISE) que se elabor6 con un costo de $us 1.000.000.oo (UN MILL6N 00/100
DOLARES AMERICANOS) aproximadamente, lo que significa un gasto que debilita aun mas la
economfa de SEMAPA como nos manifiesta en su informe.
8.     PLAN PARA LA FASE DE OPERACI6N
Esta contenido en los Planes Operativos Anuales y se orientan a la conservacidn de las obras y
explotaci6n de las fuentes a lo largo del aiio. Su financiamiento esta contemplado en el presupuesto de
funcionamiento de la empresa y esta a cargo del Departamento de Operaci6n de la Gerencia T6cnica
Es necesario mencionar que la fase de operaci6n del sistema construido con recursos del credito 2187/BO,
se halla adecuando al sistema existente de SEMAPA, sobre todo en lo que se refiere a las redes de
distribuci6n y fuentes, con objeto de superar las perdidas de agua en cada uno de los componentes y con
ello mejorar los ingresos de SEMAPA.
Un resumen de las actividades programadas que se hallan en actual ejecuci6n, se puede apreciar en el
siguiente cuadro, cuyos indicadores proporcionan elementos que nos permitan mejorar las condiciones de
operaci6n actuales, logrando una mayor eficiencia en el servicio al usuario.
Colle Kapac Yupgnqui No. 2336 Cosilla 1647 Telefonos 90751 - 90756 Fax. (591) (42) 90752 Cochabamba - Bolivia



a    -
0,                               ~~~~~~~~-145-
SERVICIO DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE COCHABAMBA
23104/98
DDG. 1 000/DPL.CAR-331/98
Pag. 14
i - t5-Descdri 16n:i                    r ACTIVIDAD   i:..         -            Indicado
5  anenmiento.'
1. Rehabilitaci6n y expansi6n del sistema de agua potable
a. Wara Wara        Valvulas compuertas       Limpieza de canales              m3 almacenado
b. Pozos de Vinto   Bombas,  control, sistemas Mantenimiento pozos, equipos de Rendimiento
de  medici6n  del pozo  y bombeo  tableros  el6ctricos  y Del    campo
producci6n                mantenimiento de la aducci6n.   >95%  I/s; m3
Kw H/m3.m
d. Planta de T. Agua Se cuenta con manual de Se  cuenta  con  manual    y Eficiencia de la
Cala Cala           operaci6n y mantenimien-   cronograma de actividades      planta
to y laboratorio                                           0 0 coly
e) E. E. Cona Cona   Se cuenta con manual de Mantenimiento bombas, valvulas, Eficiencia 95 %
OP. y Mtto                equipos, medici6n control       Consumo
E. E./m3
f) Red de agua      Reparaci6n fugas                                          3600 / a.
conexiones          Cambio de conexiones                                      600/ a
Renovaci6n red                                            1200 / a
Cambio de medidor                                         240 /a
Mantenimiento de medidor                                  500/a
Complementaci6n de redes y nuevas conexiones              20000 m
1500 Conex
Agua no conta-     Plan de sustituci6n de medidores de 1 2 ", 2"            300 Pz
bilizada            Instalaci6n medidores                                     2000 Pz.
Conformaci6n de comite interno de ANC,   con objetivos, ANC<=35%
mecanismos y resultados, contenidos en el plan operativo
2. Fortalecimiento institucional                                              _
a) Proyectos red    Diseno de redes secundarias segun plan maestro             100 ha.
b) PROFISE          Aplicaci6n de manuales, evaluaci6n, seguimiento,          Indices     de
capacitaci6n.                                             eficiencia
c)   Equipos   de  Completar con los equipos, actualizaci6n en paquetes, aplicaci6n, Equipos
computaci6n         difusion de indicadores                                   Informes
fndices
9.-    SITUACION ACTUAL
*      Del informe remitido tambi6n se colige, que en la ciudad de Cochabamba solo se logr6 ejecutar el
77% del programa original de las obras, entre otros debido a que hasta el momento aun no se llev6
a cabo la privatizaci6n de SEMAPA.
En este sentido manifestamos a usted, que la privatizaci6n de la empresa o mas concretamente el
proceso de concesi6n de la misma, esta en marcha y se tiene proyectado concluirlo hasta fines del
mes de agosto del presente ano.
Es imprescindible que se conozca que al presente, ya no existe interferencia ni injerencia politica y
la debilidad gerencial es parte del pasado.
Calle Kapac Yuponqui No. 2336 Casilla 1647 Tel6fonos 90751 - 90756 Fax. (591) (42) 90752 Cochabamba - Bolivia



-146-
al_ ASERVICIO DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE COCHABAMBA
23,'04198
DDG. 1 OODPL.CAR-331/98
Pag. 15
Es correcto afirmar que hubieron cambios de personal jerarquico en la empresa debido a la
injerencia polrtica, pero tambien debe tenerse en cuenta que se prescindi6 de los servicios de ese
personal por razones de irresponsabilidad y corrupci6n, situaci6n que ya no era factible mantener.
El personal ejecutivo que ingres6 a ocupar la direcci6n de las diferentes areas de SEMAPA, cuenta
con experiencia profesional e idoneidad necesaria para enfrentar las circunstancias dificiles en que
se encontr6 la empresa y por esta raz6n por lo menos de momento no existen mas cambios en la
gerencia y personal clave de la empresa, lo que beneficia a la estabilidad de Jos programas
administrativos
Con relaci6n al manejo comercial de SEMAPA, se ha logrado superar recaudaciones promedio del
100%, a partir del mes de septiembre de 1997 recuperando paulatinamente la mora que dejaron los
anteriores responsables del area comercial.
El impacto de la capacidad de pago al cr6dito ha sido elocuente, como ejemplo podemos
mencionar que en septiembre de 1997 se cumplia la 2Q cuota de pago a] Banco Mundial (FNDR), en
ese momento efectivamente las reservas econ6micas no alcanzaban ni para pagar los intereses de
esa cuota, sin embargo la nueva administraci6n cumpli6 a plenitud el 30 de septiembre de 1997, la
cuota que correspondfa a esa fecha.
Ponemos en su conocimiento que para el pago de ta tercera cuota que se cumpli6 el 31 de marzo
del presente aho, hemos visitado a ejecutivos del (FNDR), para gestionar el pago inclusive por
anticipado de una parte de la cuota, pero no pudimos lograr ese objetivo por razones internas del
(FNDR), nuestra obligaci6n ha sido cubierta oportunamente en lo que se refiere al plazo del 31 de
marzo para la tercera cuota.
A la fecha, existe un fortalecimiento financiero importante, gracias al trabajo esforzado y constante
de los actuales ejecutivos que estan conscientes de la necesidad urgente de otorgar en concesi6n a
SEMAPA para llevar a cabo la transformaci6n institucional a traves de la participaci6n e inversi6n
privada.
Con este motivo, saludamos a Uds. atentamente.                  /
Ing. Arturo Coca Seleme
GERENTE GENERAL SEMAPA
ACS/hsc
c.c.:   Presidente Banco Mundial Washington
Banco Mundial La Paz - Bolivia
Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Regional
Arch.
Calle Kapac Yupgnqui No. 2336 Casilla 1647 Tel6fonos 90751 - 90756 Fax. (591) (42) 90752 Cochabamba - Bolivia



-147-
Annex 8A
Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective
The Opiniion of FNDR
(In Spanish)
1ZgL1             FONDO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO REGIONA 1- FNDR
La Paz, 9 de abnil de 1998
GG-SA 1421 .CAR/98
Sefior
Paul Isemanr
Direcwr Departamenw III
Finanzas, Seor Privado e lnfraescucaira
Ofidna Regional para America Ladna y El Caribe
181 8H. StreeL N. W.
Washington D.C 20433
U. S. A.
Ref.: Convenio de Crdito AIF 2187-BO Bo1vhia
Proyecro de Rehablltiad6n de Agua Potable y
Alcntarillado Sanitardo en Ciudades Mayores
AL: Dr. Menahem Libhaber
Ofidal de Proyecto
De nuesra considerad6n:
En atendon a su solldicd, adjunto a U presente el Anexo 8 que consttuye la Oplni6n del
Fondo Nadonal de Desarrollo Regonal como internedlarlo finandero del Convenio de
Cr4dlto ANF 21 98-BO para su incorpona6n al Inforne de Cumpliln-enco de la
Implementad6n (ICR) del cr6dito antes mencionado.
Se adjunca a la presente el (itimo informe sobre el segulmiento a los indicadores de
eficlencda de las empreas SAMAPA, SAGUAPAC y SEMAPA asi como un detalle
acalazado de los desembolsos.
Con este motivo, saludo a usted atentamente,
ofw A
Di.,o'



-148-
LOGRO DE OBJETIVOS
Li   OBJETIVOS PRINCIPAIES
La informaci6n recopilad al cierre de cada uno de los componentes del Proyecto perite
concluir que los objetivos programados han sido logrados pricticamente en su totalidad,
pudiendo concluirse que la ejecuci6n del mismo ha sido sarisfactoria. Las diferencias
presentadas en alguno de los componentes no son significativas con relaci6n a la totalidad-
del programa y, en su caso, pueden deberse a problemas del dimensionamiento original.
12    OBJETIVOS ESPECIlCOS POR COMPONENIE
A.  SAMAPA
A la fecha se han cumplido con todos los objetivos7 >iicamente alguno se encuentra
pendiente por renasos en la ejecuci6n de las obras; sin embargo, el objetivo como tal
sera logrado adecuadamente en los proximos meses- Asimismo, los indicadores
operativos han logrado niveles satisfactorios con relaci6n a los programados.
F:inalente, el proceso de privarizaci6n de la empresa ha concluido sauisfactoriamente.
B.    SEMAPA
En general el logro de los objetivos puede considerarse como satisfactorio, ain cuado
no se han alcanzado las metas programads en su totalidad. Situacion que supondrd,
necesaramete, un esfuerzo adicional de la empresa para lograrlos a futuro,
p.rincipalnem en cuanlo a los indicadores operativos y de fortalecimiento mstitucional.
Por otra parte, el proceso de privatiain de la empresa se encuentra en ejecuci6n,
ajiustndose a la situaci6n y prioridades actuales.
C.  SAGUAPAC
Los objetivos han sido logrados en su totalidad, debiendo destacarse que los resultados
logrados en muchos de ellos han sido superiores a los programados originalmete. Los
indicadores de desempe&io operativo son tambi6n satisfactorios, requiriendose de muy
pocos ajustes para lograr los acordados.
D.   COMPONENTE NACIONAL (FNDR)
Igualmente, se han logrado en forma satisfactoria la mayor parte de los objetivos globales
sefialados en el progranma, quedando alguno de los especificos sin cumplir por los
cambios en el sector, operados en el periodo de ejecuci6n. Sin embargo, debe aclararse
que estos fueron alcanzdos paraletamente mediante otros programas similares. En
cuanto al FNDR, este cumpli6 crii su funci6n de intermediario financiero, denuto las
limitaciones sefialadas por el Acuerdo de Proyecto y el Convenio Subsidiario y las leyes
nacionales, apoyando, por otra parte, significativamente, al ordenamiento del sector y a
su propia capacitaci6n como organismo financiador del sector-



-149-
2.  FACTORES PRINCIPALES QUE AFECTARON LA                      MEPNTACION DEL
PROYECTO
Dentro los factores que influyeron negativamente en la implementaci6n del proyecto y
que retMasaron su ejecucion, a criterio del FNDR, se pueden mencionar los siguientes:
a)    La formulaci6n incompleta de los proyectos en el PPF-44-B07 que oblig6 a
incorporar el diseho fnal como parte de la ejecuci6n del proyecto, aspecto que,
desde el inicio supuso que Las obras serian rerrasadas. Mas aun, considerando que
los procesos de comatacin de estudios de consultorfia son largos y sujetos a
muchas etapas.
b)    Los procesos de licitaci6n de obras, provisi6n de materiales y contraraci6ri de
consultorias se vieron remsados, en primer lugar, por la falta de un acuerdo
previo en los modelos de pliegos de licitaci6n e invitaci6n y capacitaci6n de los
ejecutores al respecto, y en segundo lugar, por demoras en las no objeciones.
c)    A.simismo, la ausencia de ua anilisis instiucional mas profiido de los ejecutores
de los proyoctos en cuanto a su capacidad fiinnciera y operairva, supuso demoras
por la no disponibilidad oportuna de aporte local y de la existencia de una unidad
ejecutora que sirviese comC) organismo tcnico permanente.
d)    El proceso de privatizaci6n de SAMAPA Y SEMAPA, condici6n para la
ampliaci6n de la vigencia del Convenlio de Cr6dito, no cont6 con acuerdo previo
concertado con las empresas, sino mis bien fiue una imposici6n, aspecto que,
podfa preverse, originarfa reacciones negativas a un proceso toimente nuevo en
el paIs, sitci6n que se presen6 en los hechos en el caso de SEMAPA.
e)    Es tambi6n relevante el hecho de la deficiente oferta de bienes y serviclos en el
pais, que origin6 retrasos en la contrataci6n de obras, provisi6n de bienes y aun
de consuitoria, lo que se reflej6 en retrasos en la ejecuci6n de obras, estudios y
de provisi6n de bienes no de acuerdo a las normas.
3.    SOSTENIBILDAD DEL PROYECTO
De acuerdo a los resultados logrados, la sostenibilidad del proyecto esti asegurada en la
mayor parte de sus componentes, especialmente en cuanro a las empresas SAGUAPAC
y SAMAPA, del FNDR como entidad fmanciera, de la entidad normativa (hoy
Viceministerio de Servicios Bisicos) y del ente regulador del sector, Superintendencia
de Aguas. En cuanto a SEMAPA, se hace aun neces-ario realizar acciones de apoyo
insutucional continuando con el proceso de privatizaci6n que ya ha sido iniciado y que
cuenta con todo el respaldo del gobierno central, gobierno municipal y do la exnpresa,
con miras a superar los dos aspectos findamentales: institucional y de fuenme de provisi6n
de agaa, a corto plazo



-150-
4.    DESEMPIE:NO DEL BANCO
a)    El Banco ha estado presente en las eEapas de idenrificaci6n, preparaci6n,
supervisi6n y evaluaci6z del proyeco, mediante la presencia de cuatro oficiales
de proyecto; por lo Manto, su participacifn ha sido importante en la ejecuci6n del
mismo. Es mis, su participacion estuvo presente desde la ejecuci6n del PPF1444-
BO-
b)    Los ajustes presenados durae la ejecucion del proyecto han sido acompanados
de cerca por el Banco, mediante sus oficiales de credito cuyo nivel de
paricipaci6u ha sido diferente, es asi que se han tenido etaps en las cuales no
ha sido muy aciva, mientras que en oias ha sido importante para reencauzar y
acelerar la ejecuci6n del proyecto pero, asi tambi6n, se han presentado situaciones
en Ias cuales esta ha ido mSs alli de su campo especifico de acci6om
c)    Dentro de a1gunos ajustes relevantes que se han presenmado en las coadiciones
generales del proyecto, se tiene el de la privatizaci6n de las empresas SAMAPA
y SEMAPA, la cual no foe fruto de un acuerdo conceIado entre pates y no
cont6 con un an:fliis legal mis profindo en cada caso, situaci6n que provoco
reaccionaes confrari, mas que al objetivo pretendido, al proceso que se prerendia
Ilevar adlela. Prueba de ello es que al presente la privadzoci6n de SEMAPA
contin6a y cuenta con todo el apoyo necesario. Asiraismo, en cuanto al rema
Misicuni, el Banco present un recomendaci6n, correspondiendo cualquier
decision al respecto al gobierio y a la empresa interesada, considerando que lo
importante es lograr la soluci6n defwitiva al problema.
d)    El rol del Banco ha sido en general el adecuado y ha permicido ejecutar el
proyecto dentro los objetrvos seAalados, se han presentado problemas menores en
cuanto a desembolsos y conciliaci6n de cuentas y gastos para su mejor
seguinmieo financiero.
5.    DESENMPEO DE LOS PRESTATARIOS
5.1   Empresas Ejectoras
La participaci6n de los prestatarios ha sido diferente, destacr.udose SAGUAPAC
como la empresa.mas eficiente durante la ejecuci6n del proyecto, lo que explica
el logro de todos los objetivos e mcluso por encima de los programados en el
SAR. SEMAPA ha sido la empresa que ha tenido las mayores dificultades, sobre
todo en el componene de obras al tener que encarar, primeramente, el plan
maestro pam justificar los proyectos que fueron identificados y formulados no a
disefho final. A la fecha del cierre del proyecto, la mayor pare de los problemaas
han sido superdos en todas las empresas.
Las causas de los desfses en la ejecuci6n han sido ya comentdos lineas arriba
en cuanto a los factores que afectaron la implementaci6n del proyecto.



-151-
5.2   FNDR
El FNDR fue incorporado al proyccto en la emapa de negociaci6n del crddito
como el agente fmaiciero de la Republica de Bolivia, encomendkndole, ademas,
la supervisi6n general del proyecto. Aspectos que consideramos fueron cumrplidos
a cabalidad en raz6n de las const=aes visitas e informes generados de
seguimiento, prestando en algunas situaciones su asesoramiento tecnico.
En cuanto ad rol asignado a la entidad dentro del sector saneamiento basico, este
debe ser entendido en el contexto insitucional del FNDR, el que fue creado por
el Gobierno Nacional como entidad finciera ejecutora de la politica de
disciplina y optimizaci6n faciera de la inversi6n, y no en el sentido de
converrirse en una entidad normativa, supervisora o reguladora del sector.
Como entidad financiera, el PNDR ha consolidado su posici6n de lider en el
sector saneamiento basico, iniciada con la dicraci6n del Decreto Supremo
No.22627 de 24 de octubre de 1990 que le sefala como agencia financiera
sectorial, ratificada por el D.S. No. 22925 de 1 de noviembre de 1991 de
Reordenamiento del Sector Sanoamiento Bsico,   al haber recibido la
responsabilidad por parte de la Repiblica de a4minisrrar v2xios programas
fianciados por el Banco Mudial, BID, JICA  y otros, que consideran como
sector elegible do flnanciamieuto al de sanenmiento basico, habiendo fmanciado
a la fecha cerca de $us 200.0 millones en proyectos del sector.
6.    EVALUACION DE RESULTADOS
Los resutados logrados con el proyecto, adn considerando que algunos objetivos (los
menos) no han sido akauzados a pIeninud, pueden considerarse altamente satisfatorios
pues se ha llegado a un nazxnero importante de beneficiarios, las obras haa sido
nayormentle completadas, el lortalecimiento institucional ha demosao  logros
iMportantes en los indicadores de desempeiio y se ha demostrado que el sector pnvado
s tiene irateres de participar toriando a su cargo la operaci6n y auin el riesgo de la
inversi6n en proyectos de saneamiento basico.
Paralelamente el sector ha ido reordenindose a partir del D.S. 22925, al defuiirse las
encidades normativas, operadoras y fincieras y su rol en el sector. Asimismo, se ha
creado la Superintendencia de Aguas responsable de la supervisi6n y cumplimiento de
normas y procedimientos, concluyAmdose que a la fecha el marco legal para el
mejoramierito del secEor ha sido establecido plenamente.
El PNDR, por otra parte, ha ida iorTaleciendose institucionalmente con la contratacion
de personal Calificado en el sectrT, asi como, en la elaboraci6n de guias de elaboraci6n
de proyectos y metodologias de evaluaci6n.



-152-
7.    LECCIONES APRENDIDAS
Es criterio del FNDR, que denEro de las experiencias presentadas en la ejecuci6n del
proyecto deben rescatarse las siguientes: i) Todo futuro proyecto especIfico, como el
evaluado, debe basarse necsaramente en estudios a disefno fmal, los cuales deben
incorporar un anilisis financiero, instimucional y legal muy deallado, a objeto de no
encontrar problemas de liquidez en el aporre local, poca capacidad ejecutora y legales
que impidan su ejecuci6n; ii) Efectuar un plan de ejecuci6n del proyecto que defina y
establezca claramente los procedimientos,   7mos, roles institucionales de todos los
partipantes; y iii) Que en los ajustes a rezlizar de proyectos en ejecuci6n, estos est6n
plenamente acordados con los ejecutores o presmatarios, asimismo, se consideren los
cambios esmrturales que se van presentando en cl pais, ya sca en el sector o en sectores
afmes que lo afectei.



-153-
Annex 8B
Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective
The Opinion of FNDR
(In English)
ACHEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
1.1   MAIN OBJECTIVES
The information available at the close of each of the project's components indicates that
the planned objectives have been achieved almost completely and that implementation has
been satisfactory. The differences presented in some of the components are not significant
when compared with the program as a whole and may be due to initial problems of scale.
1.2   SPECFIEC OBJECTIVES OF EACH COMPONENT
A.   SAMAPA
To date all the objectives have been achieved, although there have been some delays in the
works. However, they will be conapleted to satisfaction in the coming months. The
operating indicators have also attained adequate levels in relation to the benchmarks.
Last, the process of privatizing the company has been concluded successfully.
B.   SEMAPA
In general, the objectives have been satisfactorily achieved although not all the targets
were met. The company will have to make an additional effort to attain them in future,
particularly with respect to operating indicators and institutional strengthening. The
company is being privatized, reflecting current circumstances and priorities.
C.   SAGUAPAC
The objectives have been fully achieved and many of the results have been better than
originally planned. The operating performance indicators are also satisfactory and very
few adjustments will be required.
D.   NATIONAL COMPONENT (FNDR)
Most of the program's general objectives have been achieved, although some specific
objectives are yet to be complied with owing to changes that occurred in the sector during
project implementation. However; it should be noted that some objective were achieved
in parallel under similar programs. FNDR is complying with its function as financial
intermediary, within the limits set forth in the Loan and Subsidiary Agreements and



-154-
national legislation. FNDR is providing considerable support for sector management and
for its own training as sector financing agency.
2.    MAIN FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
The factors that have had an adverse effect on the project and delayed its implementation, in the
opinion of FNDR, are:
(a)   Incomplete project formulation under PPF-44-BO made it necessary to include the final
designs as part of the project under consideration here, which condemned the works to
delay from the outset. The delay was also compounded by the length and complication of
the procedures for contracting consulting services.
(b)   The bidding for works, materials and consulting contracts was delayed owing, on the one
hand, to the absence of prior agreement regarding models for the bid invitations and
documents and training for the implementing agencies in bid procedures and, on the other,
to delays in the issue of non-objections.
(c)   The absence of a more detailed institutional analysis of the financial and operating capacity
of the implementing agencies led to delays in the timely provision of the local counterpart
and the establishment of an implementing unit to act as a permanent technical body.
(d)   The process of privatizing SAMAPA and SEMAPA, which was a condition for extending
the Loan Agreement, was not assented to in advance by the companies but was imposed,
and it could have been anticipated that this would cause an adverse reaction to a
completely new process in the country, which indeed happened in SEMAPA.
(e)   Another relevant factor was the deficient supply of goods and services in the country,
which led to delays in contracting the works, obtaining supplies, and even in hiring
consulting services, as reflected in delays in the works and studies and in supplies that
were not up to standard.
3.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
Based on the results, most of the project components will be sustainable, particularly with respect
to SAGUAPAC and SAMAPA, FNDR as the financial intermediary, the regulatory agency (now
the Deputy Ministry of Basic Services) and the sector regulatory agency, the Water
Superintendency. As for SEMAPA, institutional support is still necessary to continue the
privatization process which has been initiated and has the support of the central and municipal
governments and the company. The process is intended to address two fundamental problems:
institutional weakness and the short-term supply of water.
4.  BANK PERFORMANCE



-155-
(a)   The Bank was involved in project identification, preparation, supervision, and evaluation
through the presence of four praject officers. Its participation has been continuous since
PPF-444-BO.
(b)   The adjustments made during the project were closely monitored by the Bank through its
loan officers, although the level of participation varied. There were stages in which the
Bank was not very active and others in which it made major efforts to adjust and
accelerate the project. Howevei; situations arose that were outside its specific field of
action.
(c)   The main adjustments to the general project conditions included privatization of
SAMAPA and SEMAPA, which was not based on a mutual agreement by the parties or
on an in-depth legal analysis in each case. This led to opposition, not so much to the
objective as to the process. This is clear from the fact that SEMAPA's privatization is
continuing, with all the necessary support. With regard to Misicuni, the Bank made a
recommendation, although the government and the company must make their own
decision, since the main thing is to find a permanent solution to the problem.
(d)  -Overall, the Bank has played an adequate role and the project has been implemented
within the stated objectives. Minor problems arose with regard to disbursements and
conciliation of accounts and costs in financial monitoring.
5.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
5.1  Implementing Agencies
The borrowers performed dissimilarly. SAGUAPAC stood out as the most efficient
company during the project, as witnessed by the fact that it not only achieved but
surpassed the objectives programmed in the SAR. SEMAPA had the greatest difficulties,
particularly in the works component, since it had to draw up a master plan to justify the
projects that had been identified and formulated but had not been carried to the final
design stage. When the project closed, all the companies had surmounted most of the
problems.
The reasons for the delays in implementation have been mentioned above with respect to
the factors that affected project implementation.
5.2   FNDR
FNDR was included in the project in the loan negotiation stage as the financial agent of
the Republic of Bolivia, and was also made responsible for general project supervision. It
complied fully with its mandate as attested to by continued visits and follow-up reports,
and on some occasions it provided technical advice.
FNDR's role in the basic sanitation sector should be viewed within its institutional context.
It was established by the national government as the financial entity responsible for



-156-
financial discipline and optimization of investments and was not intended to be a
supervisory or regulatory body in the sector.
As a financial entity, FNDR has consolidated its position as leader in the basic sanitation
sector, initiated under Supreme Decree 22627 of October 24, 1990, which designates it as
the sector's financial agency. This was confirmed under Supreme Decree 22925 of
November 1, 1991, on reorganization of the basic sanitation sector, which gave it
responsibility for administering programs financed by the World Bank, IDB, JCIA, and
other agencies, which considered basic sanitation eligible for financing, to the tune of close
to US$200 million to date.
6.    ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
The results of the project can be considered highly satisfactory (despite the few targets that have
not been fully achieved), since the project has benefitted a significant number of people, the works
have largely been completed, institutional strengthening has made major strides in improving
performance indicators, and it has been demonstrated that the private sector is interested in taking
over operation of the sector and is even willing to assume the risk of investing in basic sanitation
projects.
The sector has been reorganized pursuant to Supreme Decree 22925, defining the regulatory,
operating and financial entities and their role in the sector. The Office of the Superintendent of
Water has been created to oversee compliance with standards and procedures. The legal
framework for improving the sector has been fully established.
FNDR has been strengthened institutionally by hiring qualified staff and is now more proficient in
preparing guidelines for project preparation and evaluation.
7.    LESSONS LEARNED
FNDR has the following comments to make regarding the project: (i) all specific future projects,
such as the project under consideration here, should necessarily be based on final designs, which
should include a very detailed financial, institutional and legal analysis to prevent problems of
liquidity in the local contribution and weak implementation and legal capacity that could impede
execution; (ii) a project implementation plan should be drawn up that clearly establishes
procedures, mechanisms and institutional roles for all participants; and (iii) adjustments in projects
in progress should be made in full agreement with the implementing agencies and borrowers, and
should consider the structural changes under way in the country, in the sector and in related
sectors.



MAR SECTION



IBRD 22438
B  R    A    z    I  L                                      62'      B 0  L I V I A
MAJOR CITIES WATER AND
s-i6f iro                               SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Tot Rio                                              LOCATION OF SUB-PROJECTS
To RI. B-n0,           o                     - 
--f                          =.,ojrd Mirom =                                                  Proiect Cit,es
*~ ~                                                                                                                         7 CD81;4_rs >ROADS
\    Ew   tw<v4  <   \  h                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_______  Torock
*/ ii ff* 0 # ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D.p.rtmenM Boundories
? f \ ss g 5'. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>> _ _ ~~~~~~Intemntio-ol Boun.dories
) - . 9!? )S +ecS Alt,plono
P         E  R  U                                                                                                       - K-  vo"eYs
)> >X, F ~~~~~~~B NI   (
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  50cl                                                   10    1 un m          50  200  250
LA/xt P A                                                                                                   5 ! Z,al  ~ =    t   \.  9    Towno
A>na                                                        Cn   6notoni                        oplil
T.nononi _                                                                               t X ;w~---~~~I- ----   = _   _         o   Brros
PE   RU/<    n 4S 0JxfT50                                                                     A                      leC  R  U  Z\
-.i~~~ [\= orsni'W hq*^,* Clonds)/o-_/
An0c tv O   R  U  o                                      O0   1,0 1                                                    . 20  250
( < AO TO.,so F,.y                                                                                       K r-T S
-20 > 4 ~~~~~UYUINI                                                                              '                                      *.. 55 Z0uc5ir T. S.  ietA
011ooueXl ouow   t-T     W      innnzoi\b;VVAG Mom" 7pBP^VtA                                          BRAZIL
C  H  g L           P  O   T       S  I                         T0 /H  I L E  P                   o-T   S  I
,  tr  ,     \ j ,                  >    >. >2                    <, S~~~~~~~~~ARGENTNJ./ y
{__-3   ~A R GENT   N A   \.,                                             -         4,           !/.,,
T. S. ~ ~   ~         ~         ~         ~        ~         N
JUNE 1990



