Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2187 BO
(Major Cities Water Supply and
Sewerage Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
COOPERATIVA DE SERVICIOS PUBLICOS,
SANTA CRUZ LIMITADA "SAGUAPAC"
Dated December 17, 1990
CREDIT NUMBER 2187 BO
SAGUAPAC PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 17, 1990, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT  
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and COOPERATIVA DE SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, SANTA CRUZ 
LIMITADA "SAGUAPAC" (SAGUAPAC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Republic of Bolivia (the Borrower) and the Association, the  Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
two-five million two hundred thousand   Special Drawing Rights (SDR 25,200,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that SAGUAPAC agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as 
are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by two subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into respectively  
between the Borrower and the Borrower's Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Regional (FNDR) 
and, subsequently, between FNDR and SAGUAPAC, part of the proceeds of the credit 
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement  will be made available to 
SAGUAPAC on the terms and conditions set forth in said subsidiary loan agreements; and
WHEREAS SAGUAPAC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Page  2
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake  the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement  and in the 
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SAGUAPAC declares its commitment to the objectives of the  Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and,  to this  end, 
shall carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and water supply 
and sanitary practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Part B of the 
Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. SAGUAPAC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions  (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,  records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in  respect of the Project Agreement 
and Part B of the Project.
Section 2.04. SAGUAPAC shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SAGUAPAC 
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect  of amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving the SAGUAPAC Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) SAGUAPAC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of Part B  of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the SAGUAPAC Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
SAGUAPAC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B of  the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the  performance by SAGUAPAC of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the SAGUAPAC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, SAGUAPAC shall: (i) by October 1 in each year review with the Borrower, 
KfW, FNDR and the Association the status of implementation of Part B of the Project 
including any actions that, in the  opinion of the Association, need to be taken by 
SAGUAPAC or the Borrower in  the event of any shortcoming in such implementation; and 
(ii) promptly thereafter take all such actions as shall apply to SAGUAPAC.
Section 2.06. SAGUAPAC shall:
(a)
by October 1 in each year, prepare and furnish to the Association an 
institutional improvement plan and a financial plan for SAGUAPAC (including in the 
latter financial projections and performance targets); both satisfactory to the 
Association (the SAGUAPAC Action Plans) for such  year and for the following five 
years; and
(b)
implement the SAGUAPAC Action Plans in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association and take all action as shall be required to meet all performance targets 
therein (including, without limitation, adjustment of  the structure and level of its 
rates).
Page  3
Section 2.07. Without limitation of the provisions of Section 9.01 and 9.06 of 
the General Conditions, SAGUAPAC shall, on or before August 31 and February 28 of each 
year, commencing in 1991, prepare and furnish to the Association, in such scope and in 
such detail as the Association may  reasonably request, semi-annual reports on the 
progress in implementation of Part B of the Project including a report on its 
compliance with the covenants set forth in this Agreement and with the SAGUAPAC Action 
Plan.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SAGUAPAC
Section 3.01. SAGUAPAC shall carry on its operations and conduct its  affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, water supply  and sanitary practices 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced  management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SAGUAPAC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to  time,  promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all  in  accordance with sound 
engineering, financial, water supply and sanitary practices.
Section 3.03. SAGUAPAC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SAGUAPAC shall maintain separate records and accounts adequate 
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its  operations and financial 
condition including separate records to reflect  the resources, expenditures and 
investments in respect of Part B of the Project.
(b)
SAGUAPAC shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than five months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, SAGUAPAC shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
Page  4
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SAGUAPAC 
shall maintain a ratio of total operating expenses to total operating revenues not 
higher than: (i) 70% in Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991;  and (ii) 65% in each of its 
Fiscal Years thereafter.
(b)
Before October 1 in each year, SAGUAPAC shall, on the basis of forecasts 
prepared by SAGUAPAC and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it would meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in  respect of such year and the next 
following Fiscal Year, and shall furnish  to the Association the results of such 
review upon its completion.
(c)
If any review shows that SAGUAPAC  would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for Fiscal Years covered by such review, SAGUAPAC  shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of 
the structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes 
and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding, provision for 
depreciation, interest and other charges on debt.
(ii)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to operations and including contributions from 
members of the SAGUAPAC cooperative, which are assessed as a 
percentage of the tariffs.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SAGUAPAC 
shall not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of SAGUAPAC for the Fiscal Year 
immediately preceding the date of such incurrence or for a  later twelve-month period 
ended prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at 
least 1.3 times the estimated maximum debt service requirements of SAGUAPAC for any 
succeeding Fiscal Year on all debt of SAGUAPAC including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of SAGUAPAC maturing by its 
terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
adjusted to take account of SAGUAPAC's rates in effect at 
the time of the incurrence of debt even though they were not 
in effect during the twelve-month period to which such 
revenues relate and net in-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges and interest and other 
charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
Page  5
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt.
(vi)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree and until the 
Project has been completed, SAGUAPAC shall neither commit itself to nor make any 
capital expenditures (not required for the Project) which would exceed $1,500,000 
equivalent unless the Association has been  furnished with evidence, satisfactory to 
the Association, that the proposed expenditures are economically and technically 
justified and SAGUAPAC has obtained financing under terms and conditions which will 
not materially and adversely affect its financial condition or operations, including 
the carrying out of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section the term "current expenditures" means 
all expenditures incurred on account of fixed assets, including interest charged to 
construction.
Section 4.05. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
4.02 (c), and unless otherwise agreed by the Association, SAGUAPAC shall, by April 1, 
1991, implement a system whereby tariffs shall be automatically adjusted not later 
than the last day of the first month of  each quarter, in the same percentage as the 
Consumer Prices shall have increased during the preceding quarter as such percentage 
is published by the Borrower's National Institute of Statistics.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
SAGUAPAC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section,  the 
Association shall promptly notify SAGUAPAC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered  by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
Page  6
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
 82987 (FTCC)
For SAGUAPAC:
Avenida Perimetra
Calle Tomas de Lezo M-6
Santa Cruz de la Sierra
Bolivia
Telex:
4348 SAGPAC BV
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SAGUAPAC, or 
by SAGUAPAC on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be 
taken or executed by its General Manager or such other person or persons as SAGUAPAC 
shall designate in  writing, and SAGUAPAC shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as  of the day and year first 
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
COOPERATIVA DE SERVICIOS PUBLICOS,
   SANTA CRUZ LIMITADA "SAGUAPAC"
By /s/ Jorge Crespo
Authorized Representative
