Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2187 BO
(Major Cities Water Supply and
Sewerage Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 17, 1990
CREDIT NUMBER 2187 BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 17, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having  satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of all Parts of the Project other than Part A.3 
thereof;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Federal Republic of Germany, 
through the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) a loan (the KfW  Loan) in the amount 
of twenty million deutsche marks (DM 20,000,000) to assist in financing Part A.3 of 
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the KfW Loan 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and KfW;
(C)
the Project will be carried out in part by Servicio Autonomo Municipal de 
Agua Potable y Alcantarillado (SAMAPA), Cooperativa de Servicios Publicos, Santa Cruz 
Limitada "SAGUAPAC" (SAGUAPAC), and Servicio de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado 
(SEMAPA), with the Borrower's assistance  and, as part of such assistance, the 
Page  2
Borrower will make available to SAMAPA, SAGUAPAC and SEMAPA, through Fondo Nacional de 
Desarrollo Regional, part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; 
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the
Project Agreements of even date herewith between the Association and SAMAPA, SAGUAPAC 
and SEMAPA, respectively;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last  sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this  Agreement  have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Boliviano" means the unit of currency of the Borrower;
 
(b)
"SAMAPA" means Servicio Autonomo Municipal de Agua Potable y 
Alcantarillado, a municipal public utility with jurisdiction in the city of  La Paz 
and El Alto, established by the SAMAPA Decree (as hereinafter defined);
(c)
"SAGUAPAC" means Cooperativa de Servicios Publicos, Santa Cruz Limitada, 
"SAGUAPAC", a cooperative with jurisdiction in the city of Santa  Cruz de la Sierra, 
established by the SAGUAPAC Decree (as hereinafter defined);
(d)
"SEMAPA" means Servicio de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado, a public 
utility with jurisdiction in the city of Cochabamba, established by  the SEMAPA Decree 
(as hereinafter defined);
(e)
"Executing Agencies" means, collectively, SAMAPA, SAGUAPAC and SEMAPA;
 
(f)
"SAMAPA Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association 
and SAMAPA of even  date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the SAMAPA Project 
Agreement;
(g)
"SAGUAPAC Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association 
and SAGUAPAC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended  from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements  supplemental to the SAGUAPAC Project 
Agreement;
(h)
"SEMAPA Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association 
and SEMAPA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the SEMAPA Project 
Agreement;
(i)
"Project Agreements" means collectively the SAMAPA Project Agreement, the 
SAGUAPAC Project Agreement, and the SEMAPA Project Agreement;
(j)
"SAMAPA Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the FNDR and SAMAPA pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time;
(k)
"SAGUAPAC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 
into between FNDR and SAGUAPAC pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time;
(l)
"SEMAPA Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between FNDR and SEMAPA pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same 
may be amended from time to time;
Page  3
(m)
"Executing Agencies Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means collectively the 
SAMAPA Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the SAGUAPAC Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and the 
SEMAPA Subsidiary Loan Agreement and "Executing Agencies  Subsidiary Loan" means each 
subsidiary loan made pursuant to the provisions of the Executing Agencies Subsidiary 
Loan Agreements;
(n)
"SAMAPA Decree" means the Borrower's Decreto Ley No. 7597 dated April 20, 
1966, as amended by Decreto Ley No. 12547 dated June 4, 1975 and  Decreto Supremo No. 
21021 dated August 5, 1985;
(o)
"SAGUAPAC Decree" means the Borrower's Decreto Supremo No. 16139, dated 
February 1, 1979;
(p)
"SEMAPA Decree" means the Borrower's Decreto Supremo No. 8048, dated July 
12, 1967, as amended by Decreto Supremo No. 10597, dated November 24, 1972 and Decreto 
Supremo No. 21021 dated August 5, 1985;
(q)
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower and the Executing 
Agencies which commences on January 1 in each calendar year;
(r)
"FNDR" means Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Regional, an agency of the 
Borrower established pursuant to the FNDR Law (as hereinafter defined);
(s)
"FNDR Law" means the Borrower's Law No. 926 of March 25, 1987 and Decreto 
Supremo No. 21964 dated July 1, 1988;
(t)
"FNDR Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and FNDR pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 (c) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time; and "FNDR Subsidiary Loan" 
means the Subsidiary Loan made under the FNDR Subsidiary Agreement;
(u)
"KfW" means Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau, an agency of the government 
of the Federal Republic of Germany;
(v)
"LIBOR" means the six (6) months London Interbank Offered Rate as  
published in a newspaper of wide distribution acceptable to the Association;
(w)
"MPC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Planning and Coordination;
 
(x)
"MUA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Urban Affairs;
 
(y)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange  of letters dated 
May 19, 1987, and August 28, 1987, between the Borrower and the Association, as 
amended on September 21, 1989, for purposes of financing the preparation of Parts A, B 
and C of the Project; and
(z)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-five  million two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 25,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the  Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this  Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of all Parts of the Project other 
than Part A.3 thereof, open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central 
Bank or a commercial bank satisfactory to the Association on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and  payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  4
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself  the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project  Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account  or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from  the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency  specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments  payable on each 
May 1 and November 1 commencing May 1, 2001, and ending November 1, 2030. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on November 1, 2010, shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 equivalent in price for 1985 
dollar for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall  consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may,  subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms 
of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the  
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all  of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of  interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to  paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. FNDR is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under  the provisions 
Page  5
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall:
(i)
carry out Part D (other than D.1 (c) thereof) of the Project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, water supply and sanitary 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for Part D of 
the Project;
(ii)
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower 
shall cause SAMAPA, SAGUAPAC and SEMAPA to perform in accordance 
with the provisions of the SAMAPA Project Agreement, SAGUAPAC 
Project Agreement and SEMAPA Project Agreement, respectively, all 
the obligations of SAMAPA, SAGUAPAC and SEMAPA therein set forth, 
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable SAMAPA, SAGUAPAC and SEMAPA to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance; 
and
(iii)
cause FNDR: (A) to carry out Part D.1 (c) of the Project; and (B) 
to act as financial agent of the Borrower in respect of Parts A, B 
and C of the Project, all in accordance with the provisions of the 
FNDR Subsidiary Agreement.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out Part D (other than D.1 (c)) of the Project, and cause FNDR to carry 
out Part D.1 (c) of the  Project, all in  accordance with the implementation program 
set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit required by SAMAPA, 
SAGUAPAC and SEMAPA for carrying out Parts A (other than A.3 thereof), B and C of the 
Project, in an aggregate amount in dollars equivalent to SDR 24,250,000, to FNDR under 
a subsidiary agreement to be  entered into between the Borrower and FNDR, under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association and which shall 
include the following:
(i)
that the FNDR Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated in dollars and 
repaid in Bolivianos at the official rate of exchange as 
determined by the Central Bank as of the date each repayment is 
made;
(ii)
that FNDR shall pay interest on the outstanding balance of the 
FNDR Subsidiary Loan at a rate per annum equal to 1.5 percentage 
points below the average mean of the two LIBOR rates prevailing 
during the period in which such annual rate is calculated;
(iii)
that the proceeds of the FNDR Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid over 
a period not to exceed twenty (20) years, including therein a 
grace period of five (5) years; and
(iv)
that FNDR shall: (A) carry out Part D.1 (c) of the Project; (B) 
act as financial agent of the Borrower for Parts A, B, and C of 
the Project; and (C) relend to SEMAPA, SAGUAPAC and SAMAPA the 
proceeds of the Credit relent to FNDR under the FNDR Subsidiary 
Agreement in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 (d) of 
this Agreement; all in accordance with the provisions of this 
Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall cause FNDR to relend the proceeds of the Credit 
required by SAMAPA, SAGUAPAC and SEMAPA for carrying out Parts A (other than A.3), B 
and C of the Project, respectively, under three subsidiary loan  agreements to be 
Page  6
entered into between FNDR and SAMAPA, FNDR and SAGUAPAC, and FNDR and SEMAPA, 
respectively, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association and which shall include, inter alia,
the following:
(i)
that the Executing Agencies Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated 
in dollars and repaid in Bolivianos at the official rate of 
exchange as determined by the Central Bank as of the date each 
repayment is made;
(ii)
that the Executing Agencies shall pay interest on the outstanding 
balance of the Executing Agencies Subsidiary Loan at a rate per 
annum equal to the average mean of the two LIBOR rates prevailing 
during the period in which such annual rate is calculated plus 1 
percentage point; and
(iii)
that the proceeds of the Executing Agencies Subsidiary Loan shall 
be repaid over a period not to exceed twenty (20) years, including 
therein a grace period of five (5) years.
(e)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the FNDR Subsidiary 
Agreement and shall cause FNDR to exercise its rights under the Executing  Agencies 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the  interests of the Borrower 
and the Association and to accomplish the  purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise  agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the FNDR Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof and shall cause FNDR not 
to assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of the Executing Agencies Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements or the FNDR Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
SAMAPA, in respect of Part A of the Project, SAGUAPAC, in respect of Part B of the 
Project, and SEMAPA, in respect of Part C of the Project, pursuant to Sections 2.03 of 
the SAMAPA Project Agreement, SAGUAPAC Project Agreement and SEMAPA Project Agreement, 
respectively.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) by October 1 of each year, review with the 
Executing  Agencies, FNDR, KfW and the Association the status of implementation of the 
Project, including the Borrower's, FNDR's and the Executing Agencies' compliance with 
the provisions of this Agreement and  the Project Agreements, respectively, and any 
actions that, in the opinion of the Association, need to be taken by the Borrower or 
the Executing Agencies in the event of any shortcomings in such implementation; and 
(b) promptly thereafter take or cause to be taken such actions.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall enter, and cause the Executing Agencies, 
other than SAGUAPAC, to enter into contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the  
Association, with a procurement agent or agents acceptable to the Association, for the 
purposes of providing procurement services for the Project on behalf of the Borrower, 
including the contracting of consultants and procurement of goods to be financed from 
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and cause the Executing Agencies 
concerned to exercise their respective rights under the contractual arrangements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section in such a manner  as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Association, and to  accomplish the purposes of the 
Credit.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than December 31, 1992, furnish 
to, and discuss with, the Association a plan to allocate water  resources between 
agriculture and other uses (including human consumption)  in the Cochabamba area so as 
to satisfy the water supply requirements of the city of Cochabamba; and (b) not later 
than June 30, 1993, commence implementation of such agreed plan, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association, taking into account, to its satisfaction, the 
comments, if any, made by the Association.
Page  7
Section 3.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall neither commit itself to nor make, and shall cause its agencies and entities not 
to make commitments for, or make, any capital expenditures for the construction and 
operation of any water scheme in the Departments of La Paz, Santa Cruz and Cochabamba 
with an estimated cost of over US$10,000,000 equivalent unless the Association has 
been furnished with evidence, satisfactory to the Association, that the proposed 
expenditures are economically and technically justified.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, not later than: (a) December 31, 1991, furnish 
to the Association a proposal, satisfactory to the Association, for the reorganization 
of its water supply sector based on  the  results of studies currently being carried 
out by the Borrower; and (b)  June 30, 1992, commence implementation of the 
reorganization described in such proposal, taking into account the comments, if any, 
made by the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound  accounting practice 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part D of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and those for the Special Account for each Fiscal Year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than five months after the end of each such Year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with  respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. Without any limitation or restriction upon its other  obligations 
under this Agreement, the Borrower shall, promptly as required, take all actions 
necessary to enable: (a) SAMAPA to fulfill its obligations under Sections 2.06, 4.02, 
4.03, 4.04 and 4.05 of the SAMAPA Project  Agreement; (b) SAGUAPAC to fulfill its 
obligations under Sections 2.06, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04 and 4.05 of the SAGUAPAC Project 
Agreement; and (c) SEMAPA to fulfill its obligations under Sections 2.06, 4.02, 4.03, 
4.04 and 4.05 of the SEMAPA Project Agreement.
Page  8
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
SAMAPA, SAGUAPAC or SEMAPA shall have failed to perform any of their 
obligations under any of the Project Agreements.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it  
improbable that SAMAPA, SAGUAPAC or SEMAPA will be able to perform its  obligations 
under its respective Project Agreement.
(c)
The SAMAPA Decree, the SAGUAPAC Decree or the SEMAPA Decree shall  have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to, in  the opinion of 
the Association, affect materially and adversely the ability  of SAMAPA, SAGUAPAC or 
SEMAPA, respectively, to perform any of its obligations under its respective Project 
Agreement or to limit its  management and operational autonomy.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action: (i) for the dissolution or disestablishment of SAMAPA, SAGUAPAC or SEMAPA 
or for the suspension of its operations; or (ii) that  shall affect materially and 
adversely the ability of SAMAPA, SAGUAPAC or SEMAPA to perform any of its obligations 
under its respective Project Agreement.
(e)
The KfW Agreement shall have failed to become effective by June 30, 1991, 
or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the  Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to 
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
KfW Loan or of any loan made to the Borrower for the 
financing of the Project shall have been suspended, 
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the agreement providing therefor, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
(g)
FNDR shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the FNDR 
Subsidiary Agreement.
(h)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that FNDR will be able to perform its obligations under the FNDR Subsidiary Agreement.
(i)
The FNDR Law shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to, in the opinion of the Association, affect materially and adversely 
the ability of FNDR to perform any of its  obligations under  this Agreement or the 
FNDR Subsidiary Agreement.
(j)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action: (i) for the dissolution or disestablishment of FNDR or for the suspension 
of its operations; or (ii) that shall affect materially and  adversely the ability of 
FNDR to perform any of its obligations under the  FNDR Subsidiary Agreement.
(k)
a Municipality or any other authority having jurisdiction other than the 
Page  9
Borrower pursuant to the provisions of Decree-Law No. 10460 dated  September 22, 1972, 
shall have taken, or omitted to take, any action  whereby the autonomy of SAMAPA, 
SAGUAPAC or SEMAPA to set their tariffs shall have been restricted or impaired.
(l)
Supreme Decree No. 22627 dated October 24, 1990, shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any of the events specified in paragraph (a) or (g) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after  notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
the events specified in paragraph (c) or (d) or (i) or (j) or (k) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c)
the event specified in subparagraph (f) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso in subparagraph (f) (ii) of that 
Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section  12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the FNDR Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and FNDR;
(b)
the Executing Agencies Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on 
behalf of FNDR and SAMAPA, SAGUAPAC and SEMAPA, respectively; and
(c)
the KfW Loan has been approved by KfW's Board.
 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Executing Agencies, and are legally binding upon the Executing Agencies in accordance 
with their terms;
(b)
that the FNDR Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and FNDR and is legally binding upon the Borrower and FNDR in 
accordance with its terms; and
(c)
that the Executing Agencies Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly 
authorized or ratified by FNDR and the Executing Agencies and are  legally binding 
upon FNDR and the Executing Agencies in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date March 18, 1991 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.02  of this 
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Planning and Coordination of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  10
For the Borrower:
Minister of Planning and Coordination
Ministerio de Planeamiento y Coordinacion
Avda. Arce 2147
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
MINCORD
3280 MINCORD BV
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as  of the day and year first 
above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Jorge Crespo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit  to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works:
     (a)  for Part A           400,000           25%
          (other than
          A.3) of the
          Project
     (b)  for Part B         2,900,000           60%
          of the
Page  11
          Project
     (c)  for Part C         2,500,000           50%
          of the
          Project
(2)  Materials and
     Equipment:
     (a)  for Part A         2,700,000 )
          (other than                  )
          A.3) of the                  )
          Project                      )         100% of foreign
                                       )         expenditures and
     (b)  for Part B         4,200,000 )         100% of local
          of the                       )         expenditures
          Project                      )         (ex-factory cost)
                                       )
     (c)  for Part C         4,000,000 )
          of the                       )
          Project                      )
(3)  Consultants'
     services and
     training:
     (a)  for Part A           900,000 )
          (other than                  )
          A.3) of the                  )
          Project                      )
                                       )
     (b)  for Part B           600,000 )         100%
          of the                       )
          Project                      )
                                       )
     (c)  for Part C         1,800,000 )
          of the                       )
          Project                      )
(4)  Consultants'              725,000           100%
     services and
     training for
     Part D of the
     Project
(5)  Equipment for              75,000           100% of foreign
     Part D of the                               expenditures
     Project                                     and 100% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory cost)
(6)  Refunding of              550,000           Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(7)  Unallocated:            3,850,000
                            __________
     TOTAL                  25,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals  shall be 
Page  12
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the  date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 1,100,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after May 4, 1990.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve and expand the water supply 
and sanitation services in the cities of La Paz, Santa Cruz and  Cochabamba; (ii) to 
improve the operational efficiency and management systems of the water utilities 
responsible for services in the above  cities; (iii) to improve the framework of 
sector policies and institutional arrangements to accelerate the development of the 
water supply and sanitation sector country-wide; (iv) to improve the institutional 
capabilities of the Borrower's departments in overseeing agencies operating in the 
water sector; and (v) to improve the coordination between the  Borrower and external 
donors in preparing and financing sector-wide projects.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
SAMAPA
 
1.
Improvement and expansion of SAMAPA's water supply systems including:
 
(a)
expansion of the Pampahasi water treatment plant to increase its capacity 
from 400 liters per second to 700 liters per second;
(b)
construction of a storage tank;
 
(c)
construction of a water transmission line from the Pampahasi water 
treatment plant to the localities of Calacoto, Chasquipampa and Caiconi in southern La 
Paz; and
(d)
construction of water distribution infrastructure in an area of about 240 
hectares.
2.
Institutional strengthening of SAMAPA, including:
 
(a)
preparation of the final designs for the transmission lines and 
distribution infrastructure referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c) above respectively;
(b)
advisory services to SAMAPA to strengthen its management systems, and 
training to SAMAPA staff in management, operation and maintenance, and commercial and 
financial administration; and
(c)
acquisition and utilization of equipment and computer systems for 
improving its operational, commercial and financial management.
3.
Rehabilitation of El Alto sewerage system, including:
 
(a)
construction of sewerage networks, including connections, covering an 
area of about 300 hectares in the municipality of El Alto; and
(b)
construction of a sewage treatment plant in El Alto.
 
Part B:
SAGUAPAC
 
1.
Expansion of SAGUAPAC's water and sewerage systems, including:
 
(a)
expansion of the water system in the northern area of the city of  Santa 
Cruz de la Sierra, including drilling and equipment of two deep wells, construction of 
a storage tank and pumping station and installation of distribution infrastructure;
(b)
expansion of the water system in the southern area of the city of  Santa 
Cruz de la Sierra, including drilling and equipment of two deep wells,  construction 
of a storage tank andpumping station and installation of distribution infrastructure;
 
(c)
expansion of the water system in the eastern area of the city of Santa 
Cruz de la Sierra, including drilling and equipment of one deep well, construction of 
Page  13
a storage tank and installation of distribution infrastructure;
(d)
rehabilitation of production and distribution facilities (including 
replacement of about one hundred kilometers of pipe);
(e)
rehabilitation of a sewage treatment pond; and
 
(f)
construction of a sewerage network for about one hundred hectares under 
low-cost technology.
2.
Institutional strengthening of SAGUAPAC, including:
 
(a)
preparation of final designs for investments under Part C.1 of the 
Project;
(b)
consultants' services to SAGUAPAC to improve its management  systems, and 
training of SAGUAPAC's staff in management, operation and   maintenance, and 
commercial and financial administration;
(c)
acquisition and utilization of equipment, including computer systems, for 
improving its operational, commercial and financial management; and
(d)
construction of an office building.
 
Part C:
SEMAPA
 
1.
Rehabilitation and expansion of SEMAPA's water supply system, including:
 
(a)
rehabilitation of the Wara Wara reservoir including construction of 
transmission main and storage tank and installation of filters to increase water flow 
by about 100 liters per second;
(b)
rehabilitation of the Vinto wellfield including installation of 
transmission main and construction of a treatment plant to increase water  production 
capacity by about 100 liters per second;
(c)
rehabilitation of the Chungara water systems, including construction of 
transmission main and storage tank and installation of filters to reach a water 
production capacity of about 60 liters per second;
(d)
rehabilitation of the Cala Cala water treatment plant to increase its 
capacity to about 400 liters per second;
(e)
rehabilitation of the Cona - Cona pumping station; 
 
(f)
expansion of distribution infrastructure throughout Cochabamba including 
the construction of storage tanks and the installation of  distribution networks of 
water connections and meters; and
(g)
construction and equipment of four deepwells and construction of a 13 
kilometer transmission main for a production capacity of about 200 liters per second.
2.
Institutional strengthening of SEMAPA, including:
 
(a)
preparation of: (i) final  designs for investments under Part B.1 of the 
Project; and (ii) a water supply master plan;
(b)
advisory services to SEMAPA to strengthen its management systems, and 
training to SEMAPA's staff in management, operation and maintenance, and commercial 
and financial administration; and
(c)
acquisition and utilization of equipment, including computer systems, for 
improving its operational, commercial and financial management.
Part D:
Institutional development of the Borrower's water supply and sanitation 
sector
1.
Provision of technical assistance to prepare the following:
 
(a)
guidelines for the analysis of water supply and sanitation projects to be 
applied by MPC;
Page  14
(b)
a framework of tariff policies and a system of indicators for MUA to 
monitor the performance of agencies operating in the urban sub-sector; and
(c)
FNDR's operating manuals, and FNDR models of institutional, technical, 
financial and economic analysis.
2.
Acquisition and utilization of data processing equipment for MPC and MUA.
 
3.
Training of staff of FNDR, MPC and MUA and other agencies--both urban and 
rural--operating in the Borrower's water sector but not carrying out   investments 
under this Project, in management, operation and maintenance,   and commercial and 
financial administration.
4.
Carrying out of a study to define a follow-up sector-wide operation including 
the identification of potential investment priorities in the urban sub-sector.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to  the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of $2,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of  the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
Page  15
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the  Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all  further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General  Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the  
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment  entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn  amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such  procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; and (ii) was  not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such  additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion  
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall  otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special  Account shall be made until 
the Borrower has provided such evidence or made  such deposit or refund, as the case 
may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding  in  the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments 
for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant  provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those  set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under  IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Bolivia may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and  2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Page  16
1.
Local Competitive Bidding:
 
Contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or less, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000 for each of the 
Executing Agencies, and contracts for goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent 
of $100,000, up to an aggregate  amount not to exceed the equivalent of: (a) $500,000 
for each of the  Executing Agencies; and (b) $200,000 for goods for Part D of the 
Project, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance  with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Shopping:
 
Goods for Parts A, B and C of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$20,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent 
of: (a) $100,000 per Executing Agency; and (b) $200,000 for goods under Part D of the 
Project, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price 
quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to: (i) each  contract for goods and works procured under 
the provisions of Part A hereof; and (ii) the first two contracts for goods and for 
works for each Executing Agency and for the Borrower in respect of Part D of the 
Project procured under the provisions of Part C.1 hereof, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for 
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to 
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in 
respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made  out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure  that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other  information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals on the basis 
of statements of expenditure.
3.
The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower, SAMAPA, SAGUAPAC and SEMAPA in carrying out the 
Project, the Borrower, SAMAPA, SAGUAPAC and SEMAPA shall employ consultants whose 
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants  shall be selected in accordance 
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of  Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing  Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
I.   Actions to be taken by the Borrower            By (date)
1.   Contract consultancy to assist                 March 31, 1991
     in preparing and implementing
     investment guidelines, a
     framework for approving tariffs
     and an information system to
     monitor the urban sub-sector
Page  17
2.   Implement the systems proposed                 March 31, 1991
     under the above consultancy
     as agreed by the Borrower
     and the Association
II.  Actions to be taken by FNDR
1.   Contract consultancy to assist                 March 31, 1991
     in preparing and implementing
     operational manuals and systems
     to assess projects
2.   Contract consultancy to improve                March 31, 1991
     management systems
3.   Employ managerial and technical                At all times
     staff (including an engineer
     for water and sanitation) with
     qualifications and experience
     satisfactory to the Association
