Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2187 BO
(Major Cities Water Supply and
Sewerage Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SERVICIO DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO
Dated December 17, 1990
CREDIT NUMBER 2187 BO
SEMAPA PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 17, 1990, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and SERVICIO DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO (SEMAPA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Republic of Bolivia (the Borrower) and the Association, the  Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in  various currencies equivalent 
to twenty-five million two hundred thousand  Special Drawing Rights (SDR 25,200,000), 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that SEMAPA agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as 
are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by two subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between the  
Borrower and the Borrower's Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Regional (FNDR)  and, 
subsequently, between FNDR and SEMAPA, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for 
under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to SEMAPA on the terms 
and conditions set forth in said  subsidiary loan agreements; and
WHEREAS SEMAPA, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Page  2
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement  and in the 
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SEMAPA declares its commitment to the objectives of the  Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and,  to this end, 
shall carry out Part C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and water supply 
and sanitary practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Part C of the 
Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. SEMAPA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in  respect of this Project Agreement and Part C of the 
Project.
Section 2.04. SEMAPA shall duly perform all its obligations under the SEMAPA 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SEMAPA 
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the  effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving the SEMAPA Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) SEMAPA shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of Part C  of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and  under the SEMAPA Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
SEMAPA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part C of  the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the  performance by SEMAPA of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the SEMAPA Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, SEMAPA shall: (i) by October 1 in each year review with the Borrower, 
KfW, FNDR, and the Association the status of implementation  of Part  C of the Project 
including any actions that, in the opinion of the Association, need to be taken by 
SEMAPA or the Borrower in the event of any shortcoming in such implementation; and 
(ii) promptly thereafter take all such actions as shall apply to SEMAPA.
Section 2.06. SEMAPA shall:
(a)
by October 1 in each year, prepare and furnish to the Association an 
institutional improvement plan and a financial plan for SEMAPA (including in the 
latter financial projections and performance targets); both satisfactory to the 
Association (the SEMAPA Action Plans) for such  year and for the following five years; 
and
(b)
implement the SEMAPA Action Plans in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association and take all action as shall be required to meet all   performance targets 
therein (including, without limitation, adjustment of  the structure and level of its 
rates).
Page  3
Section 2.07. Without limitation of the provisions of Section 9.01 and 9.06 of 
the General Conditions, SEMAPA shall, on or before August 31 and February 28 of each 
year, commencing in 1991, prepare and furnish to the Association, in such scope and in 
such detail as the Association may  reasonably request, semi-annual reports on the 
progress in the implementation of Part C of the Project including a report on its  
compliance with the covenants set forth in this agreement and with the SEMAPA Action 
Plan.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SEMAPA
Section 3.01. SEMAPA shall carry on its operations and conduct its  affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, water supply  and sanitary practices 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced  management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SEMAPA shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as  needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance  with sound 
engineering, financial, water supply and sanitary practices.
Section 3.03. SEMAPA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SEMAPA shall maintain separate records and accounts adequate 
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its  operations and financial 
condition including separate records to reflect  the resources, expenditures and 
investments in respect of Part C of the Project.
(b)
SEMAPA shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than five months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, SEMAPA shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
Page  4
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SEMAPA shall 
maintain a ratio of total operating expenses to total operating revenues not higher 
than: (i) 80% in Fiscal Year 1990; (ii) 65% in Fiscal  Year 1991; and (iii) 55% in 
Fiscal Year 1992 and each Fiscal Year thereafter.
(b)
Before October 1 in each year, SEMAPA shall, on the basis of forecasts 
prepared by SEMAPA and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it would meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) hereto in respect of such year and the 
next following Fiscal Year, and shall furnish  to the Association the results of such 
review upon its completion.
(c)
If any review shows that SEMAPA would not meet the requirements set forth 
in paragraph (a) for the Fiscal Years covered by such review,  SEMAPA shall promptly 
take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the 
structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes 
and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding interest and other 
charges on debt.
(ii)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to operations.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SEMAPA shall 
not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of SEMAPA for the Fiscal Year immediately 
preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later  twelve-month period ended prior 
to the date of such incurrence, whichever  is the greater, shall be at least 1.3 times 
the estimated maximum debt service requirements of SEMAPA for any succeeding Fiscal 
Year on all debt of SEMAPA including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of SEMAPA maturing by its 
terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
adjusted to take account of SEMAPA's rates in effect at the 
time of the incurrence of debt even though they were not in 
effect during the twelve-month period to which such revenues 
relate and net non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges and interest and other 
charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
Page  5
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt.
(vi)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis 
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree and  until the 
Project has been completed, SEMAPA shall neither commit itself to  nor make any 
capital expenditures (not required for the Project) which would exceed $1,500,000 
equivalent unless the Association has been furnished with evidence, satisfactory to 
the Association, that the proposed expenditures are economically and technically 
justified and SEMAPA has obtained financing under terms and conditions which will not 
materially and adversely affect its financial condition or operations, including the 
carrying out of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section the term "capital expenditures" means 
all expenditures incurred on account of fixed assets, including interest charged to 
construction.
Section 4.05. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
4.02 (c), and unless otherwise agreed by the Association, SEMAPA  shall by April 1, 
1991, implement: (a) a system whereby tariffs shall be  automatically adjusted not 
later than the last day of the first month of each quarter, in the same percentage as 
the Consumer Prices shall have increased during the preceding quarter as such 
percentage shall be published by the Borrower's National Institute of Statistics; and 
(b) an improved tariff structure satisfactory to the Association. 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association  and of 
SEMAPA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify SEMAPA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered  by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
Page  6
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For SEMAPA:
Avenida Atahualpa 2235
Cochabamba
Bolivia
Telex:
6400 SEMAPA BV
Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SEMAPA, or by 
SEMAPA on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken 
or executed by its General Manager or such other person or persons as SEMAPA shall 
designate in writing, and SEMAPA shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence 
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,  each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of  America, as  of the day and year first 
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SERVICIO DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO
By /s/ Jorge Crespo
Authorized Representative
