Page  1
May 24, 1996
Dr. Fernando Candia
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Palacio de Comunicaciones, Piso 9
La Paz, Bolivia
Dear Dr. Candia
Ref: Credit 2187-BO - Major Cities Water and Sewerage
Rehabilitation Project Amendment to the Development Credit 
Agreement
Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement between the International 
Development Association (the Association) and the Republic of Bolivia (the Borrower) 
dated December 17, 1990 (the Credit Agreement).
Pursuant to your request to extend the Closing Date of the captioned Credit, and 
in view of the Borrower's commitment to privatize SAMAPA and SEMAPA, both communicated 
to IDA in letter DIFEM/1527/96 dated April 29, 1996, we are pleased to advise you that 
the Association agrees to amend the Development Credit Agreement as follows so as to 
reflect such commitment:
1.
A new Section 3.09 is added to read as follows:
 
"Section 3.09.  The Borrower shall take all actions necessary and 
advisable to ensure the timely initiation of the privatization processes of 
SAMAPA and SEMAPA by adopting for each such company a privatization strategy 
acceptable to the Association and advancing such privatization processes in 
accordance with such strategies, all pursuant to the timetable set forth in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement".
2.
A new Schedule 6 is added to read as set forth in the Attachment to this letter.
 
Consequently, the SAMAPA Project Agreement and the SEMAPA Project Agreement will 
be amended.  Attached, please find copies of the letters of amendment to these two 
agreements, which have been sent to the General Managers of the respective companies.
Please evidence your agreement to the foregoing amendment on behalf of the 
Borrower by signing and dating two copies of this letter in the space provided below. 
Upon signing, please return to us one fully executed original of this amendment 
letter.
The provisions to this amendment letter will become effective as of the date the 
Association receives a fully extended copy of this letter and of the amendment letters 
regarding the Project Agreements.
Sincerely,
Paul Isenman
Director
Country Department III
Latin America and Caribbean Region
On Behalf of the Borrower
Date: June 14, 1996
Dr. Fernando Candia
Minister of Finance
Republic of Bolivia
Page  2
