Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21075-UZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US $36.14 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
FOR A
RURAL ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
November 28, 2001
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective
February 19, 2001)
Currency Unit = Soum
332 Soum = US$1
US$1 = 0.00301 Soun
FISCAL YEAR
January - December --
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
EA              Environmental Assessment
EMP             Environmental Management Plan
GOU             Government of Uzbekistan
l&D             Irrigation and Drainage
NMAWR           Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
M&E             Monitoring and Evaluation
MoF             Ministry of Finance
NGO             Non-governmental Organization
O&M             Operations and Maintenance
PFI             Participating Financial Institution
PIP             Project Implementation Plan
PIU             Project Implementation Unit
PMR             Project Management Reports
PPF             Project Preparation Facility
RBAC            Rural Business Advisory Component
RBAS            Rural Business Advisory Service
RESP            Rural Enterprise Support Project
RFC             Rural Finance Component
RRA             Rural Restructuring Agency
SA              Social Assessment
SOE             Statements of Expenditure
WUA             Water User Association
WUG             Water User Group
WUO             Water User Organization
Vice President:    Johannes Linn
Country Director:    Dennis de Tray
Sector Director:    Kevin Cleaver
Task Team Leader:    Mark Lundell



UZBEKISTAN
RURAL ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key perfornance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   3
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  3
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        6
3. Benefits and target population                                                       7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                            9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                 12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         13
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            14
2. Financial                                                                           15
3. Technical                                                                           16
4. Institutional                                                                       16
5. Environmental                                                                       17
6. Social                                                                              18
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  21



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     21
2. Critical risks                                                                      22
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      23
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            23
2. Other                                                                               24
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           25
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          25
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           26
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     29
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         42
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                   43
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               49
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        50
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      59
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    60
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   61
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             62
MAP(S)



UZBEKISTAN
RURAL ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSSD
Date: November 26,2001                           Team Leader: Mark R. Lundell
Country Director: Dennis de Tray                 Sector Director: Kevin M. Cleaver
Project ID: P046043                              Sector(s): AY - Other Agriculture
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Rural Development; Private Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[X] Loan    [ ] Credit    [] Grant     [ Guarantee      [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 36.14
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                          Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%                            Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                           Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                      4.11           0.00          4.11
IBRD                                                          14.07         22.07         36.14
LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV., DISTRICT, CITY) OF BORROWING             3.20           0.00          3.20
COUNTRY
Total:                                                       21.38          22.07         43.45
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND WATER RESOURCES (MAWR)
Address: 4, Navoy Street, Tashkent, 700004, Republic of Uzbekistan
Contact Person: Deputy Minister Abduvokid M. Juraev
Tel: 998711 412692 or410020           Fax: 998 711 412574 or413292            Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002       2003       2004      2005      2006
Annual    1.50       13.40      11.90      7.50       1.84
Cumulative    1.50      14.90      26.80      34.30     36.14
Project implementation period: April 2002 - January 2006
Expected effectiveness date: 03/31/2001  Expected closing date:  07/31/2006
-CS FAD Corn, F  ha,. 2AD



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Rural Enterprise Support Project (RESP) aims to increase the profitability and sustainability
of agriculture through the privatization and restructuring of farming and associated agribusiness activities.
To that end, the Government prepared a multi-year investment program to support the restructuring of
collective farms and associated agricultural enterprises into privately operated units. The RESP, extend:ing
over four years, focuses on initiating post-restructuring technical and financial support to qualifying newv[y
constituted private farms and agribusiness units in five selected Tumans. If the implementation of the
RESP proves successful over the period 2002-2004, the Bank could then pursue a further investment
program with the Government to provide similar post-restructuring support to a larger number of farmls
and rural enterprises country-wide.
The RESP has been designed to meet the following development objectives: (i) increase
profitability and productivity in the agricultural sector; (ii) support the emergence of private sect;r
initiatives; and (iii) ensure sustainability of the agricultural sector through rehabilitation of Irrigation and
Drainage (I&D) systems and improved farm management. Post-restructuring support is planned for the
following five Tumans (Districts):  Akhangaran (Tashkent), Ellikalin (Karakalpakstan), Marharnat
(Andijan), Nishan (Kashkadarya) and Sherabad (Surkhandarya). Enabling conditions to be introduced
under this project would include: (i) devolution of farn management functions to families and private
commercial farmers to hamess more dedicated labor effort by the rural population; (ii) elimination of
barriers which prevent private sector initiatives in input supply, output marketing and processing; (iii)
provision of credit, machinery and advisory services for such initiatives; (iv) reduction in domestic trade
impediments; and (v) creation of part?cipatory irrigation management institutions.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17376-UZ Date of latest CAS discussion: 03/10/98
*   Completing liberalization of domestic trade and improving incentives for increased output and
employment by the private sector in agriculture.
*    Removing the inefficiencies in resource utilization in rural infrastructure.
*   The RESP is listed under the current CAS (in which it is denoted as the Agriculture Enterprise
Restructuring Project).
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The main issue facing the agricultural sector is the lack of farmers' incentives to imprc,ve
production and productivity. This lack of motivation is a result of the de-facto continued public sector
domnination of the agro-industrial complex. This control has been exercised through the state order system,
which dictates the cropping pattern down to the collective farm level; the settlement account system, which
limits farmers' access to their own financial resources; and the monopolistic input supply, agro-processing,
and marketing systems, which deprive farmers of choice, raise the cost of their purchases, and lower the
price of their sales. Moreover, the lack of funds for proper operation and maintenance (O&M), and
rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage (I&D) infrastructure, has led to serious deterioration of the
- 2 -



irrigation and drainage systems (both off-farm and on-farm). Weaknesses in canal operations and
management at all levels within the irrigation system result in huge water losses, widespread and severe
water and soil salinization, declining crop yields, and loss of once-productive agricultural lands. A reform
process to address these issues had been initiated under the Rehabilitation Loan and the Cotton Sub-Sector
Improvement Project, and a comprehensive farm restructuring program was devised, with implementation
beginning in 1998. Uzbekistan's current overall agricultural strategy is outlined in the government's
"Program for Strengthening of Economic Reforms in Agriculture during 1998-2000", published in March
1998.
The strategy was further elaborated in at least four laws designed to enable the program's implementation,
namely: the Land Code; the Law on Agricultural Cooperatives (Shirkats); the Law on Private Farms; and
the Law on Dekhkan Farms. The key issues on the sectoral agenda for reform relate to: (i) further reforms
in policies of pricing and marketing for creating efficient and competitive markets for inputs and outputs,
which include: the phasing out of state orders, fostering private sector participation in input supply,
marketing and processing; (ii) improved provision of services for rural communities, including better access
to commercial financial services, as well as advisory services on business development, financial
management, new technology and legal matters; and (iii) improvements in land tenure and farm
organization to increase security of possession, and to ease transfer of land rights, improve incentives for
investment in land and I&D infrastructures, and create incentives for more efficient farm management.
These issues have been discussed with Govemment in the context of the Rehabilitation Loan, the Cotton
Sub-Sector Project, and in the course of preparation of the RESP.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
This project would address issues related to farmers' incentives, as well as the sustainable
management of irrigation and drainage systems. The project would be based on the introduction of the
following measures: (i) adoption of a new state procurement system for cotton and wheat, with reduced
obligatory sales to the state and introduction of tolling arrangements for the procurement of the
above-quota production of cotton; (ii) adjustments of procurement price of cotton, based on quality grades
and fluctuations of the official exchange rate and fiber price; (iii) increasing access to foreign exchange for
cotton producers to import machinery and other agricultural inputs; (iv) development of Water Users
Groups (WUGs) and Water Users Associations (WUAs) with responsibility over rehabilitation and
management of on-farm I&D infrastructure; (v) establishment of private agro-service centers to provide
farmers with agricultural machinery services, chemicals, seeds and other necessary inputs; (vi) organization
of advisory services to inform rural communities and guide farmers and agribusinesses through the
post-restructuring process; and (vii) drafting of normative acts to allow transference of land use rights
pledged as collateral, and on the sub-lease of such land use rights, as well as on the other methods of
guaranteeing loans in the form of movable property.
The Govemment has commnitted itself officially to introducing this package of measures in the
project areas to improve the market environment in which project participants will operate. The intention
of the Government is to extend the applicability of those measures to the whole rural economy once their
detailed procedures are introduced and streamlined, and once their impact on sector productivity and on the
well-being of project participants is demonstrated.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
-3 -



As noted, the proposed RESP, covering four years, will focus on initiating post-restructuring
technical and financial support to qualifying newly constituted private farms and agribusiness enterprises :in
five selected Tumans.
The RESP will comprise five components: i) Rural Business Advisory Services (RBAS); ii) Rehabilitation
of Irrigation and Drainage Systems; iii) Rural Finance; iv) Credits for Agro-Service Enterprises; and v)
Project Implementation Support. Each component's size is indicated below including physical and price
contingencies.
Component 1: Rural Business Advisory Services (US $1.22 million)
This component will support providers of business farm advisory services in the rural sector, so
that they can better assist participants in the restructuring process become familiar with policies, laws,
regulations and procedures underlying the restructuring process, as well as business planning activities,
agro-technical information (traditional farm extension), and perhaps market information. The main
existing providers to participate would be the business planning and extension centers set up under the
Association of Dekhkan and Private Farmers.
Component 2: Rehabilitation of Irrigation and Drainage Systems (US $16.63 million)
It has been agreed with the GOU to focus on the irrigation, and especially drainage, structures
which need incremental maintenance on a yearly basis, and even more extensive rehabilitation investmen1:s
in many cases. The investments will be chosen by water users groups (WUGs) to be formed under the
project. WUGs will decide how much on-farm investment to focus on, and the farms will repay the loan
funds used for these purposes through an increased land tax (with a recovery period of 15-20 years). The
WUGs would then jointly decide on using the remainder of the loan funds of this component (the
component would total roughly US $3 million in each Tuman) for investments in inter-farm drainage and
irrigation infrastructure, which would not be repayable (they would be considered as grants to the Tuman
level irrigation drainage enterprise - raivodkhoz).
Component 3: Rural Finance (US $5.93 million)
This component will focus on lending for both working capital and investment expenditures by
private farms and rural businesses. Access by farms and other enterprises to the rural finance component
will be determnined by participating financial institutions (PFIs), selected based upon agreed eligibility
zriteria, and whose activities will be govemed by agreed upon Credit Guidelines (both to be agreed between
the GOU and the Bank). Each sub-loan would have to be supported by a business plan submitted by thi-
borrower. To encourage broad participation, loans would be limited to a maximum of the equivalent of US
$10,000 for seasonal loans and US $50,000 for term loans. To be eligible for loans, borrowers must have
completed legal procedures concerning privatization and restructuring (in the case of farms) or be private
or privatized nonfarm enterprises.
Component 4: Credits for Agro-Service Enterprises (US $16.0 million)
Sub-loans provided under this component would be on the order of US SI-2 million to newlly
formed private enterprises and cooperatives of private farmers and made directly through subsidiary loanl
agreements with the Ministry of Finance. The duration of such loans would be 5-10 years, with a
maximum debt-to-equity ratio of 4-to-1. The intention is to establish well-equipped private agro-service
centers for machinery services and supply of agricultural inputs, which would create competition with the
existing state-owned enterprises in the machinery services and input markets. Two to three new private
enterprises of this type would be established in each Tuman participating in the Project.
- 4 -



Component 5: Project Implementation Support (US $2.31 million)
Project implementation will be administered by the Rural Restructuring Agency (RRA), with a
staff of about 30 (including five tuman level offices) in charge of all project management activities,
including procurement, financial management, maintenance of links with the Tuman-level rural business
advisory services providers and with participating financial organizations, and project monitoring and
evaluation. This component will include technical assistance (drawing on both local and foreign experience)
to assess the current deficiencies in farm restructuring procedures, and develop amendments to legislation
and government-set procedures, to improve the transparency of the farm restructuring process and make it
more equitable. It would also address improving security of private land tenure rights and establishing a
fair and transparent basis for the transfer and pledging of such rights.
Indicative             Bank-      % of
Component                    Sector         Costs     % of    financing    Bank-
(US$M)    Total      (US$M)  financing
1. Rural Business Advisory Services   Agricultural        1.22       2.8       0.79       2.2
Extension
2. Rehabilitation of Irrigation and  Irrigation &        16.63      38.3      13.21       36.6
Drainage Systems                  Drainage
3. Rural Finance                  Agricultural Credit     5.93      13.6       5.93       16.4
4. Credits for Agro-Service Enterprises AN               16.00      36.8      12.80       35.4
5. Project Implementation Support  Other Agriculture      2.31       5.3       2.05        5.7
6. Project Preparation Facility (PPF)   AD                1.00       2.3       1.00        2.8
Total Project Costs                    43.09      99.2      35.78       99.0
Front-end fee                      0.36        0.8      0.36        1.0
Total Financing Required                      43.45     100.0      36.14      100.0
-5-



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Uzbekistan: Rural Enterprise Support Project
Matrix of Agricultural Reform Policies
to be applied to private farmers and farms restructured under the
RESP
Needed Measures                         Ultimate Objectives                   Introduced By
For Pilot Tumans
1. State Purchases in the Wheat and Cotton Sectors
A. In the pilot districts covered by the RESP, the Government Minimal government intervention in  Included in CzEinet of
would replace the current system of setting production targets  agricultural markets. Distortion-free and  Ministers Resolution
for grain and cotton with a policy of recommendations on crop  competitive agricultural markets.
rotation aimed at the improvement of soil quality.
B. The Government will replace the state order system by a   Farmers shall be given full rights to make  Included in CZ ainet of
state procurement system, under which obligatory sales to the  production decisions and to select product Ministers Resolution
state from the crop of 2002 will not exceed 25% of the  marketing arrangements independently.
historical averages (1990-1999) of actual cotton and grain
production, respectively.
Above the fixed procurement quota for cotton, producers can
either:
Assure that state purchase prices for
(i) toll the remaining volume of raw cotton for a specified  cotton do not implicitly tax cotton
tolling fee and retain the cotton fiber to sell at market prices;   producers
or,
(ii) sell the remaining volume of raw cotton to the state a price
no lower than 30% of the FOB Tashkent cotton fiber price (in
US dollars) converted at the CBU official exchange rate at the
time of delivery less the tolling fee.
After meeting the state procurement quota for wheat,
enterprises and individual farmers will have the right to sell
wheat, produced above the quota, on the internal market and
at negotiated prices.
11. Land Tenure and Farm Restructuring
A. A draft enactment regarding subrogation with respect to    Secure, transferable land use rights  To be done by Ministry
land use rights pledged as collateral will be prepared no later  conducive to promoting long-term  of Justice, MA.WR, State
than by June 30, 2002. Dated Covenant in the Loan      investment, access to financial markets,   Committee for l_and
Agreement.                                             and enhanced land mobility.          Resources (SCLR)
B. Obligatory sales volumes allocated to agricultural  Improve the incentives of farm members   Done nationally by
enterprises are divided among the members in such a manner  to take greater responsibility for own  Cabinet of Ministers
that the failure by a member to meet his share of the delivery  labor effort and receive the corresponding  Resolution 29 S (1999)
does not increase the quota-meeting obligations of others.  benefit.
Ill. Rural Finance, Taxation, and Cost Recovery
A. The system of registration for becoming a participant in    Increase in liquidity and growth of  Done by Law oni Foreign
foreign economic activity at the Ministry of Foreign Economic  efficiency in input and output markets.    Economic Act, .ity (May
Relations was abolished, so that now registered agricultural                                2000)
enterprises can open foreign currency accounts.
-6 -



Needed Measures                      Ultimate Objectives                    Responsible
Agency
B. The foreign exchange surrender requirement with respect to Increase in liquidity and growth of
export of cotton fiber and seed produced by rural enterprises   efficiency in input and output markets.    of Ministers
in participating districts in excess of the state procurement
quota will be reduced to a level not more than 50% (except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree) and be applied starting with
regard to the cotton crop of 2002. Dated Covenant in the Loan
Agreement.
C. The system of credit advances by the Fund for Settlements  Eliminate the tying of advances for output Done nationally through
for Agricultural Commodities Procured for State Needs will   purchases to the provision of input  guidelines to financial
ensure that agricultural enterprises are enabled to use these    supplies from state supply agencies.  agents of the Fund for
advances to procure their inputs from any and all suppliers                                Settlements for
they choose at market prices, provided that these agricultural                             Agricultural
enterprises do not have debts to state-owned input suppliers.                              Commodities Procured
for State Needs
D. Implement the consolidation of all taxes on farms into a    Simplify the tax system in the agricultural Done nationally by
unified land tax.                                     sector and ensure simple tax assessment   Presidential Decree
procedures from private farmers.     which took effect from
January 1999.
E. Farm debt to the Govemment budget should be restructured  Reduce indirect subsidies to the  This has been done
and payment on debts to state-owned input suppliers should be agricultural sector and decrease pressure  nationally.
postponed until 2003.                                 on the national budget. Lay the
foundation for the long-term financial
sustainability of the irrigation sector.
F. Improve cost recovery in the supply of irrigation water by   Reduce indirect subsidies to the  To be implemented by
including the cost of investments in on-farm drainage and  agricultural sector and decrease pressure   MAWR, with Ministry
irrigation structures into the level of water fees (over a 20-year on the national budget. Lay the  of Finance, and Rural
amortization period).                                foundation for the long-term financial  Restructuring Agency
.._________________________________________________________ sustainability of the irrigation sector.
3. Benefits and target population:
Restructuring collective fanns is an important step toward rationalizing farming operations,
cropping patterns, and the use of resources. Resulting improvements in farm productivity and profitability
would set the stage for growth in the rural economy, and in the national economy at large. Benefits of the
RESP would result from the comprehensive and coordinated package of policies and interventions that
would remove current obstructions to agricultural development and provide the inducements and resources
for sustainable private sector investment in the rural economy. Elimination of state intervention in
production and marketing and the transfer of land and water rights to private operators would provide the
foundation for environmentally sustainable and profitable agriculture. The initiation of transparent rural
financial services would introduce farmers to commercial finance and intermediation, and to financial
responsibility. By acquiring significant freedoms in decision-making and economic activities, restructured
farm units would become a catalyst for the development of a variety of complementary production services,
value-added processing and marketing functions, and a broad array of agribusinesses likely to generate
rural employment.
The potential beneficiaries under the RESP would be a rural population of about 400,000 people living on
162,000 hectares (ha) of irrigated land and the people providing goods and services to farms in the five
participating Tumans. Their incomes would be expected to rise as a result of the RESP, through increased
-7 -



crop yields, lower costs of production, value-added from processing, and access to markets and credit
sources. The potentially significant increases in rural employment and incomes would allow family-level
investments in housing and health that are essential to raising the standard of living. Roughly 70% of these
potential beneficiaries are expected to participate in the project fully (under all components).
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period: The RESP would be implemented over a four year period in 2002-2006.
Executing Agencies: Tuman (district/country) administrations, their irrigation agencies, commercial banl:s,
and private enterprises would all be involved with implementation of relevant project components.
Institutional improvements would be focused on both existing government departments and as well as
private and nongovernmental entities at the local level that demonstrate a commitment to delis tT
demand-driven services. Responsibility for implementation will be shared by the RRA with the following
entities:
Rural Business Advisory Service: Association of Dekhkan and Private Farmers.
Rehabilitation of I&D Infrastructures: WUGs, Raivodkhoz, Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
'MAWR).
Rural Finance: Commercial Banks under contract with the Ministry of Finance.
Sub-Loans for Agro-service Companies: Ministry of Finance.
Project Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation: The Rural Restructuring Agency (RRA), establishetd
in 1998 under the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (MAWR), will coordinate th2
implementation of the RESP. The RRA would ensure a direct link with policy/decision-makers and would
provide guidance to the Viloyat and Tuman administrations. It would also: (i) coordinate improvements of
the legal framework for farm restructuring and rural credit; (ii) assist implementing agencies in organizing
information campaigns to create awareness of the RESP and associated policy measures among rural
communities and the institutions serving them at the local level; (iii) coordinate technical assistance
provided for capacity building in agricultural policy formulation; (iv) coordinate procurement and financial
control matters under the project; and (v) coordinate the participation of various funding agencies under the
RESP. The RRA would also monitor the progress and efficiency of the Project and evaluate its impact,
and would report its findings and recommendations to the MAWR and to the World Bank. In addition, as
part of the institutional development effort under the RESP, provision would be made for strengthening the
capability in the RRA to extend their activities to other rural programs, monitor their effectiveness anrd
e valuate their impact. The intention would also be for the RRA to provide the Government with a basis for
improving its policy analysis and the planning and design of its development programs. With regard to the
RESP, performance indicators closely linked to project-specific objectives were selected and agreed
between the Government and the Bank. Impact indicators have also been selected in consultation wil
project stakeholders (see Annex 1). Detailed terms of reference, charter, and the Government order
establishing the RRA are available in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
Financial Management:
1.    General. The overall responsibility for financial management of the project will rest with the RRk
in Tashkent. At the time of project appraisal, the financial management capacity of the RRA was
determined to be weak and insufficient to perform the financial management of the RESP. Subsequently.
the financial management capacity of the RRA was strengthened prior to Board presentation, as a
time-bound Financial Management Action Plan was achieved (included in the PIP), together with the
overall schema for the project's flow of funds and the general financial management controls that will bt
-8 -



applied.
2.    Staffing. The RRA already has a Chief Accountant and an Accountant to support the accounting
requirements of the Project Preparation Facility. An international financial management adviser was
engaged during project preparation and will be retained throughout project implementation to advise on the
financial management arrangements of the project. Additionally, one other accountant will be recruited to
the RRA during project implementation.
3.    Project Management Reporting (PMRs). The format of the PMRs for the project has been agreed
with the RRA and is enclosed in the PIP. The RRA will produce a complete set of PMRs for every
calendar quarter throughout the life of the project. Project funds will be initially disbursed under the
Banks established procedures, including Statements of Expenditures (SOEs); however, a move to
PMR-based disbursements will be made at the mutual agreement of the Government and the Bank once the
RRA is familiar with the project's monitoring aspects and is considered able to produce sufficiently timely
and reliable project management information. A change to PMR-based disbursements will be considered
by September 30, 2002.
4.    Audit arrangements. The project will be audited annually by external auditors acceptable to the
Bank and on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank as presented in the PIP. The appointment of the
auditors is a condition of Project Effectiveness. The audit of the project's financial statements will be
completed within six months of the end of every fiscal year of project implementation and the cost of the
audit will be financed from the loan.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
A five-year project to support country-wide farrn restructuring, initially contemplated by
Government and the Bank, was rejected on the basis that the enabling conditions for such a large project
were not in place, and that the Government prefers to introduce such conditions in a gradual way. Thus, a
program approach was adopted, whereby the main elements of a long-tern umbrella program were
identified and agreement was reached to implement such a program in a pilot phase; and then later
generalize these reforms to the country as whole, depending on their success during the pilot phase. As a
result, two phases are planned: (i) a four-year Phase I Project as the vehicle for creating the legal, policy
and institutional conditions for demonstrating the restructuring process in five Tumans; and (ii) a follow-up
phase to support an expansion of the restructuring process to a wider area in the country.
Under the current design, a number of components were considered for inclusion, and were
ultimately rejected.
(i) The Land Registration Component which was aimed at "defining a registration system for land
rights and initiating its implementation in the project Tumans". On the one hand, documentation of land
use rights for private and dekhkan farns is currently being done reasonably well by the Tuman Land
Registration Offices; therefore, definition and implementation of documenting land use is no longer a
necessary project intervention.  In addition, investment support to the national cadastral agency
Uzgeodezcadaster, the Land Institute, and the State Land Committee would be premature over the next four
years since at this stage: (a) land is not privately owned and is unlikely to become real estate usable as
collateral; and (b) an integrated title registration system of land and other real estate with a sufficiently
-9-



strong legal base typically will take the next five years.
(ii) The Infrastructure Strengthening Program was intended to make grants for
rehabilitation/improvement of infrastructure deemed essential for the effective operation of restructured
farms and agribusinesses, including "agro-services support facilities, marketing infrastructure,
rehabilitation of primary and secondary irrigation canals and inter-farm drains." Grants for all of the
above, except the investments in primary and secondary irrigation infrastructure were deemed
inappropriate. Therefore, the component was split into two components - one for grants for primary and
secondary canal rehabilitation, and a second for the funding of pre-appraised investment loans to private
agro-service centers.
(iii) A separate Project Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Component to be executed by the
Institute of Market Reforms was originally proposed but then rejected. The M&E activities to be execuied
under the project are now included under the terms of reference of the RRA, which has better knowledge of
the project rationale, specific investments, and managerial structure, and is therefore better suited to
execute the M&E function, compared to an outside academic research institute.
- 10-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Price liberalization, trade reform  Rehabilitation Loan                           U
Cotton grading, development of private Cotton Sub-Sector             S             S
seed industry, integrated pest    Improvement Project
management, water use efficiency
Safe potable water                Water Supply, Sanitation, and      S             S
Health
Economy-wide post-privatization   Enterprise Institution Building   U              S
support for growth
Other development agencies
Rural Development - EU TACIS      Pilot Integrated Rural
Development
Farm Management - Germany         Pilot program to strengthen
management of collective farms.
Land cadaster and title registration -EU Land Registration in
TACIS                             Uzbekistan-Phase II
Irrigation & farm management - EU    On farm irrigation and
Tacis                             management project, Phase II
Training and extension services - EU   Training and education of
Tacis                             farmers and allied personnel,
TEFAP II
Rehabilitation of I&D infrastructures,  Ak Altin Agricultural
WUAs, cotton production - Asian   Development Project
Development Bank
Grain production - Asian Development Grain Productivity
Bank                               Improvement Project
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 11 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Several studies and evaluations of land reform initiatives in countries with economies in transition
have been completed by the Bank and other agencies since March 1994. These studies concluded that,
among the important enabling conditions for effective farm restructuring are: (i) legislation, administrative
procedures and enforcement mechanisms that would establish possession, utilization and transfer rights lo
real property, and allow unrestricted entry into, and exit from, agricultural activities; (ii) competitive input
supply activities and marketing channels that effectively replace monopolies which served ihe
collective/state farms; (iii) financial institutions that meet the needs of a monetized agricultural sector; ar.d
(iv) farm support infrastructure and services to serve the restructured fanns. Bank experience al.so
indicates that success of projects involving land reform is contingent upon: (i) a clear strategy and
eligibility criteria for the allocation of land rights and for the transfer to farners of control over producticn
and marketing decisions; (ii) a policy environment that does not penalize agriculture; and (iii) active
participation of the target population during both the planning and implementation stages.
Given the need to address the above-mentioned factors which crucially influence the success of tie
farm restructuring process, but also owing to the inability of the Government to implement measures 1o
address these factors throughout all regions of the country at the same time, the Bank preparation team and
the RRA decided on the adoption of a pilot approach, which covers all the necessary factors, but in five of
the country's 165 Tumans. For this reason, the institutional focus of the RESP is placed mainly on local
implementation capacity, rather than development of national institutional capacity. The RRA, as ihe
national coordinating body, is an exception to this strategy, since it will also be the recipient of technical
assistance to prepare it for the second phase of the project during which the restructuring process is
widened to include a greater number of Tumans nationwide.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government has included the RESP on its list of priority prograrns as defined in a presidential
decree issued in 1995. The Government confirmed in November 1996 and March 1997 that fal-n
restructuring remains a high priority and outlined the overall agricultural strategy in the governments
"Program for Strengthening of Economic Reforms in Agriculture during 1998-2000", published in March
1998. The strategy was further elaborated in at least four laws designed to enable the progran s
implementation, namely: the Land Code, the Law on Agricultural Cooperatives (Shirkats), the Law on
Private Farms, and the Law on Dekhkan Farms. Analysis of these four laws confirm that the government s
intentions in the short-term are essentially three-fold:
- to complete the transformation of the largest collective farms (kolkhozes) into cooperative firrns
(shirkats), in order to: (a) pernit continued large-scale cultivation of cotton and wheat (the country's twv :
strategic crops); and (b) ensure continued employment, minimum living standards, and social stability
among the already large and increasingly youthful population in the rural areas, until other sources oDf
employment have been developed;
- to strengthen the legal and enabling environment for private farms (larger than 10 ha) and for
small Dekhkan farms;
- to enhance farm profitability as a result of progressive increases of yields and prices, and th-
adoption of other incentives, so that farmers will be able to invest in the rehabilitation of on-farm irrigation
and drainage infrastructures and agricultural machinery.
The reform package implemented by the Government since January 1, 1999 has: (i) significantl:v
increased State procurement prices for cotton and wheat; (ii) transferred social costs from the farms to the
- 12 -



government budget; (iii) written off farm debts to the State and restructured those to input suppliers; (iv)
simplified taxation and reduced its level; (v) granted a tax break for newly established private farms; and
(vi) established rural business advisory centers to assist private farms.
As a result of this strategy, 963 collective farms were restructured into shirkats with allocation of
the land plots to member families and brigades on a short-term (up to 3 years) contractual basis, and has
led to 290,000 people (28% of the workforce) being laid off. It is anticipated that restructuring into
shirkats would be completed by the end of 2002 for the remaining collective farms. As of January 1, 2000
more than 31,000 private farms (665,700 ha or 17% of total irrigated land) were created and further
allocation of land for dekhkan farms, i.e. small-scale farming (up to one hectare) and residential building
took place, which brought the amount of dekhkan farms to over 3.3 million with a total area of about
514,000 ha (13% of total irrigated land). The Government has been actively supporting preparation of the
RESP, and has used a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance to initiate implementation of project
start-up activities, including the organization of the RRA, training activities and procurement of office
equipment. In parallel with the restructuring program, the Government has already started transferring
O&M of on-farm irrigation and drainage infrastructures to newly established water user associations
(WUAs) in Khorezm and Karakalpakstan. Other projects which supply technical assistance for this
important institutional development are also under implementation in the Fergana Valley and Ak-Altin
raion, funded by the Swiss Cooperation Program, and EU Tacis, respectively.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has extensive experience in the region in identifying and introducing best practices in the
development of land reform legislation, restructuring of farm support services, introduction of participatory
irrigation management, and lending to rural private-sector agribusiness enterprises. The Bank's regional
experience and professional and financial resources position it well to assist the Government of Uzbekistan
in post-privatization support of the rural sector, which involves a complex interplay of economic, social,
and political factors, which often compete with one another. This experience manifests itself in the
formulation of the structure of the RESP in the following ways:
i) Focusing on improvements in the legislation/procedures for the registration of land use rights
and movable property using existing administrative bodies. The project does not aim to establish an
integrated title registration system for land and other real estate (houses, other buildings, etc.) since land
ownership is not envisioned to become private in the near future.
ii) High priority is placed on forming altemative market channels which will compete with state
structures and will through their expansion gradually allow the reduction of the state's involvement in input
supply and marketing of agricultural output. A move to eliminate the state's involvement in marketing will
not be undertaken under the RESP because it has proven unsuccessful in other ECA countries which do not
have both extensive land reform in place (with small farm predominance) and high foreign investor
confidence in the free exportability of agricultural commodities.
iii) An innovative approach to combining simultaneous investments in main, secondary, and
on-farm irrigation and drainage infrastructures in an integrated chain. This focus on tackling water losses
in the same chain of structures supplying given farms will rehabilitate the most deteriorated structures in
the whole chain rather than considering off-farm and on-farm structures separately, as have most irrigation
projects done in the ECA region over the past six years. The choice of investments in these structures will
be made by WUGs set up prior to and after the project begins implementation.
- 13 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$59 million; ERR = 30 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Economic Assessment (see Annex 4-a). A cost-benefit analysis has been undertaken for the
project using gross margin calculations based on economic prices for tradable inputs and outputs.
Economic prices have been calculated for major tradable products using prices and price projections
available from issues of the Bank's Business Quarterly. A conversion factor of I has been used for proj -ct
costs as no price distortions are expected to affect the prices of goods to be procured under the Project.
Economic values for tradable inputs and outputs are higher by 30% to 100% than their current financial
values. When introduced in farm budgets, the economic prices show positive results indicating that major
crops supported by the Project are economically justified. Critical assumptions have been made in
assessing the costs and benefits:
*   The economic analysis applies only to restructured farms which participate in the project. On the cost
side, the economic analysis reflects the expected on-farm costs to be partly financed partly through
seasonal credit and partly through the agro-service centers, as well as investments for on-fann
irrigation structures and equipment services. These project costs total about US $400/ha. Other
components of project costs related to national-level work were included fully into the economic
analysis (not being pro-rated for the project area). On the benefit side, it has been estimated that 70%
of the farmns in the project area would participate and be able to fully introduce the technological
improvements needed within a five-year period. This assumption was based on the observation that the
most critical current technological constraints have been caused by input shortages and poor
management of collectivized agriculture. As no support is expected from other projects, all benefits are
attributed to the proposed Project. The transition to market-based private farming would not involve
radical changes in farm practices at the onset of the restructuring process. The expected technological
change would be simple and within the technical capacity of most farmers in Uzbekistan. The impact
of these changes is, however, expected to be substantial. As a result of better agricultural practices,
effective use of inputs, and a market driven crop rotation, yields are expected to increase over a five
year period as follows:
Yield Without Project          Yield With Project          Increase
tons/ha                       tons/ha                  (%)
Cotton                      2.16                           2.9                     34
Wheat                       3.13                           3.9                    25
Potatoes                    7.43                           8.4                    13
Fruits and
Vegetables                 10.95                          12.4                     13
Silage                      6.02                           6.5                     8
The base ERR for the RESP was estimated to be in the range of 22% to 30%, corresponding to Net Present
Values in the range of $33 to $59 million (assuming a 10% discount rate). A sensitivity analysis has been
undertaken using the following approaches (i) decrease in benefits due to lower gross margins owing to
imperfect input and output markets; (ii) increase in costs owing to underestimation in the project
preparation period; and (iii) slower yield increases owing to delays in project implementation. The analysis
- 14 -



indicates that the ERR is most sensitive to change in the benefit streams. The project is thus justified in
allocating resources for the development of agro-service enterprises, agro-processing facilities and
associated infrastructure to reduce the risk of decrease in the benefit streams. The results of the sensitivity
analysis (in economic terns) are as follows:
Base Level of     Benefits 10%       Costs 30%       50% Slower Yield
Parameters      Less than Base     Above Base       Increase than Base
Base case is 70%                            Case              Case                Case
participation            30.0%              17.5%            23.8%               20.6%
60% participation        26.2%              15.5%            20.7%               17.8%
50% Participation        22.3%              13.3%             17.3%              14.8%
Cost Recovery. The Project was designed on the basis that the cost of services would be progressively
borne by the beneficiaries. The Rural Finance component will charge positive, market-determined interest
rates (on the order of 15-20% in dollar terms). The RBAS is expected to progressively recover the cost of
all services, which are not of a public goods nature (for information bulletins, consultations, etc.). While a
serious effort would be made to institute the practice of cost recovery in the on-farm investments under the
hrigation and Drainage component, significant cost-recovery of investments at the main and secondary
levels will become more of a reality during the period after 2004. Emphasis during the period 2000-2004
would, therefore, be put on developing practical methodologies and procedures for cost recovery at the
main and secondary levels of the irrigation and drainage system.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = 117 % (see Annex 4)
The financial model has been developed by adopting the gross margin estimates for each crop in the
economic model (which assumed domestic prices equal border prices for all inputs and outputs). The the
non-project base is developed as a base line in which output price is taken as the (current) mix of 90% state
order price and 10% free market price. The project financial gross margins then push this mix to 25% state
order price and 75% free market price. Given that free market prices exceed by 50-100% or more those set
by the state for state order purchases, the financial gross margins in the project case exceed those of the
non-project case by roughly $50 and $400 per hectare for grain and cotton, respectively. This yields a
financial rate of return for farms participating under the project of 117%. Incremental costs for these farms
are $152 per hectare for I&D investments and phased-in water charges, which reach $75 per hectare in
year 15 of the analysis.
Fiscal Impact:
If successful, the project would end the exploitative extraction from farm incomes through extremely low
farm-gate prices for products, monopolistic prices for inputs and services, and dictated cropping patterns
involving unprofitable crops. It is difficult to precisely estimate these implicit taxes accruing to public
revenues, but most calculations place them on the order of $24 million annually (5 tumans/165 tumans =
3% of $800 million annually). Gradual elimination of these implicit taxes (which accrue mainly to those
controlling the export of cotton) will reduce public revenues, which will partially be recovered at later
stages as taxation such as land lease fees and water charges are increased in line with the improved
productivity in the agricultural sector. In the long run, increases in yields and productivity should provide a
healthy economic base for increased tax revenues which can be simply and efficiently collected through the
land lease system. The fiscal impact at project maturity would stem from (i) increased tax revenues
accruing from marketing and service activities associated with increased agricultural productivity; (ii)
- 15 -



transfer of production-related responsibilities from the public to the private sector, including cost recovery
measures which would decrease the burden of the rural sector on the public budget; and (iii) increased
productivity which would improve domestic food supplies, reduce the need for imports and increased
exports from cotton.
As noted above, the project has been designed for cost recovery. The main component having a direct
impact on the budget is the Irrigation and Drainage component, which will have roughly a 50% rate of
recovery for the budget. This amounts to a net present value of the subsidy over the course of the project
of $8 million. The cost recovery for the RBAS will also be phased in to recover at least 50% of the costs
by the end of the project.
3. Technical:
The RESP is technically sound. Uzbekistan has a commercial agriculture with technical skills, technical
packages and a resource base to support it. The current poor performance of agriculture is only partly
owing to technical shortcomings. The primary deficiencies are operating constraints and a lack of
incentives for farmers to use their knowledge and skills to make better use of the agricultural resource base.
It is these gaps that the RESP would aim to address by: (i) creating the legal base for secure land use
rights; (ii) making policy, legal, and technical information more accessible to the rural sector; and (iii)
strengthening linkages between farming, agribusiness and marketing services. The RESP would aLso
strengthen management skills on farms and in the businesses serving them. The anticipated increase in
farm productivity over the period 2001-2005 would be in the range of 20-30% depending on the cropping
patterns. The projected increase is feasible in view of the current low levels of productivity caused by
institutional constraints and pervasive shortages of high quality agricultural inputs in the sector. Thle
projected outcomes are consistent with what has been achieved elsewhere in the world under similar
conditions, and in Uzbekistan itself in the past.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Executing Agencies: Local administrations, and private enterprises would be responsible for Tuman and
Viloyat-level project components. Institutional improvements would be focused on existing Government
departments and governmental, private and nongovernmental entities at the local level that demonstrate a
commitment to deliver demand-driven services. Responsibility for implementation will be shared by the
RRA with the following entities:
* Rural Business Advisory Service: Association of Dekhkan and Private Farmers.
Rehabilitation of I&D Infrastructures: WUGs, Raivodkhoz, Ministry of Agriculture and Waler
Resources (MAWR).
* Rural Finance: Commercial Banks under contract with the Ministry of Finance.
* Sub-Loans for Agro-service Companies: Ministry of Finance
4.2 Project management:
Project management would be the responsibility of the RRA. The RRA would have a liaison office to work
with each Tuman Hokim's office where farm restructuring activities are underway. The RRA liaison staff
would work directly with the Hokim in the field and report to the Director General at the center.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The majority of I&D rehabilitation works will be contracted out under ICB and NCB procedures, but for
- 16-



some activities, Tumans will need to contract some rehabilitation using minor works procedures. This is
owing to the remoteness of some Tuman infrastructures, and the fact that there isn't always a wide enough
private contracting capacity for undertaking a variety of small, widely scattered improvements packaged
together, especially those that would be performed during peak irrigation season operations.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The financial management risks for Uzbekistan have not been the subject of a detailed review by the Bank.
However, primarily because of other implementation considerations, any weaknesses that may exist in the
financial accountability and management capacity within Uzbekistan have been mitigated for this project
by using the RRA. Specific weaknesses of the RRA in respect of its financial management capacity and
accountability are being addressed by the recruitment of a financial management consultant who will be
retained throughout project implementation to advise on the financial management arrangements of the
project. Weaknesses in the Uzbekistan banking sector will be mitigated by the use of a bank deemed
eligible by the Bank to hold the project's Special Account and the receipt from that bank of a comfort letter.
However, these weaknesses do not compromise the fiduciary responsibilities of either the Borrower or the
Bank.
5. Environmental:                  Enviromnental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The program has been rated in the environmental screening category "B" and has been subject to a
field-based environmental review by the preparation team. The environmental impact of the program is
expected to be strongly positive.  Farm restructuring is expected to lead to a more effective and
environmentally friendly use of land and water resources. Soil salinization would be reduced as a result of
irrigation infrastructure improvements and use of market-driven, decision-making processes. The RESP is
also expected to result in a more effective and environmentally-friendly use of agro-chemicals as a result of
the shift to private sector supplied inputs, along with an operational information system introduced under
the Cotton Sub-sector Improvement Project. In addition, impact monitoring and evaluation for the RESP
will include provisions for monitoring adherence to the new National Pesticide Policy and the Pesticide Law
developed in the context of the Cotton Sub-Sector Improvement Project.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The EMP, the final draft of which was prepared on August 21, 2000, is intended to provide guidelines to
contractors in implementing the I&D component and to the manager of the line of credit and PFIs in
reviewing and appraising credits/loans so that the project can be implemented in an environmentally sound
manner. The procedures and requirements described herein are designed specifically for construction firms
and on-lending by the PFIs. Environmental screening will be carried out by the PFIs at an early stage in
their credit review procedures, and may require the contracting of extemal expertise or the hiring of
permanent environmental staff. Following screenings will be recommended for identifying the type of
environmental analysis that will be required. A list of example sub-projects which may fall under each
defined category is given in para. 11 of the Environmental Assessment Annex of the PIP.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: March 11, 1998
- 17-



5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed enviromnent management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
During project preparation, the PFIs which may participate in the Rural Finance component were infonrled
of the four categories of sub-projects which have been enumerated, and advised of the ban by the Bank:: on
the financing of projects using particular agro-chemicals. The PFIs, the Raivodkhoz agencies, and the
farms in the participating tumans, were advised that the RRA will require that every loan applicat:.on
submitted under the Rural Finance Component and every proposal submitted under the Irrigation and
Drainage Component include an environmental assessment of the program proposed.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Sub-project screening categories are defined as follows, with examples of sub-projects likely to be
included under each category listed in para. 18 of the Environmental Assessment Annex of the PIP. TIhe
sub-project screening process will be carried out by the PFIs.
Categorv I (low risk): These would include sub-projects whose environmental impacts are expected: to
be negligible, for which no environmental evaluation would be required. There may be opportnmiries
here to incorporate environmental measures which would enhance the sub-project through minor (low
cost) modifications in the design without reducing efficiency.
Category II (intermediate risk): These would include sub-projects with impacts that can be readlily
identified and standard preventive and/or remedial measures can be prescribed without a full EA. T his
category also includes projects which may have immediate levels of regular and accidental emissions
(see para. l1). A limited EA would be recommended in these cases, which may simply requ:re
specifying well-defined mitigating measures and adopting accepted operating practices.  An
environmental assessment would follow a simplified outline of that presented herein with relev ant
sections pertaining to an area outside the potential impact of the sub-project omitted (to be determined
by the environmental specialist).
Catego  III (high risk): These would include sub-projects which may have highly significant, negative
and/or long-term environmental impacts, the magnitude of which are difficult to determine at the
project identification stage. A full environmental assessment (EA) would be prepared by tlhe
sub-borrower in parallel with the techno-economic feasibility study of the sub-project.
Category IV: Projects which would include the production or use of harmful materials (para. 1 1) are
normnally not financed under the project.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
As a part of project preparation, a Social Assessment (SA) was conducted in 1997 by local
scientists in collaboration with an international consultant to identify social implications of the RESP arid
to define participatory mechanisms that would encourage active participation of all stakeholders in the
design and implementation of the project. This Social and Participatory Assessment was undertaken to
examine potential strains that the transition can cause on the resources and well-being of rural household;,
and it identified ways that the organization of agricultural communities can be drawn into the process lo
- 18 -



bring about positive results. This helps to ensure that the design of the proposed project takes account of
the country's socioeconomic realities and that it is built around the priorities, aspirations, and constraints of
the people it is intended to benefit. The SA approach consisted of a survey of 1 000 households undertaken
in 65 randomly selected communities initially identified to be project areas. However, due to recent
changes in project areas, the SA does not cover all of the regions under current project design.
The survey gathered data on: (i) the current situation; (ii) how the situation has changed following
the introduction of reforms and independence; (iii) the effectiveness of current modes and mechanisms; (iv)
perceived areas of need or vulnerability, given current conditions; (v) perceived options for change and
attitudes regarding the feasibility and desirability of these options; and (vi) perceived roles for individual
and community participation in improved organization of agriculture and means of achieving this.
Furthermore, the SA: (i) incorporates an examination of the impact of reform processes on social
indicators; (ii) has identified the stakeholders; (iii) has produced analysis on critical farm input and service;
and (iv) has provided recommendations by which positive results can be achieved under the project.
Findings of the social assessment can be summarized as follows:
l)    From this social and participatory assessment emerged a picture of severe problems facing
agricultural reform in Uzbekistan, as well as some indications of how these problems may be most
effectively addressed.
2)    In the rural regions of Uzbekistan, the population is fairly evenly divided, with approximately 25%
in each of the following categories: Collective farmers, those engaged in private business or farming, those
engaged in nonagricultural work, and those who have no source of personal income. In addition, small but
important segments of the population are engaged in administration and agricultural marketing, with the
former being very influential and the latter having by far the largest incomes. Income from the main
categories of employment vary markedly, as does the effectiveness of labor. There are sharp regional
differences in household income, levels of private economic activity, and personal initiative, with the best
conditions being generally found in Kharazm Province and the worst by most criteria being found in
Qashqa-Darya, though provinces in the Ferghana Valley, where there is severe population pressure and
Soviet-era institutions are deeply entrenched, face particularly acute problems in the transition to market
agriculture.
3)     For the vast majority of the rural population, meeting the most basic needs presents serious
problems, with most households currently being unable to afford anything beyond the fundamental
necessities.  Educational opportunities and health conditions are markedly declining, despite the
Govermment's prioritization of these realms of social protection. The great majority of the population feels
that recent changes have resulted in a sharp decline of their material well-being. Few have any opportunity
to accumulate capital in order to cover start-up costs in private enterprise. Indeed, very few are oriented
toward employment in the non-state economy. Only in Kharazm Province does a significant percentage of
the population feel that their lives are improving.
4)     With the role of the Central Govemment diminishing in the life of the rural population,
community-based structures are filling in the vacuum to some extent. The patterns of change vary from
one region to another, with the community government (mahalla committee or qishlaq council) assumning a
prominent role in some areas and the administration of collective farms and enterprises taking a leadership
role in others.
- 19-



5)     Participation of the general population in the reform process to date has been very weak. A
substantial percentage of the population is extremely poorly informed about developments in the realrn of
agricultural policy reform, and a significant number do not recognize that any concerted action is being
taken to reform agriculture at all. A majority of the population also feels that the consequences of any
agricultural reforms are likely to negatively impact their own households and communities.
6)     For any reform of agriculture to be successful, it must: a) lead to a substantial expansion of
non-agricultural employment in rural areas; b) provide access to minimal start-up capital making possible
the establishment of private farns and businesses, c) improve training and education; and d) encourage rhe
participation of the rural population in the design and implementation of reforms so as to direct the reform
efforts effectively and to ensure the active involvement of those whose needs the reforns must address.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Providing technical assistance through extension services and mobilizing the public to actively
participate in development and implementation of the reform process can speed up the process and can
generate positive impacts. Business advisory services to be established under the project will provide
technical assistance to household farmers, dekhkan farmers, collective farm managers and workers, rural
businessmen and national, provincial and local government administrators. Special attentions shoulcl be
given to minority groups and women.  Such assistance should cover information on farm management,
farm registration, creation of joint stock companies, agronomy, finance and accounting, business plans,
credit, marketing, input purchasing and public policies. Since popular participation is essential for
speeding up the process of reforms, the project should provide for establishment of interactive public
forums for citizens and government officials to express ideas, criticism and evaluations regarding relevant
public policy issues. Such forums should include surveys, seminars and workshops, and it is important
that local minority community should have an active participation in the process.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The Business Advisory Services component will be implemented through the Association of Dekhkan and
Peasant Farmers, working in tandem with the local (Tuman level) offices of the RRA. The Tuman level
offices of the Association will be staffed with additional technical personnel under the project, and will also
play a large role in executing the surveys to be done under the project to monitor economic and social
impact of the project.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
At present, centralized credit is only available for cotton and grains and use of collateral in obtaining credit
is very limited in practice. Through the technical assistance to the RRA, the RESP will prepare tlie
necessary legislation on collateral and needed mechanisms for the banking system to extend the credit line
to restructured farms and agribusinesses. For further strengthening of the program, training should be
provided for both lenders and applicants in the use of new financial instruments such as mortgage financ ing
and leasing. As the process of reform in the rural sector is progressing, the role of the local institutions
such as Mahalla/Qishlaq committees has been increasing. The government has traditionally used the
Qishlaq advisory committees to collect information regarding rural residents. These committees have also
provided limited admninistrative services for the rural people. It would be useful to provide incentives and
to make them responsible for initiation, implementation and completion of the share distribution process of
- 20 -



farmlands, equipment, and other assets as well as tax on farm production. In addition, these communities
are in a very good position to develop and implement social welfare programs such as unemployment,
health care insurance, education, water and gas supplies, and kindergartens. Attention should be given that
these programs accommodate the most vulnerable groups, such as single women and those working on
state/collective farms.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in termns of social development outcomes?
Annual surveys will be executed to assess the economic and social impact of project investments and
activities focused on improving rural reform policy formation and dissemination.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     O Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       * Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*         0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Environmental screening will be carried out by the PFIs at an early stage in their credit review
procedures, and may require the contracting of extemal expertise or the hiring of permanent environmental
staff. Following screenings will be recommended for identifying the type of environmental analysis that
will be required. A list of example sub-projects which may fall under each defined category is given in
para. 11 of the Environmental Assessment Annex of the PIP
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Management and technical sustainability of the RESP would depend on: (i) beneficiary confidence resulting
from the more equitable laws, policies, and procedures underlying the restructuring process; and (ii)
beneficiary access to technical, financial and management support services. Fiscal sustainability would be
enhanced through the introduction of land-based taxation and the discontinuation of the operation by the
Government of ineffective input supply and marketing monopolies, in favor of a market-based production
and service delivery system. Institutional sustainability would be realized through an effective allocation of
responsibility and accountability between the central and local agencies and through a simplification of
procedures. The design of the RESP is intentionally flexible to allow for the necessary adjustments to be
introduced as information and lessons learned become available from the impact monitoring system.
- 21 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Government ensures that farm                M         The MAWR and RRA have a clear
restructuring done in an equitable manner             understanding of the balance which neecls to be
(to achieve increased employment).                    maintained between forming relatively large
private individual farms (which typical) y shed
labor) and giving families access to lan;l through
lease contracts for relatively smaller fie] d areas.
Off-farm rural employment is also targered by
the rural finance component to address iliose
forner collective farm members which "xit
farming.
Government comnitment to policy             S         The reform steps included in the Matre) of
reforms which liberalize marketing of                 Agricultural Reform Policies have been
agricultural inputs and outputs.                      formulated conservatively, and the
understanding of them and ability to deftnd
them in agricultural policies has been developed
both within the RRA and more widely a rmong
Deputy Ministers in the MAWR.
From Components to Outputs
Investors confidence and macroeconomic      H         This is expected to increase slowly as the role of
environment improve (to achieve                       private agro-service centers expands an; after
increased output).                                    full convertibility is returned to the fore:.gn
exchange market.
Procurement of proper equipment by          M         Substantial analysis by Bank consultants will go
eligible enterprises.                                 into the drafting and approval of agro-service
center business plans.
Financial intermediaries responsible for    M         Rigorous selection procedures will be observed
the line of credit carry their                        and substantial monitoring by the RRA and
responsibilities in accordance with the               supervision missions will be made of the PFIs'
agreed criteria.                                      loan portfolios.
Farmers' willingness and ability to pay for  S        Applicability of advisory services and
advisory services.                                    responsiveness to farmers' needs will be given
top priority in the training of providers of these
services. Pricing of services for cost recovery
will be partial and phased.
Credit recipients use funds for intended    M         Rigorous business plans, even for the small
productive purposes.                                  seasonal loans, will be required, and the 7uman
RRA offices will involve agro-technical
expertise in their appraisal. Periodic mor itoring
during the crop year will be executed by ]FIs.
Government maintaining primary and          M         Raivodkhoz (Tuman level) budgets will b~
secondary canals and pumping stations                 examined yearly to assure adequate O&lvI
expenditure levels, and some I&D investnients
- 22 -



Iwill be made in inter-tuman structures.
Overall Risk Rating                           s         I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Possible negative factors that may impact on success of the project include:
(i) likely opposition of existing agribusiness monopolies to the economic liberalization actions proposed
under the program: to mitigate this, the Government would need to adopt precise policies to prohibit any
obstruction to the entry of private sector operators into inputs supply, outputs marketing, cotton ginning,
and any other agro-processing activities and output marketing. The Government would also need to
instruct marketing monopolies such as Khlopkoprom to adopt procedures for allowing farmers to toll
cotton paying farmers in cash in the five Tumans under the project starting with the 2002 crop season,
pending the development of private traders and input suppliers. In addition, the Government would need to
issue clear instructions for the enforcement of such policies, and to disseminate such instructions among
input supply, marketing agencies, and beneficiaries in the project areas.
(ii) the current transaction system, based on settlement accounts, poses a major obstacle to effective
management and potential profitability of restructured farms and the businesses serving them: to mitigate
this, the Government would need to allow the farms in the five Tumans selected for participation in the
project to export their tolled cotton and retain at least 50% of net export earnings in cash, in hard currency,
and allow private farms and enterprise units flexible access to cash and hard currencies to effect their
domestic and foreign business transactions.
(iii) possible Government unwillingness to make extensive use of loan funds to acquire needed technical
assistance specialists. Although this could be partially mnitigated through co-financing with agencies
offering grant financing, Govermment agreement to obtaining the necessary skills and experience would also
remain a prerequisite for the loan.
(iv) lack of ownership and support by Raivodkoz and other local institutions with regard to the institutional
developments (WUAs) introduced by the Irrigation and Drainage component, which may cause delays in its
implementation.
(v) the proposed changes would require sustained support by top Government officials and Bank
management to overcome entrenched vested interests and habitual control responses. This implies the need
for above average implementation support and, thus, above average budget for supervision. Bank
commitment to the RESP as a substantial risk/high-return program implies an equal commitment to a
supervision budget that would allow continued strong support to the Government, to ensure that the
enabling conditions for rural enterprises restructuring are being put in place.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Project Account opened in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank,
and deposit into said Account an initial amount equivalent to US three
hundred thousand Dollars (US $300,000).
- 23 -



Conclusion of the contract with independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
A. Conditions of Board Presentation
1) Cabinet of Ministers Decree issued on the pilot policy reforms
being introduced in the five project districts.
2) Establishment of a financial management system acceptable to the
Bank. More specifically: (i) produce draft financial management
manual; (ii) finish implementation of the accounting software; and (iii)
write Terms of Reference for the project auditor.
3) Procurement documents for the first years' activities completed.
B. During Project Implementation
1) Dated Covenant on Collateral - Not later that by June 30, 2002 preparation of a draft enactrnent
regarding subrogation with respect to land use pledged as collateral acceptable to the Bank.
2) Dated Covenant on Foreign Exchange - Not later than by March 1, 2002, the Borrower shall reduce the
foreign exchange surrender requirement with respect to export of cotton fiber and seed produced by rural
enterprises in Participating Districts in excess of state procurement quota to a level not more than. 50
percent, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, and to be applied starting with regard to the cotton crop
of the year 2002.
3) Mid-Term Review - Prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bxak,
on or about March 30, 2004, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activi.ties
performed, to ensure the achievement of the objectives.
4) Proiect Management: The Borrower shall maintain the RRA until completion of the Project, with staff,
resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and assign to it responsibility for overall Project
management and coordination including: (i) maintenance of Project financial records and accounts; ii)
preparation of applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the Loan; (iii) preparation of bidding 2nd
contract documents and management of procurement procedures under the Project, including coordination
of the recruitment of foreign and national consultants required for the Project implementation; and (iv)
supervision of implementation of work programs under the Project.
By February 1 of each year, the Borrower shall prepare and submit the Bank for its review and
concurrence, an annual work program for the Project for the following calendar year, including
procurement and financing plans.
Starting in September 2002, the Borrower shall prepare and submit
semi-annual reports on the progress of project implementation, to be
submitted no later than March 1 and September I of each year.
5) Financial Management:
(i) The Borrower shall open and maintain a Special Account in a commercial bank acceptable
to the Bank.
(ii) The RRA shall maintain a financial management system acceptable to the Bank.
(iii)The project, the PFIs and the Agro-service Enterprises shall be audited annually in
- 24 -



accordance with terms of reference and by auditors acceptable to the Bank
(iv) The RRA will implement a time-bound action plan to strengthen the financial management
system to enable the RRA to prepare quarterly PMRs. Project funds shall initially be disbursed
under the Bank's established procedures including Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), and a
move to PMR-based disbursements would be made at the mutual agreement of the Govemment
and the Bank, once the RRA is familiar with the project's monitoring aspects and is considered
able to produce the PMRs in a sufficiently timely and reliable manner. A change to
PMR-based disbursements shall be considered by September 30, 2002, in accordance with the
agreed time-bound action plan.
H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
LE 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
n 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
4Ak4/i, 4                                                 __              __
ark  . Lundell                  Kevin M. Cleaver                  Dennis de Tray
Tiam Leader                       Sector Director                   Country Director
- 25 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
UZBEKISTAN: RURAL ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
More information on Logframes
Key Performance       Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:      Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Promote liberalization of   Reduce procurement for    Data from farms, and   Macro economic stability
dcmestic trade and improve wheat and cotton and   Ministry of               through maintaining a
incentives for increased  improve business         Macro-economics and       prudent fiscal and monitory
output and employment by  environment for rural     Statistics (MMS)          stance
the private sector in     enterprises
agriculture
Increase the efficiency of   Water conservation     Data from the Ministry of
resource utilization in rural supported by water pricing  Agriculture and Water
infrastructure           and farm restructuring    Resources (MAWR)
Project Development      Outcome / Impact          Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:               Indicators:
1) Increased profitability    1) 25% average increase in  1) Data from district  1) Government ensures that
and productivity in      crop yields of restructured   government, MAWR, and  farm restructuring done in
agricultural sector through  farms by PY4          MMS                        an equitable manner (to
reduction in domestic trade                                                   achieve increased
impediments and through                                                       employment)
sulbstitution of state
purchasing and input supply
by more competitively
priced and higher quality
goods and services of
pnivate agro-services
centers
1) Increase of the average   1) District administration    1) World market pnce for
farm-gate prices for      statistics                cotton and wheat remain
agricultural commodities by                         stable
70% in real terms by PY4
2) Growth of the         2) Increase in the number of 2) District govemment and  2) Investors confidernce and
restructured farms and   newly created private     industry statistics.       macroeconomic
private rural enterprises  agribusiness by at least 50                        environment improve
through provision of     by PY4 and attainment of                             substantially.
advisory services and rural  participation of 50 former
finance                  collective agricultural
enterprises by PY4
3) Ensure sustainability of  3) Reduced losses in supply 3) Records of Raivodkhoz,  3) Increased water
the agricultural sector  of water in inter-farm     farm associations and     payments induce elficient
through rehabilitation of    canals from 25% to 15%    MAWR                   water use.
on-farm irrigation system,  and in on-farm canals from
- 26 -



and creation of institutions 40% to 20% by PY4
for participatory
management of inigation
water
3) Studies assessing savings
in water use
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:         (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1) Business Advisory
Services:
Advisory centers provide    1) Advisory services for    1) Periodic survey of farmer 1) Farmers' ability to access
effective and timely services preparation of 50 business  satisfaction with 1) Records technologies to implement
in business planning,    plans during PYI, 100      of Business Advisory     the advise received
marketing, finance, legal    plans in PY2, 150 plans in  Centers
and technical areas to   PY3, and 100 plans in PY4
restructured farms and
agribusinesses
2) Private Agro-service
Companies:
Availability of heavy    2) Number of enterprises    2) Records of district   2) Procurement of proper
agricultural machinery to   formed:                 administration            equipment by eligible
small and medium sized   PYI - 2 companies                                   enterprises
farms through leasing    PY2 - 2 companies         2) Project quarterly
PY3 - 2 companies and    progress reports and
expansion of existing ones,  supervision reports
PY4 - expansion of existing
companies
3) Rural Finance:
Access to credit by                                 3) Project progress reports  3) Financial intermediaries
restructured farms and   3) 50 Loans applications    and supervision reports    responsible for the line of
eligible agribusinesses.  approved during PYl, 100                           credit carry their
applications in PY2, 150   3) Records of responsible   responsibilities in
applications during PY3    financial intermediaries and accordance with the agreed
and 100 applications during RRA                     criteria
PY4
3) Credit recipients use
funds for intended
productive purposes
4) Irrigation and Drainage
Component:
Rehabilitation of on-farm    4) 25% of targeted    4) Data from Raivodkhoz   4) Government maintaining
and inter-farm irrigation    inter-farm canals                               primary and secondary
system.                  rehabilitated during PYI,                           canals and pumping stations
- 27 -



35% in PY2, and 40% in
PY3
4) Greater role by farmers  4) Number of water users  4) Project quarterly  4) Government all,ows
in managing water use at   associations created and    progress and supervision    organization and o.oeration
the on-farrn irrigation level. registered as independent   reports         of these associations to be
legal entities - 8 in PYI, 16                     conducted in a mainer
in PY2, 18 in PY3, and 8 in                       which promotes members'
PY4                                               confidence in therm
Project Components I     Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:      (from Components to
Sub-components:          component)                                        Outputs)
I) Business Advisory     1) USD 1.22 million      1) Procurement and       1) Government provide
Services                                          financial management     space for the centers
reporting system
2 1 Rural Finance        2)USD 5.93 million       2) Procurement and       2) Capable financial
financial management    intermediaries selected
reporting system
3) Private Agro-service  3)USD 16.0 million       3) Procurement and       3) Qualified Compamies
Companies                                         financial management     selected
reporting system
4) Irrigation and Drainage  4) USD 16.63 million  4) Procurement and       4) RRA carries oLt
financial management     procurement activities
reporting system         on-time
5) Project Implementation   5) USD 2.31  million  5) Procurement and       RRA maintains adequate
Support:                                          financial management     links with the Tuman-level
reporting system         implementing agercies
- 28 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
UZBEKISTAN: RURAL ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
A. Objectives and Policy Issues
Introduction
1.    The overall objective of agricultural enterprise restructuring in Uzbekistan is to undamentally
change the relationship between rural assets and people through the establishment of private farms and
other rural enterprises. This will give participants greater empowerment over resource use, offer them real
decision-making opportunities as to which economic activities they would engage in, and motivate them to
invest in the rural economy.
2.     The Government developed in the last three years the enabling legal, policy, and institutional
conditions for the implementation of a farm restructuring program nationwide. The legal control over land
is in the form of long term leases and an additional reform package implemented by the Government since
January 1, 1999 has (i) significantly increased State procurement prices for cotton and wheat; (ii)
transferred social costs from the farms to the government budget; (iii) written off farm debts to the State
and restructured those to input suppliers; (iv) simplified taxation and reduced its level; (v) granted a tax
break for newly established private farms; (vi) established advisory centers to help implementing the
restructuring program, and (vii) made available various lines of credit for private farmers.
3.    However, in a number of areas no agricultural reform have not yet taken place. The Government
continues to dictate the cropping pattem as well as assigns annual production targets with penalizing those
who are unable to reach these targets. The system of production pre-fmance is, in fact, a factoring
agreement between the state-run input suppliers and financing institutions based with an unbending time
schedule of such transfers. Complementary normative documents to the Land Code are not yet elaborated
to effect the possibility of pledging land rent rights against a bank's loan and to permit for greater land
mobility. Agricultural enterprise restructuring legislation needs to be reviewed to ensure greater equity and
transparency with regard to allocation of land for private farmers and allocation of land among the
members of a collective farm. Most importantly, there has been only partial improvement in the system of
state procurement of cotton.
4.    The Government intention is for the restructuring process to lead to a plurality of farm and
agribusiness sizes and forms of association based on the Land Code, the Law on Agricultural Cooperatives
(Shirkats), the Law on Private Farms, and the Law on Dekhkan Farms. To achieve this, the Government
intends to speed up the reform process and introduce a series of new normative acts and a system of
incentives to ensure that restructured rural enterprises will be able to operate under conditions of a market
economy. This further development of the Government strategy involves the successful implementation of
complex operations for the reorganization of production, processing and marketing arrangements, in
particular for the cotton and wheat sectors, which need to be tested and enhanced during project
implementation in selected pilot areas. This demonstration phase will also build confidence in this strategy
at the grass roots in the five tumans selected to demonstrate the post-restructuring process over a four year
period.  The selected Tumans are:  Akhangaran (Tashkent), Ellikalin (Karakalpakstan),Markhamat
(Andijan), Nishan (Kashkadarya) and Sherabad (Surkhandarya).
- 29 -



B. Project Area
Project Area Current Conditions
5.     The total area of the five tumans exceeds 1.3 million hectares, of which about 165,000 hectares
are irrigated lands. The total population exceeds 480,000 people with the 80% of them living in r.iral
areas. Based on the restructuring program implemented in the last few years, 63 large enterprises (mainly
Shirkats) are currently present in the five tumans, while the number of private farms (individual farms) is
754. The total land allocated to family plots has an area of 15,340 ha. The project tumans are located in
different climatic and environmental regions of Uzbekistan and are characterized by different conditioans
with regard to the progress reached in the restructuring process, the general development of agribusiness,
the status of I&D infrastructures and the organization of WUAs. Given such differences, the selected
Tumans are good sites for demonstrating the project's rural enterprise post-restructuring approach, anal as
demonstration laboratories for improved production and post-restructuing support activities.
6.     The Ellik-Kala Tuman is located in the South-Eastern part of the Republic of KarakalpaksXan.
The total area is 541,300 ha out of which agricultural land covers 386,540 ha or 71% including 27,39C ha
of arable land, 1,290 ha of perennial plants and 357,480 ha of pasture lands. The area of irrigated lands is
29,487 ha including the irrigated arable lands that cover 24,467 ha, perennial plants (1,290 ha), pasilure
lands (570 ha) and family land plots for a total of 3,160 ha. In this Tuman there are 14 shirkats and 77
private farms created on the basis of former state farms and collective farms. The shirkats' area is 28,625
ha, while private farmers have received 862 ha of land on a long term lease basis. The average area of
irrigated lands belonging to the shirkats is 2,045 ha, while the land assigned to individual farms is I I ha.
As of January 1, 2000, the population of this Tuman was 113,553 people including a rural population of
99,249 people (87.4% of the whole Tuman population). The number of able-bodied people is 51,80(i9,
including 45,636 people in rural areas. The average area of irrigated lands in the Tuman is 0.3 ha rier
capita and 0.75 ha per one able-bodied person in rural area. The live stock sector includes 3,863 heads of
cattle including 1,081 heads of milking cows, 17,648 sheep, and 978 horses. The annual production of nii Ik
is 1,174 tons, the milk production per cow being 1,085 liters per year.
7.     The Markhamat Tuman is located in the southern part of the Andijan region. The total area of thle
tuman is 30,951 ha, out of which irrigated land covers 21,644 ha (71%), including 13,664 ha of arable
land, 2,460 ha of perennial plants, 2,890 ha of pasture lands and 2,630 ha of family land plots. All major
agricultural enterprises in the tuman have been restructured into 8 shirkat farms, managing 20,620 ha of
irrigated land. The tuman currently has 128 private farms, out of which 110 are engaged in plant growing
and 18 in live stock raising. The private farms have 1,024 ha of irrigated lands leased out to them on a long
term basis. As of January 1, 2000, the population of the tuman was 120,400 people including a naral
population of 102,700 people (85.3% of the whole tuman population). The number of able-bodied people in
rural area is 46,534. The average area of irrigated lands in the tuman is 0.18 ha per capita and 0.46 ha per
one able-bodied person in the rural areas. The main sector of agricultural production here is plant growing,
the value of gross production in this sector being 96.1% of the whole value of gross agricultural
production. The profitability of agriculture in this tuman has dropped from 18.2% in 1991 to 9.90/% in
1999. At the same time, the profitability of plant growing has risen from 5.5% to 14.9% and hle
profitability in live stock sector has fallen from +3.1 % to - 24.6%. The area under cotton covers 57.7/c of
the whole arable territory and the area under winter grain the 40.4%. The sowing area of grain and cereal
crops has increased from 1,360 ha in 1991 to 5,523 ha in 1999 as a result of a corresponding decrease in
cotton and Luceme sowing.
- 30 -



8.    The Nishan tuman is located in the south-western part of the Kashkadarya region. The total area
is 187,380 ha out of which agricultural land covers 162,420 ha including 47,110 ha of arable land, 1,730
ha of perennial plants, 113,590 ha of pasture lands. The area of irrigated lands is 51,296 ha including
47,186 ha of irrigated arable lands and 2,380 ha of family land plots.
Large agricultural enterprises have access to 45,807 ha of irrigated lands, while private farmers received
long term lease rights on 5,489 ha of land. The average area of irrigated lands that belong to shirkat farms
is 2,695 ha and that belonging to private farmers is 28 ha. As of January 1, 2000, the population of this
tuman was 96,137 people including a rural population of 71,055 people (73.9% of the whole tuman
population). The number of able-bodied people is 48,846 including 35,476 people in the rural areas. The
average area of irrigated lands in the tuman is 0.49 ha per capita and 1.33 ha per one able- bodied person
in the rural areas. The main sector of agricultural production here is plant growing. The level of its
development significantly affects food consumption satisfaction of the population as well as it the situation
in the live stock sector. The value of gross agricultural production in the tuman in 1999 was 2,753,883,00
Soums (88.9%), that of live stock raising 304,748.00 Soums (11.1%). Cotton accounts for 42,8% of the
sowing area in the irrigated lands, winter grain and cereal crops 38.9%. The sowing area of grain and
cereal crops has increased from 5,158 ha in 1991 to 18,100 ha mainly due to a reduction of areas under
cotton and fodder crops. The livestock sector includes 5,003 head of cattle, 55,329 sheep and 64 horses.
Annually, the tuman produces 1,610 tons of milk (milk yield per cow is 1,510 liters) and 721 tons annually
of meat.
9.    The Sherabad tuman is located in the south-western part of the Surkhandarya region. The total
area of the tuman is 239,690 ha, out of which irrigated land covers 41,000 ha including 33,830 ha of arable
land, 2,200 ha of perennial plants, and 4,970 ha of family land plots. In this tuman there are 7 collective
fanns, 4 shirkats and one joint stock company organized on the basis of a state farm. Major agricultural
enterprises account for 37,776 ha of irrigated lands, while the total area of land assigned to 176 private
farms is 3,224 ha. As of January 1, 2000, the population of the tuman was 124,475 people including a
rural population of 99,775 people (80.1% of the whole tuman population). The number of able-bodied
people in the tuman is 56,851 including 46,459 people in the rural area. The average area of irrigated
lands in the tuman is 0.33 ha per capita and 0.88 ha per one able-bodied person in the rural areas. The
main sector of agricultural production here is plant growing. There are also two bee-keeping farms and one
poultry farn. The value of gross agricultural production in the tuman in 1999 was 1,473,845,000 Soums,
including plant growing 1,414,245,000 Soums (or 96%), livestock raising - 59,600,000 Soums (4%).
Cotton accounts for the major sowing area (48.3%) and winter grain and cereal crops 46.8%. The sowing
area of grain and cereal crops has increased from 5,297 ha in 1991 to 13,268 ha mainly due to the decrease
in area of cotton and fodder crops. The live stock sector includes 2,661 heads of cattle out of which 826
milking cows, 26,417 sheep and 2000 birds. Annually, the tuman produces 1,160 tons of milk and 355,700
tons of meat.
10.   The Akhangaran tuman is situated in the south-eastern part of the Tashkent region. Its total area
is 318,386 ha out of which agricultural lands cover 161,301 ha (irrigated lands account for 20,901 ha, dry
lands 140,400 ha) including 15,900 ha of arable land, 2,800 ha of perennial plants, 137,100 ha of pasture
lands and 2,200 ha of family land plots. In this tuman 17,179 ha of irrigated lands have been assigned to
12 large farms (including eight shirkat farns), while 176 private farns account for 3,722 ha. The average
area of irrigated lands that belong to large farms is 1,432 ha and the average area of the private farmns is 21
ha. As of January 1, 2000, the population of this tuman was 30,400 people including a rural population of
21,345 people (70.2% of the whole tuman population). The number of able-bodied people is 16,100
(12,765 people in rural areas). The a;erage area of irrigated lands in the tuman is 0.69 ha per capita and
1,64 ha per one able-bodied person in rural area. The value of gross agricultural production in the tuman
in 1999 was 4,813,400 Soums (26.7%). Grain and cereal crops accounts for the major part of the sowing
- 31 -



area in the irrigated land (51%).
- 32 -



Table 1
Summary data on the RESP Tumans
Data             Ellik -Kala    Markhamat    Nishan    Sherabad         Akhangaran
Total area (ha)             541300          30951        187380      239690         318386
Population                  113553          120400       96137       124475         30400
Number of farnilles          25234          28667         6517        18758          8686
Large farms                   14              8            17          12             12
Total area (ha)              28625          20620        45807       37776          17179
Private farms                 77             128           197         176           176
Total area (ha)               862            1024         5489        3224           3722
Irrigated land (ha)          29487          21644        51296       41001          20901
Area under crops (ha)        24467          13664        47186       33831          15901
Cotton                       14000          6745         20200        16495           -
Grains                       1550           5523          18100       13840          7252
Rice                         4000            65            19                        232
Lucerne from past years      1034            450          3058         790           1881
Lucerne of current year       532            200          1000        550            1235
Maize for silage              600            651           770        1416           3030
Maize for grain               600                          60         400            508
Annual grasses               1476                         2675
Potato                        15                           50          20            312
Vegetables                    380                         428          310           1192
Cucurbetaceous                280                         623                        282
Sugar beets                                  30            103         10
Oil yielding crops                                         100                       1212
Live stock
Cattle                       3863                         5003        2661
Milking cows                 1081                         1104         826
Goats and sheep              17648                       55329       26417
Poultry                                                               2000
Others                        978                          64
I&D Infrastructures
Inter-farrn drainage (km)    356.1          265.8         232.9       106.3          88.5
Inter-farms canals (km)      236.1          147.0         43.4        62.5           154.9
On-farm irrigation          1908.0          711.8        1798.1      1450.0         387.8
On-farrn drainage           1378.5          469.3        2577.4      2186.5          51.0
Horizontal drainage (km)     156.6           61.3        2684.0      1511.0
Vertical drains                                             6          85
- 33 -



C. Project Components
11.    The RESP will consist of five components, which are briefly described in the following paragraphs
(values below include contingencies).
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$1.22 million
Rural Business Advisory Services Component
Objective
12.   The objective of this project component is to develop Rural Business Advisory Services (RBAS)
intended to support the post-restructuring of farns and agribusinesses, thereby helping to establish business
entities that can prosper in a competitive market economy. The RBAS is seen as an important instrument
to help beneficiaries develop privately owned businesses and is expected to:
* collect and disseminate information on the agricultural policy measures adopted by the Governmenit
(including those related to the implementation of the RESP), and on production techniques,
business and financial management, and marketing;
* provide training and advisory services regarding legal issues, business plan preparation, and
business management.
13.   The mission of RBAS is twofold:
(1) to provide assistance to rural enterprises in developing efficient and financially viable structures and
operations, whether oriented toward farming or agribusiness, and
(2) to create a demand-driven, and, eventually, demand-financed advisory service, which will become ani
important contributor to the advancement of a market economy in the Republic of Uzbekistan.
14.   Initially, the main responsibility of RBAS will be to provide the information and services needed by
those individuals and associations directly involved in the post-restructuring process. These include the
households and agribusinesses within the shirkats, as well as Government-sponsored or existing
independent enterprises, which desire to transform themselves into private, efficient, profit or nonprofit
operations. A second responsibility for RBAS is to ensure that all organizations and individuals with an
interest in the restructuring process are kept informed about related issues so that any agricultural business
problems that arise can be resolved promptly. A third responsibility is to ensure that all interested
beneficiaries have access to information and advice on developing and managing their business enterprises.
Implementation Arrangements
15.   The Rural Restructuring Agency (RRA) will have overall responsibility for the implementation of
the RBAS component. The Component Coordinator will be permanent staff of the Agency and will repol
to the RRA managers about implementation progress and issues.
- 34 -



16.   The RBAS would be part of the services provided by the Association of Dekhkan and Private
Farmers (ADPF). Although initially to be fully-funded by the project, RBAS is expected to begin charging
for some of its services by project end, with the goal of eventually becoming a fully commercial entity. The
ADPF will be the main implementation agency of this project component and will support project activities
through its organization and staff at the national and local levels. At the headquarters and tuman levels the
project will rely on rural business advisory centers (RBACs), to be established by the Association and will
provide necessary support in terms of office renovation, equipment and technical-assistance.
17.   The RBAS will consist of a Headquarters (RBAS/Hqs) in Tashkent and RBACs in each of the five
selected Tumans. RBAS/Hqs will be located in the ADPF offices and the RBAC in facilities made
available by the respective local administrations in the five selected tumans. The RBACs will report to the
RBAS/Hqs. A Chief Executive Officer will head the RBAS/Hqs and will be assisted by two experts: an
Information and Agricultural Development Officer, and a Business Advisory Officer. In addition, a
Training and Development Assistant will work with the two experts, and will be responsible for developing
various informational and advisory documents, including audio-visual materials on successful RBAS farm
and agribusiness developments, or on problems and problem-solving in specific business situations.
18.   The staff required by the RBACs includes an Information and Agricultural Development Outreach
Officer, a Rural Business Planning Outreach Officer, a Training and Development Outreach Officer, plus
support staff. The necessity for the number and type of additional staff required in the RBAS will be
determined by the volume and nature of tasks to be performed by RBAS staff. The terms of reference
(TOR) for the initial RBAS/Hqs and RBAC positions and the TOR for the intemational consultants are
reported in the PIP Annex 1.
19.   Intemational experts will provide advisory services to the Project Component Coordinator at the
RRA, to the RBAS/Hqs and the RBACs teams for a total of 18 months during the first three years of
project implementation. One expert will be responsible for providing advice regarding the initial set-up of
the organization and development of operations policies. The remaining experts will advice on specific
topics relating to agricultural science and business.
Project Component 2 - US$16.63 million
Rehabilitation of Irrigation and Drainage Systems Component
Objectives
20.   The main objective of the Irrigation & Drainage component is to promote sustainable irrigated
agriculture through investment and technical assistance to improve the reliability and efficiency of
irrigation and drainage. This component would aim to promote the development of participatory irrigation
management, rehabilitate key irrigation and drainage infrastructures, improve operation and maintenance
and water management and promote improved agricultural practices.
21.   The project would support a four year irrigation and drainage investment program in the RESP
pilot tumans, based on the organization of WUGs and the implementation of low-cost rehabilitation
activities of I&D infrastructures. A key determinant of the project strategy is to promote and support the
behavioral changes required for: (i) the successful transfer of O&M responsibilities of on farm
infrastructures to the new private and Dekhan farms and (ii) the development of cooperation amongst
neighboring farmers for the use of shared resources in a more efficient way especially in situations of water
scarcity.
- 35 -



Scope of Work
22.    The following activities would be supported by this project component:
establishment and development of Water Users Organizations (WUOs) in five rayons with a gre ss
irrigated area of 162,400 ha;
* on-farm rehabilitation of the most critical I&D infrastructure within the areas under jurisdiction of
Water Users Groups (WUGs);
off-farm rehabilitation of the most critical I&D infrastructure for the water supply to the WUOs anLd
the removal of drainage water from the territory of the WUOs;
* preparation of the detailed designs and tender documents for the identified rehabilitation needs and
the supervision of I&D rehabilitation works.
Investments and cost recovery
23.    The above activities have been assessed and the estimated investment costs are as follows:
Investments                                  Cost (USS)
Establishment and development of WIUOs       210,600
On-farm rehabilitation                       7,937,400
Off-farm rehabilitation                      7,120,400
Detailed designs and supervision of works    1,364,000
Total                                        16,632,400
24.    USS 13.2 million would be financed by a Bank loan and the remaining US$ 3.4 million by he
Government of Uzbekistan. On-farm rehabilitation will be repaid by the beneficiaries (farmers) through rn
increased land tax. The amortization schedule for this repayment would be agreed by the WUOs, the
Khokimyat and the Ministry of Finance (but would be no less that 15 years). The loan funds for the other
activities will be fully repaid by the Ministry of Finance. The investments under the component are
financially affordable and rewarding for the farmers and economically viable for the Government.
25.    The average investments per ha amount to US$130 over a four year period. This amount is small
in comparison with some other I&D rehabilitation projects in the region, but substantially larger than the
current funding levels for I&D maintenance in Uzbekistan, which amount to maximum USS 10/ha/year. No
doubt that more investments are needed during the next ten years to sustain the I&D systems and to serve
the many new private farmers in the five rayons. However, the above investments are sufficient to remove
the most critical bottlenecks in the I&D systems which suppress crop yields and start the process of I&.D
rehabilitation and improvement of O&M activities and funding.
- 36 -



Water Users Organizations
26.    The establishment and development of WUOs is crucial to start the process of I&D rehabilitation
and improvement of O&M activities and funding. The project would support the development of a
two-tiered system of WUOs:
-  Water Users Groups (WUGs) would be responsible for water allocation and maintenance of I&D
infrastructure     within tertiary units with a size ranging from 200 to 600 ha. Whenever possible,
the territory of WUG would form an hydrological unit served by the irrigation agency through
one or more existing delivery points (hydroposts);
-  Water Users Associations (WUAs) would be responsible for I&D management on the territory of
a former sovkhoze or kolkhoz (FSK) with a size of 1,500 to 3,000 ha.
The WUAs can be established on the basis of existing legislation (law on water and water use and the law
on associations and enterprises). The rights and responsibilities of WUGs would be stipulated in the bylaws
of the WUAs. Existing legislation would allow empowerment of a WUA for carrying out its essential
functions of O&M, resource mobilization and conflict resolution.
27.    Establishment and development of the above WUOs requires technical assistance throughout the
implementation period of the project. The establishment of the WUOs in a major part of the project area is
likely the easy part. Development or empowerment of the WUOs for carrying out their essential functions
would be more difficult because this needs a re-orientation in thinking about decision making processes and
management conditions and processes which will differ in may respects from current ones. The project will
provide technical assistance in the following fields:
-   development of a manual for systems O&M, adapted to the local conditions, with particular
emphasis on irrigation water scheduling, field application and rules for systems maintenance;
-   a capacity building program aimed at strengthening the management capabilities of WUOs;
-   a funding and a cost recovery system, and an appropriate bookkeeping and financial control
system with tools and facilities required.
28.    An I&D service fee would be set in a progressively increasing manner to eventually cover the
following costs: cost of staff of the WJUA, office costs, operation costs to distribute irrigation water,
maintenance of canals and drains owned by the association , major repairs and replacement of I&D
infrastructure, and purchase or lease of O&M equipment. In addition the WUA would pay a service fee to
the irrigation management agency (usually the Raiselvodkhoz) for the costs of services to provide the water
to the delivery points at the boundary of the area under jurisdiction of the WUA. At these delivery points,
the volumes of delivered water will be measured by hydroposts, rehabilitated or constructed under the
project.
29.    For the first year of the project, the service fee to Raiselvodkhoz would cover 10% of O&M cost
for water delivery to the WUA. However assurances have to be obtained from Government that the funds
collected by irrigation management agencies will be fully designated for service delivery to the paying
WUAs. These assurances can be given in the overall Government decree for the project .
30.    The members of the WUOs would re-assess, prioritize and supervise the rehabilitation works in the
area under their jurisdiction, as they will be responsible for repayment of the loan funds used for on-farn
investments. The current identification of the on-farm rehabilitation works provides some guidance on the
- 37 -



nature and costs of the works. However, the identification is mainly based on information from irrigation
management agencies and doesn't take yet into account the new realities in the field where the FSKs are
being gradually restructured into many agricultural production units with very different sizes. To serve
these units adequately, the traditional ways of irrigation water distribution and field application would need
adaptation. Therefore, WUOs would first prepare of a plan of how they would like to operate the irrigation
system to improve service delivery to their members. The rehabilitation and improvements needs would be
chosen to make the plan work.
Procurement
31.   Procurement will be undertaken in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines. The
preparation of detailed designs and tender documents and supervision of the rehabilitation works will be
contracted out in various procurement packages by the RRA to eligible consulting institutions and firrms.
The detailed design and tender documents for part of the off-farn rehabilitation works in three rayons have
been prepared before approval of the project by the Bank's Board. Individual consultants would be
contracted by the RRA for supporting the establishment and development of the WUOs. The expertise
needed has been identified and costed. The RRA would contract intemational expertise according to needs.
Performance indicators
32.   The key performnance indicators for achievement of the project development objectives are water
productivity and operational canal losses in the areas under jurisdiction of WUOs. Output indicators
include the number of WUOs established and empowered and progress of I&D infrastructure rehabilitation.
Project Component 3 - US$ 5.93 million
The Rural Finance Component
Objective
:33.   The aim of the Rural Finance Component (RFC) is to provide financial support to restructuredl
farmns and private farmers' needs through the banking system. The RFC will total $5.93 million for the five
project tuwnans and be distributed roughly equally between two lending programs:
*  Short-term loans up to $10,000 equivalent to cover seasonal credit needs of private farmers and
other small rural enterprises.
Medium-term loans up to $100,000 equivalent for restructured farms, agro-processing enterprises,
and other medium-size rural enterprises.
34.    The RFC would be adrministered by PFIs, selected with a tender process for access to trances of
funds channeled through this project component. The Government will entrust the Ministry of Finance wit:h
the RFC administration. In its turn, the Ministry of Finance will delegate the intermediation of the RFC to
participating financial institutions (PFIs) through their branches in the pilot project tumans.
35.   At the beginning of component implementation, potential clients will operate in an unstable anrd
uncertain financial environment. At first, they will not be familiar with commercial credit culture based on
World Bank procedures agreed upon with the Government. Therefore, they will be assisted by tuman level
Rural Business Advisory Services (RBAS) that will provide necessary information and advisory support in
the preparation of business plans and credit applications, which are acceptable by conmmercial creditors
- 38 -



under this the RFC.
Description of Short-Term and Medium-Term Loan Programs
36.    Under RFC, the PFIs will extend sub-loans through two windows: a window for seasonal loans
(short-term up to 18 months) and a second window for capital investments such as purchase of equipment
(medium-term).
37.    Short-term credits are expected to finance purchase of production input such as seeds, agricultural
chemicals, fuel, small works such as refurbishment of buildings, lease and use of equipment, spare parts
and other circulating assets of RFC participants. In order to overcome the potential problem of lack of
collateral by sub-borrowers, the PFIs may accept guarantees in lieu of collateral from suppliers of inputs
and materials and from purchasers of raw agricultural products (e.g. agro-processors) through lawful and
tripartite voluntary contracts among sub-borrowers of PFIs and these suppliers and buyers.
38.           Medium-term and long-term credits to farmers and associated agribusinesses will finance:
(i) equipment and facilities to improve land management and irrigation, and storage facilities for farms; and
(ii) civil works, vehicles, equipment and so on, for enterprises.
39.    Transactions of Borrowers, financed by the RFC, will be technically viable and financially
profitable. They will also have to satisfy World Bank requirement for environment.. Specific farms and
enterprises will prepare business-plans and credit applications, indicating the following key aspects:
Current financial conditions of activities;
Plan for improving current and future production/productivity, supposed investment;
Proposed acceptable collateral and/or other forms of security;
Repayment mechanism of loan and its interests, including agreements for sale of the agricultural
production.
Implementation arrangements
40.    The RRA will prepare Credit Guidelines containing information about types of proposed financial
and nonfinancial services, credit policy under the Project, including: mortgage, collateral, loan backed with
immovable property and requirements of additional security, interest norms policy, PFIs management,
staffing, accounting and auditing, liabilities, and periodic reports. This handbook shall contribute to the
successful implementation of the RFC, and allow potential clients to familiarize with the project approach
to the finance of agribusinesses. Before their adoption, the Credit Guidelines will be approved by the
Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources.
41.    Participating branches of PFIs will undertake the responsibility for day-to-day administration of
their RFC loan portfolios. The Rural Restructuring Agency (RRA) will encourage quick payments from
special accounts that will be set up for bank loans by participating branches of the PFIs. These
disbursements will be authorized on the basis of "no objections" to loans that are issued by the RRA.
Technical Assistance
42.    At the beginning of the RESP, technical assistance will be provided, owing to the lack of tuman
level RRA staff trained in the sphere of credit management and monitoring. Institutional development and
training, provided through the RRA, will also support the development of the capacity of the PFIs tuman
offices by assisting them in the management of the credit program. Decisions regarding this TA will be
- 39 -



jointly made by the RRA and each PFI.
Project Component 4 - US$16.00 million
Credit for Agro-service Enterprises Component
Objective
43.    The Private Agro-service Companies component is designed to focus on the establishment of
private agro-service centers, supplying machinery services and agricultural inputs in competition with the
state joint-stock corporations (SJC). The objective is to provide private farmers and shirkats with a viable
altemative to the current virtual state monopoly and supply them services and inputs which are more
competitively priced, of higher quality and provided in a more timely manner, thereby raising farmns
productivity and profitability.
44.    The project envisages the creation of private ago-service centers which would supply agricultural
producers with competitively priced agricultural machinery services, maintenance and repair of ilhe
machinery belonging to the farms, transportation services and other inputs (fertilizers, pesticides, seeds and
possibly professional advice). The sub-loans on-lent by the Government of Uzbekistan will be extended lo
qualified sub-borrowers for long-term financing of specific projects or investment programs. Eligible
proposals would cover a wide range of operations including the creation, modemization, expansion ar.d
diversification of industrial and production facilities in the agro-service sector, with specific reference to tLe
commercial supply of machinery services. The sub-loans will be extended in accordance with the provisiorns
described in the Annex 4.
Implementation arrangements
45.   Each sub-borrower would sign a sub-loan agreement with the Ministry of Finance of the Republic
of Uzbekistan (MoF), acting for and on behalf of the Republic of Uzbekistan. The Deputy Minister of
Finance will sign the agreement, after review of the sub-loan proposal by the World Bank, and verification
by the Director General of the RRA that appropriate arrangements exist for monitoring compliance with
the contractual provisions on the use of the sub-loan proceeds and their repayment.
Sub-loan approval process
46.    The RRA shall be responsible for preparation of a credit appraisal report. The sub-loan application
shall be considered by the Ministry of Finance. Sub-loans shall be analyzed, documented and monitored in
accordance with the guidelines set forth in the Annex 4. The MoF's appraisal of each sub-loan shall include
a financial evaluation in the form of a cash flow analysis, balance sheet projections, an examination A)f
financial ratios, an appraisal of management and, where relevant, a technical project repo 1.
Implementation of this component will be guided by the component coordinator and the machine!y
specialist in the RRA.
Technical assistance
47.    There is no technical assistance under this component. Project coordinator and agricultural
machinery specialist will receive extensive credit training at the outset of the project implementation
Project Component 5 - US$2.31 million
Project Implementation Support Component
Role of the RRA
- 40 -



48.    The Rural Restructuring Agency (RRA), established in 1998 under the Ministry of Agriculture and
Water Management (MAWM), will coordinate the implementation of the RESP. The RRA would ensure a
direct link with policy/decision makers and would coordinate the activity of project participants, including
the Viloyat and tuman administrations. It would also: (i) coordinate improvements of the legal framework
for farm restructuring and rural credit; (ii) assist implementing agencies in organizing information
campaigns to create awareness of the RESP Project and associated policy measures among rural
communities and the institutions serving them at the local level; (iii) coordinate Technical Assistance
provided for Capacity Building in agricultural policy formulation; (iv) coordinate planning of project
activities, procurement and financial control matters under the project; and (v) coordinate the participation
of various funding agencies under the RESP. The RRA would also monitor the progress and efficiency of
the Project and evaluate its impact and would report its findings and recommendations to the MAWR and
to the World Bank.
Organization
49.    The Agency is headed by a full-time Director General reporting to the Deputy Prime Minister in
charge of Agriculture, through the Minister of Agriculture and Water Resources. He is assisted by a deputy
Director General and by a TA Team of foreign and local consultants.
50.    The Director General will liaise with the Government and the World Bank. His responsibility will
be overall coordination of the program and control over project resources, to ensure effective and timely
use and strictly conformance with the objectives of the project and Bank conditions. He will supervise the
performance of the agency staff in carrying out the department's core strategy, the production and
provision of outputs for effective implementation of agreed plans. He will also be responsible for adoption
of measures and institutional arrangements to ensure the alignment of the strategy of the agency and its
intemal organization design to maximize both operational efficiency as well as effectiveness of the RRA.
51.   The RRA main office is located in Tashkent, inside the Institute for Irrigation and Mechanization
of Agriculture. In order to ensure a more effective coordination of project implementation, the RRA will
also have liaison offices in each project tuman.
52.    The structure envisaged for the Rural Restructuring Agency is reported in the PIP Annex 5, with a
description of the staffing plan and ToRs of key personnel.
Technical Assistance
53.   The project will provide a Technical Assistance team composed by foreign and local consultants,
who will assist the RRA staff during project implementation. The development and implementation of a
capacity building program for the RRA will be an important aspect of TA activities, in order to ensure
transfer of know-how for a sustainable management of the RESP.
54.   Advice and training for project coordination and management will be provided by international
experts in procurement, finance management, agricultural policy formulation (Farm Restructuring,
Domestic Trade and Price Policy and Crop Rotation), and project monitoring surveys. Additional TA for
project implementation is envisaged with regard to the other project components both from intemational
and local consultants. A complete list of these experts is reported in the PIP Annex 5, with an estimate of
the input required.
- 41 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
UZBEKISTAN: RURAL ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
Local       Foreign        rotal
Project Cost By Component                 US $million    US $million    US $million
Rural Business Advisory Service                             0.62          0.56          1.18
Irrigation and Drainage                                    14.24          0.43         14.67
Rural Finance                                               0.00          5.93         5.93
Sub-Loans for Private Agro-Service Companies                3.20         12.80         16.00
Project Implementation                                      1.28          0.95         2.23
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)                          0.00          1.00          1.00
Total Baseline Cost                                        19.34         21.67        41.01
Physical Contingencies                                     1.16         0.00          1.16
Price Contingencies                                        0.88         0.04          0.92
Total Project Costs              21.38         21.71         43.09
Front-end fee                     0.36          0.36
Total Financing Required               21.38        22.07         43.45
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                 US $million    US $million    US $million
Goods & Equipment                                            0.00           0.90          0.90
Civil Works                                                  15.13          0.00         15.13
Consultant Services                                          2.13           0.88          3.01
Sub-loans to Enterprises                                     3.20          12.80         16.00
Rural Finance Credit                                         0.00           5.93          5.93
Recurrent Costs                                              0.92           0.20          1.12
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)                                          1.00          1.00
I~~~~~~~~~~~
Total Project Costs      21.38         21.71         43.09
Front-end fee                     0.36          0.36
Total Financing Required      21.38         22.07         43.45
Identifiable taxes and dutes are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 43.45 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 3 3. 18% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 42 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
UZBEKISTAN: RURAL ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
The economic analysis presents a rationale for investments under the RESP. The prime focus of
the program activities would be to transfer greater decision making and operation of restructured collective
farms, private individual farms, and agribusinesses from the state to family operators and emerging private
entrepreneurs. The enabling legislative and institutional activities would provide the foundation for this
transfer and establish procedures to support the objective. The post-restructuring activities would help
emerging private farmers develop confidence to participate in a market economy, by providing private input
supply and marketing services, infrastructure rehabilitation and business advisory services. The Rural
Finance component would promote the development of both agricultural and nonagricultural rural
enterprises.
Link to ESW
The Farm Profitability Study (1997-99) makes an assessment of the status and opportunities for
the rural sector. It highlights the reasons for poor productivity and identifies the macro-economic,
institutional and environmental changes required for attaining sustainable agricultural production. The
RESP represents the interpretation of these objectives and would provide the framework for initiating their
achievement.
Links to the CAS
The reform of macroeconomic, institutional and organizational aspects of the rural sector is a main
pillar of the CAS (2/98). Particular emphasis is given to removing regulation of foreign exchange, trade
liberalization, minimizing distortions in the financial sector, and improving incentives for increasing output
and employment opportunities. The proposed project would specifically address price, production and
trade liberalization by removal of controls on cotton and wheat in the project area. It is logical to anticipate
that these adjustments would be further extended throughout the country as soon as improved productivity
is demonstrated. Project activities for piloting credit at commercial terms should contribute a valuable
demonstration for future cooperation with the financial sector. The project would have a direct influence
on improving resource efficiency and raising rural incomes through the I&D and Agro-service center
components, and initiating the transfer of labor from farms to other rural activities under the Rural Finance
component.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Demonstration of Increased Productivity
Crop Models: The cost-benefit analysis of project impact are based on data from three rural surveys
carried out in 1996-97 and updated surveys in 1999-2000 as part of project preparation. The data included
organizational, production and accounting information from collective farrns in different agro-ecological
areas. This data provided the basis for "without project" financial and economic analyses. Data from
"private" farms and research institutes was the basis of potential performance of restructured farm units
under the "with project" situation, to ascertain the impact of the project. These results would be attained as
a result of the combined effects of the incentives from independence of private farm units, the effects of the
business management and advisory services, development of markets and infrastructure and the provision
of credit.
- 43 -



Cost-benefit Analysis: A cost-benefit analysis has been undertaken for farms using representative farm
budgets and gross margin calculations based on economic prices for tradable inputs and outputs. This
analysis applies only to restructured farms which participate in the project. On the cost side, the economic
analysis reflects the expected on-farm costs to be partly financed through seasonal credit, as wel as
investments for on-farm irrigation structures and equipment services estimated at about US $400-500'ha.
Other components of project costs related to national level work were included fully into the economic
analysis (not being pro-rated for the project area). Economic prices have been calculated for maiJor
tradable products using prices and price projections available from issues of the Bank's Business Quarterly.
A conversion factor of I has been used for project costs as no price distortions are expected to affect the
prices of goods to be procured under the Project. Economic values for tradable inputs and outputs are
higher by 30% to 100% than their current financial values. When introduced in farm budgets, the
economic prices show positive results indicating that major crops supported by the Project are
economically justified.
The base ERR for the RESP was estimated to be in the range of 22% to 30%, corresponding to Net Present
Values in the range of $33 to $59 million (assuming a 10% discount rate). A sensitivity analysis has been
undertaken using the following approaches (i) decrease in benefits due to lower gross margins owing to
imperfect input and output markets; (ii) increase in costs owing to underestimation in the project
preparation period; and (iii) slower yield increases owing to delays in project implementation. The analysis
indicates that the ERR is most sensitive to change in the benefit streams. The project is thus justifiec. in
allocating resources for the development of agro-service enterprises, agro-processing facilities and
associated infrastructure to reduce the risk of decrease in the benefit streams.
Main Assumptions:
The critical assumptions made in assessing the costs and benefits are as follows:
*   On the benefit side, it has been estimated that 70% of the farms in the project area would participate
and be able to fully introduce the technological improvements needed within a five-year period. T;his
assumption was based on the observation that the most critical current technological constraints have
been caused by input shortages and poor management of collectivized agriculture.
*   As no support is expected from other projects, all benefits are attributed to the proposed Project. Tlhe
transition to a market-based private farming would not involve radical changes in farm practices at the
onset of the restructuring process.
*   Complete liberalization of prices and production structure during project the implementation period.
*   Farms are expected to reach full development by year 5 following restructuring.
*   The expected technological change would be simple and within the technical capacity of most farmuxrs
in Uzbekistan. The impact of these changes is, however, expected to be substantial. As a result of
better agricultural practices, effective use of inputs, and a market driven crop rotation, yields are
expected to increase 8-34% over a five year period, as shown below:
Yield Without Project            Yield With Project          Increas-
tons/ha                        tons/ha                   (%)
Cotton                       2.16                            2.9                      34
Wheat                        3.13                            3.9                      25
Potatoes                     7.43                            8.4                      13
Fruits and
Vegetables                  10.95                            12.4                     13
Silage                       6.02                            6.5                      8
- 44 -



A financial model has been developed by adopting the gross margin estimates for each crop in the economic
model (which assumed domestic prices equal border prices for all inputs and outputs). The the non-project
base is developed as a base line in which output price is taken as the (current) mix of 90% state order price
and 10% free market price. The project financial gross margins then push this mix to 25% state order price
and 75% free market price. Given that free market prices exceed by 50-100% or more those set by the
state for state order purchases, the financial gross margins in the project case exceed those of the
non-project case by roughly $50 and $400 per hectare for grain and cotton, respectively. This yields a
financial rate of return for farms participating under the project of 117%. Incremental costs for these farms
are $152 per hectare for I&D investments and phased in water charges which reach $75 per hectare in year
15 of the analysis.
Both Economic and Financial Models are presented in the PIP.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Sensitivity Analysis
A sensitivity analysis has been undertaken using the following approaches (i) decrease in benefits due to
lower gross margins owing to imperfect input and output markets; (ii) increase in costs owing to
underestimation in the project preparation period; and (iii) slower yield increases owing to delays in project
implementation. The results of the sensitivity analysis (in economic terms) are as follows:
Base Level of    Benefits 10%       Costs 30%      50% Slower Yield
Parameters     Less than Base    Above Base Case  Increase than Base
Base case is 70%                       Case                                 Case
participation         30.0%                              23.8%
60%                  26.2%             17.5%             20.7%             20.6%
participation         22.3%            15.5%             17.3%             17.8%
50%                                    13.3%                               14.8%
Participation
Gainers and Losers
The farmers will gain with liberalization of prices as they are expected to get the international price
for their output. Government revenue will increase due to income taxes, land taxes and water charges,
although they lose indirect taxes from cotton and wheat farmers from liberalized prices.
Project Sustainability - Cost Recovery
The project has been designed to progressively reduce the dependence on government funding and
to increase private sector participation on the basis of fee for service. Accordingly, in the land registration
component, no new organizations will be created and the project would invest in strengthening of existing
government institutions and make it financially autonomous. The cost recovery would come from fees that
would be charged by the government for future land titling and registration activities which would be
facilitated by the project. The Rural Business Advisory Services component would gradually promote the
payment of service fees. To facilitate this the RBACs are expected to be autonomous and decentralized
with the participation of the local communities. The Sustainability of RBACs will depend upon the value of
- 45 -



its service to farms and agribusinesses. The Rural Finance component will charge commercial rates of
interest, to earn enough, to maintain its value in real terms and cover its cost of capital and intermediation.
Under the I&D component, the rehabilitation investments in on-farm structures would be recoverecl by
charging 8% interest to the beneficiaries and amortizing repayment of principal over 15 years. This would
yield a cost recovery of roughly 50% assuming a long term inflation rate of 13%.
Summary of the Financial Operating Principles under the Rural Finance Component
The Rural Finance component will provide funds to Participating Financial Institutions to be
on-lent to final beneficiaries through sub-loans. The RFC is expected to be disbursed by PFIs as follows:
(USS equivalent):
PYI = 900,000; PY2 = 1,600,000; PY3 = 2,100,000; PY4 = 900,000.
Sub-loans will not exceed US$ 10,000 (per private farner) for seasonal loans and US$ 100,000
for term loans. The government will entrust the overall supervision of the sub-loans with PFIs to the
Ministry of Finance. Short-term sub-loans will have maturities up to 12 months. Term sub-loans will have
maturities up to five years. Interest rate on sub-loans in dollar terms (interest for seasonal and term loars)
would be market-determined (and expected to be in the range of 5-20%). Late repayments (both on
interests and principal) would be charged penalty interest.
The Credit Guidelines for these sub-loans would be as follows. Each Sub-loan will have to be
made to a beneficiary which shall have established to the satisfaction of the PFI that it is an enterprise,
engaged in agricultural production or agribusiness, that has completed legal procedures concerning farm
restructuring or privatization (fifty-one percent private ownership) and has provided financial statements to
the PFI and a plan for use of funds and projected earnings. Sub-loans shall be made for sub-projects which
demonstrate that they:
(a) are related to the type of business in which an Beneficiary is engaged;
(b) are technically feasible and financially and commercially viable;
(c) attain financial rates of return on proposed sub-projects which exceed 15% .
(d) possess cash flow is adequate to meet debt servicing;
(e) are designed in accordance with appropriate environmental standards and the laws of the Republic of
Uzbekistan.
(f) satisfy a collateral ratio of at least 1.2 over the life of the project, calculated on the basis of the entity's
debt and a cash flow coverage ratio of 1.5;
The Rural Finance component funds will be available to all PFIs meeting the eligibility critelia
shown below. A subsidiary loan agreement may be entered into with a PFI which as the Central Bank shal I
have determined:
(a) has an acceptable audit report which: (i) covers the last year of operations; (ii) incorporates a portfolio
review; and (iii) is prepared by external auditors in accordance with International Accounting Standards
("IAS");
- 46 -



(b) has been in existence and has produced operating results for a minimum of two years; provided that in
the case of a merger or reorganization of two or more PFIs, at least one PFI existed and produced operating
results for minimum of two years;
(c) has a network of branches with experience in extending loans both shirkats and to individual farmers;
(d) has a capital adequacy ratio as defined under IAS of at least 8%, incorporating a risk-weighted ratio as
determined by the Basel Committee of Banking Supervision;
(e) has provided a certificate of compliance from CBA stating that: (i) it has a valid banking license and
specifying type and date of license; and (ii) the PFI is in general compliance with all relevant banking laws
and regulations of the Republic of Uzbekistan;
(f) does not have exposure to any one borrower as a percent of its IAS capital of more than 30 percent by
the date of its accreditation as a PFI;
(g) has aggregate exposure to insiders (defined as council members, members of the Management Board of
such PFI, employees in a management position and shareholders with voting rights in excess of 10 percent)
of no more than 100 percent of IAS capital as of the date of its accreditation as a PFI;
(h) on the basis of the audit report referred to in (a) above, has adopted adequate policies and procedures
with respect to credit administration, loan servicing, and other key areas of banking practice;
(i) has established capacity, for credit, accounting, and to manage investment lending to
enterprises; and
(1) has adopted a strategic corporate plan with specific arrangements to strengthen its capacity for credit,
analysis, loan approval, accounting and environmental assessment for management of investment lending.
Funds will be allocated to PFIs on the basis of competitive tenders for access to four trenches of
such funds, with the proposals under the tenders to be evaluated with the following set of criteria and
respective weighting:
-47 -



Recommended Weights in Tenders for Medium and Short-Term Loans
Recommended       Recommended Weights for Medium Term Loans
Weights for Short
Term Loans
Past Repayment               25.0%                              25.0%
Credit Procedures            15.0%                              15.0%
Branches in Place in         15.0%                              10.0%
Rural Areas
Number of Past Loans         15.0%                              10.0%
Volume of Past Loans         10.0%                              15.0%
Experience with              10.0%                              15.0%
Collateral
Deposit Creation*            10,0%                              10.0%
* Deposit Creation is the ratio of Deposits to Total Liabilities.
- 48 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
UZBEKISTAN: RURAL ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
Years Ending
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
Year I    Year 2  | Year 3     Year 4     Year 5     Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           1.2       14.7       13.8       9.4        2.7
Recurrent Costs            0.1        0.3        0.3        0.3       0.2
Total Project Costs          1.3       15.0       14.1       9.7        2.9       0.0       0.0
Front-end fee    0.4        0.0        0.0        0.0
[Total Financing              1.7       15.0      14.1        9.7       2.9        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   1.5       13.4      11.9        7.5        1.8
Government                0.2         1.0       1.2        1.2       0.5
Central
Provincial
Co-financiers
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0        0.6        1.0        1.0       0.6
Others                    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     1.7       15.0       14.1        9.7       2.9       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 49 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
UZBEKISTAN: RURAL ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
Procurement
Procurement Procedures
1.    Procurement of goods and civil works for the project would follow World Bank guidelines, (
Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, Washington, D.C.: World Bank,
January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). The appropriate
standard procurement documents issued by the Bank will be used with the minimum changes acceptabl; to
the Bank. Selection of consultants for technical assistance and training would follow World Bank
guidelines. (Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowe.rs:
Washington, D.C: World Bank, 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999). Selection ;and
contracts shall be based on the standard forms issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as slhall
have been agreed with the Bank. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in "Developinent
Business", no later than June 1, 2001, informing potential bidders of procurement activities and the
expected release of bidding documents. A new Procurement Notice will be issued at the beginning of each
subsequent fiscal year (January) of the project. A Project Launch Workshop will be conducted in Tashkent,
Uzbekistan, during the first calendar quarter following Board presentation, where project components,
organization and implementation arrangements, procurement methods, and disbursement procedures to be
used for project-financed contracts would be reviewed with project staff, beneficiaries and potentially
interested participants.
Procurement Arrangements
2.     Project Implementation Unit. The Rural Restructuring Agency (RRA) is the agency responsible
for implementing the proposed Rural Enterprise Support Project. It was established at the end of 1998
under the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (MAWR) to coordinate the implementation of the
RESP, and has been executing the current US$1,000,000 Project Preparation Facility (P321-0-UZ). A11
procurement for the project under the loan would be coordinated and processed by RRA prior o.o
submission to the Bank. The agency has responsibility for all procurement activities under the project,
including compliance with the World Bank procurement procedures for all components.
3.    Procurement Capacity. The RRA has a Procurement Department with two procurement staff, but
their experience is limited to some IS/NS packages executed under the current PPF and to a one-week
training provided by an internationally recruited consultant. They have no experience at all in both
selection/hiring of consultants and other type of more complicated non-ICB or ICB procurement, which
makes us propose to rate the risk in procurement operations as high. Under the current PPF, an
international Russian-speaking procurement consultant was hired for a 6-month period to assist RRA in
preparing the procurement documentation while providing general guidance and on-hands training on
procurement financed by the Bank. It is expected that this consultant will continue assisting RRA afler
project implementation starts, to cover a 12-month period.
4.     The Director of the RRA will be responsible for overall management and supervision of project
procurement. Procurement related activities will be initiated by trained staff located in each of the RRA
Tuman level office, but executed by procurement specialists at the Tashkent office of the RRA. The RRA
will be responsible, with periodic foreign technical assistance, for procurement of irrigation and drainage
- 50 -



works and the machinery under the Agro-service Center component. It is expected that the irrigation and
drainage (I&D) component's civil works, due to both the remoteness of the sites and their relatively low
estimated cost, will be undertaken mainly by local enterprises, with contracts awarded mainly through NCB
procedures.
5.    Performance of procurement staff would be assessed during project supervision missions with
appropriate measures being recommended. Bank staff will also be involved in prior reviews of required
procurement documentation and actions, and will carry out post-reviews of a sampled portion of
intemational shopping, national competitive bidding and local shopping procurements under all
components, including the medium tenn loans under the Rural Finance Component. Procurement
procedures are described in the following paragraphs and summarized in Tables 6AI, 6A2, and 6A3. The
project procurement plan providing details of various procurement packages is presented in Table 6B.
Contracts financed under this Loan will be signed only with entities or individuals eligible as per the Bank
procurement guidelines.
Pre-identified Procurement and Procurement under Sub-Credits
6.    The Credit Agreement reflects both the procurement packages already pre-identified in the
Procurement Plan to be procured directly by RRA and the purchases of basically goods resulting from the
beneficiary sub-credit agreements.
Pre-identified Procurement Packages
Procurement of Goods
7.    International Competitive Bidding (ICB): Goods and equipment, estimated to cost above
US$100,000 per contract, such as vehicles and computer equipment would be packaged and procured
under ICB procedures. ICB contracts for supply computer equipment, office furniture and vehicles are
expected to be about 2 in number for an aggregate amount of US$1,092,800.
8.    International Shopping (IS): International Shopping will be used for readily available, off-the-shelf
goods valued at less than US$100,000 per contract. IS procurements would be based on quotations
obtained from at least three eligible suppliers in two different Bank-member countries.
9.    National Shopping (NS): National Shopping would be used for goods contracts for supply of farm
survey equipment where the desired goods are ordinarily available locally from more than two eligible
sources at competitive prices for purchases valued at US$50,000 or less per contract. For pre-identified
procurement, NS will be allowed up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$3 1,000 in loan funds.
Civil Works
10.   Intemational Competitive Bidding. Infrastructure-related civil works will consist of rehabilitation
of irrigation canals, water control structures, pumping stations, drainage canals, processing facilities and
other types of infrastructures under the Irrigation and Drainage Component. The ICB threshold for works
contracts would be US$300,000 and above.
11.   National Competitive Bidding. NCB procedures will be used for works contracts estimated to cost
less than US$300,000 each, basically one for refurbishment of central RRA office and the remaining in
remote areas. In pre-identified procurement it is expected about 27 contracts in remote areas, for an
- 51 -



estimated aggregate amount of USS3,686,000.
12.   Minor Civil Works. For fixed-price contracts below USS50,000 quotations of at least 3 eligible
and qualified national construction firms will be required. Office renovations, minor land leveling,
irrigation and drainage works involving about 11 contracts and averaging about US$29,000 each in credit
funds, would be procured as small works, under these procedures. In pre-identified procurement, it MCW
contracts are expected to amount to about US$320,340.
Procurement Under the Credit Lines in the Rural Finance Component and under the Agro-service
Component
13.    Credit Lines under the Rural Finance Component. In the first year of project implementation,
Agency procurement specialists, in coordination with the PFIs, would assist the privatized farmers and
enterprises with procurement planning and purchasing activities. In subsequent years, Agency assistance
will be provided on an as-needed basis. Since credit line resources will be obtained under Sub-borrower
risk and Sub-borrowers are assumed to act in their own best economic interests, more flexible procurement
procedures will be allowed. Given the private, commercial nature of the Sub-borrowers, the following
procurement thresholds will apply: (i) Intemational Shopping is available for procurement of goods
contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000; (ii) National Shopping is available for procuremeni of
goods contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000; (iii) Commercial Practices are expected in tile
purchases of some equipment and other goods estimated to costs below US$10,000, transactions will have
to be both traceable and auditable; (iv) procurement of fixed-price works contracts expected to less than
US$50,000 will be carried out on the basis of quotations of at least 3 eligible and qualified national
construction firms. No procurement of goods or civil works contracts above US$100,000 are expected.
Procurement of technical and consultant services will be procured using Bank Guidelines, and will be
conducted under the guidance of RRA specialists. Sub-loan agreements between the farmers / farms /
enterprises and the PFIs would provide for the relevant procurement procedures, depending upon the needs
of the sub-loan business plans. The Bank will review and approve these procedures, in general, as an
element of the Bank-approved PFIs on-lending Operations Manual, which will be submitted for B2nk
review before May 1, 2001.
14.   Agro-service  Component. Agency  procurements  specialists, in  coordination  with  the
sub-borrowers (each of the agro-service centers) would manage the procurement planning and purchasing
activities for all contracts tendered under the Agro-service Center component.  Given the private,
commercial nature of the sub-borrowers, flexible procurement thresholds will apply: (i) ICB for
procurement of goods contracts estimated to cost above US$100,000 and for and civil works contra,cts
estimated to cost above USS300,000; (ii) IS for procurement of goods contracts estimated to cost less than
US$100,000; (iii) NCB for procurement of civil works contracts estimated to cost less than USS300,00C0;
(iv) NS is available for procurement of goods contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000; and (v) civ il
works contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 will be procured as indicated in paragraph 12
above.
Technical Assistance
15.          The project would finance technical assistance and training activities for farmers, potential
sub-borrowers, newly established private input supply or agro-processing entities, farm management
advisors and other program staff, and basic institutional development, such as involved with thel
management of credit administration. A number of short-term and long-term consulting services for variou,
specialized activities such as farm privatization, credit, accounting and financial systems, construction
- 52 -



management, etc., would be provided within the project.
16.    CDnsulting services required for project implementation in the fields of procurement, financial
management, legal, environmental and other advisory services will be basically procured on the basis of
hiring qualified individuals. Selection of individual consultants would be made based on quality, through
comparison of CVs of eligible candidates quality by comparison of at least three CVs indicating
candidates' skill areas, work experience, etc. It is expected about 42 of such contracts. Contracts with
individual consultants estimated to cost more than US$20,000 shall be advertised. Procurement of
consulting services through hiring of firmns will be limited to audit services and study tours. Least Cost
Selection will be the preferred method for procuring contracts estimated to cost USS30,000 and above, for
an aggregate amount of US$141,000, and for contracts estimated to cost below US$100,000, selection
based on Consultants Qualification, for an approximate aggregate of USS1,445,560.
Prior and Post Reviews
17.    All ICB procurement will be subject to Bank's prior review. The Bank will also pre-review the first
two contracts procured under, MCW, IS and NS procedures, and every works and goods contract
estimated to cost US5150,000 and above. Consultant assignments estimated to cost US$100,000 and above
with consulting firms, and assignments estimated to cost US$25,000 and above with individuals will be
also subject to prior review by the Bank. Prior review shall apply to contract amendments which result in
prior review threshold levels, as well as all consultanit terms of reference, and selection and staff or
consultant assignments of critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank. Post-review efforts by a
PAS will be planned by Bank staff during supervision missions to sample tenders of the International
Shopping, National Competitive Bidding, National Shopping and Commercial Practices associated with
Credit Line purchases.
Incremental Operating Costs
18.   Incremental operating costs consist of incremental staff salaries, vehticle operating costs, office
supplies, office communication expenses, etc. as per approved budget. Procurement of small equipment,
supplies and office equipment maintenance services, etc under operatinig costs will be done at market rates
and/or in accordance with National Shopping procedures
- 53 



Procurement methods (Table A)
The aggregations below in Table A were made on the basis of the appraisal mission and adjusted sligltly
during Negotiations as consultant services were reduced and the Rural Finance component was incre: sed
by $430,000
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category              ICB              NCB           Other'         N. B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                              11.12             3.69           0.32          0.00         15.13
(8.48)           (2.84)         (0.25)        (0.00)       (11.57)
2. Goods                              0.87              0.00           0.03          0.00         0.90
(0.87)           (0.00)         (0.03)        (0.00)       (0.90)
3. Services                           0.00              0.00           3.01          0.00         3.01
(0.00)           (0.00)         (3.01)        (0.00)       (3.01)
4. Rural Finance and                   0.00             0.00           21.93         0.00         21.93
Agro-service Components
(0.00)           (0.00)        (18.73)        (0.00)       (18.73)
5. Front-end fee                      0.00              0.00           0.36          0.00         0.36
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.36)        (0.00)       (0.36)
Operations Costs                      0.00              0.00           1.12          0.00          1.12
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.57)        (0.00)       (0.57)
PPF                                   0.00              0.00           1.00          0.00          1.00
(0.00)           (0.00)         (1.00)        (0.00)       (1.00)
Total                              11.99             3.69           27.77          0.00        43.45
.__________________________          (935)            (2.84)         (23.95)        (0.00)      (36.14)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) implementing the Rural Business Advisory
Services component.
- 54 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category   QCBS    QBS    SFB    LCS       CQ     Other   N.B.F.  Total Cost
A. Firms              0.44    0.00    0.00    0.14      1.45    0.00    0.00      2.03
(0.44)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.14)   (1.45)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (2.03)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.99    0.00      0.99
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.99)  (0.00)   (0.99)
Total  0.44    0.00    0.00    0.14     1.45    0.99    0.00      3.02
(0.44)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.14)   (1.45)  (0.99)  (0.00)   (3.02)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 55 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prioi Review
Contract Value                                  Contracts Subject to
Threshold               Procurement               Prior Review
Expenditure Category       (US$ thousands)               Method                 (US$ miHons)
1. Works                          300>                      ICB                      11.12
<300                     NC'B                        3.6"
<50                     MCW                          O.__. ;2
2. Goods                          I 00>                     ICB                       0.87
<100                       iS                       0.0'
<50                         _0. ___
3. Services
Firms                             30>                       LCS                       0.14
Individuals                       <30                       CQ                        1.45
Individuals   _____   _________                             3C__s                     .98     _
4. Rural Finance and    All above thresholds                                          TBE
Agro-services                     <10               Commercial Practices                  -
Component ________
5. Operations Costs               N/A     _     l._         N/A      _                N/A   _
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed; Gne every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Ex-Post review procurement will be part of the supervision missions and will be carried out by a PAS. A
procurement capacity assessment of the PIU was carried out and it was decided that the PIIJ should be
classified within the high risk zone. A plan to strengthen procurement capacity has bezn devised and it
included the hiring, for at least one year. of an intemational procu-rement consultant to provide advice an -
hands-on training of the PIU's procurement staff
By the time of Board presentation, a year of procurerment documentation wvill be ready. A project launch
workshop is estimated to be taking place in the third quarter of fiscal year 2002. No advance procuremert
is expected. There is a simple procurement monitoring system that was reviewed during the project
appraisal mission and which is being improved since arrival of the foreign procurement consultant.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 56 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million          Financing Percentage
Works                                      11.24                         77%
Goods                                      12.67          100% of foreign expenditures, 100 % of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
80% of local expenditures for
other items procured locally
Consultants' services including training   2.88                         100%
Subloans under Part C of the Project       5.93                100% of amount disbursed
Incremental operating Costs                0.47          80% for expenditures incurred up to June
30, 2003; 60% for expenditures incurred
up to June 30, 2004; and 40% thereafter
Refunding of Project Preparation            1.00          Amounts due pursuant to Section 2.02
Advance                                                        (b) of the Loan Agreement
Fee                                        0.36            Amount due under Section 2.04 of the
Loan Agreement
Unallocated                                 1.59
Total Project Costs                        36.14
Front-end fee         0.00
Total                                      36.14
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Pending the Bank's full satisfaction of Borrower's financial management capability, disbursements
from the special account would be limited to SOEs on contracts valued at less than US$150,000 for works
and goods, US$ 100,000 for consulting firms and US$25,000 for individual consultants and contracts under
sub-loans, training and incremental operating costs.  Once the Bank is satisfied with the financial
management capability of the Borrower, these thresholds would be raised and the requirement for
submission of supporting documents would be adjusted accordingly. Full documentation in support of
SOEs would be retained by RRA for three years. This information would be available for review during
supervision by Bank staff and for annual audits conducted by auditors and on terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank that will be required to specifically comment on the propriety of SOE disbursements and the
quality of the associated record-keeping. A move to PMR-based disbursements will be made at the mutual
agreement of the Government and the Bank once the RRA is familiar with the project's monitoring aspects
and is considered able to produce sufficiently timely and reliable project management information. A
change to PMR-based disbursements will be considered by September 30, 2002.
Special account:
1)    To facilitate timely project implementation, the borrower would establish, maintain and operate,
under condition acceptable to the Bank, a special accounts in US dollars in a commercial bank. Selection
- 57 -



process and criteria for selection of the commercial bank would follow the World Bank standard selection
procedures. During the early stage of the project, the initial allocation of the Special Account would be
limited to US$500,000. However, when the aggregate disbursement under the loan has reached the level of
US$2.5 million, the initial allocation may be increased up to the authorized allocation by submitting the
relevant Application of Withdrawal. Replenishment applications should be submitted every three months,
and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
The special account shall be maintained by RRA to facilitate implementation project components.
The Special Accounts will be audited annually by independent auditors and on terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank.
Financial Management:
1.    General. The overall responsibility for financial management of the project will rest with the RRA
in Tashkent. At the time of project appraisal, the financial management capacity of the RRA wias
determined to be weak and insufficient to perform the financial management of the RESP. Subsequertly,
the financial management capacity of the RRA was strengthened prior to Board presentation as a
time-bound Financial Management Action Plan to achieve as much was implemented. This Action Plan is
included in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) together with the overall schema for the project's flow of
funds and the general financial management controls that will be applied.
2.    Staffing. The RRA already has a Chief Accountant and an Accountant to support the accounting
requirements of the Project Preparation Facility. An international financial management adviser was
engaged during project preparation and will be retained throughout project implementation to advise on the
financial management arrangements of the project. Additionally, one other accountant will be recruitect to
the RRA during project implementation.
3.    Financial management risks. The financial management risks for Uzbekistan have not been the
subject of a detailed review by the Bank. However, primarily because of other implementation
considerations, any weaknesses that may exist in the financial accountability and management capacity
within Uzbekistan have been mitigated for this project by using the RRA. Specific weaknesses of the RRA
in respect of its financial management capacity and accountability are being addressed by the recruitment
of a financial management consultant who was engaged during project preparation and will be retained
throughout project implementation to advise on the financial management arrangements of the project.
Weaknesses in the Uzbekistan banking sector will be mitigated by the use of a bank deemed eligible by tle
Bank to hold the project's Special Account and the receipt from that bank of a comfort letter. However,
these weaknesses neither compromise the fiduciary responsibilities of the Borrower nor of the Bank.
4.    Project Management Reporting (PMRs). The format of the PMRs for the project has been agreed
with the RRA and is enclosed in the PIP. The RRA will produce a complete set of PMRs for every
calendar quarter throughout the life of the project.
5.    Audit arrangements. The project will be audited annually by extemal auditors acceptable to the
Bank and on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank as presented in the PIP. The appointment of the
auditors is a condition of Project Effectiveness. The audit of the project's financial statements will te
completed within six months of the end of every fiscal year of project implementation and the cost of the
audit will be financed from the loan.
- 58 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
UZBEKISTAN: RURAL ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
Project Schedule                                   Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       18                           42
First Bank mission (identification)              01/01/1997                   01/01/1997
Appraisal mission departure                      02/10/1998                   06/05/2000
Negotiations                                     04/10/1998                   12/04/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    08/15/1998                   03/31/2002
Prepared by:
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Salem Gafsi                       Former TTL
Mark Lundell                       TTL, Senior Agricultural Economist
Bekzod Shamsiev                    Operations Officer
Giuseppe Fantozzi                  Project Officer, Project Costs
Mahwash Wasiq                      Operations Analyst, LogFrame
K. Srish Kumar                     Financial Analyst
Nilufar Egamberdi                  Social Assessment
Jose Martinez                      Procurement
Ranjan Ganguli                    Financial Management Specialist
Nikolai Soubbotin                  Legal Counsel
Hannah Koilpillai                  Disbursement Officer
Joop Stoutjesdijk                  Peer Reviewer - Irrigation Engineer
Lorenz Pohlmeier                   Peer Reviewer - Sr. Financial Analyst
Rodrigo Chaves                     Peer Reviewer - Sr. Financial Economist
Arrigo Di Carlo                    Consultant, Water Sector Institutions and Project Management
David Bontempo                    Program Assistant, QA/QC
* Note on Appraisal - the mission in June 2000 was a re-Appraisal. Original Appraisal mission took place
in November 1997.
- 59 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
UZBEKISTAN: RURAL ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Final Draft of the PIP - January 2001
B. Bank Staff Assessments
- Environmental Management Plan - August 2000
- Environmental Assessment - March 1998
- Social Assessment - November 1997
* All above are present in the PIP
C. Other
*Including electronic files
- 60 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
UZBEKISTAN: RURAL ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                   disbursements
Project ID    FY  Purpose                              IBRD      IDA                     Cancel.  Undisb.    Orig  Frm Rev'd
P050508     2000 URBAN TRANS                              2900     000                        0 00    28.27     0.21    0.00
P009131     1999 FIN INSTBLDG                             25.00    0.00                       0.00    22.16     3.86    0.00
P009125     1999 HEALTH I                                 30.00    0.00                       0.00    25.62     8.92    0.00
P009121     1998 RURALWS & SAN                           75.00     0.00                       0.00    55.22    -1.28    0.00
P049582     1998 TASHKENTSOLIDWASTE                       24.00    0.00                       0.00    20.80    10.00    -2.20
P055159     1998 ENTINSTBLDG                              28.00    000                        0.00    25.23     7.53    0.00
P009122     1995 COTTON SUB-SECTOR IMPROVEMENT           66.00     0.00                       0.00    24.78    24.78    24.78
Total:    277.00    0 00                      0.00    202.08    54.01    22.58
UZBEKISTAN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                            Disbursed
IFC                                 IFC
FY Approval           Company                           Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1996                 ABN AMRO Uzbek                     0.00     1.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     1.00      0.00     0.00
1999                 Asaka Bank                        10.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
1997                 Core Pharm                         3.35     0.50      0.00     0.00     3.35     0.50      0.00     0.00
1999                 NBU-SME                           15.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
2000                  SEF Asia Granite                  1.65     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
1999                 SEF Elma Cheese                    0.58     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.47     0.00      0.00     0.00
1997                 SEF Fayz                           1.90     0.50     0.00      0.00     1.90     0.50      0.00     0.00
1995/00              UZBEK LEASING                      0.00     0.30      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
1997                 UzCase Agrolease                   5.00     1.00      0.00     5.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
1997                 Uzcasemash                         6.80     2.60      0.00     4.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:           44.28     5.90      0.00      9.00     5.72     2.00      0.00     0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval          Company                              Loan      Equity      Quasi      Partic
2001                 SEF Hamkorbank                        0.00   2000.00        0.00       0.00
2001                 SEF Parvina CL                        0.00    1000.00       0.00       0.00
1999                 ABN-SME                           5000.00        0.00       0.00       0.00
1999                 Arsin                            12260.00        0.00    1467.00       0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        17260.00   3000.00    1467.00         0.00
- 61 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
UZBEKISTAN: RURAL ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Central     Low-
Uzbekistan      Asia  income         Development diamond*
1999
Population, mid-vear (millions)                         24.4       475      2,417                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                      720      2,150       410
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                        17.6      1,022      988
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                           1.8        0.1       1.9
Labor force (%)                                          2.6        0.6       2.3     GNP                               Gross
per    I                    + primaryl
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                                 capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)     .               ..                             i 
Urban Population (% of total population)                 37         67        31
Life expectancv at birth (vears)                         70         69        60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 22         22        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               19          8        43                 Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)         57         ..        64
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                       1         3         39                   Uzbekit
Gross primary enrollment (%of school-agn population)     100       100         96               -   zbekIsan
Male                                                  100        101       102                   Low-income group
Female                                                100         99        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                              ..        ..       17.6      17.7
Gross domestic investment/GDP                              ..      16.9      15.1                      Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                         ..      22.3       19.3
Gross domestic savinqs/GDP                       ..       ..       16.5      15.8                        T
Gross national savinqs/GDP                                 ..      16.1      15.0
Current account balance/GDP                      .         .       -0.7      -0.1     Domestic
Interest pavments/GDP                                     ..        0.7       0.9     S                             Investment
Total debt/GDP                                             ..      18.6      24.0     S
Total debt service/exports                                ..       11.1      16.3
Present value of debt/GDP                        ..                17.7      21.3
Present value of debt/exports                   .. -              94.3      119.1
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                                      4.4       4.4        2.8             - Uzbekistan
GNP Per capita                                           3.1       2.1        1.2                --Low-income group
Exports of qoods and services                          -11.8       -1.9       2.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Aqriculture                                     ..    31.1         31.3      32.9
Industrv                                         -      32.6      26.2       24.5
Manufacturinq                                  ..    22.1        11.4        ..                         96   97   98   99
Services                                         ..    36.3       42.5       42.6     -5
Private consumDtion                              ..    78.1        73.5      74.5    -la
General qovernment consumption                           3.4       10.0       9.7              -GDI           --C-GDP
Imports of qoods and services                             ..      22.7       18.6
1979-89  1989-99       1998      1999      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Aqriculture                                             -0.2        4.0       5.9    sO
Industry                                         .      -4.0       2.3        4.0
Manufacturing                                  .40
Services                                                 0.9        5.9       3.7
Private consumption                              .        ..         ..        ..            94    9      9-
General qovernment consumption                  ..        ..                         -40
Gross domestic investment                       ..        .          .         ..po
Imports of qoods and services                    .       0.2     -23.9      -12.2            -    xports       S Imps
Gross national product                           ,       0.5        5.0       3.9
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
*The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comDared with its income-grouD average. If data are missing. the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 62 -



Uzbekistan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                     2.0,
(% change)
Consumer prices                                 ..       ..      29.0      29.1    1,5o0
Implicit GDP deflator                           ..       ..       38.9     38.5     1 .00 0
Govemrnent finance                                                                   soo
(% of GDP, includes current.orants)                                                 |
Current revenue                                 ..        .       31.2     30.5               94   95   96   97   98    9
Current budget balance                           .        .        4.5      5.0             -    GDP deflator    O  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..                -3.2     -2.6
TRADE
1979     1989       1998     1999
(USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..       ..    3,029      2,946    s.oo
Cotton                                         ,.             41900
Gold6
Manufactures                                   ..        ..       18       35000r
Total imports (cit)                              .3,125                   2.841     Z 
Food51                                                                    40
Fuel and energy100
Capital goods                                                  1,554     1,394       0
93  94  95  96   9    6 9
Export price index (1995=100)                                      90        89
Import price index (1995=100)                                      99       103                 a Exports     U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=f00)                        -                 90        87
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
rUSS millions)                               1979     1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                   ..       ..    3,295      3,170      2 T
Imports of coods and services                   ..       ..    3,359      3,059
Resource balance                                                  -64       ill
Net income                                                       -101      -174
Net current transfers                                                               1 2
Current account balance                                          -122       -14
Financing items (net)                           ..       ..       123        88
Changes in net reserves                                            -1       -74
Memo:
Reserves includinq qold (USS millions)                          1 168     1.242
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                          -      80.7     115.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989       1998     1999
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            ..        .     3,260     4,253
IBRD                                                            177       203                 G 359  A:25 3
IDA                                           ..       ..         0                                             9
Total debt service                              ..       ..       367       518                                   D:t69
IBRD                                          ..       ..        10        12
IDA                                           ..       ..         0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               ..       ..        28
Official creditors                            ..       ..       128       372        F. 183C                      E: 1,493
Private creditors                                               392       627
Foreiqn direct investment                     ..       ..       140       121
Portfolio equity                             ..        .          0         0
World Bank proqram
Commitments                                  ..        ..        82        25     A - iSRD                     E - talera
Disbursements                                ..        ..        13        28     3.IDA    D- Otrer'xu latera   F ^.va:e
Pnncipal repayments                          ..        ..         0         1     C - IM                       G - Sho-te'm
Net fows                                      ..       ..        13        27
Interest payments                            ..        ..        10        11
Net transfers                                ..        ..         3        16
Development Economics                                                                                                 8/31100
-63 -






IBRD 28006R2
55                                                         60                                                         65'                                                          703
KAZAKH-TAN                                                                                                                    UZBEKISTAN
KAZAKHSTAN                           ' '                       ,Xu 
SELECTED CITIES
Ta*"'6T ;          /    -- '';                                                                                                                                                   t     LLJ- \ @ OBLAST CAPITALS
1.                            /          'A!y   X>rc!                                                                                                                       .#  X  6  NATIONAL CAPITAL
/  ;  Sea                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN ROADS
RAILROADS
J|                             t;--?               'X''<i;    %                                                              1                                            ----  RIVERS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
990 1-/dAfi 
'990 le(- ofArc!SeS)
..   |                                R                         eYc    m   eo                                                   b    i                        .}      K A Z A K H S T A N                               >   .
Nukus                                                                                                                                                                    KYRGYZ
/no                                  Toen Loro11ro1son12 oFsjI boenddu nes&:~ -                                                                                                    1       2w.        x5i    
5Se;5  '                                                                                                                                                                                                              T . eu,   
ThS   r4ooo doR OF'~oo IRAN ooo eofoc                        ToUR7'\PKMENSTAN                                                                                                                                            -
Uch6d.kn Ois mop do nor oopJy ood,opo,of toW dO Boo2
C,oooo orry jodgoneor or~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SC IC5oI orohs ot oorrcrrrory or orn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,g
code en rrr or eec,npreneo oFo A booodench
v.* --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-yl
75  50- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  ~~~~~~~~~egn
KAZAKHS AN                      r    TURKrNISTA
Arc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TJKSA
-5      60~~~         10.             C       9
no    &~~o"-rr `s          JKYRGYZ REP .TroSry~0  - 43-                     0 25 5075 100  ,2r..e-K"" -I
~r~'1~   r    CHINAI 
r        VAJIK5TAN~~~~~~~~~~~0o ~~0    25    5                                  75    OI  i6AFGHANISTAN                                                                                                                           -
I5143IC REPJBLIC                  t         NAKNLAIA           IRO IAN0
OP IRAN  ArEG5ANI0TAN  I  .toERRNATIRAN,T.7dK 6T\
OF)R_____N                                                                                                                       65 OrNAP   IMtr  0c'                                                                                    1AKSA



