Report No. PID5977
Project Name                     Uzbekistan-Rural Enterprise Support...
Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Other Agriculture
Project ID                       UZPE046043
Borrower(s)                      REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND
WATER RESOURCES (MAWR)
Address: 4, Navoy Street, Tashkent,
700004, Republic of Uzbekistan
Contact Person: Deputy Minister
Abduvokid M. Juraev
Tel: 998 711 412692 or 410020
Fax: 998 711 412574 or 413292
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                March 27, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         May 30, 2000
Projected Board Date             September 20, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
The main issue facing the agricultural sector is the lack of farmers'
incentives to improve production and productivity. This lack of
motivation is a result of the de-facto continued public sector domination
of the agro-industrial complex. This control has been exercised through
the state order system, which dictates the cropping pattern down to the
collective farm level; the settlement account system, which limits
farmers' access to their own financial resources; and the monopolistic
input supply, agro-processing, and marketing systems, which deprive
farmers of choice, raise the cost of their purchases, and lower the price
of their sales. Moreover, the lack of funds for proper operation and
maintenance (O&M), and rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage (I&D)
infrastructure, has led to serious deterioration of the irrigation and
drainage systems (both off-farm and on-farm). Weaknesses in canal
operations and management at all levels within the irrigation system
result in huge water losses, widespread and severe water and soil
salinization, declining crop yields, and loss of once-productive
agricultural lands. A reform process to address these issues had been
initiated under the Rehabilitation Loan and the Cotton Sub-Sector
Improvement Project, and a comprehensive farm restructuring program was
devised, with implementation beginning in 1998. Uzbekistan's current
overall agricultural strategy is outlined in the government's "Program for
Strengthening of Economic Reforms in Agriculture during 1998-2000",
published in March 1998.    The strategy was further elaborated in at least
four laws designed to enable the program's implementation, namely: the
Land Code; the Law on Agricultural Cooperatives (Shirkats); the Law on
Private Farms; and the Law on Dekhkan Farms. The key issues on the
sectoral agenda for reform relate to: (i) further reforms in policies of



pricing and marketing for creating efficient and competitive markets for
inputs and outputs, which include: the phasing out of state orders,
fostering private sector participation in input supply, marketing and
processing; (ii) improved provision of services for rural communities,
including better access to commercial financial services, as well as
advisory services on business development, financial management, new
technology and legal matters; and (iii) improvements in land tenure and
farm organization to increase security of possession, and to ease transfer
of land rights, improve incentives for investment in land and I&D
infrastructures, and create incentives for more efficient farm
management. These issues have been discussed with Government in the
context of the Rehabilitation Loan, the Cotton Sub-Sector Project, and in
the course of preparation of the RESP.
2. Objectives
The Rural Enterprise Support Project (RESP) aims to increase the
profitability and sustainability of agriculture through the privatization
and restructuring of farming and associated agribusiness activities. To
that end, the Government prepared a multi-year investment program to
support the restructuring of collective farms and associated agricultural
enterprises into privately operated units. The RESP, extending over four
years, focuses on initiating post-restructuring technical and financial
support to qualifying newly constituted private farms and agribusiness
units in five selected Tumans. If the implementation of the RESP proves
successful over the period 2002-2004, the Bank could then pursue a further
investment program with the Government to provide similar
post-restructuring support to a larger number of farms and rural
enterprises country-wide. The RESP has been designed to meet the following
development objectives: (i) increase profitability and productivity in the
agricultural sector; (ii) support the emergence of private sector
initiatives; and (iii) ensure sustainability of the agricultural sector
through rehabilitation of Irrigation and Drainage (I&D) systems and
improved farm management. Post-restructuring support is planned for the
following five Tumans (Districts): Akhangaran (Tashkent), Ellikalin
(Karakalpakstan), Marhamat (Andijan), Nishan (Kashkadarya) and Sherabad
(Surkhandarya). Enabling conditions to be introduced under this project
would include: (i) devolution of farm management functions to families and
private commercial farmers to harness more dedicated labor effort by the
rural population; (ii) elimination of barriers which prevent private
sector initiatives in input supply, output marketing and processing; (iii)
provision of credit, machinery and advisory services for such initiatives;
(iv) reduction in domestic trade impediments; and (v) creation of
participatory irrigation management institutions.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has extensive experience in the region in identifying and
introducing best practices in the development of land reform legislation,
restructuring of farm support services, introduction of participatory
irrigation management, and lending to rural private-sector agribusiness
enterprises. The Bank's regional experience and professional and
financial resources position it well to assist the Government of
Uzbekistan in post-privatization support of the rural sector, which
involves a complex interplay of economic, social, and political factors,
which often compete with one another. This experience manifests itself in
the formulation of the structure of the RESP in the following ways: i)
-2 -



Focusing on improvements in the legislation/procedures for the
registration of land use rights and movable property using existing
administrative bodies. The project does not aim to establish an
integrated title registration system for land and other real estate
(houses, other buildings, etc.) since land ownership is not envisioned to
become private in the near future. ii) High priority is placed on forming
alternative market channels which will compete with state structures and
will through their expansion gradually allow the reduction of the state's
involvement in input supply and marketing of agricultural output. A move
to eliminate the state's involvement in marketing will not be undertaken
under the RESP because it has proven unsuccessful in other ECA countries
which do not have both extensive land reform in place (with small farm
predominance) and high foreign investor confidence in the free
exportability of agricultural commodities. iii) An innovative approach to
combining simultaneous investments in main, secondary, and on-farm
irrigation and drainage infrastructures in an integrated chain. This
focus on tackling water losses in the same chain of structures supplying
given farms will rehabilitate the most deteriorated structures in the
whole chain rather than considering off-farm and on-farm structures
separately, as have most irrigation projects done in the ECA region over
the past six years. The choice of investments in these structures will be
made by WUGs set up prior to and after the project begins implementation.
4. Description
As noted, the proposed RESP, covering four years, will focus on
initiating post-restructuring technical and financial support to
qualifying newly constituted private farms and agribusiness enterprises in
five selected Tumans. The RESP will comprise five components: i) Rural
Business Advisory Services (RBAS); ii) Rehabilitation of Irrigation and
Drainage Systems; iii) Rural Finance; iv) Credits for Agro-Service
Enterprises; and v) Project Implementation Support. Each component's size
is indicated below including physical and price contingencies.Component 1:
Rural Business Advisory Services (US $1.22 million) This component will
support providers of business farm advisory services in the rural sector,
so that they can better assist participants in the restructuring process
become familiar with policies, laws, regulations and procedures underlying
the restructuring process, as well as business planning activities,
agro-technical information (traditional farm extension), and perhaps
market information. The main existing providers to participate would be
the business planning and extension centers set up under the Association
of Dekhan and Private Farmers. Component 2: Rehabilitation of Irrigation
and Drainage Systems (US $16.63 million) It has been agreed with the GOU
to focus on the irrigation, and especially drainage, structures which need
incremental maintenance on a yearly basis, and even more extensive
rehabilitation investments in many cases. The investments will be chosen
by water users groups (WUGs) to be formed under the project. WUGs will
decide how much on-farm investment to focus on, and the farms will repay
the loan funds used for these purposes through an increased land tax (with
a recovery period of 15-20 years). The WUGs would then jointly decide on
using the remainder of the loan funds of this component (the component
would total roughly US $3 million in each Tuman) for investments in
inter-farm drainage and irrigation infrastructure, which would not be
repayable (they would be considered as grants to the Tuman level
irrigation drainage enterprise - raivodkhoz).Component 3: Rural Finance
(US $5.93 million) This component will focus on lending for both working
-3 -



capital and investment expenditures by private farms and rural businesses.
Access by farms and other enterprises to the rural finance component will
be determined by participating financial institutions (PFIs), selected
based upon agreed eligibility criteria, and whose activities will be
governed by agreed upon Credit Guidelines (both to be agreed between the
GOU and the Bank). Each sub-loan would have to be supported by a business
plan submitted by the borrower. To encourage broad participation, loans
would be limited to a maximum of the equivalent of US $10,000 for seasonal
loans and US $50,000 for term loans. To be eligible for loans, borrowers
must have completed legal procedures concerning privatization and
restructuring (in the case of farms) or be private or privatized non-farm
enterprises. Component 4: Credits for Agro-Service Enterprises (US $16.0
million) Sub-loans provided under this component would be on the order of
US $1-2 million to newly formed private enterprises and cooperatives of
private farmers and made directly through subsidiary loan agreements with
the Ministry of Finance. The duration of such loans would be 5-10 years,
with a maximum debt-to-equity ratio of 4-to-1. The intention is to
establish well-equipped private agro-service centers for machinery
services and supply of agricultural inputs, which would create competition
with the existing state-owned enterprises in the machinery services and
input markets. Two to three new private enterprises of this type would be
established in each Tuman participating in the Project.Component 5:
Project Implementation Support (US $2.31 million) Project implementation
will be administered by the Rural Restructuring Agency (RRA), with a staff
of about 30 (including five tuman level offices) in charge of all project
management activities, including procurement, financial management,
maintenance of links with the Tuman-level rural business advisory services
providers and with participating financial organizations, and project
monitoring and evaluation. This component will include technical
assistance (drawing on both local and foreign experience) to assess the
current deficiencies in farm restructuring procedures, and develop
amendments to legislation and government-set procedures, to improve the
transparency of the farm restructuring process and make it more
equitable. It would also address improving security of private land
tenure rights and establishing a fair and transparent basis for the
transfer and pledging of such rights.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost 43.45
6. Implementation
Implementation Period: The RESP would be implemented over a four year
period in 2001-2005.Executing Agencies: Tuman (district/country)
administrations, their irrigation agencies, commercial banks, and private
enterprises would all be involved with implementation of relevant project
components. Institutional improvements would be focused on both existing
government departments and as well as private and non-governmental
entities at the local level that demonstrate a commitment to deliver
demand-driven services. Responsibility for implementation will be shared
by the RRA with the following entities:- Rural Business Advisory Service:
Association of Dekhan and Private Farmers.- Rehabilitation of I&D
Infrastructures: WUGs, Rayvodkhoz, Ministry of Agriculture and Water
Resources (MAWR).- Rural Finance: Commercial Banks under contract with the
Ministry of Finance.- Sub-Loans for Agroservice Companies: Ministry of
- 4 -



Finance. Project Coordination , Monitoring and Evaluation: The Rural
Restructuring Agency (RRA), established in 1998 under the Ministry of
Agriculture and Water Resources (MAWR), will coordinate the implementation
of the RESP. The RRA would ensure a direct link with
policy/decision-makers and would provide guidance to the Viloyat and Tuman
administrations. It would also: (i) coordinate improvements of the legal
framework for farm restructuring and rural credit; (ii) assist
implementing agencies in organizing information campaigns to create
awareness of the RESP and associated policy measures among rural
communities and the institutions serving them at the local level; (iii)
coordinate technical assistance provided for capacity building in
agricultural policy formulation; (iv) coordinate procurement and financial
control matters under the project; and (v) coordinate the participation of
various funding agencies under the RESP. The RRA would also monitor the
progress and efficiency of the Project and evaluate its impact, and would
report its findings and recommendations to the MAWR and to the World
Bank. In addition, as part of the institutional development effort under
the RESP, provision would be made for strengthening the capability in the
RRA to extend their activities to other rural programs, monitor their
effectiveness and evaluate their impact. The intention would also be for
the RRA to provide the Government with a basis for improving its policy
analysis and the planning and design of its development programs. With
regard to the RESP, performance indicators closely linked to
project-specific objectives were selected and agreed between the
Government and the Bank. Impact indicators have also been selected in
consultation with project stakeholders (see Annex 1). Detailed terms of
reference, charter, and the Government order establishing the RRA are
available in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).Financial
Management:General. The overall responsibility for financial management
of the project will rest with the RRA in Tashkent. At the time of project
appraisal, the financial management capacity of the RRA was determined to
be weak and insufficient to perform the financial management of the RESP.
Subsequenctly, the financial management capacity of the RRA was
strengthened prior to Board presentation, as a time-bound Financial
Management Action Plan was achieved (included in the PIP), together with
the overall schema for the project's flow of funds and the general
financial management controls that will be applied. Staffing. The RRA
already has a Chief Accountant and an Accountant to support the accounting
requirements of the Project Preparation Facility. An international
financial management adviser was engaged during project preparation and
will be retained throughout project implementation to advise on the
financial management arrangements of the project. Additionally, one other
accountant will be recruited to the RRA during project
implementation.Project Management Reporting (PMRs). The format of the PMRs
for the project has been agreed with the RRA and is enclosed in the PIP.
The RRA will produce a complete set of PMRs for every calendar quarter
throughout the life of the project. Project funds will be initially
disbursed under the Bank's established procedures, including Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs); however, a move to PMR-based disbursements will be
made at the mutual agreement of the Government and the Bank once the RRA
is familiar with the project's monitoring aspects and is considered able
to produce sufficiently timely and reliable project management
information. A change to PMR-based disbursements will be considered by
September 30, 2002.Audit arrangements. The project will be audited
annually by external auditors acceptable to the Bank and on terms of
- 5-



reference acceptable to the Bank as presented in the PIP. The appointment
of the auditors is a condition of Project Effectiveness. The audit of the
project's financial statements will be completed within six months of the
end of every fiscal year of project implementation and the cost of the
audit will be financed from the loan.
7. Sustainability
Management and technical sustainability of the RESP would depend on: (i)
beneficiary confidence resulting from the more equitable laws, policies,
and procedures underlying the restructuring process; and (ii) beneficiary
access to technical, financial and management support services. Fiscal
sustainability would be enhanced through the introduction of land-based
taxation and the discontinuation of the operation by the Government of
ineffective input supply and marketing monopolies, in favor of a
market-based production and service delivery system. Institutional
sustainability would be realized through an effective allocation of
responsibility and accountability between the central and local agencies
and through a simplification of procedures. The design of the RESP is
intentionally flexible to allow for the necessary adjustments to be
introduced as information and lessons learned become available from the
impact monitoring system.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Several studies and evaluations of land reform initiatives in countries
with economies in transition have been completed by the Bank and other
agencies since March 1994. These studies concluded that, among the
important enabling conditions for effective farm restructuring are: (i)
legislation, administrative procedures and enforcement mechanisms that
would establish possession, utilization and transfer rights to real
property, and allow unrestricted entry into, and exit from, agricultural
activities; (ii) competitive input supply activities and marketing
channels that effectively replace monopolies which served the
collective/state farms; (iii) financial institutions that meet the needs
of a monetized agricultural sector; and (iv) farm support infrastructure
and services to serve the restructured farms. Bank experience also
indicates that success of projects involving land reform is contingent
upon: (i) a clear strategy and eligibility criteria for the allocation of
land rights and for the transfer to farmers of control over production and
marketing decisions; (ii) a policy environment that does not penalize
agriculture; and (iii) active participation of the target population
during both the planning and implementation stages. Given the need to
address the above-mentioned factors which crucially influence the success
of the farm restructuring process, but also owing to the inability of the
Government to implement measures to address these factors throughout all
regions of the country at the same time, the Bank preparation team and the
RRA decided on the adoption of a pilot approach, which covers all the
necessary factors, but in five of the country's 165 tumans. For this
reason, the institutional focus of the RESP is placed mainly on local
implementation capacity, rather than development of national institutional
capacity. The RRA, as the national coordinating body, is an exception to
this strategy, since it will also be the recipient of technical assistance
to prepare it for the second phase of the project during which the
restructuring process is widened to include a greater number of tumans
nationwide.
-6-



9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The program has been rated in the environmental
screening category "B" and has been subject to a field-based environmental
review by the preparation team. The environmental impact of the program
is expected to be strongly positive. Farm restructuring is expected to
lead to a more effective and environmentally friendly use of land and
water resources. Soil salinization would be reduced as a result of
irrigation infrastructure improvements and use of market-driven,
decision-making processes. The RESP is also expected to result in a more
effective and environmentally-friendly use of agro-chemicals as a result
of the shift to private sector supplied inputs, along with an operational
information system introduced under the Cotton Sub-sector Improvement
Project. In addition, impact monitoring and evaluation for the RESP will
include provisions for monitoring adherence to the new National Pesticide
Policy and the Pesticide Law developed in the context of the Cotton
Sub-Sector Improvement Project.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Mark R. Lundell
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 7 -



