Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4644 UZ
Loan Agreement
(Rural Enterprise Support Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 5, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 4644 UZ
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 5, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
Page  2
(the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to assist 
in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Agro-service Credit” or “Credit” means a credit made or proposed to be made 
by MOF to an eligible agro-service enterprise under Part D of the Project;
(b)
“Agro-service Enterprise” or “Enterprise” means a recipient of a Credit under 
Part D of the Project;
(c)
“Credit Guidelines” means credit guidelines referred to in Part B.1 of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement;
(d)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(e)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works, services, 
incremental operating costs, Subloans and Credits referred to in Section 2.02(a) of this 
Agreement;
(f)
“I&D” means irrigation and drainage;
(g)
“MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower, or any successor 
Page  3
thereto;
(h)
“Participating Districts” means the Borrower’s districts of Akhangaran 
(Tashkent region), Ellikalin (Republic of Karakalpakstan), Marhamat (Andijan region), Nishan 
(Kashkadarya region) and Sherabad (Surhandarya region);
(i)
“PFI” means a banking or financial institution of the Borrower selected by MOF 
for the purposes of Part C of the Project according to eligibility criteria specified in Part B.1 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(j)
“PIP” means the Project Implementation Plan for the carrying out of the Project, 
prepared and adopted by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, as the same may be amended 
from time to time with the agreement of the Bank;
(k)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(l)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance granted by 
the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf of the Bank on June 
13, 1997, and on behalf of the Borrower on November 1, 1997;
(m)
“RRA” means the Rural Restructuring Agency, an independent administrative 
body operating under the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources, or any 
successor thereto;
(n)
“Soum” means the lawful currency of the Borrower;
(o)
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement;
(p)
“Subloan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by a PFI to an eligible 
subloan beneficiary under Part C of the Project out of the proceeds of the Loan relent by MOF to 
said PFI;
(q)
“Subloan Beneficiary” or “Beneficiary” means any private or successfully 
restructured state or collective farm or other rural enterprise in Participating Districts which 
meets the eligibility criteria set forth in paragraph 3 of Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement 
and is selected to be a recipient of a Subloan under Part C of the Project;
(r)
“Subsidiary Loan” means a loan made or to be made by the Borrower to any PFI 
pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement; and
(s)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means any agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and PFI pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
Page  4
amended from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to thirty six million one hundred 
forty thousand Dollars ($36,140,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by PFI or MOF on account of withdrawals made under Subloans 
or Credits under Part C or Part D of the Project, respectively; and (ii) expenditures made (or, if 
the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works, services 
and incremental operating costs required for the Project (except Parts C and D of the Project) and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 
2.04 of this Agreement.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal 
amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay 
all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project 
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2006, or such later date as the Bank 
shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in the amount of three hundred 
sixty one thousand and four hundred Dollars ($361,400). On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not 
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR 
Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
Page  5
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 
including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value the 
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest 
Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined 
by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted average 
margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank 
offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by 
the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of 
its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to 
the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which 
case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears on April 
15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 
with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Page  6
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project, 
and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A, B, D and E of the Project through RRA, and shall cause 
PFIs to carry out Part C of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, agricultural and environmental practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
For the purposes of Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall relend the proceeds 
of the Loan allocated to Category (4) of the table in Part A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to 
PFIs under Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower, each PFI and 
RRA under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, including those 
set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under Subsidiary Loan Agreements in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) open the Project Account in a commercial bank acceptable to 
the Bank, and deposit into said Account an initial amount equivalent to three hundred thousand 
Dollars ($300,000); (b) thereafter maintain the Project Account, and replenish said Account 
promptly before the beginning of each calendar semester with funds sufficient to enable the 
Borrower to meet its obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement for such period; (c) use 
the amount in the Project Account exclusively for financing the Borrower’s contribution to 
Project expenditures; and (d) ensure that sufficient annual allocations will be made, including  in 
the Borrower’s budget, for the Borrower’s counterpart contribution to the costs of the Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
Page  7
and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 
on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
Page  8
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02
.
(a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the 
strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 
4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than September 30, 2002, or such later date as the 
Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each 
of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report; and (B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project 
Management Report for such period.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause each PFI and Agro-service Enterprise to 
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
their operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
Page  9
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause each PFI and Agro-service Enterprise to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so audited; and (B) the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records, 
accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as the Bank shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
 ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that the Credit Guidelines shall have been amended, 
suspended, repealed or waived without the Bank’s prior consent.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a) 
The amount specified in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement has been deposited 
into the Project Account; and 
(b)  
A contract with independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank, has been 
Page  10
concluded for the purposes of Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Mustakillik Square 5
Tashkent 700078
Republic of Uzbekistan
Telex:
Facsimile:
116360 IKBOL 
(998-71) 133-6361
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the City of 
Tashkent, Republic of Uzbekistan, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  11
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
By /s/  Mamarizo Nurmurodov
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/  David Pearce
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
11,240,000
77%
(2)
Goods
12,670,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
Page  12
(3)
Consultants’ services
2,880,000
100%
including training
(4)
Subloans under
5,930,000
100% of amount
Part C of the Project
disbursed
(5)
Incremental 
470,000
80% for expenditures 
operating costs
incurred up to 
June 30, 2003; 
60% for expenditures
incurred up to 
June 30, 2004; and 
40% thereafter
(6)
Refunding of 
1,000,000
Amounts due 
Project Prepara-
pursuant to 
tion Advance
Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement
(7)
Fee
361,400
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
1,588,600
TOTAL
36,140,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means the incremental expenses incurred 
by RRA and by Rural Business Advisory Centers on account of Project implementation, 
management, monitoring and supervision, including office supplies, office equipment 
maintenance, communication, local travel, vehicles operation and maintenance, commercial bank 
charges, audit of Project accounts, salaries of the support staff of RRA, but excluding salaries of 
civil servants of the Borrower; and
(d)
the term “training” means: (i) fees of consultants, including educational or other 
institutions and organizations, that provide training services; and (ii) cost of study tours, cost of 
Page  13
workshops, and related travel expenditures, and boarding, lodging and per diem allowances.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments: (a) made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) under 
Category (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 above, unless the Credit Guidelines have been 
adopted and agreed upon with the Bank in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4 of Part 
B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods and works under contracts costing less 
than $150,000 equivalent each; (b) services under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each for consulting firms and less than $25,000 equivalent each for individual 
consultants; (c) sub-loans under Part C of the Project; and (d) training and incremental operating 
costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management Report 
referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to Section 
4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the 
basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with 
the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report does not 
Page  14
adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be made 
by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have 
notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  
Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits 
into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special Account 
was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide 
such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
Page  15
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan, plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of $2,500,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.  
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents 
and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account 
for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, once 
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
Page  16
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals 
from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Account 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the Special 
Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which 
the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying said 
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so 
deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be 
remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) increase profitability and productivity of the 
Borrower’s agricultural sector; (ii) support the emergence of private sector initiatives; and (iii) 
ensure sustainability of the agricultural sector through rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage 
(I&D) systems and improved land management in the Participating Districts.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
: Rural Business Advisory Services
Provision of technical assistance, office equipment and renovation of offices to establish 
Rural Business Advisory Centers in Tashkent and in each of the Participating Districts to assist 
participants in the rural enterprise restructuring process to become familiar with policies, laws, 
regulations and procedures underlying the restructuring process, as well as with business 
planning activities and to provide them with agro-technical and market information.
Part B
: Rehabilitation of Irrigation and Drainage Systems in Participating Districts
1.
Establishment and development of water users’ associations in the Participating Districts 
Page  17
with the responsibility for future operation and maintenance of I&D systems.
2.
Preparation of detailed designs and tender documents, and supervision of I&D systems 
rehabilitation.
3.
Rehabilitation of on-farm I&D systems on approximately 100,000 hectares.
4.
Rehabilitation of inter-farm I&D systems serving approximately 100,000 hectares.
Part C
: Rural Finance
Provision through selected PFIs of short-term (up to eighteen (18) months) and 
medium-term (up to five (5) years) Subloans to private and successfully restructured state or 
collective farms and other rural enterprises in Participating Districts for initial working capital 
and investments. 
Part D
: Credits for Agro-service Enterprises
Provision of long-term (up to ten (10) years) Credits to private Agro-service Enterprises 
in Participating Districts for working capital and investments.
Part E
: Project Implementation Support
Provision of technical assistance, training, equipment and incremental operating costs for 
project implementation, management, monitoring and supervision.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
(Expressed in
Date Payment Due
Dollars)*
* The figures in this column represent the 
amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General 
Conditions.
Page  18
April 15, 2007
900,000
October 15, 2007
915,000
April 15, 2008
935,000
October 15, 2008
950,000
April 15, 2009
970,000
October 15, 2009
990,000
April 15, 2010
1,010,000
October 15, 2010
1,030,000
April 15, 2011
1,050,000
October 15, 2011
1,070,000
April 15, 2012
1,090,000
October 15, 2012
1,110,000
April 15, 2013
1,130,000
October 15, 2013
1,155,000
April 15, 2014
1,175,000
October 15, 2014
1,200,000
April 15, 2015
1,225,000
October 15, 2015
1,245,000
April 15, 2016
1,270,000
October 15, 2016
1,295,000
April 15, 2017
1,320,000
October 15, 2017
1,345,000
April 15, 2018
1,375,000
October 15, 2018
1,400,000
April 15, 2019
1,425,000
October 15, 2019
1,455,000
April 15, 2020
1,485,000
October 15, 2020
1,510,000
April 15, 2021
1,540,000
October 15, 2021
1,570,000
 
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
Page  19
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for works estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or 
more each and, contracts for goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each shall be 
grouped in bid packages.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by 
domestic contractors.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works under Part B of the Project estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,269,000 equivalent, and works under Parts 
C
and D of the Project estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods under Parts A, B and E of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, and goods 
under Parts C and D of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods under Parts A, B and E of the Project estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, and goods 
under Parts C and D of the Project estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
Page  20
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works under Parts A and B of the Project estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $633,000 equivalent, and works under 
Parts C and D of the Project estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained 
from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where 
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for 
the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
5.
Commercial Practices
Goods under Parts C and D of the Project estimated to cost not more than $10,000 
equivalent per contract, and technical services under Parts C and D of the Project estimated to 
cost not more than $5,000 may be procured in accordance with relevant commercial practices, 
provided that such practices involve, whenever feasible, obtaining quotations from more than 
one supplier or contractor, and that due account is taken of other relevant factors such as time of 
delivery and efficiency and reliability of the supplier and, when relevant, availability of 
maintenance and spare parts.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract under Part B.1 of this Section and each contract 
under Part C.1 of this Section estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to: (i) the first two contracts to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in Part C.1 above and estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract; (ii) the first two contracts to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to 
Page  21
in Part C.2 above; (iii) the first two contracts to be procured in accordance with the procedures 
referred to in Part C.3 above; and (iv) all contracts to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in Part C.4 above, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct contracting 
or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy 
of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audit of the Project accounts estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent 
Page  22
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for training and study tours estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other 
than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
Page  23
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Part A:
Project Management and Monitoring
1.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the requirements and 
procedures set forth or referred to in the PIP.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, on or about March 30, 2004, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2004, or such later date as the Bank shall 
request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views 
on the matter.
3.
The Borrower shall maintain the RRA until completion of the Project, with staff, 
resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and assign to it responsibility for 
overall Project management and coordination including:
(a) 
preparation and submission to the Bank, by February 1 of each year, for its 
review and concurrence, of an annual work program for the Project for the following calendar 
year, including procurement and financing plans; 
(b)
maintenance of Project financial records and accounts;
Page  24
(c)
preparation of applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the Loan;
(d) 
preparation of bidding and contract documents and management of procurement 
procedures under the Project, including coordination of the recruitment of foreign and national 
consultants required for the Project implementation;
(e)
supervision of implementation of work programs under the Project; and
(f)
preparation and submission to the Borrower and the Bank, starting in September 
2002, of semi-annual reports on the progress of Project implementation.
4.
Not later than by June 30, 2002, the Borrower shall prepare a draft enactment regarding 
subrogation with respect to land use rights pledged as collateral acceptable to the Bank.
5.
Not later than by March 1, 2002, the Borrower shall reduce the foreign exchange 
surrender requirement with respect to export of cotton fiber and seed produced by rural 
enterprises in Participating Districts in excess of state procurement quota to a level not more than 
50 percent, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, and to be applied starting to the cotton crop 
of the year 2002. 
Part B
: Subsidiary Loan Agreements
1.
A banking or a financial institution of the Borrower may be selected as PFI for purposes 
of Part C of the Project provided that such an institution:
(a)
has been audited by external auditors acceptable to the Bank and its audit reports 
covering the last two (2) fiscal years are satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
has a network of branches with adequate experience in extending loans to both 
rural enterprises and individual farmers;
(c)
has a capital adequacy ratio of not less than 10% and a CAMEL rating of not 
less than 3;
(d)
is in compliance with the regulatory requirements of the Central Bank of the 
Borrower; and 
(e)
has adopted, based on the audit reports referred to in (a) above, adequate policies 
and procedures for its credit operations. 
2.
Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall comply with, but not be limited to, the following 
terms and conditions:
Page  25
(a)
the amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated either in Soums or in 
Dollars, at the option of PFI and MOF; 
(b)
PFI shall use proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan exclusively for the provision of 
Subloans under Part C of the Project;
(c)
PFI shall repay the amount withdrawn and outstanding under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement: (i) over a period not exceeding 10 years, with a grace period not exceeding 4 
years; and (ii) with interest at a rate to be determined at such level as shall ensure a reasonable 
spread for the PFI over the interest rate applicable to Subloans provided by it, but no less than 
LIBOR plus 2;
(d)
PFI shall use the amounts repaid to it under Subloans, and not required to meet 
the PFI’s debt-service obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, for the provision of 
further Subloans under Part C of the Project; and
(e)
PFI shall apply the Credit Guidelines referred to in paragraph 4 below for the 
provision of Subloans under Part C of the Project.
3.
To be eligible for a Subloan a Beneficiary should:
(a)
be registered in one of the Participating Districts and be actively involved in 
agricultural production and/or agribusiness, including supply of inputs for agricultural 
production;
(b)
present to PFI its financial statements along with a business plan, including 
analysis of technical feasibility and financial viability; and
(c)
satisfy a collateral ratio requirement of at least 1.2 to be applied over the life of 
the subproject.
4.
The Borrower shall cause RRA to adopt, not later than by June 30, 2002, Credit 
Guidelines satisfactory to the Bank to be applied to Subloans under Part C of the Project. Credit 
Guidelines shall cover such matters as the maximum amount of a Subloan, the eligibility criteria 
for Beneficiaries, Subloan approval procedures, collateral requirements under Subloan 
agreements, repayment periods for short-term and medium-term Subloans, the basis for 
determination of interest and other charges on Subloans, procurement procedures to be followed 
by Beneficiaries and reporting requirements under Subloan agreements. The Credit Guidelines 
should include, inter alia, the following:
(a)
for Subloans in Soums interest rate should reflect PFI’s cost of funds set on the 
basis of Central Bank refinancing rate plus transaction costs and risk premium of the Subloan;
(b)
for Subloans in Dollars the interest rate should reflect the PFI’s cost of funds 
Page  26
(LIBOR Base Rate plus 2) plus transaction costs and risk premium of the Subloan;
(c)
maturity period for small seasonal Subloans (up to $5,000 equivalent) shall be 
not more than eighteen (18) months, including grace period of not more than nine (9) months; 
and maturity period for medium-term Subloans (up to $100,000 equivalent, except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree) shall be not more than five (5) years, including grace period of not more 
than two (2) years; and
(d)
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree procurement of goods, works and 
consultants’ services to be financed out of the proceeds of Subloans shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Part C
: Agro-service Credits
1.
To be eligible for a Credit each Agro-service Enterprise shall at the time of Credit 
appraisal:
(a)
have a projected debt to equity ratio of no more than 4; and
(b)
have a projected debt service coverage ratio of no less than 1.3.
2.
Each Agro-service Credit shall comply with, but not be limited to, the following terms 
and conditions: 
(a)
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, no Credits shall be less than $100,000 
or more than the lesser of: (i) $2,000,000; or (ii) 80% of the estimated cost of a sub-project to be 
financed by this Credit or the equivalent thereof in Soums, as the case might be, at the exchange 
rate effective the date of application;  
(b)
credits shall be denominated in Dollars and provided for the period of not more 
than ten (10) years, including grace period of not more than three (3) years;
(c)
each Credit shall carry an interest rate of not less than LIBOR Base Rate in 
effect at the date of the Agro-service Credit agreement plus a margin of three percent (3%);
(d)
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree procurement of goods, works and 
consultants’ services to be financed out of the proceeds of Agro-service Credits shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(e)
each Enterprise shall maintain for the duration of an Agro-service Credit 
agreement a minimum debt service coverage ratio and a maximum debt to equity ratio as 
specified in paragraph 1 above; and
Page  27
(f)
each Enterprise shall take out and maintain such insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound business practice.
