                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR0000711




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (IBRD-46440 JPN-53128)




                                     ON A

                                 LOAN/CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 36.1 MILLION

                                    TO THE

                        GOVERNMENT OF UZBEKISTAN

                                    FOR A

                    RURAL ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT




                                February 28, 2009




Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective 12/01/2008)
                       Currency Unit = UZS (Uzbekistan Som)
                                1000 UZS = US$ 0.7377
                                US$ 1.00 = 1355.4 UZS

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 ­ December 1

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CIS             Commonwealth of Independent States
FAO             Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
GOU             Government of Uzbekistan
I&D             Irrigation and Drainage
IBRD            International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR             Implementation Completion and Results Report
ISF             Irrigation Service Fee
ISR             Interim Status Report
M&E             Monitoring and Evaluation
MAWR            Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
MOF             Ministry of Finance
MTR             Mid-Term Review
O&M             Operation and Maintenance
PAD             Project Appraisal Document
PDO             Project Development Objective
PHRD            Policy and Human Resource Development
PIP             Project Implementation Plan
PIU             Project Implementation Unit
PMU             Project Management Unit
PY              Project Year
QEA             Quality at Entry Assessment
QSA             Quality of Supervision Assessment
RBAC            Rural Business Advisory Center
RBAS            Rural Business Advisory Services
RRA             Rural Restructuring Agency
RESP            Rural Enterprise Support Project
SIL             Specific Investment Loan
WUG             Water User Group
WUA             Water User Association


        Vice President: Shigeo Katzu
      Country Director: Motoo Konishi
       Sector Manager: Dina Umali-Deininger
   Project Team Leader: Maurizio Guadagni
     ICR Team Leader: Maurizio Guadagni

                                             UZBEKISTAN
                              Rural Enterprise Support Project
                                               CONTENTS



A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i
B. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... i
C. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................ i
D. Sector and Theme Codes ...........................................................................................ii
E. Bank Staff...................................................................................................................ii
F. Results Framework Analysis.....................................................................................iii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................... v
H. Restructuring (if any)................................................................................................. v
I. Disbursement Profile................................................................................................. vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 3
3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 8
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 15
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 17
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 18

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 19
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 20
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................ 31
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 39
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results .......................................................................... 41
Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 50
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 62

MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                      Rural Enterprise
Country:                Uzbekistan              Project Name:
                                                                      Support Project
Project ID:             P046043                 L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-46440
ICR Date:               20/11/2008              ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                      REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                      UZBEKISTAN
Original Total
                        US$ 36.1 M              Disbursed Amount:     US$ 35.0 M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Rural Restructuring Agency of the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: Japan PHRD TF ­ JPN 53128 US $ 0.52 M


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        01/27/1997    Effectiveness:          06/18/2002        06/18/2002
Appraisal:             06/06/2000    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              12/20/2001    Mid-term Review:        05/10/2006
                                     Closing:                07/31/2006        06/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings                Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:           Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory            Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory            Performance:          Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators             (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project No                     Quality at Entry
                                                                      None
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                           Yes                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                                2                2
Agro-industry                                                     40               40
Central government administration                                  5                5
Crops                                                             15               15
Irrigation and drainage                                           38               38


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Law reform                                                      Secondary       Secondary
Rural policies and institutions                                  Primary         Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                                Primary         Primary
Small and medium enterprise support                              Primary         Primary
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization           Secondary       Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Shigeo Katsu                       Johannes Linn
Country Director:          Loup J. Brefort                    Dennis de Tray
Sector Manager:            Dina Umali-Deininger               Kevin Cleaver
Project Team Leader:       Maurizio Guadagni                  Mark Lundell
ICR Team Leader:           Maurizio Guadagni
ICR Primary Author:        Pieter David Meerbach




                                                ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives

RESP had the following development objectives: (i) increase profitability and
productivity in the agricultural sector; (ii) support the emergence of private sector
initiatives; and (iii) ensure sustainability of the agricultural sector through rehabilitation
of irrigation and drainage (I&D) systems and improved farm management; in 5
participating districts.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target        Formally          Actual Value

   Indicator           Baseline Value             Values (from                            Achieved at
                                                     approval       Revised Target      Completion or
                                                   documents)           Values           Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Increase in crop yields of restructured farms (cotton and wheat in pilot districts)

                                                                                    - FAO beneficiary
                                                                                    survey data:

Value           Cotton: 2 ton/ha.             25% (cotton 2.5,                      23% cotton yield,

                Wheat: 3.5 ton/ha             wheat 4.4 ton/ha)                     37% wheat yield
                                                                                    - GOU statistics:
                                                                                    15% cotton yield,
                                                                                    27% wheat yield
Date achieved   09/30/2002                    12/31/2007                            12/31/2007

                Target fully achieved, based on average 26% yield increase. Different methodology for
Comments        GOU statistics (measuring average performance at district level) and FAO survey
                (performance at farm level reported by sample of farmers) explain different values.


Indicator 2 :   Increase of the average farm-gate prices for agricultural commodities by 70% in real
                terms by PY4 in order to increase farm profitability

                                                                                    Increases in cotton
                Cotton state procurement                                            and wheat prices:
Value           prices in 2003: US$200/ton    70% in real terms by                  PY4 - 30% and 28%
                (countrywide)                 PY4                                   PY5 - 43% and 43%
                                                                                    PY 6 - 71% and 99%
Date achieved   09/30/2002                    12/31/2007                            12/31/2007

                Partially achieved

Comments        State procurement price for cotton increased from $200 in 2003 to $326 in 2008, an
                increase of 63%. Prices are still set by the GOU with unclear links to international prices
                of fiber and cotton by-products.




                                                    iii

Indicator 3 :  Increase in the number of newly created private agribusinesses
Value          0                             50                                     172
Date achieved  09/30/2002                    12/31/2007                             12/31/2007

Comments       Target exceeded
               Number of enterprises formed by year: PY1­ 0, PY2­ 0, PY3­ 5, PY4­ 33, PY5­ 134
Indicator 4 :  Reduced losses in supply of water in inter-farm canals and on-farm canals

                                             Inter-farm canals                      Inter-farm canals:
                                                                                    10% increase in
Value          Inter-farm canals from 25% from 25% to 15%
               on-farm canals from 40%       on-farm canals from                    efficiency

                                             40% to 20% by PY4                      On-farm canals: 26%
                                                                                    increase in efficiency
Date achieved  09/30/2002                    12/31/2007                             12/31/2007

               Target was fully achieved, as efficiency increases equal reduced losses. Values are based
Comments       on estimates of canal efficiencies conducted at the end of the project by the engineering
               consultancy firm, PIUs and the district irrigation authorities.

Indicator 5 :  Pilot reduction of state procurement of cotton
                                             A significant amount
                                             of cotton (in the

Value          100% of cotton procured by order of several                          Only a small pilot
               the state                     thousand tons per                      was carried out.
                                             year) sold through
                                             alternative channels
Date achieved  09/30/2002                    06/30/2007                             12/31/2006

               Target partially achieved. GOU does not consider the agricultural sector sufficiently
Comments       mature to face market price fluctuations. During the cotton pilot, international cotton
               prices became unfavorable and the pilot was stopped from 2006 onwards.



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target        Formally          Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value             Values (from                            Achieved at
                                                   approval        Revised Target      Completion or
                                                 documents)            Values           Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Business Advisory Services: Number of workshops and participants

Value          No workshops                  400 workshops with                     462 workshops with
                                             11,000 participants                    15,600 participants
Date achieved  09/30/2002                    12/31/2007                             12/31/2007

Comments       Target achieved 100% and exceeded

Indicator 2 :  Number of business plans prepared by advisory services

Value          None                          400                                    990

Date achieved  09/30/2002                    12/31/2007                             12/31/2007

Comments       Target achieved 100% and exceeded
               Business plans per year: PY1­ 150, PY2­ 265, PY3­ 284, PY4­ 170, PY5­ 121




                                                  iv

Indicator 3 :  Loan applications approved

Value          None                          350                                530
Date achieved  09/30/2002                    12/31/2007                         12/31/2007

Comments       Target achieved 100% and exceeded
               Loans approved per year: PY1­ 110, PY2­ 132, PY3­ 125, PY4­ 46, PY5­ 117

Indicator 4 :  Inter-farm canals rehabilitated

Value          None                          100% rehabilitated                 100% rehabilitated
Date achieved  09/30/2002                    12/31/2007                         12/31/2007

Comments       Target achieved 100%

Indicator 5 :  Water Users Associations created and registered as independent legal entities

Value          No WUA before project
               intervention                  45 WUAs                            50 WUAs

Date achieved  09/30/2002                    12/31/2007                         12/31/2007

Comments       Target achieved 100%
               WUAs created and established per year: PY0­ 28, PY1­ 4, PY2­ 10, PY3­ 6, PY4­ 0


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                       Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                 DO                           IP                 Disbursements
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     01/29/2002           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     04/08/2002           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                       0.00
  3     10/17/2002           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                       1.45
  4     05/02/2003           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                       1.92
  5     07/31/2003          Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory                       3.03
  6     03/29/2004          Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory                       4.43
  7     04/12/2004           Satisfactory                Unsatisfactory                       4.43
  8     05/10/2004           Satisfactory                Unsatisfactory                       5.02
  9     09/19/2004           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                       5.57
 10     12/21/2004           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                       7.13
 11     06/23/2005           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      10.69
 12     03/08/2006     Moderately Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      18.38
 13     11/15/2006           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      25.60
 14     08/09/2007           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      30.36
 15     11/30/2007           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      31.76
 16     05/30/2008           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      34.72



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                  v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The main issue facing the agricultural sector in Uzbekistan at the time of appraisal of the
Rural Enterprise Support Project (RESP) was the lack of farmers' incentives to improve
production and productivity. This lack of incentives was the result of de-facto public
sector domination of the agro-industrial complex, exercised through: (i) the state order
system for cotton and wheat, determining cropping patterns down to the farm level; (ii)
the settlement account system, limiting farmers' access to their financial resources; and
(iii) monopolistic input supply, processing, and marketing, raising the cost of inputs, and
lowering the price of outputs. Moreover, the lack of funds for proper operation and
maintenance (O&M) and rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage (I&D) infrastructure,
had led to serious deterioration of the I&D systems, resulting in huge water losses,
widespread water and soil salinization, declining crop yields, and loss of once-productive
agricultural lands. A reform process to address these issues had been initiated before
RESP under the Rehabilitation Loan and the Cotton Sub-sector Improvement Project, and
a farm restructuring program was devised by the Government of Uzbekistan (GOU), with
implementation beginning in 1998. In line with these priorities, the agricultural sector
goals of the World Bank Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) were to (i) promote trade
liberalization and improve incentives for the private sector in agriculture; and (ii) increase
the efficiency of resources utilization in rural infrastructure.
At appraisal, the strategy of the GOU for the agricultural sector was to: (i) further reforms
in pricing and marketing policies and fostering private sector participation to create
efficient and competitive markets; (ii) improve provision of services for rural
communities, including better access to commercial financial and advisory services; and
(iii) improve land tenure arrangements and farm organization to increase security of
possession, and create incentives for more efficient farm management. Based on this
strategy the GOU had prepared a multi-year investment program to support restructured
farms and agri-enterprises. RESP was designed to support the GOU in this program with
technical and financial support to restructured farms and agribusinesses in 5 pilot districts.
At appraisal it was envisaged that once a positive impact of RESP was demonstrated, a
nationwide investment program could be pursued to provide similar support.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

RESP had the following development objectives: (i) increase profitability and
productivity in the agricultural sector; (ii) support the emergence of private sector
initiatives; and (iii) ensure sustainability of the agricultural sector through rehabilitation
of I&D systems and improved farm management; in five participating districts:
Akhangaran (Tashkent province), Ellikalla (Karakalpakstan), Marhamat (Andijan
province), Nishan (Kashkadarya province) and Sherabad (Surkhandarya province).
Key indicators included: (i) 25% average increase in crop yields of restructured farms by
PY4, (ii) increase of the average farm-gate prices for agricultural commodities by 70% in
real terms by PY4; (ii) increase in the number of newly created private agribusiness by at
least 50 by PY4 and attainment of participation of 50 former collective agricultural
enterprises by PY4; and (iii) reduced losses in supply of water in inter-farm canals from
25% to 15% and in on-farm canals from 40% to 20% by PY4.


                                               1

The project design summary in PAD Annex 1 listed a different and more extensive
description of the PDOs compared to the PDOs mentioned in the PAD main text and the
Loan Agreement. Main differences of PDO (i) and (ii) as listed in PAD Annex 1 are: (i)
increased profitability and productivity in agricultural sector through reduction in
domestic trade impediments and through substitution of state purchasing and input supply
by more competitively priced and higher quality goods and services of private agro-
services centers; and (ii) growth of the restructured farms and private rural enterprises
through provision of advisory services and rural finance. The ICR evaluates RESP
against the PDOs listed in the Loan Agreement and the PAD main text.


1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators

The PDOs and Key Indicators were not formally revised.


1.4 Main Beneficiaries

Main beneficiaries were farmers and agro-enterprises in the 5 project districts benefitting
from the availability of credit and expertise provided under the project, and from
improvements resulting from rehabilitation of the I&D system. Secondary beneficiaries
included commercial banks, which gained novel experience in provision of credit to the
agricultural sector, and Water Users Associations (WUAs) and district irrigation
authorities which increased their capacity for participatory irrigation management.


1.5 Original Components

RESP was to be implemented over 4 years and included the following components:

Component 1: Rural Business Advisory Services (original budget US$ 1.22 million):
This component supported providers of rural business advisory services (RBAS), so that
they could better support private agro-enterprises and farmers to become familiar with
policies, regulations and procedures underlying the restructuring process, and to develop
initiatives through business planning activities and credit applications through training
and extension. The providers to participate were the Rural Business Advisory Centers
(RBACs) that were set-up under the Association of Dekhkan and Private Farmers.
                                                                          1

Component 2: Rehabilitation of I&D Systems (original budget US$ 16.63 million):
This component rehabilitated irrigation and drainage structure to improve the water
availability and drainage during the crop growing season. The investments would be
chosen by WUAs to be formed under RESP, and they would decide the amount of on-
farm infrastructure investment.
                      2                    Farms would repay the loans used for on-farm
infrastructure through an increased land tax. The WUAs would then decide on using the
remainder of the I&D loan funds (from an allocation of roughly US$ 3 million per
district) for investments in inter-farm infrastructure, which would not have to be repaid,
as they would be transferred to the balance sheet of the district irrigation authorities.




1Dehkan farmers farm small household plots used mostly for subsistence food production
2On-farm I&D infrastructure refers to infrastructure that used to be part of the state or collective farm.


                                                     2

Component 3: Rural Finance (original budget US$ 5.93 million): This component
provided lending for both working capital and investment expenditures to initiatives
developed by private farms and rural businesses. Mostly with support from the RBACs,
loan applicants develop business plans and credit applications for submission to one of 6
participating financial institutions (PFIs).     PFIs were selected based upon agreed
eligibility criteria, and administered the credits according to strict credit guidelines. To
encourage broad participation, loans were limited to a maximum of the equivalent of
US$ 10,000 for seasonal loans and US$ 50,000 for term loans. To be eligible for loans,
borrowers had to have completed legal procedures for privatization and restructuring.
Component 4: Credits for Agro-Service Enterprises (original budget US$ 16.0
million): This component provided sub-loans to provided in the order of US$ 1-2 million
to newly formed private enterprises and cooperatives of private farmers through
subsidiary loan agreements with the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The intention was to
support the establishment of private agro-service centers for machinery services and
agricultural inputs, which would contribute to the profitability of agricultural production
and would be able to compete with the existing state-owned enterprises.
Component 5: Project Implementation Support (original budget US$ 2.31 million):
RESP strengthened the Rural Restructuring Agency (RRA) under the Ministry of
Agriculture and Water Resources (MAWR), and five district level Project
Implementation Units ( PIUs) with total staff of around 30, for management of the project.


1.6 Revised Components

Component 4, Credits for Agro-Service Enterprises, was revised through amendments to
the Loan Agreement. In 2003, the MOF signed a subsidiary loan agreement with
Pakhtabank, as the financial intermediary for loans under this component. In 2005, the
minimum loan threshold was reduced from US$ 100,000 to US$ 50,000. In 2006
US$ 2.5 million was reallocated to component 3. More details are provided in Section 2.


1.7 Other significant changes

RESP became effective in June 2002 with a closing date in July 2006. Due to temporary
suspension, delays in the implementation of component 2 and the disbursement of credits
under Component 4, the project was extended by 1½ year to close in December 2007.
End 2007 RESP was extended by another half year to allow for completion of civil works
under component 2 and to prepare a follow-up project. Eventually, RESP closed on June
30, 2008.      To assist implementation, technical assistance was financed through a
Japanese PHRD grant which was implemented from July 2005 to December 2007.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Preparation of RESP started in 1996 under the name Farm Restructuring Project. During
preparation, the Bank had extensive policy discussion with the GOU regarding the
support of the project to the restructuring process. Eventually, it was decided to focus the
project less on policy reforms and more on discrete project investments, the project name


                                              3

was changed to RESP, and the components of RESP were designed relatively
straightforward to meet the PDOs in the project districts. Profitability and productivity in
the agricultural sector was supported through the provision of business and technical
advice provided by the RBACs, the provision of credit for agricultural initiatives, and the
improvements in I&D infrastructure and management. Private sector initiatives were
directly supported through the provision of credit and assistance to business planning and
loan application procedures.       As agriculture is completely dependant on irrigation,
sustainability of the agricultural production base is directly linked to improvements in
I&D infrastructure. Project design was slightly overcomplicated for the provision of
credit, as it envisaged two different banking and loan administration systems, one for
smaller loans under the Rural Finance component administered by PFIs with local
branches in the districts, and one for larger loans administered by the MOF under the
Credit for Agro-enterprises component.          This approach was not optimal, as during
implementation market demand for small- and mid-size credits administered by PFIs was
higher than the demand for large loans administered by the MOF. With regard to the
I&D component, project design was not fully elaborated, and envisaged that WUAs
created under RESP would have the capacity to identify both on-farm and inter-farm
works early during implementation, but already during the first year of the project it
became evident that this arrangement would slow down implementation. Therefore, the
procedure was modified: first inter-farm objects were selected by district irrigation
authorities, and once WUAs were established, they selected the on-farm works.
The PDOs were responsive to the borrowers' development priorities, as they were
designed to support the agricultural reform process and the 1998 GOU agricultural
strategy. A secondary objective, not part of the core PDOs, was to pilot agricultural
policies in the project districts and to test their viability and benefits. Therefore, the PAD
listed a number of policies to be applied, including: (i) adoption of a new state
procurement system with alternative marketing channels for cotton produced in excess of
the state quota; (ii) adjustment of the procurement price of cotton, based on market
fluctuations; (iii) devolution of farm management functions to private commercial
farmers; (iv) elimination of barriers which prevented private sector initiatives in input
supply and output marketing; (v) provision of credit, machinery and advisory services for
such initiatives; (vi) reduction in domestic trade impediments; and (vii) creation of
participatory irrigation management institutions. At project design and appraisal, the
GOU had committed to introducing these pilot policies in the project districts, but the risk
framework adequately defined a change in the commitment from government as a
substantial risk. The application of two policies in particular were deemed important, and
were included in the covenants of the Loan Agreement: (i) a decree on revision of the
state procurement system; and (ii) a decree on using land use as loan collateral.


2.2 Implementation

In the first year, RESP implementation was progressing quickly, except for the I&D
component, as approval for the Terms of Reference for the design and supervision
engineering technical assistance was withheld initially by the MAWR, until the RRA was
granted more autonomy in execution of RESP work plans. The RBAS component
progressed rapidly, as the state reforms had created a strong demand from newly
privatized farms for workshops, financial and technical advice and for the preparation of


                                                4

business plans and credit applications. RBACs were established in each district, and they
became a key factor in the preparation of business plans and loan applications for the
Rural Finance component. In the absence of machinery and processing equipment, there
was high demand for small-scale loans, and disbursement under this component started in
the first project year, once business plans had been prepared and approved. Component 4
started off slowly, as demand for large loans from private agro-enterprises was lower than
expected, and the MOF did not have sufficient capacity to review all loan applications.
Implementation progress (IP) in the second year was constrained due to delays in
implementing the dated covenant on revision of the state procurement in project districts
towards reduced obligatory sales levels of above-quota cotton production. In line with
the PAD, the World Bank supervision (SPN) team argued that the slow progress in
adopting this Decree No. 153 essentially jeopardized the credit-worthiness of farmers and
agro-enterprises applying for and receiving credit, and hence jeopardized the
achievement of the PDOs, so when the decree was not adopted, the project was rated
unsatisfactory in summer 2003, both on achievement of PDO as well as on IP. When this
impasse continued, RESP was suspended on March 16, 2004, but after the GOU
approved Decree 153 on March 30, 2004, the PDO rating was upgraded to satisfactory. In
the absence of a concrete mechanism for implementation of the decree, the IP rating
remained unsatisfactory.      The IP rating was upgraded within a year, as through
supervision, the Bank worked hard to build local capacity with the RRA and the RBAS to
set up a relevant system and to address problematic implementation issues like legal titles,
sales and export documentation for implementation of Decree 153. Mainly through the
Cotton Taxation Policy Note, the Bank also provided strong support to RRA to increase
capacity and support from relevant line ministries to implementing the policy pilot and
enabling sales to actually take place. In line with the decree, a small amount of above-
quota cotton was sold at a premium to the state procurement price in 2004 and 2005, but
with low world market prices and rising state prices, there was no good prospect for
marketing farmers' cotton at a premium for the 2006-2007 crops. Therefore, from 2006
onwards, government export plans and forward sales effectively meant cotton stocks
were not available for sale under the decree and the policy pilot was not deemed viable.
Component 1: Rural Business Advisory Services: Two major factors influenced
implementation of this component: (i) a significantly lower investment in the RBAS
component than the budget allocated at appraisal (US$ 0.32 million disbursed versus
US$ 1.2 million budgeted); and (ii) the fact that, before project effectiveness, the GOU
issued a resolution making repayment by the RBACs of the World Bank percentage of
RBAS funding mandatory, in effect requiring the RBACs to not only become financially
self-sustaining but also to raise additional funds for loan repayments. The limited funds
available for running costs of RBAC offices and vehicles restricted the number of field
visits and effective dissemination of RBAS services. Substantial technical assistance was
provided to RBACs to develop additional services, but RBAS management was generally
risk adverse, delaying the provision of additional fee earning services, such as accounting.
Component 2: Irrigation and Drainage Rehabilitation: With the mobilization of the
design and construction supervision technical assistance beginning 2003, this component
started gaining momentum, also since the decision was made to start rehabilitation of
inter-farm works identified by the district irrigation authorities in December 2004, and
not by WUAs who had only been recently established. This change was reasonable, as


                                              5

the district authorities are the legal owner of the inter-farm structures. WUAs received
extensive technical assistance during 2005-2006, and by October 2006 rehabilitation of
on-farm works started. Effective operation of WUAs throughout the life of the project
remained constrained due to a lack of legal basis to collect adequate irrigation service
fees (ISFs) from their members, and to institute penalties in case of non-payment. A key
element in the limited success of WUAs was the provision of excavators and bulldozers
for I&D system maintenance, and through the provision of increased services to farmers,
the WUA effectiveness and reputation increased, and ISF collection rates increased.
Component 3: Rural Finance: This component met a strong demand from farmers for
loans for mainly tractor and tillage equipment with a cost of up to US$ 50,000. Purchase
of tractors was a higher priority, as it contributed to higher cotton and wheat yields.
There was less demand than anticipated for processing equipment and for seasonal credit,
due to the introduction by the GOU of a subsidized seasonal credit scheme. The pro-
active role of the RBACs in the assistance to loan applicants with the development of
business proposals and loan applications was essential for the effective implementation of
this component. Processing of loan applications by the local bank branches meant that
approval, or rejection, was achieved in a matter of two to three weeks which was
attractive to farmers. Another contributing factor to loan approval was the rehabilitation
of I&D infrastructure, as during loan appraisal, PFIs would evaluate the quality of the
farm land and hence the state of the I&D system. However, a significant amount of loan
applications was rejected, mainly as a result of the lack of collateral from loan applicants.
This component disbursed rapidly after project suspension was lifted, and received
additional budget of US$ 2.5 million that remained undisbursed under component 4.
Component 4: Credits to Agro-Service Enterprises: Initially, there was demand from
large-scale farmers for the large loans provided under this component, but
implementation was delayed by a long turn-over by the MOF.                To accelerate the
application process the MOF delegated responsibility for loan administration to the
headquarters of Pakhtabank, one of the PFIs under component 3, and a number of loans
were approved. Nevertheless, a lack of collateral in combination with a slow approval
process, and the availability of smaller loans under component 3, led to a lower number
of approved credits than originally anticipated. It was therefore eventually decided to
allocate US$ 2.5 million of undisbursed funds under this component to component 3.
Component 5: Project Implementation Support: During project implementation, the RRA
adequately identified weaknesses in the implementation of the WUA sub-component and
the RBAS component, and additional technical assistance was financed from a PHRD.
This PHRD grant was key for the RRA and the RBACs in optimizing implementation of
components 3 and 4, and gave additional momentum to the establishment of WUAs.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

After slow initial implementation of the M&E system, an effective M&E system was in
place by 2004. Key indicators and intermediate outcome and output indicators were
identified adequately in the PAD, and the M&E system typically went beyond evaluation
of the indicators, and as the RRA maintained a detailed database on each of the
components.      Indicators and target values were realistic, except for slightly over-
ambitious values for the increase in cotton yields to 25%, and measurable, although water


                                             6

supply losses specified under indicator 4 are notoriously difficult to measure. In the first
project year, a fifth indicator was added to the results framework, namely "significant
amount of cotton (several thousand tons per year) sold through alternative channels".
During implementation, RBAS provided regular updates on their activities and the
number and kind of business plans prepared. Regular reports from PFIs on the rural
credit components provided data on loan applications, loan effectiveness, and repayment.
Monthly reports from the firm providing design and supervision assistance provided data
on the progress of the I&D component, whereas government statistics provided data on
agricultural production.     Additional data were gathered through regular surveys,
including a baseline survey at the start of the project, a farmers' survey in 2003, a rapid
rural survey conducted by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
(FAO) in 2005, a WUA survey in 2007, an FAO end-of-project beneficiary survey and an
I&D end-of-project evaluation in 2008.        The extensive and high-quality M&E was
successful in identifying intermediate outcomes and provided guidance to the RRA and
the SPN team to proactively identify shortcomings in the outputs and outcomes of the
project. Moreover, the excellent M&E enabled a reliable end-of-project evaluation and
was essential for the rapid preparation of a follow-up project, RESP-2.


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environmental safeguards. RESP was rated as a category "B". The environmental
impact of the program was expected to be strongly positive, as a result of more efficient
use of land and water resources and a reduction in soil salinization as a result of improved
drainage. The project implemented an Environmental Management Plan, which provided
guidelines specifically to contractors implementing the I&D rehabilitation works, and to
PFIs for appraising rural credits. Environmental screening on the basis of a list of
ineligible projects and products was carried out by PFIs at an early stage in their credit
review procedures and a list of ineligible example sub-projects was included in the
Project Implementation Plan.         For the I&D component Environmental Impact
Assessment reports were prepared for each district and approved by the State Committee
for Natural Protection. During the construction, contractors complied with environmental
contract clauses to minimize dust, noise, solid waste and vegetation damage.
Social safeguards: No adverse social impacts were identified at appraisal or during
project implementation. A core element to facilitate participation of the rural population
was the implementation of the Rural Business Advisory Services component through the
Association of Dekhkan and Peasant Farmers. As the RBAS was essential in raising
public awareness for components 3 and 4, the central role for dekhkan farmers ensured
that credits were extended to the wide spectrum of the rural population. At the start of
the project, centralized credit was only available for cotton and grains but through
component 3, the rural population had increased access to credit to finance a range of
activities. Under the I&D component, a serious attempt was made to put farmers in the
driver's seat, through the identification of rehabilitation works. However, in the first
years of the project, WUAs did not yet have sufficient capacity. WUAs gained in
capacity from 2005 onwards, and most WUAs now are functioning organizations who
identified all on-farm works implemented under the project. Much work needs to be




                                              7

done before WUAs are more autonomous and sustainable, but they are already becoming
effective as an organization increasingly led by farmers and facilitating social inclusion.
Procurement: The RRA procurement capacity over the lifetime of the project was
strengthened through on-the-job training, procurement trainings and technical assistance.
The RRA followed recommendations provided by the World Bank procurement specialist,
and procurement performance was rated satisfactory throughout the life of the project.
Financial management: Financial management improved significantly over the course of
the project, and was rated satisfactory throughout, as any outstanding issues were
promptly addressed.       At the end of 2007, the financial management rating was
downgraded to moderately satisfactory, because of some discrepancies between project
management reports and accounting reports, and the use of funds from the special
account to finance counterpart funding. These issues were addressed in the months
following this rating. Additional financial review was conducted by the GOU.


2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

No next phase is specifically planned in the RESP districts. However, under RESP-2,
seven provinces, including 4 districts which have been part of RESP, are targeted. Under
RESP-1, the RBACs are anchored within the Association of Dehkan and Private Farmers
and in each of the districts except for Nishan, they are still providing services, albeit on a
smaller scale, and mostly directly linked to a loan application to one of the commercial
banks. There is continuing demand for their services, but their financial position is not
strong as farmers have limited financial means. For the rural finance component, all
operations for further debt collection are in place, as loans were issued through existing
commercial banks, and loan default rate is very low. Some of the larger PFIs reported
gaining significant experience with the provision of loans for other purposes than before
the project, and they are likely to continue this practice over the coming years. Under the
irrigation component, O&M of inter-farm works is done through the state budget for the
district irrigation authorities. Currently this budget is too low to cover full O&M and
depreciation, but with the increasing allocation of additional GOU funds especially for
drainage, it is expected that more budget will become available for O&M over the
coming years. On-farm works are operated and maintained by WUAs and farmers.
These organizations currently suffer from significant budget shortages, especially for
O&M, and as a result this remains a relatively haphazard process, with different farmers
or farmer groups assuming responsibility over sections of the systems.            Additional
institutional support is needed to further the functioning of these organizations.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Agriculture continues to be a major component of Uzbekistan's economy, although it fell
in its share of GDP from 2000 to 2006 (from 30.1% to 24.1%), largely due to stronger
growth in other sectors, and a general decrease in international commodity prices.
Agriculture has a direct impact on many other areas of the economy generating 70% of
domestic trade, servicing 90% of domestic demand for agricultural products, and
processing of agricultural output accounting for 35-40% of all industrial output (which is



                                               8

7.8% of GDP). The policies of GOU in relation to agriculture have undergone major
changes in the past years, with specific progress since 2003:
· The re-organization of farming, with land passing from co-operative usage to private
   farmers, was completed in 2007, with average land per farm of 26.2 hectares,
   approximately 1.8 million workers employed on farms, and 189,200 private farms up
   from 87,500 in 2003. Privatized farms account for over 32% of agricultural output.
· Agricultural produce covered by state planning has been reduced to only cotton and
   wheat, and the percentage to be sold to the GOU has been reduced.                   State
   procurement prices for cotton and wheat have increased significantly, with wheat
   almost at international parity. Cotton procurement prices are lower than parity prices
   but they increased in US$ terms over 70% in the 2000 to 2007 period, whilst the
   international price increased by only 17%. Still, profitability of cotton farming was
   reduced because the cost of inputs increased more than outputs.
· Farmer access to private sector supplied input and service providers is increasing,
   with reduction of state control of the sector and reduction of subsidies for inputs.
· Provision of seasonal finance through state concerns has been removed, with
   provision being made through commercial banks on more commercial principles,
   although at a subsidized rate, for cotton in particular.

The reforms have created a new class of private farmer, no longer subject to direct GOU
management, but on the other hand not fully supported by direct government service and
input supply. Due to the competitive nature of land allocation, many of the farmers have
detailed knowledge of the agronomic practices required for farming, but lack the
management skills required to operate their farms as private businesses. The reforms had
a noticeable impact in the financial sector. Loans to agriculture in the banking sector
amounted to 3­5% annually during 2002­2005. In 2006, the share of agricultural loans
increased to about 14.2% of the total banking sector portfolio, largely due to government
credits.   Availability of financial services for rural areas remains a critical issue,
constrained by several factors such as lack of collateral; low capacity of banks to assess
agricultural risk; low capacity of borrowers in terms of business planning; and lack of
funding sources, whilst rural demand is increasing dramatically.
The reform has also created a new challenge for I&D. There is now a division of
responsibility, with inter-farm and upstream infrastructure being the responsibility of the
government, whilst on-farm I&D is now the responsibility of newly privatized farmers.
Much of the I&D infrastructure is old, and has suffered from a lack of maintenance
(funding currently estimated at 40-50% of required levels). Estimated yield losses due to
lack of timely water supply and increasing salinization are high at almost US$ 1 billion
annually. The GOU has noted these problems in the 2007 Welfare Improvement Strategy
and has recently passed a decree creating additional investments funds, mainly in inter-
farm drainage. Of equal importance is the establishment of WUAs for managing on-farm
I&D operations and maintenance. Whilst initial steps have been taken in RESP districts,
nation-wide success in creating viable, sustainable WUAs has been elusive.
Therefore, in view of the importance of agriculture and its potential for adding to overall
economic growth and raising rural incomes, the project design and implementation was
and still is highly relevant, and based on the results on the ground achieved under RESP,



                                             9

the GOU and the World Bank decided to implement a subsequent RESP-2 in 7 provinces
in Uzbekistan. The interest for scaling up RESP was also clearly demonstrated in the
end-of-project beneficiary survey, as farmers in non-project districts displayed high
interest in the investments made and the credits provided under RESP.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Satisfactory

RESP had three development objectives for the five participating districts: (i) increase
profitability and productivity in the agricultural sector; (ii) support the emergence of
private sector initiatives; and (iii) ensure sustainability of the agricultural sector through
rehabilitation of I&D systems and improved farm management. It also was the goal of
the project to pilot agricultural policies to test the viability and benefit of policy changes.
The first PDO, increasing profitability and productivity was achieved satisfactory.
Government statistics for the project districts show that average yields in the districts
increased over the life of the project by 15% to 27% for cotton and wheat respectively,
while in surrounding districts yield levels stagnated, indicating the impact of the RESP.
The positive results indicated by government statistics are confirmed by data from the
FAO beneficiary survey among a sample of farmers in both project and surrounding
districts. Farmers benefitting from the RESP reported yield increases of 23% to 37% for
cotton and wheat respectively. In addition, as a result of rehabilitation of the I&D
infrastructure, an additional area of around 10,000 ha was brought under full cultivation
again, hence further improving the overall agricultural production. Agricultural produce
is now sold at a higher premium, as state procurement prices by the end of the project had
increased in real terms by 71% and 99% percent respectively. This price increase came
slower as expected, mainly as a result of decreasing international commodity prices in
2005-2006. However, prices are still set by the GOU, with unclear links between
government procurement prices and international prices, both for the main commodities,
as well as for the by-products. A somewhat worrying trend is that, while the price of
cotton increased, the cost of labor and energy increased by a higher percentage, as in
2007 input subsidies were reduced by the GOU. As a result, cotton margins are starting
to decrease, even more so in districts which did not benefit from RESP.
All components contributed significantly to the achievement of this objective. The newly
private farmers were eager to invest in improved farm management, and there was a large
demand mainly for tractors and tillage machinery, which accounted for 70% of total
lending under the component. By the end of the project, 530 small- and medium-size
loans (less than US$ 100,000) had been given to farmers and enterprises, with a total
value of US$ 8.3 million, which was US$ 2.5 million more than originally budgeted.
Beneficiaries indicated that equipment ownership had multiple direct benefits:               (i)
reduced annual expenditures by avoiding the need to rent equipment; (ii) timeliness of
cropping activities (e.g. earlier seeding and germination), resulting in yield increases in
the order of 28%; and (iii) cash benefit by servicing other farmers which contributes to a
faster loan repayment.       RBAS supported this improved farm management through
assistance with business planning, loan application and technical trainings. As the I&D
works were finished relatively late in the project, the positive contribution from this
component did not yet fully materialize, but by the end of the project, it was estimated by



                                               10

the PIUs and the district irrigation authorities that water management improved on
90,345 hectares as a result of inter-farm system rehabilitation and on 42,466 hectares
from rehabilitation of on-farm systems. An end-of-project assessment done by the
engineering consultancy firm, the PIUs and the district irrigation authorities estimated
efficiency increases of 10% and 26% for inter-farm and on-farm canals respectively.
Rehabilitation of the drainage system reduced groundwater levels and the resulting
secondary salinization of the rootzone. Preliminary analysis shows that in Nishan district
unsalinized land increased by 54%, and areas with waterlogging were sharply reduced to
almost zero. Highly salinized areas were reduced significantly in Nishan and Ellikkala
by 45% and 75% respectively. The beneficiary survey confirms these positive results, as
most of the beneficiaries from irrigation (84%) considered that irrigation works resulted
in a significant increase in yields. It also was noted both by beneficiaries as well as by
PFIs that adequate irrigation and drainage was an important criterion for loan appraisal.
The second PDO, supporting the emergence of private sector initiatives, was fully
achieved. District statistics show that in total 172 new agribusinesses were formed, far
exceeding the original target of 50. This objective was achieved mainly through the
RBAS component. Under this component, the 5 RBACs assisted with the development
of 990 business plans and the submission of 667 loan applications, of which 530 were
approved. RBAS conducted 462 meetings and workshops with 15,000 participants, and
provided legal and accounting services for payment. This significantly exceeded the
intermediate targets set at appraisal and was an essential ingredient in the support to new
businesses. With the credits provided under the project, a total of 432 tractors and other
equipment were procured, which eventually benefitted 5,290 farms and performed tillage
and other services on 227,218 hectares of agricultural land. As of project closing, net
profit to equipment owners from the outsourcing services is estimated at US$ 1.1 million.
Profits from other activities like cattle-breeding, poultry and greenhouses are in the order
of US$ 650,000. Under the Credits for Agro-services component, a small number of 6
companies were established and expanded by the end of the project, mainly providing
machine and tractor services. The high loan thresholds were perceived to be risky both
by credit applicants and by the approving PFI, but as a result of lowering the threshold
and adopting similar procedures as under the Rural Credit component, 117 business plans
were eventually approved by Pakhtabank. The larger loans purchased heavy equipment
like grain harvesting combines, in order to replace old and inefficient combines. As old
combines had 15-20% loss of grain during harvesting, the higher efficiency of 3-5% loss
with the new harvesters significantly increased wheat producers' profits. With a profit of
around US$ 15,000 per combine, they are a more profitable enterprise than tractors with a
profit of around US$ 4,000. RESP was not fully successful in encouraging alternative
private sector input suppliers, primarily because existing sector policies discouraged such
activities. Nonetheless, a fledgling industry is now starting to emerge in areas with high
population density, such as the Ferghana Valley. Therefore, although the component did
not fully disburse, an estimated 1,300-1,500 farmers benefitted from the availability of
new machinery and an estimated 400- 420 workplaces were created.               Outsourcing
services benefitted 123,235 hectares of land and generated US$ 1.5 million in profits.
The third PDO, ensure sustainability of the agricultural sector through rehabilitation of
I&D systems and improved farm management, was also fully met. Farm management
was supported through the RBAS trainings and the credits for agricultural equipment and


                                              11

under the I&D component, although implemented with delays, all planned structures
were rehabilitated and 50 WUAs were established and are active today. With a limited
investment of approximately US$ 80 and US$ 125 per hectare for inter-farm and on-farm
respectively (US$ 93 per hectare on average), main works undertaken included (i)
rehabilitation of 127 km of inter-farm irrigation canals and 33.4 km of on-farm irrigation
canals; 3 large water pumps and 53 small scale pumps; 58.5 km of inter-farm collectors
and 5546 km of on-farm collectors; (ii) 70 vertical drainage pumps (VDPs) repaired and
2 new VDPs built; and (iii) 570 m of concrete levee protection constructed.
Rehabilitation of canals and the gates resulted in improvement of water delivery,
increased canal efficiency and led to more reliable water supply. A minor shortcoming
was that due to the low per hectare investments, at times only discrete sub-sections of the
system could be rehabilitated, and hence not all farmers benefitted from this component.
Fifty WUAs were established within the framework of the project and 27 of them were
provided with excavators to carry out cleaning and maintenance of on-farm I&D
networks. Project investments improved financial operation of WUAs, since before
project intervention WUA ISF collection rates were between 25% and 48%, increasing to
between 52% and 70% at the end of the project, hence increasing the funds available for
O&M and repayment of project hardware investments. However, many WUAs are not
fully financially sustainable, and the level of water fees (approximately US$ 4.50 on
average per hectare) is insufficient to ensure adequate O&M. Therefore, the upcoming
repayment after the 5-year grace period for the on-farm rehabilitation investments might
not be realistic and further support might be necessary. Also, further delegation of water
management responsibilities through formation of WUGs, only had limited success.
The goal of the project to test pilot policies in the project district was partially achieved.
The dated covenant regarding subrogation with respect to land use pledged as collateral
was met, pilot policies on credit provision and establishment of private agribusiness, on
participatory irrigation management through WUAs, and on provision of training and
advisory services were implemented and tested, and for the most part were deemed viable
and suitable for nationwide replication. Not fully successful was the sale of above-quota
cotton through alternative marketing channels, as exemplified by the slow approval of
Decree 153 relating to the state procurement system, which led to a brief suspension of
the project. The pilot implemented under the project, which aimed to highlight the
benefits of paying market prices for cotton, was limited in scope, as it only raised prices
for outputs but did not address the issue of subsidies for inputs simultaneously. In
addition, international cotton prices dropped, and the GOU deemed it more beneficiary
for the sector to maintain the system of subsidized inputs and fixed output prices. In the
last years of RESP, cotton stocks had been pre-sold already by the GOU, thus effectively
preventing farmers from selling it directly. Overall, only a small amount of cotton was
sold through the Commodity Exchange. In addition, there was confusion as to who was
legally entitled to the premium paid (the ginnery or the farmer), and at project closing
only 41% of payments had been transferred to farmers', often only after a court order.


3.3 Efficiency

An efficiency and economic analysis was carried out by the FAO, based on surveys,
studies, and government statistics. The FAO found that the main benefit from the project



                                             12

was the improvement in agricultural performance in the 5 districts directly benefiting
from the project. Three benefits were assessed: (i) an increase in crop yields; (ii) a
modest extension in cropped area as a result of improved water availability and drainage
of land; and (iii) the combination of both, resulting in an increase in overall production.
The analysis estimated the Economic Rate of Return of the project at 18% and the Net
Present Value (at 10% discount rate) at US$ 10.6 million. According to government
statistics, wheat and cotton yields were originally lower in the 5 districts as compared to
surrounding districts, since RESP districts were selected as the ones with the poorest
agricultural performance in the provinces. However, in project districts cotton yields
increased by 14.9% while it almost stagnated in the surrounding districts. The same
decreasing difference in wheat yields was observed. The real increases due to the project
can be assumed to be the differences between the two figures, i.e. 14.4% for cotton and
13.3% for wheat. The validity of these yield increases were confirmed through the
beneficiary survey which reported even higher yield increases. As a combination of both
increased cropped areas and yields, total agricultural output increased in the five districts
benefiting from RESP, and growth was faster than in surrounding districts.
Crop budgets for the two major crops--cotton and wheat--based on actual farm gate
prices and average crop performances in the 5 districts between 2003 and 2007, showed
that although cotton gross output increased, margins per hectare stagnated, as production
cost almost tripled during the same period. This partly reflects the fact that in 2007,
subsidies on inputs were substantially reduced by the GOU. This trend is worrisome as
the net return from cotton reached a marginal level in 2007, corresponding to only 18%
of gross output compared to 40% in 2003. Wheat margins increased more than cotton
margins, particularly in 2007, as a result of two factors: (i) wheat production is less
intensive in terms of labor and fertilizers compared with cotton; and (ii) more importantly,
the farm gate price of wheat substantially increased in 2007 since farmers were able to
sell roughly 50% of their wheat output to non-government outlets, and at these outlets
prices increased as a result of the rise in international prices. As a result, net farm income
increased more in the project districts than in the surrounding districts.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Satisfactory

Through the provision of credit to newly established farmers and rural enterprises, and
through the rehabilitation of I&D infrastructure, the project met its' PDOs of increasing
profitability, productivity and sustainability in the agricultural sector and supporting the
emergence of private sector initiatives in the project districts, and the project was an
efficient economic investment for the GOU. The project was and still is highly relevant
for Uzbekistan's development priorities, and due to the importance of the agricultural
sector and the need for further reforms, the project outcomes are highly beneficial for the
project districts in sustaining a vibrant agricultural sector. Minor to moderate short-
comings were observed regarding the low number of larger agro-enterprises established
under the project, the slow implementation of the I&D component, and ineffective
implementation of the pilot for marketing of above-quota cotton through alternative
channels, but these shortcomings did not present a risk to the achievement of the PDOs.




                                               13

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

With 31% of the rural population living below the poverty line, the project contributed to
reducing poverty, since in project districts yield levels increased significantly and overall
margins for farmers increased slightly in absolute terms. Since the project districts had
been lagging behind in agricultural outputs, this is a significant poverty impact. Most
importantly, the project allowed farmers to obtain credits, and hence empowered them
economically through providing access to productive assets. Under the I&D component,
farmers were organized in WUAs, which are owning the on-farm infrastructure and
increasing the participation of farmers in water allocation decision making.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Capacity building of RBACs, WUAs and PFIs was a key component of RESP. RBACs
are still functioning in all districts except for Nishan, albeit on a limited scale. Although
their institutional impact is limited, RBAC staff is performing key roles in the agricultural
sector in the district, either with PFIs or at rural enterprises. WUAs established under the
project are relatively weak, but enjoy strong farmer support to improve their functioning.
The PFIs gained valuable experience in agricultural loan portfolio management, and
reported continuing agricultural loans for equipment and processing after project closing.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Before RESP started, few private contractors were able to undertake contracting
procedures for works, but with several projects implemented, capacity has increased.


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey

An end-of-project beneficiary survey was conducted by the FAO in the 5 project districts
during December 2007. Reportedly, project beneficiaries saw their cotton and wheat
yields increase by an average of 23% and 34%. In contrast, during the same period, the
control group interviewed in the survey saw its yields decrease by 15% for cotton and by
11% for wheat. This shows strong evidence of positive impact on crop yields of the
project. The improvement of farm performance was mainly attributed by respondents to
the I&D rehabilitation and the machinery purchased through the rural credit component.
Other factors identified were the results of farmers' initiatives including expansion of
their livestock, intensive use of manure for fertilization, and repairs of on-farm canals and
drainage channels. Two constraints identified by farmers to increase their performances
are a continuing shortage of cash and delayed payments to bank accounts for cotton and
wheat, and their obligations to grow cotton and wheat without the possibility for more
crop rotation.      Eighty-eight percent of respondents were satisfied with the loan
acquisition process and 97% with the equipment purchased. Criticism by beneficiaries
was related to: (i) the slow delivery of machinery and (ii) the lack of understanding
and/or transparency in fixing the interest rates and repayment schedules. Eighty-five
percent of the respondents (owning land benefitting from the I&D component) were
satisfied with the way the I&D component was carried out. After system improvement,
they reported that yields increased for all beneficiaries by 19% and by 17%. As a result
of improved drainage, some drainage beneficiaries invested in farm machinery.



                                               14

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Moderate

The risk that the development outcomes of the project are not sustainable is moderate.
The moderate risk is mainly associated with the low international parity prices for cotton
and the state procurement prices for cotton, as farmers' margins for cotton have been
decreasing due to rising input costs and lower government subsidies. Therefore, in order
to sustain the profitability of the agricultural sector in the districts, and the country as a
whole, further review of the state procurement procedures is essential, in order to ensure
that farmers maintain a reasonable margin on their production. A second moderate risk is
associated with the maintenance of I&D infrastructure, as currently resources allocated
by the government to O&M of inter-farm works is too low, although increasing
government allocations provide better prospects for the sustainability of inter-farm works.
For the O&M of on-farm works, WUAs still lack the capacity to collect sufficient ISFs,
but many farmers provide in-kind labor and materials to maintain vital I&D systems.
Although WUAs are not autonomous and self-sustaining organizations, continued
support from farmers and government provides a foundation for further improvements.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Moderately Satisfactory

No QEA was done after appraisal, as this was not the practice at the time. Bank
performance in ensuring Quality at Entry was moderately satisfactory, as the project was
designed adequately to meet the PDOs, but had minor to moderate shortcomings. The
project was highly relevant to the agriculture sector and had a correct approach to solving
pertinent problems for agricultural productivity in the project districts, as well as making
an attempt to address underlying policy issues in the agriculture sector. Because of a
multi-disciplinary preparation team, technical, financial, economic and fiduciary issues
were appropriately addressed and crucial issues and risks were identified.             Minor
shortcomings included: (i) the lack of concrete implementation mechanisms for cotton
marketing through alternative channels once Decree 153 had been approved; (ii) slightly
overcomplicated design for the provision of credit through two separate project
components and two separate loan administration procedures; and (iii) target outcomes
for cotton yields were over-ambitious, and not realistic.
Moderate shortcomings included: (i) a lack of detail in the design of the I&D component;
and (ii) ambiguity regarding the PDOs, as the PAD describes a core set of PDOs in the
main text, and a second set of more elaborate PDOs in Annex 1, which include broader
sector goals to promote reform of the agricultural sector and the state procurement system.
The broader sector reform aims would have been over-ambitious, since: (i) RESP was
designed as a SIL with corresponding PDOs, and supporting policy reform objectives set
in the CAS; and (ii) the PAD assigned a substantial risk to the commitment of the GOU
to policy reforms. The ambiguity in the PAD regarding the policy aims of RESP raised
the profile of policy reforms during project implementation, thus increasing the leverage
of RESP to promote reforms which were not part of the core PDOs and project design,



                                              15

but in parallel it gave the strong impression that the objective of RESP was to bring about
substantive policy reform.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Satisfactory

No QSA was conducted over the course of the project. Bank performance in supervision
is rated satisfactory. Supervision was conducted regularly, with multi-disciplinary teams
looking at each component. Regular procurement and financial management review
missions were conducted, providing clear recommendations to the RRA when necessary.
Mission findings were well documented in Aide Memoires and ISRs. The missions
adequately identified shortcomings in the functioning of RBACs and WUAs, and
mobilized and supervised PHRD grant resources to provide further technical assistance to
these components. The supervision team maintained a clear focus on the development
impact of the project, as demonstrated in: (i) its continuous monitoring of the
implementation of Decree 153; (ii) the temporary suspension of the project when the
Decree was not enacted; (iii) strong emphasis on and support to the RESP M&E system;
and (iv) the support to cotton policy development through the publication and
dissemination of the Cotton Policy Note (World Bank, 2005. Cotton Taxation in
Uzbekistan ­ Opportunities for Reform) which was funded from the supervision budget.
The Cotton Policy Note had 60% of the internet hits for World Bank Uzbekistan
publications in the months following its publication. A minor shortcoming was the
supervision of environmental issues and of the I&D component, as the supervision team
could have engaged more proactively to accelerate implementation of this component.
However, these shortcomings did not significantly affect achievement of the PDOs.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Satisfactory

Both quality at entry is rated moderately satisfactory and quality of supervision is rated
satisfactory.    As the overall project outcome is rated satisfactory, overall Bank
performance is rated satisfactory.


5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Moderately Satisfactory

Over the course of the project, GOU performance is rated moderately satisfactory. The
GOU was committed to the achievement of development objectives, and ensured that
adequate and capable staff was in charge of project implementation, and that adequate
fiduciary and monitoring arrangements were in place. Transition arrangements are in
place, and infrastructure supported under the project will in principle be maintained
through increasing allocations of government funds. A moderate shortcoming is that,
especially in the first two project years, the GOU was not enacting Decree 153 which
would create the enabling regulatory environment for farmers to market above-quota
cotton through alternative marketing channels. At the time, the GOU's performance was
deemed unsatisfactory and the project was temporarily suspended. Suspension was
reversed once Decree 153 was enacted, but subsequent limited commitment from the


                                             16

GOU to a significant change in the quota system led to only a small amount of cotton
being sold outside of state channels. The impact of this policy is demonstrated in the
decreasing profit margins which farmers make on cotton. Essentially, the GOU was and
remains unprepared to allow newly independent farms to fully face the price fluctuations
of the global market, and the recent commodity crisis was interpreted by the GOU as a
confirmation that global market risks are too complex to be managed by farmers.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Satisfactory

The performance of the RRA is rated satisfactory throughout the project lifecycle. The
RRA was effective in ensuring that the project development objectives were met (at times
in spite of limitations in the enabling policy environment) and, once Decree 153 was
enacted, the RRA accelerated the speed of implementation significantly to achieve
project outputs. A particularly strong point was the extensive stakeholder surveys and
M&E conducted by the RRA, which were valuable in providing timely information both
to the supervision team and to the government regarding the status of the project.
Regular procurement and financial management review missions rated fiduciary
performance satisfactory, accept on one occasion. However, this issue, as well as others,
were resolved in a timely manner by the RRA.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Satisfactory

Performance of the implementing agency is rated satisfactory and government
performance is rated moderately satisfactory. As the overall project outcome is rated
satisfactory, overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.


6. Lessons Learned

Rural Finance: Extension to neighboring districts and a broader selection of options for
investment categories and financial products would have aided a wider reach of
beneficiaries and would have promoted diversification of lending. Future diversification
would help lenders in developing a more balanced lending portfolio and enable them to
develop a wider range of skills in assessing types of risk. For borrowers, access to new
financial products and an expanded set of investments would enable them to diversify
their businesses, manage risks more efficiently and enter into new profitable activities.
Credits to Agro-Service Enterprises: There was no need to provide two credit schemes
within one project. One overall credit scheme should suffice, but with differing credit
guidelines and loan appraisal criteria, depending upon the size of the loan. With a stand-
alone credit line, it is difficult to encourage the participation of local banks.
Irrigation and Drainage Rehabilitation: Under RESP investments per hectare were
relatively low, and hence the project at times supported a partial rehabilitation of I&D
objects. A higher per hectare investment would allow for a more comprehensive and
durable rehabilitation of critical sections of the I&D system. Prioritization of works to be
rehabilitated could be improved through a more participatory identification and design
process. Quality and timely delivery of rehabilitation works could be improved through a
more rigorous evaluation, supervision and contract management of national contractors.



                                               17

WUAs and WUA members under RESP would have preferred to conduct small
rehabilitation works more autonomously and not through a contractor.
Reducing Margins: The reducing margin on cotton cultivation brings the risk that farmers
may lose interest in cotton production, further decreasing investment in inputs and hence
reducing yields. This calls for corrective measures, including more significant increases
in prices paid to farmers and continued efforts to increase further crop yields through
investing in I&D improvements, advisory services, improved fertilization, crop rotation
and crop protection as cotton yields remain low by international standards.
Advisory Services: RBAS did not become self financing over the duration of the project.
International experience suggests that this is almost impossible to achieve within a short
timeframe and the present system of cotton and wheat financing, with tranche payments
from farmers' bank accounts is a further major impediment. Full cost recovery for such
activities is not feasible and, given the strong public good element of the adult education
provided, lessons from other countries show that costs should be borne initially by the
project but increasingly through annual government allocations in order to achieve long-
term sustainability of the provision of advisory services. Additionally, training packages
could be further improved through an assessment of farmer needs and demands, and a
more hands-on delivery method through field trainings and farmer-to-farmer approaches.
Cotton marketing pilot: Given a highly centralized production, processing and marketing
system, it is very difficult to operate a new marketing system. In the absence of full
support from the GOU and without the support of a dedicated project component, support
to the marketing pilot required an extensive contribution from the Bank in terms of
supervision. Despite the success of the pilot in achieving private sales and achieving
higher prices for farmers, the original goals were achievable only on a limited scale and
hence project targets should have been set at a lower, more achievable level. To be able
to effectively implement the cotton marketing pilot it would have been necessary for the
project and Decree 153 to have a wider ambit. The continuing existence of government
subsidized financing, lack of availability of alternative gins or competitive output markets
for by-products hampered the ability of the pilot to benefit from potential efficiencies.
Project preparation: Project design was unclear, as it listed different PDOs in different
sections of the PAD and the Loan Agreement. This ambiguity did not negatively affect
the achievement of PDOs, but gave an inaccurate impression as to what the project
wanted to achieve. To enhance clarity, PDOs should be clear, concise and consistent
throughout the various project documents.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Comments and the Completion Report received from the Borrower are largely in line
with the ICR, with the exception that Government would have appreciated a more
favorable evaluation regarding its performance in enacting Decree 153.

(b) Cofinanciers

There are no comments from cofinanciers.




                                              18

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                   Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest
          Components                                                        Percentage of
                                      (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                           millions)         Appraisal

RURAL BUSINESS
ADVISORY SERVICES                             1.22              0.32           26.2%

REHABILITATION OF
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE                     16.63             15.91            95.7%
SYSTEMS
RURAL FINANCE                                 5.93              8.26          139.3%
CREDITS FOR AGRO-
SERVICE ENTERPRISES                         16.0              12.64            79.0%

PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
SUPPORT                                       2.31              1.87           81.0%


            Total Baseline Costs            42.09              39.00           92.7%
Physical contingencies                        1.00              0.86           85.8%
Price contingencies                           0.36              0.36          100.0%
             Total Project Costs            43.45              40.22           92.6%
PPF                                           1.00              0.86           85.8%
Front-end fee IBRD                            0.36              0.36           100%
     Total Financing Required               43.45              40.22           92.6%




(b) Financing
                                                      Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds                Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                       Cofinancing      (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                      millions)     millions)
Borrower                                            4.11         3.15         76.6%
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development                                     36.14        34.94        96.7%

Local Govts. (Prov., District, City) of
Borrowing Country                                   3.20         2.36         73.8%

Japanese PHRD Grant                    Trust fund   0.52         0.52         100%




                                                19

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

This annex contains more details on each of the three components to support Section 3.2.


Component 1: Rural Business Advisory Services

Under this component the RBAS was established under the Association of Dehkan and
Private Farmers, and the RBAS established Rural Business Advisory Centers in each of
the five pilot districts. Staff at the RBACs were trained by international and local
consultants in business development, business plan preparation, and loan and micro-
credit application procedures at PFIs and non-participating institutions. In Project Year 1
(PY1) RBACs prepared more than 150 business plans for farmers and agribusiness
enterprises. Between PY2 -PY4 this output doubled showing strong demand for their
service. In total, RBACs developed 990 business plans, of which 421 were eventually
approved as part of the loan application procedure. Main reason for this low approval
rate was not the quality of the business plans, but the risk assessment of loans by the PFI.
RBACs also provided services to farmers and agribusinesses on legal issues, accounting
and marketing of agricultural products. This diversification of activities contributed to
increased financial sustainability by PY4 and PY5.

A main activity of the RBACs was conducting trainings and meetings for farmers and
agribusiness enterprises. Around 462 trainings and meetings were conducted with more
than 15,500 participants.                 Main topics were financial and organizational training,
agronomy and agro-techniques and marketing of agricultural products. An overview of
all outputs from the RBACs is provided in Table 1.

Table 1            Main outputs of Rural Business Advisory Centers

Name of the                                                         n-

components/parameters/indicators                  Unit    Total                                                badar
                                                                      Akha garan    Mar- khamat     Nishan          She      Ellikkala

Workshops/Seminars
Number of seminars and meetings                    #       462     87              92            101         98           84
Types/Themes:
           - on legal matters                      %       15      14              25             11         13           9.5
           - on organizational matters             %       24      14              20             36         20           30.1
           - on financial matters                  %       30      36              30             16         22           45.5
           - on agro-technical matters             %       15      16              15             16         21            6
           - on marketing of produce               %        5             5             5         12          2            0
           - other                                 %       12      15                   5          9         22           8.9
Frequency of trainings and seminars             #/month    3.0     2.8             3.2            2.9        2.8          3.1
Total number of participants                              15,595  1,826           2,100          2,361      3,624        5,684
           - on legal matters                      #      1,622    36             248            548         203          587
           - on organizational matters             #      4,244   577             498            635        1,338        1,196
           - on financial matters                  #      5,141   346             552            561         636         3,046
           - on agro-technical matters             #      2,699   241              90            607        1,299         462
           - other                                 #      1,889   626             712             10         148          393
Average number of participants                  #/seminar  34      21              23             23         37           68
Business consulting/services
Customers applying for services                    #      1,284   168             333            240         247          296
Prepared business plans             - Number       #       990    116             205            240         220          209
                                    - Amount    1,000 $   31,147  3,951           4,460          9,225      9,510        4,001
Plans receiving loans               - Number       #       421     42              78            116         78           107
                                    - Amount    1,000 $   9,480   1,559           1,048          2,617      2,542        1,715
Small business plans                - Number       #       34      10              24              0          0            0
                                    - Amount    1,000 $   945.2   786             159.2            0          0            0




                                                        20

Name of the                                                   n-

components/parameters/indicators             Unit    Total                                               badar
                                                                Akha garan   Mar- khamat     Nishan           She      Ellikkala

Accounting services             - Number      #       175    38              17            40         50            30
                                - Amount    1,000 $   1.77   0.36           0.28          0.33        0.5           0.3
Legal services                  - Number      #       117           0        94            12         11             0
                                - Amount    1,000 $   0.27          0            0         0          0.27           0
Other services                  - Number      #       140           0            5         0          135            0
                                - Amount    1,000 $   19.1          0        0.3           0          18.8           0
Agreements with beneficiaries:                #      1,877   154            333           168         416           806
    - for business plans                      #       858    116            205           116         220           201
    - for accounting services                 #       191    38              40            40         50            23
    - for legal services                      #       545           0            0         12         11            522
    - other services                          #       283           0        88            0          135           60
Value of agreements:                        1,000 $   93     9.10           17.37         11.50       29.1          26.0
    - for business plans                    1,000 $   54     5.51           14.6           10         9.51          14
    - for accounting services               1,000 $   11     3.59            2.5           1.5        0.5            3
    - for legal services                    1,000 $    0            0            0         0          0.27
    - other services                        1,000 $   28            0       0.30           0          18.9           9
Amount of funds received:                   1,000 $   43     3.9             3.5           4.7        23.2          7.8
    -for business plans                     1,000 $   17     1.98           2.77           3.8        4.2           4.62
    -for accounting services                1,000 $    4     1.97           0.28          0.33        0.5           1.2
    -for legal services                     1,000 $    0            0            0         0
    -other services                         1,000 $   22            0       0.45           0.6        18.6           2
Repayment to settlement account               %       46.5   43.4           20.1          41.1        79.8          30.1
Average number of meetings between
RBACs and individual farmers                #/month   2.7    2.7             2.8           2.7        2.6           2.9



Another important activity of the RBACs was providing support to cotton producers to
market a share of cotton bales through the alternative channel of the Commodity
Exchange of Uzbekistan, under the cotton pilot marketing project after approval by the
GOU of Decree 153. This pilot was implemented with some difficulties in the 2003/2004
and 2004/2005 season, but for the 2005/2006 season it was expected for districts covered
by RESP and the Cotton Project (supported by the Asian Development Bank) that 35,000
ton of over-quota could be marketed. In spite of a delay in the GOU approval for
alternative marketing, approximately 6,000 ton was put on sale by farmers through the
Commodity Exchange, with assistance from the RBACs. Direct marketing by RBACs to
foreign companies was done for nearly 1,000 ton of baled-cotton, benefitting 150 farmers.


Component 2: Rehabilitation of Irrigation and Drainage Systems

Under the project extensive support to the rehabilitation of I&D systems and the
establishment of Water Users Associations was provided The project supported the I&D
systems of pilot districts through an investment program, prepared and supervised by
international design and construction supervision technical assistance and executed by
local and international contractors. The I&D component commenced in June 2003 with
the mobilization of the technical assistance team (in the field until December 2007) and
ended June 30, 2008 with the last construction activities. Whereas the project targeted to
complete all works by PY3, activities were only completed by PY6 or 7. Main reasons
for delay included (i) temporary suspension of RESP; (ii) at design stage delayed
mobilization of the design engineers, delayed preparation of design and bidding
documents and delays in the bidding process; and (iii) at implementation stage delayed
mobilization of contractors due to low capacity, conflicts between the construction and
the irrigation schedule. In one district (Ahangaran) the main contractor went bankrupt



                                                   21

and was not able to complete the contract, after which the original contract was divided in
a number of minor works contracts, which were not fully completed at project closing.
Inter-farm rehabilitation was conducted in four project districts, Ahangaran, Nishan,
Marhamat and Sherabad, whereas on-farm rehabilitation was conducted in all 5 district.
At the design phase, cost estimates based on the defect reports prepared by district
irrigation authorities for inter-farm works exceeded the budget available for construction,
so priority works were identified in feasibility studies, based on socio-economic and
financial considerations in addition having the agreement of representatives of the
regional and district operational agencies of the Ministry of Agriculture and Water
Resources (MAWR) and the district governors. Defect-reports for on-farm works were
prepared based on field visits to each of the five irrigation districts and discussions held
with all WUAs and relevant local authorities. During construction supervision a number
of minor issues, including deviations from design dimensions and technical material
specifications, were identified and rectified during implementation through instructions to
the contractors. Most of the contracts suffered some delay during implementation.
Overall quality observed by the ICRR team was satisfactory and no significant deviations
from designs and technical specifications were observed.

Fifty WUAs were established within the framework of the project and 27 of them were
provided with excavators and bulldozers to carry out cleaning and maintenance of on-
farm I&D networks. Another 10 WUAs were established in the project districts after a
district administration order, so not within the framework of the project. In total 19
bulldozers and 23 excavators were supplied to the WUAs.             WUAs which did not
participate either were established at a late stage of the project or were not willing to
commit to the full repayment of the rehabilitation and equipment investments. At the
start of the project, an international consultant developed manuals for establishing WUAs
and basic guidelines for O&M of the on-farm I&D system, and WUAs were established
through the PIU district offices. Additional technical assistance through training was
provided by international and national consultants funded through the PHRD grant. The
WUA end-of-project survey indicated that adaption of training material was strong in
Ellikkala and Nishan districts, satisfactory in Sherabad and Markhamat and less
satisfactory in Akhangaran district.        The project investments improved financial
operation of WUAs, since before project intervention WUA fee collection rates were
between 25% and 48%, increasing to 52% to 70% at the end of the project, hence
increasing financial sustainability of the WUA and the funds available for O&M and
repayment of project hardware investments. However, the level of water fees (around
US$ 4.50 per ha on average) is by far insufficient to ensure adequate O&M, as water fees
were calculated mainly to cover staffing budget with a minimum budget for O&M and no
budget for asset depreciation or repayment of on-farm investments.

From the 2007 WUA survey and the technical assistance reports it is evident that the 35
WUAs which benefitted from equipment under the project have more to offer to their
members and hence have higher ISF collection rates (for 2006, 22% vs. 14%). However,
in absence of a national law, WUAs are not able to make any contractual arrangements
for water delivery with water users, and hence there are no procedures to increase fee
collection rates through water cuts, fines for delayed payment or other procedures. An
important factor in fee collection is the district governor, as several WUAs reported that



                                              22

fee collection rates improved after governors allowed them to delay water delivery to
non-paying WUA members.

A method for cost-recovery of on-farm I&D investments was developed and adopted by
the GOU specific to the project, and later was applied to the other similar projects in the
country. Tripartite agreements were signed between the WUA or direct benefitting
farmer, the PIU and a local commercial bank to facilitate on time repayment, specifying a
repayment period of 10 years for excavators and of 20 years for rehabilitation of I&D
systems, at a rate of LIBOR (London Interbank Offered Rate) plus additional 2% for
operational costs of the bank. With an investment costs of approximately 120-170
US$ per hectare it is difficult to assess whether recovery of the investment over the given
period is attainable without undue financial burden on WUAs or farm households.
Theoretical calculations indicate the farmers' ability to pay for all costs including water
fees and credit repayment. Repayment of excavators is not expected to be problematic, as
equipment can be leased against payment to neighboring WUAs and individual farmers.

An overview of the I&D investments is provide in Table 2 below:

Table 2             Main outputs of irrigation and drainage component
                                                               n-

Name of components/parameters/indicators       Unit    Total
                                                                 Akha   garan   Mar- khamat     Nishan      badar
                                                                                                                 She                        Ellikkala
Inter-farm irrigation and drainage network
Number of contracts                              #      15            3             4          3           5
Investment cost                                1,000$  8,179   1,168           3,365         952.3       2,219
Savings                                        1,000$  475.4   241.6           109.1          87.3        37.4
Cost per ha                                    1,000$   74.6         53.0      157.7          37.7        54.0           ectjo
                                                                                                                              pr
Construction work delay                        month                 24         12             4          11
Results of restoration works per type:
  - installation/restoration of pumps            #       3            1             1          1                                byde
  - installation/restoration of regulators       #      207          61         69            24          53
  - installation/restoration of hydroposts       #      71                      12                        59                        cover
  - rehabilitation of canals                    km     129.2         58.1       48.3          0.5         28.9                           not
  - cleaning of collectors                      km     58.52                    20.9          31.3        6.32
  - other
Benefitting area:                                ha   109,688 22,050           21,337        25,236      41,065
Benefitting farms                                #     2,150         355        160          1,141        494
On-farm irrigation and drainage network
Contracts for restoration works:
Number of contracts                              #      16            2             3          4           3             4
Investment cost                                1,000$  4,908   265.0           764.2         1,303       1,032         1,544
Savings                                        1,000$  225.2   32.40            9.10         99.72       36.84         47.15
Cost per ha                                    1,000$   82.5   194.3           147.8          59.7        49.0         153.8
Construction work delay                        month                  1             1          3           5             -
Results of restoration works per type:
  - installation/restoration of pumps            #      74                          4                      1            69
  - installation/restoration of regulators       #     1,227         86         223           96          600           222
  - installation/restoration of hydroposts       #       2            -             -          -           2             -
  - rehabilitation of canals                    km      61.8   15.39           23.10          6.93       16.37           -
  - cleaning of collectors                      km     553.6          -             -        225.9         -           327.7
  - other                                                             -             -          -           -             -
Area, received benefit:                          ha    59,478  1,364           5,170         21,841      21,068        10,035
Number of farms received benefit                 #     1,804         215        88            596         351           554
Water Users' Associations
WUAs in the project district                     #      60           10             8         18          12            12
WUAs participating in I&D rehabilitation         #      37            5             5          8           7            12
WUAs members                                     #     5,099         850        226          2,256        876           891
WUAs' members participating                      #     3,041         355        160          1,141        494           891
Machinery available:
  - excavators                                          20                          6          4           0            10

  - bulldozers                                          20                          3          6           0            11




                                                    23

                                                                   n-

Name of components/parameters/indicators     Unit       Total
                                                                     Akha garan   Mar-                    badar
                                                                                       khamat   Nishan
                                                                                                               She        Ellikkala
  - other                                                 24                          5                   1              18
Machinery provided:
  - excavators                                 #          19             4            4         4         3               4
  - bulldozers                                 #          23             3            3         6         2               9


Impact of Irrigation and Drainage rehabilitation: As the majority of the construction and
rehabilitation works for the I&D component were only completed within the last year of
the project, a realistic assessment of the effectiveness of the project interventions can not
be made until after the irrigation season of 2009. For example, cleaning of collector
channels which lowers the water table and in turn results in reduction of soil salinity and
increased crop production would realistically take 2 to 3 years after rehabilitation to have
an impact. However, an initial but comprehensive assessment was made to estimate the
impact and overall effectiveness of the project based on the design reports and the site
investigation after completion of works. An overview of main impacts identified is
provided in Table 3. These data show an overall positive improvement on the majority of
the indicators as a direct result of the project interventions. The weighted average
efficiency increase for inter-farm and on-farm canals are 10% and 26% respectively.

Table 3          Main impacts of irrigation and drainage rehabilitation
District        Object                   Area     completed      before         Indicators                         Increase
                                         irrigation season
Inter-farm I&D rehabilitation
                                                                                Canal efficiency                   3%
                Irrigation channels      28,480 ha b/f 2006 season              Avg. cotton yield                  16%
                                                                                Avg. wheat yield                   8%
                                                                                Depth of collector                 100%
Nishan          Drainage collectors      1,890 ha b/f 2005 season               Avg. cotton yield                  63%
                                                                                Avg. wheat yield                   29%
                                                                                Pump efficiency                    34%
                Pump station             1,636 ha b/f 2006 season               Avg. cotton yield                  25%
                                                                                Avg. wheat yield                   33%
                                                                                Canal efficiency                   28%
                Irrigation channels      4,898 ha b/f 2005 season
                                         13,770 ha b/f 2006 season              Avg. cotton yield                  6%

Sherabad                                                                        Avg. wheat yield                   11%
                                                                                Depth of collector                 0%
                Drainage collectors      4,815 ha b/f 2006 season
                                         8,020 ha b/f 2007 season               Avg. cotton yield                  4%
                                                                                Avg. wheat yield                   8%
                                                                                Canal efficiency                   10%
                Irrigation channels      4,482 ha b/f 2006 season
                                         4,473 b/f 2007 season                  Avg. cotton yield                  13%
                                                                                Avg. wheat yield                   11%
                                                                                Depth of collector                 31%
Markhamat       Drainage collectors      1,804 ha b/f 2006 season
                                         291 ha b/f 2007 season                 Avg. cotton yield                  9%
                                                                                Avg. wheat yield                   9%
                                                                                Pump efficiency                    90%
                Pump station             524 ha b/f 2006 season                 Avg. cotton yield                  3%
                                                                                Avg. wheat yield                   14%
                                                                                Canal efficiency                   3%
Akhangaran      Irrigation channels      15,262 ha b/f 2008 season              Avg. cotton yield                  16%
                                                                                Avg. wheat yield                   8%
On-farm I&D rehabilitation
Nishan          Drainage collectors      9,477 ha b/f 2008 season               Depth of collector                 29%
8 WUAs                                                                          Avg. cotton yield                  7%
                                                                                Avg. wheat yield                   14%
Sherabad        Irrigation channels      16,589 ha b/f 2008 season              Canal efficiency                   27%
7 WUAs                                                                          Avg. cotton yield                  13%
                                                                                Avg. wheat yield                   12%
Markhamat       Irrigation channels      680 ha b/f 2007 season                 Canal efficiency                   22%




                                                   24

District     Object                   Area     completed      before Indicators            Increase
                                      irrigation season
5 WUAs                                3,830 b/f 2008 season          Avg. cotton yield     13%
                                                                     Avg. wheat yield      9%
Akhangaran   Irrigation channels      1,213 ha b/f 2008 season       Canal efficiency      24%
5 WUAs                                                               Avg. cotton yield     29%
                                                                     Avg. wheat yield      38%
Ellikkala    Drainage collectors      4,038 ha b/f 2007 season       Depth of collector    24%
12 WUAs                               5,150 ha b/f 2008 season       Avg. cotton yield     25%
                                                                     Avg. wheat yield      34%
             Pump stations            1,489 ha b/f 2007 season       Pump efficiency       39%
                                      2,951 ha b/f 2008 season       Avg. cotton yield     22%
                                                                     Avg. wheat yield      30%


Component 3: Rural Finance

Under the rural finance component two lending programs were established:

     · Short-term loans up to US $10,000 equivalent to cover seasonal credit needs of
         private farmers and other small rural enterprises.
     · Medium-term loans up to US $100,000 equivalent for restructured farms, agro-
         processing enterprises, and other medium-size rural enterprises.

Loans were denoted in dollar-terms, with effective annual percentage rates varying from
8% to 14%. The effective percentage rate was the sum of LIBOR, a 0.75% IBRD service
charge, 0.2% MOF service charge, and 2% to 4% service rate charged by the PFIs based
on the risk of the loan. For short-term loans, loan maturity was 12 months, and for
medium-term loans maturity was 5 years with a grace period of 1.5 years.                        The
component was administered by PFIs selected based on a tender process to obtain access
to tranches of funds channeled through the Ministry of Finance to selected PFIs. PFIs
were responsible for onwards lending to farmers and rural enterprises and full repayment
in due time to MOF. A total of six joint-stock company banks were selected for
participation, including Pakhtabank, Gallabank, Mikrocreditbank, Hamkorbank,
Turonbank and Ipotekabank. The initial component budget of 5.9 million US$ was fully
disbursed via three tranches by PY 4, and an additional amount of 2.5 million US$ was
allocated from undisbursed funds under the Credit for Agro-service Enterprises
component, in order to meet strong demand for short- and medium-term loans.

From the total available funds of US$ 8.4 million, 98% was disbursed, leaving
US$ 170,000 undisbursed. A total of 667 loan applications were submitted, of which 530
loans were approved and 147 loans were rejected, mainly because of a lack of collateral
or high risk of the investment. Yearly approvals were 110 loans in PY1, 132 loans PY2,
125 in PY3, 47 loans in PY4 and 117 loans in PY5 from the additional tranche of
US$ 2.5 million. Loans were given for investments in (i) purchase of agricultural
machinery (86%); (ii) cattle-breeding, poultry farming and beekeeping (10%); (iii)
vegetable cultivation and hothouses (3%); and (iv) other purposes (1%). The strong
demand for agricultural machinery was mainly because of the poor state of the former
state-farm machine tractor parks and the low level of private equipment ownership.
Furthermore, loans towards agricultural machinery were low-risk for PFIs, as equipment
served both as collateral and a source of revenue for the borrower through contracting out
equipment services. Most loans were given with a repayment period of 60 months (66%),
18 months (19%) and 36 months (18%), with the remaining 10% for 24 and 48 months



                                                25

repayment periods. Thirty-four percent of credits were short term loans up to US
$ 10,000, and 66% were medium-term loans up to US$ 100,000, with an average per
credit between US$ 20,000 ­ 25,000.

Main loan recipients were individual farmers (80%), followed by Dekhan farmers owning
less than 1 ha land (14%) and 6% of loans for agro-business enterprises, machine tractor
parks and other enterprises. By the end of the project in June 2008 around 250 loan
recipients (out of 530 total recipients) had repaid their loans among which 59 recipients
(mainly with credits for equipments) had repaid their loan ahead of schedule. Data from
the PFIs show that by November 2008, 115 farmers had a backlog in repayment of
interest rates, including 69 farmers with a backlog in the repayment of installments.
Main reasons are the late delivery of equipment by suppliers and a backlog in payments
to be received from farmers for services rendered. Loan repayment is satisfactory in
monetary terms, as non-payment of interest rates and installments as of November 2008,
is 1.1% and 2.8% of the total loan portfolio respectively. As of November 2008 many
farmers were still to receive payment for their cotton harvest, and payment of interests
and installments is expected to increase. Only 3 farms are identified to be at risk of
default, reportedly because of force-majeure. An overview of the outputs of component 3
is provided in Table 4.


Table 4             Main outputs and results of the rural finance component

Name of components/                                            n-
parameters/indicators                         Unit    Total                                             badar
                                                                 Akha garan  Mar-  khamat    Nishan          She      Ellikkala
Issue of credits
Potential credit applicants                      #    2,117   457                390       792        261          217
     - farmers                                   #    1,775   415                132       776        240          212
     - shirkats                                  #     19            1           13          5         0             0
     - dehkans                                   #     177           2           175         0         0             0
     - other (MTP, enterprises)                  #     146    39                 70         11        21             5
Potential credit amount                       1,000 $ 21,366 4,754           3,930         4,462     4,052         4,168
Loan applications to PFIs:                       #     667     83                199       123        113          149
     - machinery and spare parts                 #     481     35                68        121        113          144
     - processing equipment                      #     19            8            8          1         0             2
     - cattle, poultry, beekeeping               #     131    21                 109         0         0             1
     - vegetable cultivation, greenhouses        #     24     15                  7          0         0             2
     - Rural business                            #      5            1            4          0         0             0
     - other                                     #      6            3            3          0         0             0
Prepared business plans           - amount    1,000 $ 11,266 1,760           2,353         2,381     2,799         1,974
                                  - number       #     667    83                 199       123        113          149
Approved business plans           - amount    1,000 $ 8,267  8,68.3          1,506         1,915     2,351         1,627
                                  - number       #     530    43                 181       100        93           113
     - machinery and spare parts                 #     389     24                66         98        93           108
     - processing equipment                      #      9            1            5          1         0             2
     - cattle, poultry, beekeeping               #     111           9           101         0         0             1
     - vegetable cultivation, greenhouses        #     13            6            5          0         0             2
     - Rural business                            #      6            1            4          1         0             0
     - machinery and spare parts                 #      2            2            0          0         0             0
Applications rejected - number                   #     137    40                 18         23        20            36
                                  - amount    1,000 $ 2,999  891.2           847.3         465.9     448.5         346.5
Reasons for rejection:                           #     216     67                36         61        15            37
     - deficient business plan                   #      0            0            0          0         0             0
     - lack of collateral                        #     151     67                21         35         8            20
     - high risk investment                      #     36            0            7         11         4            14
     - high risk client                          #     24            0            8         10         3             3
     - other                                     #      5            0            0          5         0             0
Number of credits issued by PFIs                 #     530     43                181       100        93           113
Amount of approved credits:                   1,000 $ 8,267  868.3           1506          1915      2351          1627
     - machinery and spare parts              1,000 $ 7,211  523.2           901.1         1874      2351          1562




                                                       26

Name of components/                                               n-
parameters/indicators                            Unit    Total                                               badar
                                                                    Akha garan   Mar-  khamat     Nishan          She      Ellikkala
      - processing equipment                     1,000 $ 135.6    8.5            56.7           25.6       0.0          44.8
      - cattle, poultry, beekeeping              1,000 $ 630.4   181.2          444.1           0.0        0.0           5.1
      - vegetable cultivation, greenhouses       1,000 $ 123.4   56.4            51.8           0.0        0.0          15.2
      - Rural business                           1,000 $ 165.9    99             51.9           15          0            0.0
      - machinery and spare parts                1,000 $  0.0     0.0                0.0        0.0        0.0           0.0
Average amount of credit                         1,000 $ 15.6    18.3                6.7        18.7       25.9         14.1
Number of credits by amounts of issue
      - Long-term up to US$ 10,000                  #     181     10                 101        26          7            37
      - Medium-term up to US$ 100,000               #     349     33                 80         74         86            76
Number of credits by issue term                     #     530     43                 181        100        93           113
      - 18 months                                   #     101     10                 46         14          2            29
      - 24 months                                   #     24            0            19          2          0            3
      - 36 months                                   #     96      26                 68          0          1            1
      - 48 months                                   #     11            0            11          0          0            0
      - 60 months                                   #     298           7            37         84         90            80
Type of borrowers received credits                  #     530     43                 181        100        93           113
      - farmers                                     #     426     38                 93         94         89           112
      - shirkats                                    #      8            0             8          0          0            0
      - dehkans                                     #     76            1            73          1          1            0
      - other (MTP, enterprises)                    #     20            4             7          5          3            1
Credit repayment
Ahead of schedule:       - amount                1,000 $ 404,1   103,4          52,6           99,7       87,6          60,8
                                   - number         #     59            5       18              18         15            3
Interest rate non-payment          - amount      1,000 $ 88,1     4,1           30,0           17,4       19,2          17,4
                                   - number         #     115     15                 6          8          26           60
Percentage of loan portfolio                       %      1,1     0,5           2,0            0,9         0,8          1,1
Installment non-payment            - amount      1,000 $ 227,8          0       15,3           99,4       28,7          84,5
                                   - number         #     69            0            9          24         10           26
Percentage of loan portfolio                       %      2,8     0,0           1,0            5,2         1,2          5,2
Number of farms at risk of default                  #      3            0            0          1          1             1
Credits for agricultural machinery
Total amount of procured equipment               1,000 $ 7,211   523.2          901.1          1874       2351          1562
Procured equipment                                  #     432     31                 77         108        141           75
      - ploughing tractors                          #     88      12                  4         18         39            15
      - tillage tractors                            #     197           3            39         47         72            36
      - transport tractors                          #     78      12                  8         31         12            15
      - combines                                    #      3            1             0          1          1            0
      - others                                      #     66            3            26         11         17            9
New workplaces                                      #     666     61                 130        195        170          110
Volume of agrotechnical services                   ha   227,2186 9,615          33,085         65,567     92,428       26,524
Profit earned from outsourcing services          1,000 $ 1,117   58.8           104.5          267.7      596.7         89.7
Farms benefitting from services                     #    5,281    318                795       1393       1779          996
Credits for other uses
Total amount of issued credits                   1,000 $  978    354.9          554.5           33.7       0.0          34.4
Number of issued credits, of which:                 #     132     18                 110         1          0            3
      - cattle breeding                             #     94            6            88          0          0            0
      - poultry keeping                             #     12            3             8          0          0            1
      - beekeeping                                  #      5            0             5          0          0            0
      - vegetable cultivation/ green houses         #     13            6             5          0          0            2
      - processing of agricultural products         #      9            1             5          1          0            2
      - rural business                              #      6            1             4          1          0            0
      - other                                       #      2            2             0          0          0            0
New workplaces                                      #     178     45                 118         5          0            10
Produced meat, average per project                 ton   26.1    14.3            11.8            0          0            0
Profit earned from the sale of meat              1,000 $ 84.3    45.1            39.2            0          0            0
Produced eggs, average per project               1,000 # 4,375   1,775          2400             0          0           200
Profit earned from the sale of eggs              1,000 $ 344.4   139.8          188.9            0          0           15.7
Produced honey, average per project                ton    2.6           0            2.6         0          0            0
Profit earned from the sale of honey             1,000 $  6.2           0            6.2         0          0            0
Produced vegetables                                ton   163.0    71                 80          0          0            12
Profit earned from the sale of vegetables        1,000 $ 128.3   55.9            62.9            0          0            10
Produced processed products (oil, ketchup, etc)    ton   274.4    18                 250        0.88        0            5.5
Profit earned from the sale of products          1,000 $ 88.2    17.1            59.3           7.2         0            4.6
Advisory and laboratory services provided           #    4,700   1,500               200       3000         0            0
Profit earned from the rendered services         1,000 $ 180.7    150                4.8        25.9        0            0




                                                          27

Component 4: Credits for Agro-Service Enterprises

Through this component it was envisioned to establish around 5 to 6 companies by
investing US$ 16.0 million, including US$ 12.8 million from the IBRD loan. The
companies were to be established as privately owned and operated machine and tractor
parks (MTPs), in order to facilitate more equipment services on the agricultural market
and increased competition for state owned MTPs. Approximately 50% of the loans were
initially intended for value-added activities, such as agroprocessing. Credits were to be
provided under similar terms as component 3, but with a minimum loan application of
US$ 100,000, not exceeding US$ 2.0 million and with a maximum duration of 10 years
and an annual percentage rate of LIBOR plus 5%. Initially, it was envisaged that credit
application would be prepared by the RRA jointly with interested companies and
approved by the MOF after review by the World Bank. However, due to limited
manpower within the MOF, review of loan applications was delegated to Pakhtabank and
applicable changes were made to the Loan Agreement. After this initial delay, it became
clear that in absence of qualified companies with sufficient collateral, PFIs were reluctant
to approve loans in excess of US$ 500,000. Therefore, by PY3, 6 companies received
loans ranging from US$ 150,000 to US$ 500,000, and only 1 company in Markhamat
district received a loan approval of US$ 1.2 million. As LIBOR doubled from 2003 to
2006, eventually only US$ 400,000 of the approved loan was withdrawn as a credit.

In light of low disbursement, the component was revised in 2005 to allow more medium-
sized companies to apply for loans, and loan threshold was lowered from US$ 100,000 to
US$ 50,000. From 2005 onwards the credit conditions under this component were
similar to the conditions under component 3, except for the duration of the loan (10 years
with 2.5 years grace period for component 4 vs. 5 years with 1.5 years grace period under
component 3). The new loan conditions were better targeted towards existing demands,
although demands for smaller loans in the order of US$ 25,000 remained stronger. An
additional complication was that all loans under this component had to be approved by
the head office of Pakhtabank in Tashkent, remote from the project districts with limited
local knowledge, and this additional delay lead to rising equipment costs and subsequent
lower loan withdrawals. Although in PY4 and PY5 a total of 167 loans were given to
nearly 150 medium sized farmers and rural enterprises, the World Bank and GOU agreed
to reallocate the US$ 2.5 million remaining under component 4 to the credit envelope
under component 3. Therefore, out of US$ 12.8 million budgeted under this component,
US$ 10.3 million were actually disbursed. Main outputs of credits for agro-enterprises
component are list in Table 5.


Table 5            Main outputs of credits for agro-enterprises component

 Name of the                                                   n-

 components/parameters/indicators           Unit    Total                                                 badar
                                                                 Akha garan    Mar- khamat    Nishan
                                                                                                               She     Ellikkala

 Issue of credits
 Potential beneficiaries applying             #      181      16              28             65         44            28
      - Farmers                               #      87              6             7         48         12            14
      - Shirkats                              #      12              0        12              0          0             0
      - LTD company                           #      71              8             8         15         27            13
      - other (enterprise, dehkans)           #      11              2             1          2          5             1
 Total credit amount application            1,000 $ 33,973   4,943           6,783          8,144      9,476         4,625



                                                   28

Name of the                                                         n-

components/parameters/indicators                   Unit   Total                                                   badar
                                                                      Akha  garan    Mar-  khamat     Nishan
                                                                                                                       She      Ellikkala

Applications rejected by RRA                         #      9             7              1                       1
      - rejected amount                          1,000 $  1,283   483.6            70.99                       728.0
Loan applications to PFI:                            #     172            9         27               65         43             28
      - Farmers                                      #     82             1              7           48         12             14
      - Shirkats                                     #     11             0         11                0          0             0
      - LTD company                                  #     70             6              8           16         26             14
      - other (enterprise, dehkans)                  #      9             2              1            1          5             0
Value of loan applications to PFI:               1,000 $  32,594  4,363            6,712           8,144       8,748         4,625
      - machinery and spare parts                1,000 $  29,813  3,283            5,012           8,144       8,748         4,625
      - equipment                                1,000 $  2,780   1,080            1,700            0.00       0.00           0.00
Prepared business plans               - number       #     181     16               28               65         44             28
                                      - amount   1,000 $  33,973  4,944            6,783           8,144       9,476         4,625
Approved business plans               - number     piece   110            5         13               47         30             15
                                      - amount   1,000 $  12,890  2,046            2,230           4,240       3,002         1,372
Type of approved business plans:                     #
      - machinery and spare parts                    #    12,410  1,965            1,830           4,240       3,002         1,372
      - equipment                                    #    480.5   80.45            400.00           0.00       0.00           0.00
Applications rejected by PFI                         #     62             4         14               18         13             13
      - rejected amount                          1,000 $  18,438  2,338            3,982           3,904       5,576         2,639
Main reason for PFI rejections                       #
      - deficient business plan                      #      0             0              0            0          0             0
      - lack of sources for 20% share                       0             0              0            0          0             0
      - lack of collateral                           #     14             1              0            4          3             6
      - high risk investment                         #     18             2              7            2          5             2
      - high risk client                             #     14             1              3            9          1             0
      - other                                        #     15             0              4            3          4             4
Number of credits granted by PFI                     #     108            3         13               47         30             15
Value of credits granted by PFI                  1,000 $  10,300  10,353           1,234           3,711       2,991         1,328
      - machinery and spare parts                1,000 $  10,300  10,353           1,234           3,711       2,991         1,328
      - equipment                                1,000 $   0.00    0.00             0.00            0.00       0.00           0.00
Average amount of credit                         1,000 $  95.37   345.0            94.89           78.96       99.72          88.6
Type of borrowers received credits                   #     108            3         13               47         30             15
      - Farmers                                      #     59             0              1           43          7             8
      - Shirkats                                     #      8             0              8            0          0             0
      - LTD company                                  #     36             2              4            3         20             7
      - other (enterprise, dehkans)                  #      5             1              0            1          3             0
Total amount of procured equipment               1,000 $  10,287  1,035            1,234           3,709       2,984         1,325
Equipment procured:                                  #     355     18               39               141       113             44
      - Ploughing tractors                           #     61             7              1           25         18             10
      - Tillage tractors                             #     63             0         20               20         18             5
      - Transport tractors                           #     26             1              1           10          9             5
      - Combines                                     #     60             5              7           24         15             9
      - Other types                                  #     145            5         10               62         53             15
New workplaces                                     no.     420     26               58               158       120             58
Credit repayment
Ahead of schedule:       - amount                1,000 $  762,7    81,1             0,0            461,0      138,8          81,9
                                   - number         #
Interest rate non-payment          - amount      1,000 $  265,7    62,2            120,9            9,9        56,3          16,4
                                   - number         #      115     15                    6           8         26             60
Percentage of loan portfolio                       %       2,6     6,0              9,8             0,3        1,9            1,2
Installment non-payment            - amount      1,000 $    0             0              0           0          0              0
                                   - number         #       0             0              0           0          0              0
Number of farms at risk of default                  #       2             1              1           0          0              0
Amount of work performed:
Tractors                                             #     150            8              22          55          45            20
Number of benefitting farms                          #     2,476   137              371            1,045        603           320
Volume of services                                  ha    100,198  3,596           12,852          38,195     34,968         10,585
Earned profits                                   1,000 $   566.0          30             44         229         225            38
            - profit per tractor                     $    3,797   2,015            4,158           4,999      1,877          3,797
Grain harvesting combines                            #      60            5              7           24          15            9
Farms benefitting                                    #     2,655   175              595            1,063        600           222
Volume of agrotechnical services                    ha    23,037   2,500            2,063          9,760       6,645         2,070
earned profits                                   1,000 $   895.8   72.5             95.2           395.1       230.4         102.6
            - profit per combine                          14,930  14,500           13,600          16,463     15,360         11,400




                                                        29

Component 5: Project Implementation

The RRA was responsible to coordinate the implementation of RESP. Approximately 10-
14 staff at head office and 5 staff in each five regional PIU managed the project. All
project staff received trainings and technical assistance support. During PY-2 and PY-3
an international consultant in procurement was recruited to support initial project
procurement activities and the procurement, financial and credit specialists attended local
and international trainings. The monitoring team at the RRA received support from the
through 3 surveys carried out by FAO during 2005-2007. Since, during project
implementation the RRA identified difficulties with the implementation of component 4
and the Water Users Associations sub-component, an international consultant team was
contracted under a US$500,000 Japanese PHRD grant, and mobilized by July 2005 for
2.5 years to provide technical assistance for a range of activities:

    · An international cotton specialist provided intensive training for districts based
       cotton marketing specialists
    · National specialists provided advice on contractual and financial issues to RBACs.
    · Business planning advisory was provided to RBACs and PFIs.
    · Detailed implementation manuals for different target groups were developed for
       component 4, and trainings on this topic were provided.
    · The WUA sub-component was supported with the development of training
       modules, a number of field trainings in each to the project districts, and an end-of-
       project WUA evaluation.




                                             30

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis              3



The main expected benefit from the project was an improvement in agricultural
performances in the five districts directly benefiting from the project. Three benefits were
assessed in the economic and financial analysis: (i) an increase in crop yields; (ii) a
moderate extension in actually cropped area as a result of reclamation of land which used
not to receive enough irrigation water or to be excessively saline; and (iii) the
combination of both resulting in an increase in overall production. For the analysis crop
performances from 2007 were available. However, project benefits such as improved
water supply, drainage and lowered salinity have not yet entirely materialized as I&D
infrastructure rehabilitation was large implemented in 2006 and 2007 and hence their
impact on the crop yields in 2007 is limited.

Project impact

Crop yields: The PAD assumed yield increases for 5 major crops as shown in Table 6.
They are compared with actual crop yields observed in the five districts both before
project (average 2001-2002) and at the completion of the project (2007, and 2006 figures
for potatoes and vegetables). The base year was assumed as the average of 2001 and 2002
in order to reduce the risk of taking one specific year (with potentially particular climatic
conditions) as a reference year.

Table 6        Crop yields according to PAD and actual results
                                According to the PAD                 Actual Results
                                Without       With        Increase   2001-      2007  Increase
                                Project       Project                2002
Cotton                          2.16          2.9         34%        2.05       2.36  15%
Wheat                           3.13          3.9         25%        3.36       4.26  27%
Potato                          7.43          8.4         13%        12.85      14.84 15%
Fruit and vegetables            10.95         12.4        13%        16.68      20.46 23%
Silage                          6.02          6.5         8%         n.a.       n.a.  n.a.
Corn                            n.a.          n.a.        n.a.       2.95       3.63  23%
Source: Government statistical yearbook and RBAS as reported by RRA M&E unit

It should be noted that crop yields in the project districts have experienced regular
increases over the past years and that in 2007 not all project benefits such as longer term
benefits of I&D improvement have yet materialized. Therefore, additional improvements
are expected beyond the completion of the project. Yet, compared to PAD estimates, all
crops achieved or exceeded expected results with the notable exception of cotton which
yields only increased by 15%, compared to a projection at appraisal of 34%. On one side,
PAD projections for cotton were not justified at the time and appear to some extent over-
ambitious. On the other side, improvement in cotton performance has been limited by
other factors beyond the influence of the project, including reduced financial return due
to relatively low procurement price and increasing production cost (see financial analysis
below), poor soil fertility conditions due to a lack of crop rotation and persisting soil
salinity, other agricultural policy issues and in some cases water shortage.



3This section was prepared by the FAO


                                                  31

The economic evaluation assesses project impacts on these crop performances. However,
while the PAD had assumed that "as no support is expected from other projects, all
benefits are attributed to the proposed project", a number of factors independent from the
project affected crop yields during the project implementation period:

    · the general economic situation improved in the country and had a favorable
        impact on the agricultural sector, in particular the stabilization of inflation to
        reasonable levels;
    · the most important factor has been the farm restructuring process which clearly
        had a positive impact in the medium and long term by transferring farm
        management from collective farms to individual households. Although the
        production of cotton and wheat is still conditioned by state orders, which concerns
        80% to 90% of farmers' land, some level of management is left to privatized
        farmers, which is having a beneficial impact in the medium and long term. In the
        short term however, the process could have negative impacts for 2 reasons: (i) the
        "bidding process" (the period during which land recipient are bidding and are
        eventually selected) usually lasts a few months during which cropped land is
        neglected as it is no more managed by the former shirkat and not yet allocated to
        individual farmers; and (ii) newly selected bidders often are not professional
        farmers (sometimes former managers, teachers, other professions) and therefore
        need time to adapt and acquire the necessary technical and managerial knowledge.
        In the project area, the farm restructuring process took place in different periods
        during implementation: e.g. early in Elikkala and Nishan and very late in
        Marhamat. This partly explains a stronger crop performance recovery in the
        former two districts while crop yields continued to decrease in Marhamat district
        and in 2005 and 2006 recently most shirkats in Marhamat were on the verge of
        bankruptcy;
    · climatic conditions and the supply of irrigation water have a major impact on
        specific annual performances in particular in districts (such as Elikkala) in the
        downstream sections of the irrigation system;
    · the fact that the five RESP districts all have borders with foreign countries means
        that a share of the cotton production might be smuggled as a result of price
        differentials, and as a result official yields might appear lower than actual ones in
        these districts;
    · restrictive cropping patterns concentrating on two crops (cotton and wheat) have a
        negative influence on crop performance, since it results in a lack of crop rotation
        and subsequent decreasing soil fertility and higher incidence of crop diseases.

Therefore, part of improved crop performance observed in the selected districts should be
attributed to factors outside of the influence of the project. Actual project impact should
therefore be assessed through comparing the with-project situation with the without-
project situation. A proxy of the latter was assumed to be the crop performances in the
districts surrounding to project districts, as they share similar climatic, water supply and
farm restructuring conditions, but did not benefit from project activities.




                                                32

As shown in Figure 1 and Figure 2 below, wheat and cotton yields were originally lower
in the five districts compared with the surrounding areas. This reflects the fact that the
RESP districts were selected on the basis of poor agricultural performance. However,
cotton yields increased by 14.9% while they practically stagnated in the surrounding
districts. The same decreasing difference in wheat yield is observed.


                 Changes in Cotton Yields (ton/ha)                                    Changes in Wheat Yields (ton/ha)
 3.00                                                                 4.50


 2.75                                                                 4.25


                                                                      4.00
 2.50

                                                                      3.75
 2.25
                                                                      3.50

 2.00
                                                                      3.25


 1.75                                                                 3.00
    2001-2002     2003       2004    2005        2006        2007     2001-2002     2003         2004   2005        2006         2007

       Project Area                  Surrounding Districts                  Project Area                 Surrounding Districts

       Linear (Project Area)         Linear (Surrounding Districts)         Linear (Project Area)        Linear (Surrounding Districts)

Figure 1 Cotton yields                                              Figure 2 Wheat yields

Cropping areas: As a result of both I&D improvement and increased access to farm
machinery, field visits and data from the RRA M&E showed an increase in particular
areas of the five districts participating in RESP. This could be attributed to: (i) more
secure water supply in areas where water hardly reached farmers fields before the project;
and (ii) in other areas, improved drainage led to a decrease of waterlogging and/or
salinity so that land could be reclaimed. Figure 3 shows an increase in cropped areas in
the 5 project districts between 2001 and 2006 (2007 not yet available) by about 10,000 ha.
Again, not all can be attributed to the project, but additional areas could be cultivated
because of improved drainage and improved water and machinery availability.

                            Cropped area in project districts 2001-2006 (in hectare)

   160,000

   140,000


   120,000

   100,000
                                                                                                         Other crops
    80,000                                                                                               Wheat

    60,000                                                                                               Cotton


    40,000

    20,000

           0
                    2001         2002          2003             2004         2005            2006

Figure 3 Cropped area in project districts



                                                                   33

Total agricultural production: As a combination of both increased cropped areas and
yields, total agricultural output increased in the five districts benefiting from RESP, as
shown in Figure 4 and Figure 5. Similarly to crop yields, cotton and wheat crop
production were compared between the five districts and the surrounding districts in the
province. In order to compare both, the trend was compared to a base 100 corresponding
to the average production levels in 2001-2002. A significant difference in cotton
production (increase by 25.3% in project area vs. 11.4% elsewhere) is observed, versus
only a marginal difference for wheat, the main reason being that wheat areas increased
faster in the surrounding districts compared to the project districts.


      Changes in Cotton Production (base 100 in 2001)                   Changes in Wheat Production (base 100 in 2001)

130                                                               170

125                                                               160

120                                                               150

115                                                               140

110                                                               130
105
                                                                  120

100
                                                                  110

 95
                                                                  100

 90
                                                                   90
  2001     2002        2003   2004    2005       2006       2007
                                                                    2001    2002         2003   2004    2005        2006        2007
      Project Area                 Surrounding Oblasts
                                                                        Project Area                  Surrounding Oblasts
      Linear (Project Area)        Linear (Surrounding Oblasts)         Linear (Project Area)         Linear (Surrounding Oblasts)

Figure 4 Cotton production                                      Figure 5 Wheat production

Financial analysis

Crop budgets: Typical crop budgets were prepared for the two major crops, cotton and
wheat based on actual farm gate prices collected throughout the project implementation
period and average crop performances in the five districts between 2003 and 2007. Crop
budget for cotton is summarized in Table 7.


Table 7            Cotton Gross Output, Production Cost and net Margin per hectare
                                       2003            2004      2005         2006           2007        Change 2003-7
Production Cost                        322,857         443,523   532,415      664,130        963,090             198%
Margin (Net Return)                    217,086         323,675   305,031      334,182        217,064               0%
Gross output                           539,943         767,199   837,446      998,313        1,180,154           119%
Margin as a % of gross output 40%                      42%       36%          33%            18%

This data show that gross cotton output more than doubled in the project area between
2003 and 2007 as a result of increased yields (+15% as mentioned above) and farm gate
price for cotton seed which increased by 65%. This more or less corresponds to the
general cumulated inflation which totals 71% during the same period. However, during
the same period, the production cost increased by a higher rate as they almost tripled
during the same period. This explains why the margin per hectare, instead of progressing,
stagnated. In 2004, 2005 and 2006 the margin was stable at approximately UZS 330,000



                                                               34

per hectare, but in 2007, production costs increased more rapidly than the gross output,
resulting in a drop in net return from cotton.

Table 8 summarizes the main changes between 2006 and 2007 for cotton. While the price
of cotton only increased by 8.6% almost in line with general inflation, the cost of energy
(and therefore transportation, land preparation and fertilizers) and of labor increased by a
higher percentage. This partly reflects the fact that in 2007, subsidies on inputs were
substantially reduced by the GOU.


Table 8        Main changes in cotton yield and input and output prices
Item                       Unit               2006         2007            2006-2007
Unit Price of Cotton       ton of seed cotton 350,000      380,000         8.6%
Cotton Yields              ton/ha             2.27         2.36            4.0%
General inflation          Annual Increase                                 10.4%
Cotton picking             UZS per ton        53,000       63,000          18.9%
Cotton stem collection     per ha             112,500      150,000         33.3%
and transportation
Cost of fuel               liter              430          690             60.5%
Nitrates (N fertilizer)    kg                 160          240             50.0%
Source: RRA M&E Unit

The above trend is worrying as the net return from cotton has reached a marginal level in
2007, corresponding to only 18% of gross output compared to 40% in 2003. This calls
for corrective measures, including increases in prices paid to farmers and continued
efforts to increase further crop yields through investing in I&D improvements, advisory
services, improved fertilization, crop rotation and crop protection, as cotton yields remain
low by international standards. The risk is that farmers lose interest in cotton production
thereby decreasing investment in inputs and further reducing yields. However, the trend
in the project district has to be compared with the trend in the surrounding districts.
Typical crop budgets were prepared and results were compared as summarized in Table 9.
While the net margin stagnated in the project area, it decreased 3% in the without project
scenario.

Table 9        Cotton Financial Results in Project Areas and in Surrounding Districts
Item                                           2003          2007         Change 2003-2007
Yield with project                             1.83          2.06         +26.8%
Yield in surrounding districts                 2.32          2.61         +12.8%
Gross product without project                  672,000       1,307,000    +94%
Gross product with project                     540,000       1,180,000    +119%
Net Margin in surrounding districts            320,000       311,000      -2.9%
Net Margin With Project                        217,000       217,000      +0.0%

The same calculations for wheat are summarized in Table 10. The situation for wheat
shows similar trends although slightly different. The net margin decreased between 2003
and 2006 to a low level but increased again in 2007 to reach a 35% higher level in 2007
compared to 2003. The 2007 recovery is due to two factors: (i) wheat production is less
intensive in terms of labor and fertilizers compared with cotton so increased unit cost of
these items affected wheat margins less than cotton margins; and (ii) more importantly,
the farm gate price of wheat substantially increased in 2007, mostly as a result of the


                                              35

price at which farmers were able to sell around 50% of their output to non-government
outlets, while the wheat price increased UZS 200,000 per ton to UZS 350,000 per ton, as
a result of the rise in international prices.


Table 10         Wheat Gross Output, Production Cost and net Margin per hectare
                                        2003                2004       2005               2006           2007                Change 2003-2007
Production Cost                         398,870             461,790    532,600            646,510        769,098             93%
Margin (Net Return)                     126,437             101,723    189,140            100,778        353,935             180%
Gross output                            525,307             563,513    721,740            747,288        1,123,033           114%
Margin as % of Gross Output             24%                 18%        26%                13%            32%

Farm models: A typical farm model was used to compare farm performances. Based on
the beneficiary survey, it was assumed that the typical farm has 25 ha, including 15 ha of
cotton and 10 ha of wheat. The models are based on the crop budgets mentioned above.
Table 11 summarizes the results for the project area compared to the surrounding districts.

Table 11         Financial Results at Farm Level (in thousand UZS)
                                                            2003                           2007                           change 2003 - 2007
Net Return in Project Area
    - Cotton                                                3,256                          3,256                          +0%
    - Wheat                                                 1,264                          3,539                          +180%
    - TOTAL                                                 4,521                          6,795                          +50%
Net Return in Surrounding Districts
    - Cotton                                                4,804                          4,666                          -3%
    - Wheat                                                 1,908                          3,729                          +95%
    - TOTAL                                                 6,712                          8,395                          +25%

In summary, farm incomes are higher in the surrounding districts compared with the
project area. However, from 2003 to 2007, farm incomes increased by 50% in the project
area compared with only 25% in the surrounding districts.

Table 12         Main characteristics of the farms as per category
                       Control Group                        Irrigation                  Drainage         Loan Recipient              Loan and I&D

                         SP                         SP                          SP                         SP                         SP
                           RE                         RE                          RE                         RE                         RE
                             f.                         f.                          f.                         f.                         f.
                               Be   2007    Change        Be     2007   Change        Be    2007  Change         Be   2007    Change        Be   2007  Change
 Farm Structure
 Age                               46                            45                        46                        43                         41
 Household Size                    8,2                          7,1                       7,7                        8,4                        8,3
 Family Labour                     3,6                               3                    3,6                        4,2                        3,7
 Irrigable Land at
 establishment (ha)               23,6                         31,5                      23,1                       45,2                       38,3
 Crops Areas (Ha)

      Cotton          15,3 17,2 12% 15,2 16,9 11% 16,9 18,1                                      7% 28,3 24,4 14% 22,3 27,6 24%
      Wheat           11,7 12,7           9%       9,3 10,1            9%      9,5 11,1 17% 13,5 17,1 27% 14,5 16,3 12%
 Crops Yields (T/Ha)
      Cotton          2,79 2,36 15% 2,16                        2,6 20% 1,97 2,44 24% 2,09 2,88 38% 2,36                                       2,8 19%
      Wheat           3,34 2,96 11% 3,03 3,62 19% 3,21                                    3,8 18% 1,98 2,87 45% 2,48 3,51 42%
Source: FAO end-of-project beneficiary survey


                                                                      36

Different farm models were used to compare farm performances before and after project
interventions for five groups of respondents to the beneficiary survey: (i) control group,
not having benefited from any project activity; (ii) beneficiaries from improved
irrigation; (iii) beneficiaries from improved drainage; (iv) loan recipients; and (v)
beneficiaries from both loans and I&D improvement. The characteristics of each model
are shown in Table 16 and are based on the average characteristics of the farms
interviewed in each category: age, size, land, cropped areas and yields. For each category
two models were used, one for the farm situation before project intervention and one for
the situation in 2007.

Crop budgets were developed for the two main crops of leasehold farmers, cotton and
wheat. These budgets are based on perceived average yields reported by respondents to
the beneficiary survey and, for production costs, on average budgets prepared by the
RESP M&E unit on the basis of data collected throughout the project implementation
period. Finally, cotton and wheat crop budgets have been aggregated at farm level for
each farm model to calculate the returns for the main two crops for the five types of
farms. Results are displayed in Table 13.

Table 13      Financial Results at Farm Level (in Thousand Soum)
                              Before Project Intervention           2007          Change
Net Return for Control Group
Cotton                                  5 424                       3 732          -31%
Wheat                                    864                         521           -40%
Total                                   6 288                       4 252          -32%
Net Return with Irrigation
Cotton                                  4 324                       5 167           20%
Wheat                                    751                        2 013          168%
Total                                   5 075                       7 181          41%
Net Return with Drainage
Cotton                                  4 082                       4 463           9%
Wheat                                    399                        2 692          575%
Total                                   4 481                       7 155          60%
Net Return with Loan
Cotton                                  7 603                       9 988           31%
Wheat                                   -611                         332
Total                                   6 992                       10 320         48%
Net Return with Loan and I&D
Cotton                                  7 351                       10 481          43%
Wheat                                    67                         2 819         4117%
Total                                   7 418                       13 300         79%


At the end of the project, in 2007, returns from cotton and wheat production were higher
for all RESP beneficiaries than for the control group. The loan recipients, with or without
I&D, have the highest incomes. The highest rise in net return is for beneficiaries from
both loans and I&D works. The incomes from loan recipients increased by 48% (without
I&D) and 79% (with I&D) compared with 41% and 60% for beneficiaries of I&D only,
who started from lower levels of incomes. This tends to show the complementarities
between access to assets and improved I&D, even in spite of the fact that major impact of



                                              37

I&D rehabilitation on crop yields is still pending. In the same period control group
farmers saw their financial returns decrease by an estimated 32%, as a result of a drop in
cotton and wheat yields, in spite of expanded cropped areas. This trend confirms the
farmers' perception that changes in their crop performances are mostly attributed to a
lack of maintenance of the I&D system.


Country Level Economic Analysis

The economic analysis evaluated was based on the following assumptions:

·     All project costs were counted as total actual annual disbursements;
·     Project benefits were calculated between 2003 and 2007 by multiplying the
      increased cotton and wheat productions by their economic price. The latter were
      estimated by calculating export parity price for wheat and import parity price for
      wheat. These were tentatively estimated at US$ 275 per ton of seed cotton and
      US$ 120 of ton of wheat. Resulting calculations are shown in Table 14.
·     While crop performances are believed to further increase in the coming years,
      project benefits have conservatively been assumed to remain constant after 2007 at
      an average value between 2006 and 2007, i.e. about US$ 5.8 million;
·     Annual costs and benefits were aggregated for 20 years (actual ones for 2002-2007,
      projected ones for 2008-2021) and the economic rate of return (ERR) and net
      present value (NPV) with a 10% discount rate were calculated.

Table 14      Calculation of project benefits
                                                 2003   2004      2005   2006     2007
Net Increase in Cotton Production    Ton         5,046  11,100    10,963 18,505   15,684
Value of Increased Cotton production 1,000 US$   1,388  3,053     3,015  5,089    4,313
Net Increase in Wheat Production     Ton         1,738  13,888    631    14,835   3,444
Value of Increased Wheat production  1,000 US$   209    1,667     76     1,780    413
Total Value of Increased Production  1,000 US$   1,179  1,386     3,091  6,869    4,727

Under these assumptions, the economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 18%
and the Net Present Value (with a 10%discount rate) at US$ 10.6 million.




                                             38

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

           Names                       Title             Unit   Responsibility/
                                                                  Specialty
Lending
Salem Gafsi            Sr Agricultural Economist        ECSSD Former TTL
Mark Lundell           Sr Agricultural Economist        ECSSD TTL
Bekzod Shamsiev        Operations Officer               ECSSD
Guiseppe Fantozzi      Project Officer                  ECSSD Project costs
Mahwash Wasiq          Operations Analyst               ECSSD Logframe
K. Srish Kumar         Financial Analyst                ECSSD
Jose Martinez          Procurement Specialist           ECSSD
Ranjan Ganguli         Financial Management Specialist  ECSSD
Nikolai Soubbotin      Sr. Legal Council                LEGEM
Hanah Koipillai        Sr. Finance Officer              LOAFC
David Bontempo         Program Assistant                ECSSD QA/QC
Arrigo di Carlo        Consultant                             WUAs
Nilufar Egamberdi      Consultant                             Social assessment
Supervision
Mark Lundell           Sr Agricultural Economist        ECSSD TTL
Maurizio Guadagni      Sr. Agricultural Economist       ECSSD TTL
Masood Ahmad           Lead Water Resource Specialist   ECSSD
Usaid I. El-Hanbali    Sr Water Resources Engr.         ECSSD
Dilshod Khidirov       Operations Officer               ECSSD
Bekzod Shamsiev        Operations Officer               ECSSD
John Otieno Ogallo     Sr FM Specialist                  ECSPS
Norpulat Daniyarov     Financial Management Specialis    ECSPS
Fasliddin Rakhimov     Procurement Specialist            ECSPS
Talat Fayziev          Procurement Analyst               ECSPS
Martinez               Procurement Analyst.             ECSSD
Marc Sadler            Consultant                             Cotton marketing
Mehmet Sina Velioglu   Consultant                             I&D
Chris Mathias          Consultant                             RBAS
L. Aghamyan            Consultant                             RBAS
A. Avetisyan           Consultant                             RBAS

ICR
David Meerbach         Water and Agriculture Specialist ECSSD Primary author

Benoist Veilerrete     Sr. Economist                     FAO  Economic analysis/
                                                              Beneficiary survey
Sylvie Didieron        Social Scientist                  FAO  Beneficiary survey




                                        39

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                                No. of staff weeks            USD Thousands (including
                                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY97                                                                                     204.98
  FY98                                                                                     311.64
  FY99                                                                                      86.96
  FY00                                                   47                                120.76
  FY01                                                   46                                 72.91
  FY02                                                   12                                 12.04
                                  Total:               105                                 809.294
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                                   15                                 44.16
  FY03                                                   56                                164.21
  FY04                                                   65                                148.39
  FY05                                                   44                                225.28
  FY06                                                   32                                107.65
  FY07                                                   31                                136.21
  FY08                                                     5                                22.31
                                  Total:               248                                 851.47




4Total preparation cost is US$0.81 million, and higher than average. Over US$ 0.5 million was spent
before FY98, most of it before the project concept review in January 1997. In 1998 the Bank adopted a new
accounting system, and as a consequence pre-FY98 expenditures are aggregated under generic items such
as salaries, consultants, and travel. It seems plausible that the amount recorded pre-FY98 was not
dedicated only to the specific preparation of the project, but to the overall policy dialogue as well. However
the ICR team could verify this assumption. Therefore, pre-FY98 preparation costs were not considered in
the evaluation of project preparation.


                                                     40

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results       5



Introduction

A beneficiary survey was undertaken by FAO in December 2007 as a neutral external
partner with technical assistance of a local surveying company for the field survey. The
survey had three main objectives: (i) contribute to assess the project impact at farm level
both on agricultural performances and farmers' income; (ii) evaluate the perception of
farmers towards project activities; and (iii) draw lessons and propose possible
improvements. The survey was focused on project achievements and impacts as
experienced and perceived by project beneficiaries and built on previous rapid surveys
undertaken in 2005 and 2006 with the support of FAO. The survey was based on semi-
structured interviews with a representative sample of farmers, based on questionnaires
including quantitative and open questions. The respondents were in order to cover
beneficiaries of RESP interventions as well as non beneficiaries. Respondents were
selected randomly and included 152 farmers in five categories: (i) 20 having benefited
from the rural finance component; (ii) 62 having benefited from the I&D component of
which 44 have benefited from irrigation and 18 from drainage; (iii) 40 having benefited
from both components; and (iv) 30 not having benefited from RESP activities (referred to
as control group). Respondents of each category were selected in each of the districts.


Characteristics of the Farms Surveyed

RESP beneficiaries represent a specific segment of the rural population. All are leasehold
farmers, the predominant agricultural production unit after the farm restructuring process.
They have competed for land through auction and acquired a long-term lease. Because it
is a pre-condition for land allocation, all are wheat/cotton (in 4 districts) or
wheat/vegetables (in 1 district) producers. Eighty-two percent of the farmers interviewed
are cotton and wheat producers, the other 18% produce only wheat, and are located in
Akhangaran, the only RESP district without cotton production, because of climatic
conditions and the undulating terrain. Leasehold farmers represent a small part of the
rural population (10-15% of the total number of families). The other officially registered
type of farms are registered dekhan farms with cultivated areas significantly less than one
hectare, who acquired land use rights in perpetuity, and are not subject to state quotas.
The remaining majority of the rural inhabitants also have small plots of land (about 0.2
ha), mainly cultivated for self-subsistence but they are not registered as producers.

Rural communities are tightly linked. Members have to share access to scarce, fragile and
vital resources: water and irrigable land. After farm restructuring, those who did not
access to land have very limited employment opportunities. According to government
statistics, about one million of shirkat workers have lost their jobs. They rely partly on
their home garden for subsistence, partly on seasonal or permanent employment and on
migration work. Farmers need manual labor, especially for cotton production, and non-
farmers need sources of income. Payment of agricultural laborers is not always in cash
but in kind as well, mostly in food products, grain, money and vegetables. In some cases,



5This section was prepared by the FAO


                                             41

cotton cake and husk are given to employees as payment for drains and irrigation canals
cleaning. Under informal agreements, laborers may grow vegetable and have their
animals graze on farm land after cotton harvest.

The great majority of farmers are men. Only 2 out of 152 respondents of the survey are
women, both having benefited from I&D scheme improvement. The average age of
respondents is 44 years old and varies from 24 to 85. They employ between 7 and 12
permanent labourers among which almost all family members of working age. Most
permanent labourers are women. Men are temporarily migrating to seek for work in cities
or abroad, mostly in construction. The number of permanent laborers employed increased
slightly since farm establishment. All farms were recently established, mainly since 2002.
The re-structuring process gradually accelerated during the last 6 years when 73% of the
respondents created their farms. Main produce is cotton and wheat. Within the limits
imposed by the leasehold contracts, a few hectares are allocated to other productions left
to the choice of the leaseholder: water melon and squashes, potatoes, vegetables,
sunflower for seeds, and fodder crops (corn) and forages (alfalfa). The areas cultivated
into crops vary annually according to market conditions. Seventy-two percent of the
farmers raise livestock. Some use rangeland for extensive grazing. Farmers wish to
develop livestock raising activities in order to increase manure availability for crops, and
diversify their sources of cash income. However livestock production is limited by the
strict conditions of access to land which rarely allow for the cultivation of forages.

The average cropped area at time of establishment was 31.5 ha, and varied from 1 to 292
ha. The cropped area of RESP beneficiaries was bigger than the cropped area of the
control group's farms (22.1 ha), except for drainage beneficiaries which cropped area
averaged 20.5 ha. In particular, the cropped area of loan beneficiaries, with and without
I&D is significantly higher that the cropped area of other farms. This probably results
from the fact that the bigger farms had better access to the rural finance component.
Almost all irrigable land is cropped, except for drainage beneficiaries for whom 13% of
the irrigable land is not cultivated. There is an increasing number of farms with livestock,
especially among farms who received credit under the project.             However, for the
beneficiaries from I&D, livestock production did not change significantly. For all the
other farm types more farms raise livestock and each of them raises more animals. The
total number of cattle remained stable, while the number of small ruminants increased by
almost 60%. The increased number of small ruminants per farm reflects the choice of
farmers for a low cost and profitable production, as large pastureland areas are available
for grazing. Sheep also represent savings easy to mobilize in case of need of cash.


Perceived changes in agricultural performances

Cultivated areas: Since their establishment, 64% of the farms did not change their
cropped area. This is related to the fact that three quarters of the farms were established
recently. However, one fourth of the farms increased their cropped and irrigable areas
and the average area was more than doubled. Some farmers gained access to additional
land through auction, but many farmers received additional land through a decision of the
district government because of their good performances. They either exceeded cotton
and wheat production targets, they conducted improvement works to claim abandoned
land, or they are big livestock producers. In this context, farms which accessed RESP


                                             42

loans had better chances to be allocated additional land upon request. The re-allocated
land had not yet been allocated or had previously been allocated to other farmers who
went bankrupt or could not meet the production targets. Other farmers merge their farms
in order to share labour, equipment and investment. The cropped areas of I&D
beneficiaries increased after improvement works carried out by RESP: timeliness of
water delivery improved and made cropping possible, soil quality improved, soil
humidity was reduced and tractors could enter previously abandoned fields. A decrease
in cropped area occurred for a minority of the respondents (11%) and the reduction was
drastic, reaching on average 76% of the cropped area and 80% of the irrigable area. The
main reason for reduction of cropped land is salinity and high water tables, or shortage of
water. Farms which benefited from rural finance only and the control group are more
affected, since their I&D system did not benefit from the RESP I&D component.

Cotton and wheat yields: As shown in Table 15, reported wheat and cotton yields of the
control group were originally higher than the yield of the project farmers. This reflects
the fact that the areas selected for RESP intervention had more dilapidated I&D systems.
By 2007, wheat and cotton yields of project beneficiaries increased respectively by 23%
for cotton and 32% for wheat and became higher than the yields obtained by the control
group farms. The increase is higher for farms that benefited from loans than for farms
that benefited only from I&D improvement or from both the loans and the I&D
rehabilitation. This might result from: (i) the fact that the rural finance component started
much earlier than I&D rehabilitation works; and (ii) farms with existing adequate I&D
conditions had better access to rural finance. During the same period, yields of the
control group decreased by 15% for cotton and 11% for wheat. Before RESP intervention,
the control group benefited from better I&D conditions than RESP beneficiaries. The
decreasing performances of the control group can be partly explained by disrepair of the
previously better I&D infrastructures.

Table 15       Perceived changes in cotton and wheat yields according to type of investment
                                      Cotton                                Wheat
                       Before RESP       2007    Change        Before RESP     2007    Change
                        Intervention                           Intervention
Irrigation                        2,16      2,6      +20%                3,03    3,62    +19%
Drainage                          1,97     2,44      +24%                3,21     3,8    +18%
Rural Finance                     2,09     2,88      +38%                2,12    2,87    +45%
RF and I&D                        2,36      2,8      +19%                2,55    2,48    +42%
All Beneficiaries                 2,21     2,72      +23%                2,49    3,28    +32%
Control Group                     2,79     2,36       -15%               3,34    2,96     -11%
Total                             2,26     2,67      +18%                2,55    3,24    +27%

The above is confirmed by the perception of the farmers, as shown in Figure 6 and Figure
7. Most RESP beneficiaries (70%) estimate their cotton yields increased while most
control group farmers (57%) estimate it remained unchanged. The same applies for wheat
yields. While very few of RESP beneficiaries estimated their yields decreased, 28% of
the control group farms estimated their cotton yields decreased, and 23% them estimated
that their wheat yield decreased.




                                              43

                                                Changes in Wheat Yields                                                        Changes in Cotton Yields

                                     80                                                                               40
                  dleiYtce           70                                                          tcejo                35

                                     60                                                               Pr              30
                                                                                                        erofeB        25
                          ojrP       50

                                     40                                                                               20
                              e
                               orfeB 30                                                                       dle     15

                                     20
                               of    10                                                                          Yifo 10
                                                                                                                       5
                                 %                                                                               %
                                      0                                                                                0
                                         Irrigation Drainage RFonly RFand Control                                         Irrigation Drainage RFonly RFand Control
                                                                                                                                                      I&D  group
                                     Increase        Decrease        I&D  group
                                                                                                                      Increase          Decrease

Figure 6 Perceived change in wheat yield                                          Figure 7 Perceived change in cotton yield

Financial returns: Figure 8 and Figure 9 and below show the perception by farmers of
financial returns from cotton and wheat. According to them, financial benefits from
cotton and wheat increased for the majority project beneficiaries, and this increase is on
average about 15% for cotton and 21% for wheat. The benefit from cotton increased
more for beneficiaries of rural finance and I&D activities than for other beneficiaries.
Half of the control group consider that their benefits from cotton and wheat did not
change, 30% that they decreased and 20% that they increased.


                                               Changes in Wheat Return                                                         Changes in Cotton Returns

   tcejorP 70                        60                                             tcejorP 30                       25

   erof                              50                                             erof                             20
                                     40
       Be                                                                               Be 15
         nrut                        30

                                     20                                                 nrut                         10
             Refo                    10                                                     Refo                      5
                 %                   0                                                          %                     0
                                         Irrigation Drainage RFonly RFand Control                                        Irrigation Drainage RFonly  RFand Control
                                                                     I&D  group                                                                       I&D  group
                                    Increase      Decrease                                       Increase                        Decreased

Figure 8 Perceived change in wheat return                                         Figure 9 Perceived change in cotton return

Factors Influencing Farm Performances: As shown in Figure 10 the main factors that are
perceived by respondents to have had a positive impact on their farm performances in
terms of yield and returns are: (i) access to loans; (ii) availability of farm machinery; and
(iii) irrigation improvement. The use of new machines reduces expenditure for fuel and
spare parts, and allows carrying out cropping operations on time and efficiently, which is
crucial for agricultural performances. When renting machinery, farmers may have to wait
for the equipment to be available. To equip the WUA with equipment is also important so
that the WUA have the necessary equipment to maintain the I&D system. Improvement
of the I&D system results in more timely delivery of water and an increase in cropped



                                                                                 44

area. In addition, farmers, after getting the rights for land use, intensively apply manure
in order to improve soil structure and fertility, and to reduce expenses for purchasing
fertilizers. Eventually, they tend to increase their livestock numbers. Manure is carefully
collected and spread on the fields. Workers permanently employed on the farm are
committed to the results and work efficiently and well. Finally, the quality of seeds, and
the possibility to purchase varieties adapted to local conditions plays also a fundamental
role in the achievement of good performances.


                               Factors of Positive Impact on Farm Performances

                                    Prices of Inputs

                                    Prices of Crops

                                Farm Restructuring

  Availability of Business and Technical Services

                               Availability of Credit

                    Availability of Farm Machinery

                                 Improved Drainage

                                 Improved Irrigation

       Control Group
                                                     0% 2% 4% 6% 8%   10% 12% 14% 16% 18% 20%
       Project Beneficiaries                                                   % of answers

Figure 10         Factors with positive impact on farm performances


                               Factors of Negative Impact on Farm Performances

                                    Prices of Inputs

                                    Prices of Crops

                                Farm Restructuring

  Availability of Business and Technical Services

                               Availability of Credit

                    Availability of Farm Machinery

                                 Improved Drainage

                                 Improved Irrigation

        Control Group
                                                     0%   10%  20%     30%    40%     50%    60%
        All Beneficiaries                                                        % of answers


Figure 11         Factors with negative impact on farm performances


Figure 11 shows that the main factors that negatively influence farm performances are: (i)
low prices of outputs; and (ii) high prices of inputs. The negative impact of crop prices is
particularly important for the control group. Generally, increase in agricultural products



                                                          45

prices is lower compared to the increase cost production. Natural predators such as locust
and sparrow may damage crops. Monoculture of cotton and wheat without possibilities of
other rotations is also a reason for yields decrease.


Beneficiaries' assessment of project interventions and suggestions for improvements

Rural Finance: The average size of the loans (not taking into account agro-service
enterprises) acquired is UZS 54.2 million, with a maximum of UZS 69 million and a
minimum of UZS 3,9 million. Ninety-six percent of the loans were used for purchasing
farm machinery and spare parts, out of which 77% for purchasing combine harvester and
different kind of tractors, and the remaining 19% for spare parts. Only 2% of the loans
were used to buy animals (cattle and poultry) whereas many farmers stress the
importance of animal husbandry for increasing the fertility and soil structure, and their
need of financial support purchase animals. Twenty percent of the control group farms
have applied for loan from RESP without success. Their applications were rejected
because they could not provide collaterals, or their farm area was too small. For others,
lending conditions offered were not acceptable. A number of did not apply simply
because they were not aware of the project rural finance component. Other reasons
include that some small farmers were not confident that they would be able to repay the
loan while some big farmers did not need to apply for any loan.

The main perceived benefits by the recipients are: (i) reduced annual expenditures by
avoiding to rent equipment or hire external services; (ii) more timely implementation of
cropping activities; (iii ) yield increases estimated at 28% on the sample interviewed,
according to respondents' perception; and (iv) cash benefit by servicing other farmers
which helps a faster recovery of costs and repayment of loan. Machinery purchased
through loans are often used to service other farmers or enterprises. According to
interviews, small farmers use the purchased equipment more to service other farms than
to work on their own farm or stand idle, and bigger farmers use their purchased
equipment more to service their own farm than other farms. From 2005 to 2006, the
number of farmers serviced by farm machinery increased drastically, but then decreased
slightly between 2006 and 2007. This results from the difficulties faced by 67% of the
machinery owners to receive payment for provided services to both individual farmers
and enterprise during the previous year. Some of them went to court or to the district
governor to complain.

The great majority of respondents (88%) are satisfied with the loan acquisition process
and almost all (97%) with the equipment purchased. Farmers would wish lower interest
rates, especially for cattle breeding activities which requires an important investment in
time and money, and has a long-term return. Loan beneficiaries encountered three main
problems: (i) delivery of machinery was very slow, as some farmers already started
paying the loan interests while they had not received the equipment yet; (ii) the exchange
rate used to calculate repayment amounts was not understood or transparent as farmers
were unclear if it was the exchange rate at the moment of loan acquisition or the
exchange rate at time of repayment; and (iii) misunderstanding or lack of transparency in
the determination of interest rates.




                                              46

Eighty-seven percent of loan beneficiaries did not face problems in loan repayment.
However, the loan repayment partly relies on services rendered to other farmers or to
enterprise. In case these clients are not able to pay, machinery owners have to rely
entirely on the benefits from their crops for loan repayment. For cotton and wheat
producers, the recent decrease in net return from crops may result in difficulties in loan
repayment. Livestock and poultry producers use profits from their activity to reimburse
the loans, and these profits cover the repayment. Nevertheless, 90% do not expect
problems in the future, and part of the borrowers repaid earlier than foreseen. Main
sources for repayment are: (i) income from crops; (ii) income from poultry; and (iii)
provision of equipment services provided to cotton planting.

Eighty percent of machinery owners did not face problems with maintenance. The
owners of German built equipment are satisfied with the service centre. However, 20% of
new tractor owners faced unforeseen difficulties for maintenance of the purchased
equipment, as spare parts for Russian equipment are difficult to find on the local markets.
Travelling to Tashkent increases costs, ordering the spare parts in Russia takes time and
is difficult as it has to be done through bank transfers. There are few local maintenance
centers at present. Machinery owners faced breakdown of an average every 4 to 5 weeks.

The following recommendations have been made by the respondents:

        · Support the establishment at province or district level of service centers
            capable to maintain all types of equipment imported in Uzbekistan. These
            maintenance services could be run by individuals or linked with existing
            institutions such as the WUA. Sales of spare parts could be ensured by private
            shops, MTPs or the district agricultural enterprise;
        · Provide training in agricultural machinery mechanics;
        · Make withdrawal of cash easier for purchasing necessary spare parts for
            maintenance of farm equipment.

Irrigation and drainage improvement: Eighty-five percent of the respondents (which
land benefited from the I&D component) are satisfied with the way the I&D component
was carried out. The survey showed that farmers are aware of works undertaken by RESP.
However, farmers think the importance of the inter-farm works, drainage pumping station
and on-farm irrigation canals repairs is exaggerated, and that more attention should be
given to on-farm drainage works and to enabling more effective maintenance by the
WUAs.

Beneficiaries largely acknowledge the positive impact of RESP I&D works on crops
yields. After drainage system improvement, yields increased for all beneficiaries by a
perceived 19% on average (and up to 100%). As a consequence of improved
performances and benefits, some drainage beneficiaries invested in farm machinery. Most
of the beneficiaries from irrigation (84%) consider irrigation works resulted in increase in
crop yields. However, 7% consider that their yield decreased. They refer to situations
where main canals have been repaired but on-farm canals are clogged -because on-farm
works are pending or because they are not foreseen at all- or where irrigation pumps
service only a limited area and only few farmers benefited. Beneficiaries of irrigation
consider the project too focused on main canals and not sufficiently on on-farm systems.
They consider cleaning of the on-farm canals as their responsibility but do not have


                                            47

appropriate equipment to do so. For RESP I&D component beneficiaries, water delivery
improved in both quantity and timeliness. Underground water level and soil salinity
decreased, but in lesser proportion. For the control group, there was no change and even
deterioration.

Farmers have a relatively positive opinion on the WUAs, but the difference between
RESP beneficiaries and control group is minimal. The majority of both RESP
beneficiaries and the control group belong to a WUA, participate in WUA meetings,
think the WUA is useful, estimate that the WUA's services improved, pay their ISF (fully
or partly), and think the fee they pay is appropriate.    RESP beneficiaries consider that
maintenance of the I&D infrastructure improved both inside the WUAs and between
WUAs. RESP beneficiaries also consider the maintenance adequate. In spite of these
improvements, water delivery still does not cover all the needs.

WUAs were established and their purposes and goals are approved and justified.
However, they cannot work efficiently without equipment ­both machines and
transportation means-, without solid technical and management capacity, without the
commitment of water users, and without empowerment. Beneficiaries answers to closed
questions show the positive perception farmers have of the WUAS. However, when
answering open questions, farmers speak more as if they do not consider themselves to be
members of the WUA, and do not feel committed to the WUA activities, rules and
decision-making process. Although water users recognize that they participate in WUAs
and that water delivery services improved, WUAs are still rather viewed as outsiders'
institutions.

The following recommendations were made by the respondents:

        · Regular cleaning of the drainage and irrigation system is essential and need
            support. Most farmers mainly need support to buy maintenance equipment.
            Loans could be made available to group of farmers or to WUAs to purchase
            the necessary machinery to repair and maintain the I&D system.
        · The whole chain of stakeholders (farmers, WUA and government services)
            involved in I&D should work in close cooperation. Coordination is essential.
        · I&D system maintenance and rehabilitation should be carried out in a
            comprehensive way, and follow a technical plan based on the actual needs.
            Works should address the I&D as a whole and consider both drainage and
            irrigation which cannot function properly one without the other. Rehabilitation
            of on-farm I&D infrastructure was not foreseen for the entire network. All
            farms also need to be supported not only for equity concerns but because the
            overall system can hardly work properly if some parts are still weak.
        · Some technical mistakes were reportedly made and should have been avoided.
        · WUAs are rather weak and need to be strengthened. On the one hand, the
            WUAs' roles, rights and duties need to be legalized and enforced in practice.
            For farmers to actively cooperate, the functions of the WUA need to be legally
            clarified so that they can strictly control incorrect or illegal use of water. In
            addition, WUA employees need to demonstrate their technical and
            management capacities. Employees should be carefully selected and trained.
            On the other hand, water users' rights and duties should be legalized and


                                              48

             reinforced as well. Rules, procedures and means to control proper operation of
             WUAs need to be defined and agreed upon.
        · Installation of water meters is necessary to achieve an equitable distribution of
             water and fair payments.

Unaddressed needs and suggestions for future interventions

A number of recommendations and suggestions were made by respondents for future
operations or for activities that were not covered by the project.

Need for involvement of the whole local community in water management: Water is a
scarce resource and there are multiple water demands, including for domestic use. RESP
target groups include mainly leasehold farmers and dekhans which represent only part of
the rural population. Main conflicts in the use of water do not occur among farmers but
between farmers and other groups of population. In order to better solve these conflicts,
I&D improvement needs to consider have the participation of all water users.

Soil improvement through the use of manure: In order to improve soil structure and
fertility, crop rotation or increase use of manure is recommended. Production and use of
manure, whether by cotton and wheat farmers or other more specialized livestock
producers should be supported by future interventions. A more efficient integration
between crop production and livestock production should be worked out. This could
include either an increase in fodder production into the cropping pattern (also leading to
soil quality improvement) so as to increase animal numbers and manure production of
crop growers. It could also include the promotion of loans to smaller farmers to acquire
more livestock and exchange manure for by-products produced by crop growers.

Need to enlarge the target group of loans: Loans proposed by RESP reached the biggest
farms, and favored machinery acquisition. The rural finance component benefited a
limited cluster of the population. In order to make loans accessible to smaller farmers,
other financing tools could be tested in the future, including saving and credit
associations or other types of grouped credits and community based intermediary
financing institutions.

Diversification of income sources and creation of employment opportunities in rural
areas: While the purpose of RESP loans was wide, it was not perceived as such by
respondents who suggested that more efforts should be made to enlarge the scope of loan
use to small processing for instance. This should be accompanied with proper market
assessment and feasibility studies in order to evaluate the viability of such small
enterprises.

Availability of cash: Lack of cash availability and delayed payment transfers to bank
accounts for cotton and wheat delivered to the state procurement channels is a major
constraint for efficient operation and management of the farms.

Need for technical training: There is a lack of trained operators for excavators and
tractors, and a lack training possibilities in the rural areas.




                                                49

Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and Comments on Draft ICR


                SUMMARY OF PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

1. Project Background

1.Reform process in agriculture sector of the Republic of Uzbekistan had been initiated
by the Government with the support of international community in late 19990's.
Comprehensive farm restructuring program was devised, with implementation in 1998
and as a part of this reform process, the Government, with the support of World Bank,
initiated Rural Enterprises Support Project Phase-I (RESP-I) in five pilot districts that
started implementation in the middle of 2002.

2.The RESP-I was designed to meet the following development objectives: (i) increase
profitability and productivity in the agricultural sector; (ii) support the emergence of
private sector initiatives; and (iii) ensure sustainability of the agricultural sector through
rehabilitation of Irrigation and Drainage (I&D) systems and improved farm management.
Project was implemented in the following five districts of the Republic: Akhangaran
district (Tashkent oblast), Ellikalla district (Rep. Karakalpakstan), Marhamat district
(Andijan oblast), Nishan district (Kashkadarya oblast) and Sherabad district
(Surkhandarya oblast). RESP primarily focused on initiating post-restructuring technical
and financial support to qualifying newly constituted private farms and agribusiness
enterprises.

3.Total project cost was 43,45 million (mln) USD, comprising 36,14 mln USD
International Bank and Reconstruction loan, 4,12 mln USD Government co-financing and
3,20 mln USD beneficiaries investment cost.

4.Project comprised five components namely: i) Rural Business Advisory Services
component (budget 1,22 mln USD); ii) Rehabilitation of Irrigation and Drainage Systems
component (budget 16,63); iii) Rural Finance component (budget 5,93 mln USD); iv)
Credits for Agro-Service Enterprises component (budget 16,00 mln USD); and v) Project
Implementation Support (budget 2,31 mln USD).

2. Project Implementation

5.In general project implemented as in line with project implementation plan and by
Project Year (PY) - 4 the project achieved most of its forecasted outputs with exception
to Irrigation & Drainage component that completed only 70% of the activities by the
summer 2006 (the initial closing date of the project). Since this component constitutes
38% of the project cost and the fact that all rehabilitation design documents were
accomplished and contracts were signed for rehabilitation of I&D system before closing
date, decision was made to extend the project until December 2007. In addition to the
extension of the project closing period, further reallocation was done in the amount of 2,5
million USD from Agro-Services Component to Rural Finance Component in the light of
successful implementation of the latter component and undisbursed funds left in ASC.
RESP was extended second time for 6 month until the end of June 2008, mainly for the
purpose to prepare the follow up phase of RESP-2. Project activity closed in June 30,
2008.


                                              50

6.In terms of funds assimilation, all components assimilated funds allocated with
exception to RBAS component and Project Implementation Component, which did only
assimilated 34% and 76% of the funds allocated respectively. Due to full repayment of
the funds allocated for the activities under RBAS component and the fact that the
institutions established under the component that played as an advisory role to the
farmers could not recover its cost for the services provided, this component did not
assimilated all the funds allocated. In total 98% of 36,1 million USD IBRD loan and 71%
of 4,1 million USD Government's co-financing was assimilated during the project
implementation.

7.Approximately 40,0 mln USD was invested into 5 districts over the course of project
implementation, making largest investment in Sherabad (27%), equal investment level in
Markhamat and Nishan (24%) and Ellikkala and Akhangaran received lowest investment
(15% and 11% respectively). Latter two districts received lowest investment in I&D
infrastructure from the Project. Investment in inter-farm systems in Ellikalla was partially
covered through other similar project carried out in that region (World Bank financed
DIWIP project in South Karakalpakstan) and Akhangaran district only received
investment to the irrigation system, as the district does not have major problems in
drainage, unlike other Project districts.

3. Implementation of Project Components and their outcomes

A. Rural Business Advisory Services component:

8.The main objective of the component was to support and provide assistance to the post
restructuring farms and agribusiness, thereby helping to establish business entities that
can prosper in a competitive market economy. The RBAS and established centers in each
five pilot district were provided with all necessary equipments and materials to start
component implementation in the beginning of project implementation. As a part of the
main activity of RBAS component, it was planned to provide advisory services in
business plan preparation. The qualified staffs of the RBAS and RBAC gained additional
extensive training by international and local consultants in business development,
particularly; in business plan preparation, the procedures of getting loans and micro-
credits both by project participating financial institutions (PFI) and non-project
participants.

9.In PY-1 RBACs prepared more than 150 business plans for the farmers and
agribusiness enterprises. Between PY2 -PY4 this output doubled showing the strong
demand for their service. In total over the course of the project implementation period,
RBACs developed nearly 1000 business plans that were double of the Project targeted
output. However, not all business plans were successful and only 421 business plans were
successfully approved. The main reason for poor success for approval of business plans
does not rest with the quality of the business plans, but rather the post-preparation
procedures. Namely, applicant's lack of collaterals, source of for own share as for the
case of larger loans, unreliability of the clients and the perception by the PFI of having
high risk that subsequently lead for high rejection.

10.In order not to have its activities limited to business planning, RBACs provided
additional services on legal issues, accounting services and assistance to farms in
marketing of agricultural products. This diversification in the activity particularly


                                              51

towards the PY4 and PY5 provided RBACs was mainly aimed to make the organization
more financially viable.

11.Through technical assistance provided by Japanese PHRD Grant funding, the RBACs
built further capacity in managing sophisticated accounting system and started provide
fee based services to the farms who are basically lack the knowledge of good book
keeping. Toward the end of PY4 each RBAC were seen providing accounting services to
approximately 30-40 farms and rural enterprises. This resulted improvement of the
accounting system of the individual farms, at the same time letting the clients ­ the
farmers to focus on the farm activities. To the RBACs this generated additional revenue
and basis for future financial viability of the centers.

12.During the Project implementation RBACs focused largely on conducting seminars,
trainings and meeting for and between the rural and agribusiness enterprises.
Approximately 462 seminars and meetings conducted since the beginning of the project
where more than 15,5 thousand beneficiaries participated. Main workshops were
conducted in the issues related to financial and organizational matters, as the core areas in
business management. Topics followed with more specific issues such as agro technical
and marketing of agricultural products.

B. Irrigation and Drainage Component:

13.The main objective of the Irrigation & Drainage component was to promote
sustainable irrigated agriculture through investment and technical assistance to improve
the reliability and efficiency of irrigation and drainage. This component aimed to
promote the development of participatory irrigation management, rehabilitate key
irrigation and drainage infrastructures, improve operation and maintenance and water
management and promote improved agricultural practices.

14.The project supported the I&D systems of pilot districts through investment program,
based on organization of WUA and the implementation of low-cost rehabilitation
activities of I&D infrastructure. Following activities undertaken within the scope of this
component; on Irrigation: Total of 126,6 km inter-farm canals and 33,4 on-farm canals
were rehabilitated; 3 large water pumps and 53 small scale pumps repaired and brought to
operation. on Drainage: total of 58,52 km of inter-farm collector and 553,6 km on-farm
collectors were cleaned; 70 vertical drainage pumps repaired and 2 new VDP were built
in the local village where there was high level of underground water that resulted in land
erosion. 570 m coastal strip protection levee on the river Sherabad located in the south of
Uzbekistan was rehabilitated which also served as protection of the objects of the village
from erosion. Implementation of this particular project (coastal strip protection levee) had
social importance. After construction of the levee, risk of washing away part of the
village liquidated. Damage from washing away used to cost 250,0-300,0 thousand USD
in equivalence each time when there was stream rise and flooding.

15.Rehabilitation of the canals and the water gates, resulted in improvement of water
delivery, increase the canal efficiency, guaranteed and on time water delivery to the fields
that leads to water saving from inappropriate use. It is estimated that water supply level
improved on 70,3 thousand hectare land from rehabilitation of inter-farm systems and
30,1 thousand hectare land from rehabilitation of on-farm systems. In average on the
territories of the pilot district farms where a research conducted in the end of 2007 by


                                              52

experts of the design company and local engineers of the PIU staffs, in is observed that
water delivery level increased by 21.6%,efficiency of the canals increased by 23% and
actual water consumption ­ 18.3%. (Source: Final report of the Project engineers).

16.It is necessary to note that RESP invested in existing infrastructure and did not finance
activities to build new irrigation systems. Having limited funds and taking into account
district demands, Project focused mainly on investing on critical areas that required
emergency repair.

17.Rehabilitation of the collector-drainage system with high operation level reduced
underground water level and its mineralization. This reflected on salinity and surface of
the horizontal soil. Reduction of the salinity and underground water level increases the
area of cultivate lands and with good the mechanization, production increases. The
preliminary analysis shows that in Nishan district unsalinized land increased by 54%, and
areas with water log after rehabilitation reduced to almost zero level. Highly salinized
areas reduced significantly in Nishan and Ellikkala by 45% and 75% respectively. No
significant works were undertaken in Akhangaran and Markhamat districts were
salinization is not observed in nature.

18.Fifty (50) WUAs were established within the framework of the project and 35 of them
were provided with ameliorative machinery equipment to carry out cleaning on on-farm
I&D networks. In total 19 bulldozers and 23 excavators were supplied for the WUAs.
On-farm rehabilitation works covered the area of 37 WUA's as opposed to 50 WUA's
territory that were established under the project. Not all WUA's participated in the
Project and main reasons were late establishment of some of the WUA's and certain
WUA's did not want to participate in the project due to full cost recovery liability
conditions.

C. Rural Finance Component:
19.The objective of the Rural Finance Component (RFC) was to provide financial
support to restructured farms and private farmers' needs through the banking system.
20.The RFC was administered by Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs), selected with
a tender process for access to trances of funds channeled through this project component.
Component funds delegated by Ministry of Finance (MOF) to selected PFIs are subject to
full recovery and it is PFIs and loan responsibility to return funds to MOF who will
payback to the lender. Total of six local commercial banks participated in the
disbursement of component funds. Initial component budget 5,93 million USD was
assimilated in three trances. Upon successful assimilation of funds timely as project set
target by PY4 and strong demand for small and medium loans additional funds were
allocated for RFC in the amount 2,5 million USD from the unassimilated funds from
Credit for Agro-service Enterprises Component.

21.Component activities were performed in line with the project targeted outputs and
during the project implementation in all project districts, total of 530 loans were given to
the farmers and enterprises of agro-business out of 667 submitted loan applications. 147
loans were rejected mainly due to lack of guarantees (80%). Loans were also rejected due
to high risk and unreliability of the clients. In terms of timeline of the performance,
approval of loans applications was strong in PY-1, whereby 110 loans were approved
against Project targeted 50 loan applications. Following two years remained almost at the
same level with slight increase upto 132 and 125 respectively in PY-2 and PY-3.


                                            53

Outperformance in early stages has left in PY-4 only 47 loans approved. After
reallocation of additional funds (2,5 million USD from ASC component) total of 117
loans were issued by the PFI.

22.Component funds were used to grant purpose loans for purchasing agricultural
machineries, equipments and accessories (86%), for developing cattle-breeding, poultry
farming and beekeeping (10%), vegetable-growing and hothouses (3%) and other
purposes (1%). Majority of the funds were directed for procurement of the agriculture
machineries, equipments and supplements to them as there was strong demand for new
farming equipments among newly emerged private farms. Average amount of the credit
were 20-25 thousand USD. Out of total number of issued loans 34% were of short term
loans upto 10,000 USD and 66% medium-term loans up to 100,000 USD.

23. It is believed that RFC has accomplished its objectives both in terms of
implementation and benefit. RFC came in right time when newly emerged farmers
needed financial supporting with flexible financial terms and the readily available credit
funds. Other than that, project farmers had chance to renew the machines and equipments
that helped to improve farming efficiency. Having more machines in the market
generates free access for the service and increased competition reduces the service cost.
The analysis shows that in average 1700-1900 farmers are benefiting from the use of new
machines and equipments and there was 650-700 work places believed created.

24.Successful implementation was highly linked with the assistance of the RBAS
component. Advisory Centers helped the PIU to reach larger audiences through its
seminars and trainings. Its expertise in developing business plans and knowledge in loan
applications was one of the key contributions for the success of the RFC component.

D. Credit for Agroservice Enterprises Component:

25.The Private Agro-service Companies component is designed to focus on the
establishment of private agro-service centers, supplying machinery services in
competition with the state corporations. The objective of the component was to provide
private farmers and shirkats (former collective farms) with a viable alternative to the
current virtual state monopoly enterprises and supply them services which are more
competitively priced, of higher quality and provided in a timelier manner, thereby raising
farms productivity and profitability.

26.Through this component it was initially envisioned to set up 5-6 companies by
investing 16,0 million USD, out of which 12,8 million USD from IBRD loan. Mainly
these companies planned to be established as new private machine tractor parks to create
competition for state owned MTPs. It was designed to provide heavy agricultural
machinery to small and medium sized farms through leasing. Project investment was
under similar terms as RFC component however, minimum loan application had to be not
less than 100,000 USD and ceiling limit was 2,0 million USD. Loans were given for max
10 years duration with 2,5 years of grace period.

27.An initial attempt was made to establish few companies as in project design. However
absence of qualified companies and inability to provide sufficient collaterals, banks
declined to make risky large investments in districts which were average, and some of
them below average, standard districts in terms of economic development. Due to this,



                                            54

smaller scale companies were started to establish who received loans in PY-3. Total of 6
companies received loans ranging in amount from 150,0 to 500,0 thousand USD. Only
one existing company in Markahamat district in Fergana Valley managed to get loan
approval with equivalent to 1,2 million USD. However over the course of component
implementation the company managed to get loan for the amount around 400,0 thousand
USD. Main reason is the insufficiency of collaterals and substantial increase of the cost
of the loan which is linked to the LIBOR fluctuation. As compared to 2003-2004, LIBOR
doubled in 2006.

28.Although assimilation of the loan resources picked up after reducing the threshold
from 100,0 thousand USD to 50,0 thousand USD in 2005, in general demand for smaller
loans remained strong. In PY-4 and PY-5 total of 167 loans were given to nearly 150
medium sized farmers and rural enterprises through CAE component. Despite this, in
October 2006, it was reached to an agreement between the Government and the World
Bank to reallocate component resources equaling 2,5 million USD to the Rural Finance
component which had similar approach in terms of financing rural enterprises. As such
out of 12,8 million USD initially allocated to Agro service component, project assimilate
10,3 million USD.

29.Beneficiaries obtained loan for the procurement of machineries and farm equipments
similarly to procurements under RF component. Large quantity of grain harvesting
combines were procured under the CAE component that helped to renew the machinery
park of the project districts and replace combines of 10-15 years old. Consequently losses
during the harvesting reduced significantly. The analysis shows that while old combines
provided 15-20% loss in harvesting the grain the new, efficient combines reduced the
losses upto 3-5% only, and efficiency in harvesting directly impacted producers' profit.

30.Although the component did not complete activities as targeted, i.e. to set up large
scale private machine tractor parks, it had accomplished one of its main objectives, which
was to create alternative agricultural machinery services to the State companies by
equipping medium farms with agricultural machineries. Having more machines in the
market generate free access for the service and increased competition reduced the service
cost. The analysis shows that in average 1300-1500 farmers are benefiting from the use
of new machines and equipments and there was estimated 400-420 work places created.

D. Project Implementation Component:

31.The Rural Restructuring Agency (RRA), established in 1998 under the Ministry of
Agriculture and Water Resources, was responsible to coordinate the implementation of
the RESP including procurement, financial management and monitoring project
activities.

32.Approximately 10-14 staffs at head office and 5 staffs in each five regional PIU
managed the project throughout its implementation period. All project staffs received
various trainings and technical assistance support. During PY-2 and PY-3 an international
consultant in procurement was recruited to support initial project procurement activities
based on World Bank guidelines. Total of 12 month the consultant provided on-job
training and monitored procurement process that included preparation of procurement
plan, terms of reference and specifications and bidding documents until carrying out bids
and awarding contract. Besides this, local procurement specialists attended local and


                                             55

international trainings in procurement to continue building capacity. During project
implementation RRA conducted 12 ICBs, 18 international and national shopping's for
procurement of goods; 11 ICB, 18 NCB for procurement of works and 11 minor works;
and 3 QCBS, 2 SIC, 3 CQ and 3 LCS based selection of consultant in accordance with
the guidelines of World Bank.

33.Financial department gained extensive experience in administering funds in
accordance with World Bank procedures. Project staffs received number of trainings
from attending international and local workshops. Financial specialists timely prepared
An-audited Financial Management Reports and submitted to the Government and World
Bank. An independent auditing firms acceptable to World Bank conducted annual audits
and over the course of project implementation no major misuse of funds was observed.

34.I&D component coordinator, including engineers and WUA experts received
extensive support from International Consultants. International company Royal
Haskoning of Netherlands, who contracted for designing and supervising inter-farm and
on-farm rehabilitation works worked closely with RRA staffs between 2004 to 2007,
which resulted in transferring knowledge to Project staffs locally.

35.International Expert in development of WUAs was also recruited for short-term period
who assisted in development of the most of the Project WUA's. Comprehensive manual
for WUA specialists of PIU developed to help in establishing and development of WUAs.

36.Monitoring and Evaluation team of RRA received support mainly from FAO's TCIE
experts. Along with assisting in preparation of project indicators, collection of data and
analyzing them, FAO carried out independent Project evaluation survey to measure
impacts of the RESP in the districts. Total of 3 surveys were carried out by FAO between
2005-2007.

4. Implementation of Technical Assistance to RESP - PHRD Grant:

37.The RRA saw difficulties with some aspects of the RESP, in particular with
components that dealt with Credits for Agricultural Enterprises (CAEs) and Water Users
Associations (WUAs). Towards the end of 2004, the RRA requested International
Technical Assistance through PHRD Grant for the value of 500,0 thousand USD given by
the Japanese Government with the resolution of these difficulties. The France based
company BRL ingénierie were contracted to provide this Technical Assistance from July
2005 for 1 year duration.

38.T/A-RESP's international and national experts provided detailed advice and training
on cotton marketing and contractual arrangements and legal matters.

39.The T/A-RESP provided RBAS to built capacity in financial management,
automization of accounting system and dealing with legal matters through which they
could later provide fee earning service.

40.With regards to support of TA in implementation of WUA component activities,
during the project, five (5) Training Master Plans were prepared by the international
expert together with local specialists. These Training Master Plans present all the
characteristics of the training to be performed such as objective, profile of trainees,
detailed contents of training, material needed, work methods, etc. They were in Water
measurement; Sustainable use of machinery; Proposal of WUA re-organization in WU


                                            56

Groups based on hydraulic boundaries; WUA Financial management and Elaboration of
Maintenance Plan. Number of field visit trainings were conducted in each of the Project
districts with these training master plans.

5. Project impact on agriculture

41.In order to measure project impacts, Project set certain target yields increase on major
agricultural crops. Project Appraisal Document envisioned that towards the end of the
project cotton and wheat yield should increase by 25%. It was not clear how the targets
were set particularly for cotton, but 2007 year end statistical study showed that average
wheat yields out reached targeted value (actual improvement 27%) but cotton yield
improved by 14% only. The methodology applied, which was suggested by FAO experts
was to compare with actual crop yields observed in the five districts both before project
(average 2001-2002) and at the completion of the project (2006-2007). The base year was
assumed as the average of 2001 and 2002 in order to reduce the risk of taking one
specific year (with potentially particular climatic conditions) as a reference year. It
should be noted that in 2007 not all project benefits such as longer term benefits of I&D
improvement have yet materialized because implementation of I&D component
completed late.

42.Change in crop yields in each district was at different level. While cotton yield
improved in Nishan by 28%, Sherabad by 25% and by 33% at Ellikkala between the
comparing periods, cotton yield dropped substantially in Markahamat district (-28%). No
cotton is grown in Akhanagarn district. Similarly wheat yield improved in Nishan by
69%, in Sherabad 40% and in Ellikkala by 49%, the wheat yield dropped in Markahamat
by 33%. It is not clear why it is observed such a huge decline in Markahamat when
Project investing millions of dollar to improve I&D infrastructure and provided financial
through crediting. The research showed that similar level of decline in major crops is
observed in entire Andijan oblast where Markhamat district located. Particularly sharp
drop in crop yields observed between 2002-2003 years, and starting from 2004 crop
yields in the Markahamt oblast started improving. Hence, it is assumed that there are
other factors beyond the influence of the RESP in this district.

43.Another important factor is that, project did not cover entire district as the demand for
investment in the district is substantially high, subsequently not all farmers in the district
benefited from the project. In order to measure project impact on the beneficiaries, FAO
took further step and in collaboration with local research company conducted beneficiary
survey in all five project districts in the end of 2007. Some of the key finds in the survey
conducted in 2007 on impact on crop yields were followings;

44.Project beneficiaries saw their cotton and wheat yields increase by an average of 23%
and 34%. This is similar to the average district yields collected during the project life
which show increases of 14% for cotton and 27% for wheat as evidenced based on
official statistical data. In contrast, the control group interviewed in the survey saw its
yields decrease during the same period by 15% for cotton and 11% for wheat. This shows
strong evidence of the project positive impact on crop yields.

45.Eighty eight (88) % of respondents were satisfied with the loan acquisition process
and 97% with the equipment purchased. The criticisms were related to: (i) the slow



                                              57

delivery of the machinery; (ii) the lack of understanding and/or transparency in the
fixation of the interest rates and repayment schedule.

46. Eighty five (85) % of the respondents (which land benefited from the I&D
component) were satisfied with the way the irrigation and drainage component was
carried out. Beneficiaries largely acknowledge the positive impact of RESP irrigation and
drainage works on crops yields. After drainage system improvement, yields increased for
all beneficiaries by 19% and by 17% due to improvement of irrigation system. As a
consequence of improved performances and benefits, some drainage beneficiaries
invested in farm machinery.

47.Finally, the economist of the FAO estimated the economic rate of return of the project
at 18% and the Net Present Value (with a 10% discount rate assumption) at US$ 10.6
million. Detailed methodology of ERR calculation is given in the FAO's RESP final
evaluation report.

6. Lessons Learnt

48.Taking into its kind and one of the early project being implemented in the agricultural
sector of Republic of Uzbekistan, RESP overall consider implemented satisfactory. There
is very positive impact in project districts and many project participants remained
satisfactory with the project. Project believed to have its full impact in coming years as
major activities such as rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage infrastructure completed
in 2007.

49.However there were several obstacles and difficulties aroused in project
implementation that could be served as lessons learnt and recommendation for future
projects.

50.Project implementation period was relatively short. It was expected that project should
be implemented in 4 years, whereby in actual it was implemented 5,5 years. Specificity
of implementation of irrigation and drainage component was not addressed well from the
beginning. Project did not consider the year long lasting vegetation period in this region
whereby major canals flow water and usually stopped during winter, when it is difficult
to carry out outdoor civil works. It is recommended that similar projects that includes
large investment in rehabilitation of I&D infrastructure provides longer time period in
implementation.      Besides this, development objectives were highly ambitious and
outcome targets in terms of yields were too high to achieve in short period of time.

51.RBAS component had faced difficulties in terms of meeting one of its objective to
move for self-financing. Project proved that farmers are not ready to recover the advisory
services cost. Capacity of the RBAS was not well built to carry out marketing of
agricultural products on behalf of the farmers as marketing of the products were not their
main activity, yet the organization was focused mainly on marketing of farmers
agricultural product when it was suppose to be providing advisory services.

52.In identifying the period for rehabilitation of I&D infrastructures not much attention
was given to the disturbance of works (particularly inter-farms) due to vegetation period
as mentioned above. Longer period should be given for rehabilitation of inter-farm
systems. In identifying the cost of rehabilitation works, additional budget should be
allocated for installment of temporary gates and structures in order to have water flowing


                                             58

that was not included in the Project and caused an inconvenience for the contractors. In
planning the rehabilitation works, local authorities should be involved from the beginning
and should participate in developing work schedules and approving them. Design firm
did not bear financial costs for the mistakes done in design works. In future, the firm
should share financial responsibility if there is a mistake done in design the rehabilitation
works. Absence of working capital of the contracts creates difficulty in timely obtaining
required materials and machineries. Hence, not the lowest provided contractor but
financially strong contractors should be given priority in bidding process.

53.Although Rural Finance component was implemented successfully further
improvements could be done for similar activities in future projects; Loans were issued
under foreign currency for the beneficiaries and all the foreign exchange risk was beard
by them. Credit borrowers should have the choice for sharing the currency risks together
with commercial banks or take the full risk, in the latter case more incentives should be
provided.

54.It is unlikely that in rural areas farms or rural enterprises will borrow large loans as the
practice shows in implementation Agro-Services Component. Newly emerged farmers or
rural enterprises in Uzbekistan do not have sufficient capacity to manage large loans,
particularly providing adequate collateral for the borrowings. This resulted in slow
implementation of the component and eventually combined to RF component.

7. Performance and support of the World Bank

55.The operation of the World Bank during course of the project implementation is
assessed as efficient, useful and supportive. During the implementation, the project was
regularly monitored by the World Bank missions, assessing the status of the project
components. In most of the supervision, World Bank ranked Project satisfactory.
Required clearances were provided timely and/or adequate advice or recommendations
were given. Local staffs at resident mission provided continuous support for all enquiries
of the RRA.

56.World Bank conducted number of training and seminars where RRA and other project
participants managed to learn Bank procedures, and new practices.

57.Additionally FAO technical experts together with World Bank mission team provided
extensive support in monitoring and evaluation of the project activities and measuring
their outcomes and impacts.

58. Finally, ICR team of the World Bank provided extensive guidance with procedures of
closing the Project and evaluating its performance.




                                               59

Government comments (translated) on draft ICR, received on December 22, 2008


Mr. Loup Brefort,
Country Manager
World Bank Country Office, Uzbekistan

Dear Mr. Brefort,

Re.: implementation Completion and Results Report for the Rural Enterprise Support
Project (Phase I)

First of all, we would like to express our gratitude for your support to and cooperation in
the implementation of above mentioned project.

It is good to know that the World Bank generally rated the project as satisfactory.

As was requested in your letter #02870/08 dated December 5, 2008, the Ministry of
Finance has reviewed the Implementation Completion and Results Report for the IDA-
financed Rural Enterprise Support Project (Phase I) and believes it would be expedient to
make amendments to the report as follows:

    1. Paragraph 1 (page 1): replace "dictates" with "defines";
    2. Paragraph 17 (page 8): exclude "Initially, there was good demand from large-
        scale farmers to apply for loans. However, due to confusion regarding the loan
        agreement, and limited interest from government to promote competition to state-
        run machine and tractor parks, turn-over time by the MOF for applications was
        very long, delaying component implementation".
    3. Paragraph 34
             · (page 13): exclude "policy measures";
             · (page 13): replace "the low investments in the RBAS component by
                GOU" with "the low investments in the RBAS component";
    4. Paragraph 40 (page 16): as far as exchange rate issue is concerned ­ if hard
        currency loans were repaid by recipients through conversion of UZS cash in hard
        currency, an amount of UZS required to acquire hard currency was calculated
        based on exchange rate as of the date of conversion and farmers themselves filled
        out the form of transfer order. We believe this issue should possibly not be
        considered as a problem.
    5. Paragraph 47 (page 18): "Uzbekistan remains one of the poorest countries in
        ECA" is to be rephrased as "Uzbekistan is a country with low living standards";
    6. Paragraph 52 (page 19): exclude "a continuing lack of cash availability";
    7. Paragraph 54 (page 20): replace "underlying policy issues" with "underlying
        institutional issues";
    8. Paragraph 57 (page 21): In the initial Project documents there were not developed
        or specified any clear mechanisms for marketing of agricultural products,
        including cotton. Therefore the objectives and tasks of the Project did not include



                                             60

       cotton marketing. In consequent years, the GoU undertook a number of additional
       liberalization measures in the sector. Mechanisms specified in Resolution #153
       were introduced based on capacities of the Project stakeholders and current
       situation. This normative document was adopted by the GoU, whereas
       mechanisms to implement this Resolution had envisaged several alternative
       channels for above the quota cotton marketing. In this respect we believe the GoU
       performance could receive a less tough evaluation.

We would appreciate your understanding and World Bank's support, as well as inclusion
of above amendments in the ICR report.

Sincerely,

E. Tursunov
Deputy Minister of Finance




                                            61

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Project preparation

Project Appraisal Document
Project Implementation Plan
Loan agreement
Country Assistance Strategy

Project implementation

Mission Aide Memoires
Mission PSRs and ICRs
Project Management Reports
Design and Construction Supervision Reports
Project beneficiary surveys
Consultancy Reports

Project completion

FAO end-of-project beneficiary survey
FAO end-of-project economic analysis
WUA survey
Government of Uzbekistan Statistical Yearbooks
Government of Uzbekistan 2007 Welfare Improvement Strategy




                                         62

