Report No. PID8203
Project Name                     Brazil-Fiscal and Administrative(@)
Reform Project
Region                           Latin America and the
Caribbean
Sector                           Economic Management
Project ID                       BRPE63341
Borrower(s)                      Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing Agencies            Ministerio da Fazenda Nacional:
Esplanada dos Ministerios,
Bloco P 70048-900 Brasilia
D.F. Brazil.
Dr. Marcos Caramuru de Paiva
Tel: 55-61-322-3065
Ministerio do Planejamento, Oramento e
Gestao: Esplanada dos Ministerios,
Bloco C 70046-900 Brasilia D.F. Brazil.
Dr. Antonio di Padua Casella;
Tel: 55-61- 313-1033
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                September 22, 1999
Date PID Updated                 March 29, 2000
Project Appraisal Date           October 19, 1998/February 2000
Project Board Date               March 30, 2000
Country and Sector Background
1.      Fiscal Developments. At present, fiscal adjustment
is Brazil's most challenging macroeconomic policy
issue. Brazil's public sector borrowing requirement in
1998, which amounted to 8 percent of GDP, increased
the debt/GDP ratio from 34.4 percent of GDP to about
42 percent of GDP. The January 1999 float ( resulting
in a 64t depreciation, from R$1.21 to R1.98 to the
dollar) further raised the debt/GDP ratio to about 50t
in January 1999, reflecting the dollar-denominated and
dollar-indexed federal debt (which comprised about 28t
of total debt in late 1998). The floating occurred as
confidence faltered in the aftermath of a debt
moratorium declared by one of the major states in
Brazil, underscoring the fragile state of sub-national
finances in Brazil. Fiscal performance contributed to
the considerable amount of turbulence that Brazil's
financial and foreign exchange markets suffered
following the Asia crisis in October 1997. Conditions
improved in the aftermath of the announcement of a new
agreement with the IMF, based on a Government program



that introduced a stronger fiscal adjustment during
1999-2001. The public sector primary surplus
increased from 0.01. of GDP during 1998 to 3.13t of
GDP during 1999. The debt/GDP ratio has thus far
declined to 47T of GDP (December 1999). The exchange
rate stabilized, fluctuating within a range from
R$1.72 to R$1.95 since March 1999 (R$1.74 on March 28,
2000), the overnight rate declined from its peak of
48.2w in March 1999 to 19t percent p.a. by January
2000, and growth remained positive at 0.8w in 1999.
2.      The Government's   Approach to Fiscal Reform. The
authorities regard fiscal reform as a key component of
the Government's economic program, with a bearing on
public sector efficiency. Under the present IMF-
supported program, the Government aims at bringing
down debt to 46.5w of GDP by the year 2001 through
public sector primary surpluses exceeding 3t of GDP.
The authorities are achieving these surpluses chiefly
through measures that have been enacted to raise taxes
and reduce expenditures in the short term. However,
the Government has for long realized that, over the
longer term, sustained fiscal policy improvements
require deeper structural changes in fiscal
institutions, taxes, intergovernmental relationships,
public administration, and social security. These
changes, some of which are already in force, are part
of the Government's very active public sector reform
agenda comprising:
Public Sector Fiscal Reform, as contained in the
Government's Fiscal Stability Program and in
Fundamental Structural Reforms with a Fiscal Impact.
This includes short term increases in revenues and
decreases in expenditures; reforms to address
structural sources of the fiscal deficit, including
social security, administrative reforms, and
intergovernmental finance; reforms to improve the
efficiency of the tax system; and reforms to improve
fiscal responsibility at all government levels.
State Fiscal Reform, as provided in the State Debt
Refinancing Law and the State Debt Refinancing
Agreements. The agreements provide debt relief to the
states subject to compliance with fiscal targets
(with regard to the primary surplus, debt, revenues,
personnel expenditures, investment expenditures and
privatizations) and enforces debt agreements through
access to constitutional transfers as well as the
states' own revenues. Debt agreements with 25 states
have been signed.
Administrative Reform, as established by a 1998 reform
to civil service and institutional provisions in the
Constitution and by the regulation of those
-2-



provisions. The reform is based on Constitutional
Amendment 19, issued on June 4, 1998, which modified
key constitutional provisions on public
administration. The key changes included the
abolishment of universal permanent tenure for civil
servants and introduction of provisions for
containing the public sector wage bill. The bulk of
these changes have now been regulated by law. They
will allow Brazil's public sector to bring down the
fiscal burden of the wage bill. Administrative reform
also includes institutional reform, whereby Brazil is
pursuing to improve the effectiveness of services
exclusively provided by the public sector as well as
services shared with the private sector (excludable
activities). Executive agencies-- and administrative
qualification to be provided to that part of the state
in charge of exclusive activities (autarquias and
fundacoes publicas) -- and social organizations --
non-state autonomous entities established as non-
profit civil institutions in charge of delivering
excludable services such as education and health --
are the key institutional venues that the authorities
expect will improve service delivery. In both cases,
the state will use an instrument -- the management
contract -- to link the budget it spends on these
activities and services to results. Although the legal
framework for these institutions is already in place,
progress in the implementation of this area is still
limited.
Privatization, as implemented through the National
Privatization Plan. This plan began in 1991 and has
already advanced significantly, with $90 billion sold
(including debt transfers of $16.5 billion) from 1991
to March 2000. The program is expected to continue
during the remainder of 2000, led by new power
privatizations, but also including state banks, gas,
and water and sanitation.
The Loan
3.      Project Description.     The project consists of
actions to improve fiscal performance chiefly through
administrative reform (which will help reduce the
burden of the wage bill in the federal, state, and
municipal governments, as well as in the Federal
District), but also through better intergovernmental
financial incentives. This will be made more feasible
through approval and implementation of laws regulating
the 19th Amendment to the Constitution (the
Administrative Reform). The key laws include:
Constitutional Reform of Public Administration:
Removes mandatory tenure for the civil service,
facilitates control of personnel expenditures,
rationalizes the compensation regime of public sector
-3 -



employees, and introduces other provisions for
increased efficiency of public administration; 19th
Amendment to the Constitution, issued June 19th
1998.
Establishment of limits on personnel expenditures: 50t
for the federal Government and 60t for states and
municipalities. Non-complying governments would be
unable to obtain federal financing or guarantees,
would not be allowed to hire or raise wages, and would
not obtain voluntary transfers; Complementary Law
No.96/May 1999. Regulates Article 169 (1 and 2) of the
Constitution, as changed by the 19th Amendment.
Regulation of employment reductions when personnel
expenditures exceed the legal limits; Law 9801/June
1999. Regulates Article 169 (4) of the Constitution,
as changed by the 19th Amendment.
Allowing public sector to hire under private sector
law; Law 9962/February 2000. Establishes the public
sector's employment regime, as allowed by Article 39
of the Constitution, as changed by the 19th
Amendment.
Allowing reductions in employment when employee
performance is inadequate; Draft Law 248/1998.
Regulates Article 41 (1;III) of the Constitution, as
changed by the 19th Amendment. Status: Passed by the
House.
Allowing salary reductions to tenured workers that are
put on administrative leave (allowed by Article 41
(2&3) of the Constitution, as changed by the 19th
Amendment; does not require a law). Decree No. 3151,
1999.
Refinancing of the States' bonded and contractual
debts; Law 9496/97 provides the framework; contracts
with 25 states finalized in 1999 establish the
specific conditions with each state in regard to
amounts refinanced, debt service ceilings, and fiscal
targets.
Establishing restrictions on public sector
indebtedness; Senate Resolution 78 of 1998.
Supporting states efforts to reduce their personnel
expenditures; Provisional measure No. 1977, 2000
established a federal facility whereby the states can
allocate up to 4t of their debt service to pay
indemnities to dismissed employees. Debt service on
the amount paid is postponed under the same financial
conditions of the debt refinancing agreements. The
facility is regulated by an administrative order
(Portaria).
While lowering the wage bill is probably the most
important form of adjustment, other actions would also
-4 -



be undertaken. These could include, in particular,
control of non-labor expenditures, additional
contributions to finance social security benefits,
further privatization of investments, and better tax
collection
4.      Description of Financial Assistance. The    loan
($505.06 million) is structured as a one-tranche
adjustment loan to the Federal Government and was
submitted to the Board following the administrative
reform actions described above. The loan will fully
disburse upon effectiveness. A possible second loan
would support further fiscal and administrative reform
actions.
5.      The Federal Government will implement actions to
achieve its public sector primary surplus and debt
targets and contain the growth of the Federal wage
bill, including employment and average wages. It will
also enforce legislation dealing with state fiscal,
debt performance, and personnel expenditure
performance, including Law 9496, Senate Resolution
78/98, and the new Camata Law (which regulates
personnel expenditure limits). Law 9496 contains a
policy-based state debt service reduction provision in
that states that meet a set of adjustment targets
(regarding debt, primary balance, personnel
expenditures, revenues, privatization, and investment)
benefit from an interest rate of 6 percent (over IGP-
DI, or 8.5% today), well below the cost of the public
debt. Senate Resolution 78/98 contains provisions
establishing limits on borrowing by the states. Under
the new Lei Camata the federal government must
refrain from providing credit, guarantees, or
voluntary transfers to non-compliant states, and wage
raises or new hiring is prohibited for those states.
Some of the latter remedies (credit, guarantees, and
transfers) can apply only 12 months after approval of
the law (i.e., in May 2000), when states must meet the
first adjustment (2/3 of the gap from the maximum
Camata ratio).
6.      The Federal Government has established a financial
facility (covering up to 49 of a state's monthly net
current revenues) to cover part of the indemnity
payments to separated state employees, under
satisfactory employment reduction and wage
restructuring programs (This facility has already been
created by the Provisional Measure No. 1977/99.).
Under the financial facility, a state is allowed to
postpone up to 4% of its monthly debt service to the
Federal Government. The states would use this amount
for partial financing of indemnities to dismissed
employees. Own financing by the states provide
complementary funds. Under the facility, states'
- 5 -



payments would be added to their debt to the federal
government and refinanced on the same terms as those
of the refinancing agreements.
7.      Program Implementation and Supervision. The
implementing agencies include the Ministry of Finance
(MF) and the Ministry of Planning and Budget (MPB).
The Ministry of Finance is implementing:
Public sector fiscal and debt targets;
Federal wage bill targets (jointly with the Planing
and Budget Office);
Remedies (tax transfers and official finance to
states; prohibition to raise salaries or employment at
non complying states) under the Personnel Expenditures
Limits Bill;
Monitoring and remedies under the Federal/State
rescheduling agreements;
Monitoring of personnel expenditure savings and
compliance with legal personnel expenditure limits at
the state level;
Monitoring of Privatization at the State Level.
The Secretary of Planning and Budget is implementing:
Federal wage bill targets (jointly with MF);
Seeking approval of pending legislation on
Administrative Reform.
Supervision will consist of monitoring progress
towards meeting the Program objective of improving
overall public sector and state fiscal performance,
reduction of personnel expenditures, and progress
towards conditions for a possible second loan. Bank
supervision missions are projected beginning about
September 2000 to review and discuss these matters
8.      Environmental Aspects. This Project is not
expected to have environmental implications.
9.      Program Objective Categories. The project is
consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy
report, which establishes structural reforms and
fiscal improvements as key actions to be supported by
the Bank. The Program Objective Category is economic
management.
10.     SUSTAINABILITY OF THE GOVERNMENT'S FISCAL
REFORMS. PRIVATIZATION IS GENERALLY REGARDED AS A
SUSTAINABLE REFORM IN THE SENSE THAT IT IS NOT EASY,
ALBEIT NOT IMPOSSIBLE, TO REVERSE. WAGE BILL CUTS
ARE NOT SUSTAINABLE BY THEMSELVES. UNLIKE
PRIVATIZATION, THEY CAN EASILY BE AND OFTEN ARE
REVERSED BY MARKET OR POLITICAL REASONS.
NEVERTHELESS, WAGE BILL CUTS IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR
CAN BE SUSTAINED WHEN THEY HAVE BEEN TRIGGERED BY A
FRAMEWORK THAT MAKES GOVERNMENTS' BUDGET CONSTRAINTS
SUFFICIENTLY BINDING. BRAZIL'S EXPECTED CONTAINMENT
- 6 -



OF LABOR COSTS IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR IS TAKING PLACE
IN A CONTEXT OF ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND FISCAL
REFORM THAT IS EXPECTED TO MAKE STATES AND
MUNICIPALITIES MORE FISCALLY RESPONSIBLE.
11.      Lessons Learned. The Bank developed an initial
experience through the State Reform Operations to
three Brazilian states (Rio de Janeiro, Rio Grande do
Sul, and Mato Grosso) during 1996-1999. These
operations focused primarily on supporting
privatization at the state level. The early assessment
is that these operations were successful in achieving
irreversible privatizations that have contributed to
efficiency and service delivery. The operations for
Rio de Janeiro and Rio Grande do Sul were not
successful in improving fiscal performance, a
secondary expectation of the loan. The chief reasons
were: (i) Brazilian states were unable to adjust
personnel expenditures, their major expenditure, due
to rigid civil service legislation; (ii) Brazilian
states did not have strong incentives to adjust, given
the availability of federal financing. Conditions
regarding these constraints have now improved. The
debt agreements between states and the federal
government, together with senate regulations, have
strengthened constraints on indebtedness and
enforcement of debt repayments. These are encouraging
fiscal adjustment at the state level. Furthermore,
constitutional administrative reform now allows states
with unduly high personnel expenditures to dismiss
redundant employees.
12.     Poverty Category: No. Poverty focus does not
apply.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Mauricio Carrizosa
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-9198
Email: mcarrizosa@worldbank.org
Note: This is information on an involving project.
Certain components may not be necessarily included in
the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 7, 2000.
- 7 -



