                                                                                             87428
                 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                          International Development Association
                             International Finance Corporation
                        Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency

                                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                      CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                  EDS2000-60
                                                                                 March 29, 2000
                                                                                  06:57:11 PM


Statement by Yahya A. Alyahya
Date of Meeting: March 30, 2000

                  BRAZIL: Country Assistance Strategy; Fiscal and Administrative Reform
                Special Sector Adjustment Loan; and Social Security Special Sector Adjusment
                                                   Loan


       I welcome the discussion of this CAS for Brazil. The report is very informative , perhaps
too much so. I also welcome the frank discussion of the issues and the challenges facing the
country in the CAS, as well as in the accompanying two operations.

        The Government’s determination and success in sailing safely through the turbulent
international financial crisis of recent years deserve our commendation. This should also gives
us greater confidence in the Government’s commitment to continue implementing the
challenging reform agenda, in spite of the obstacles that it could meet from internal opposition to
reform. The Government’s proven willingness and ability to find alternative solutions, when
faced with setbacks, in order to remain on track with reform, augur well for the successful
implementation of its reform agenda. With these words, I can support the main thrust of the
CAS and the two accompanying operations.

       Let me now turn to more specific comments on the CAS:

       I am pleased to note that the Bank’s assistance strategy uses the Government’s
development strategy – PPA 2000/3 – as its main reference. This should strengthen ownership
and improve the prospects for successful implementation of the CAS. I am also pleased that
both the CAS and the Government’s development strategy focus on achieving sustainable
reduction in poverty. In this context, while I find the analysis of institution building and the
environment, and their link to growth and poverty interesting, I will focus my comments on the
sections on poverty and economic development and growth.

     Regarding the analysis of poverty in the text and in Annex 4, I have the following
comments.
       First, it seems to me that by using a food-only poverty line, as mentioned in footnote 2
page 4, the headcount poverty rate of 22 percent in 1998 could be substantially underestimated.

        Second, the poverty profile provides a good basis for targeting the poor more effectively.
From the analysis, it appears that the Bank and the Government are right in targeting the
Northeast. However, it would have been useful to show whether the profile changes as the
poverty line is shifted upwards or downwards, and to provide other measures (such as the Foster,
Grear and Thorbeck poverty index) to give a sense of the depth of poverty across the profile
categories. This latter measure of poverty would also indicate which policies – growth policies
or redistribution policies -- would be more effective in reducing poverty in the country. My first
impression is that, given that the income distribution in Brazil is significantly skewed,
redistribution policies could be more effective.

        To some extent, this impression is supported by the discussion in paragraphs 30 and 31 of
the report. Figure 1 and the analysis show that to reduce poverty by half by 2015, and given the
income effects of educational achievements, the economy would have to grow by an annual rate
of 6 percent. With lower growth rates, the shortfall would have to be made up by structural
social policies and improved social protection. As indicated in paragraph 30, these policies tend
to contain a significant element of income redistribution. It is this aspect of the reform agenda,
which generates so much resistance and the biggest challenge to the Government’s reform
agenda.

       Regarding Economic Development and Growth, it is clear from the report that in spite of
improvements, the private sector is unable to play its role to the extend it could. The reasons are
mentioned in the report and include large public financing requirements, which crowd out private
investment; the persistent high interest rates; and infrastructure bottlenecks, especially in
transport and power.

        In this context, two aspects are important for growth and poverty reduction. First, is the
need to develop and support small and medium enterprises, which has been identified as a
concern for the private sector. Such enterprises are more likely, than large enterprises, to
translate growth into employment and poverty reduction. I am, therefore, pleased to note that the
Bank would be contributing to a study on the pattern of growth and poverty reduction. I look
forward to reviewing this study.

       The second aspect, which is important for growth, is to further stimulate growth of
export. The CAS, as the trade paper for the Development Committee, rightly emphasizes the
need to develop trade-related infrastructure and to invest in human capital. I am particularly
pleased to note that the Bank Group is supporting these important sectors.

        Turning now to the lending program, I can support the levels indicated for the three-year
2000-2002, as well as the composition between adjustment and investment lending. I believe the
temporary shift to relatively more adjustment operations is warranted under the circumstances,
so is the planned shift from lending to the states to lending more to the federal government. In
this context, I have noted that a high-case lending scenario has not been developed, but the
possible triggers are mentioned in footnote 32. It would be helpful if staff could give some
indication on the level and composition of increased lending under such a scenario.

       Let me now turn to the two operations accompanying the CAS. Both the Fiscal and
Administrative Reform, and the Second Social Security operations aim at achieving fiscal
sustainability, which is the key to lowering interest rates, accelerating growth and reducing
poverty. I have the following comments on each of these operations.

         On Fiscal and Administrative Reform, I have noted the relationship between personnel
expenditures, the level of indebtedness and the primary deficit described in paragraph 31. More
specifically, higher personnel expenditures contribute to higher indebtedness, and the two are the
main causes of fiscal distress. With debt agreements having been reached between the federal
government and the state governments and becoming more binding, the states are expected to be
forced to take measures to reduce personnel expenditures or increase revenues. Personnel
expenditures consist of wages and social security benefits. The latter will be addressed by the
Second Social Security operation, which should yield longer-term results. As for reducing the
wage bill, it is clear that the envisaged measures can be reversed. It is also possible that the
coming municipal election could make implementation of the needed measures more difficult, at
least in the short run.

       On the Second Social Security operation I just have the following question:

        Consistent application of the new benefit formula, mentioned in paragraph 30, is crucial
for reducing the fiscal burden. In this context, it would be useful to know how the actuarial
coefficient is determined, and whether this could lead to an abuse of the formula. Are there other
proposals that the Bank and the Government may have considered that could avoid such a
possibility?

       Finally,        I        wish         the         authorities       every         success.
