Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23393
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-45430)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$506.06 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
FISCAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE REFORM SPECIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
12/27/2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 16, 2001)
Currency Unit = Real (Rs.$)
R.$I = US$ 0.42
US$ I = Rs.$2.35
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNDES       National Development Bank (Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento)
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy (Estrategia de Asistencia Para o Pais)
COFINS       Financing Contribution for Social Security (Contribu,ao para o Financiamento da
Seguridade Social)
CPMF         Provisional Financial Transactions Contribution (Contribu,ao Provisioria sobre a
Movimentacao Financeira)
ESW          Economic and Sector Work (Trabalho Econ6mico e Setorial)
FARL         Fiscal and Administrative Reform Loan (Emprestimo de Reforma Fiscal e Administrativa)
GDP          Gross Domestic Product (Produto Intemo Bruto)
GOB          Government of Brazil (Governo do Brasil)
FRL          Fiscal Responsibility Law (Lei de Responsabilidade Fiscal)
IADB         Interamerican Development Bank (Banco Interamericano de Desenvolvimento)
ICMS         Tax on the Circulation of Goods, on Interstate and Intermunicipal Transportation Services,
and on Communication Services (Imposto Sobre Operag6es relativas a Circula,ao de
Mercadorias e sobre Presta,ces de Servi,os de Transporte Intermunicipal e de
Comunica,ao)
IOF          Financial Operations Tax (Imposto de Opera,6es Financeiras)
IPI          Industrial Products Tax (Imposto sobre Produtos Industrializados)
IMF          International Monetary Fund (Fundo Monetario Internacional)
IFI          International Financial Institution (Institu,cao Financeira Intemacional)
ISS          Tax on Services (Imposto sobre Servi,os)
PASEP        Civil Service Patrimonial Fromation Fund (Programa de Forma,co do Patrimonio do
Servidor Publico)
PFRSAL       Programmatic Fiscal Reform Structural Adjustment Loan (Emprestimo Programatico de
Ajuste Estrutural de Reforma Fiscal)
PIS          Contributio for Social Integration Program (Contribu,ao para o Program de Integra,ao
Social)
PPA          Multi-annual Plan (Plano Plurianual)
PSBR         Public Sector Borrowing Requirement (Necesidades de Financiamento do Setor Publico)
SIAFI        Integrated Financial MAnagement System (Sistema Integrado de Administra,co Financeira)
VAT          Value Added Tax (Imposto ao Valor Agregado)
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Vinod Thomas
Sector Manager/Director:  Ernesto May
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Mauricio Carrizosa



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
FISCAL AND ADMPNISTRATIVE REFORM SPECIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 7
6. Sustainability                                                                     9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     I 1
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   14
9. Partner Comments                                                                  16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                24
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                  25
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                                55
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P063341                                       Project Name: ADMIN & FISC REF
Team Leader: Mauricio Carrizosa                           TL Unit: LCSPE
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR          Report Date: December 27, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: ADMIN & FISC REF                               L/C/TF Number: SCL-45430
Country/Department: BRAZIL                                              Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: BB - Public Sector Management Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   10/09/1998                             Effective: 06/30/2000         06/30/2000
Appraisal:  10/19/1998                               MTR:
Approval:  03/30/2000                              Closing: 12/31/2000          12/31/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL/MINISTRY OF FINANCE; MINISTRY OF
ADMINISTRATION
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                         David de Ferranti
Country Manager:     Vinod Thomas                              Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager:      Ernesto May                               Guillerrno Perry
Team Leader at ICR:  Mauricio Carrizosa                        Mauricio Carnizosa
ICR Primary Author:  Eliana Cardoso; Mauricio
Carrizosa
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time:



2
3.    Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1   Original Objective:
The Fiscal and Administrative Reform Loan (FARL) was a component of the Bank's $4.5
billion adjustment loans planned for Brazil in the aftermath of the 1998 Russia Crisis. Beyond
the support for fiscal reform provided by the FAR Loan, the emergency package also included
support for reform in the areas of social security (pensions) and social protection expenditures.
The emergency package was part of the broader support initiative by the International Financial
Institutions (IFIS) to help Brazil meet its external financing requirements. As such, its purpose
must be assessed in the context of the volatile financial flows to emerging economies since the
late 1990s.
The 1997 Asian crisis caused a brief panic in Brazil. The Russia crisis in August 1998
triggered a full-size blow. In the last quarter of 1998, Brazil's foreign currency reserves fell by
$30 billion as the government struggled to defend Brazil's currency, the Real. The Government
took decisive policy actions to respond to the changed international environment and requested
the Bank to participate in the larger program of external financial support that was being
assembled. The framework paper Special Program of Support for Brazil. SecM98-943,
November 25,1998, places the Bank's program of special support within the larger context of the
Brazilian adjustment program, the international package prepared to support it. and the Bank's
assistance program.
The support by the IFIs had two clear objectives and instruments: to limit the inflationary
impact of the collapse of the real in January 1999 by raising interest rates and to prevent the ratio
of public sector debt to gross domestic product from exploding by producing substantial primary
surpluses in the fiscal accounts. A supporting document to this ICR, entitled " From Monetary
and Fiscal Reforms in the 1990s to Sustained Growth?" (supporting document No. 1, available
upon request) analyzes in depth Brazil's strategies, policies, and performance since 1994. It also
reviews external factors that caused the balance of payments to deteriorate and discusses
structural problems on the fiscal front. It comments on the government's adjustment program
since the real was allowed to float in 1999 and the implementation of the IMF Stand-By
Arrangement initiated in October 1998, which completed its eighth and final review in July 2001
(A new 15-month Stand-by arrangement was agreed in that month).
The Fiscal and Administrative Reform Loan (FARL) supported the Government's
program to improve Brazil's fiscal perfornance in general and the fiscal performance of the
states in particular, with an emphasis on administrative reform to reduce personnel costs and
increase efficiency and by supporting the Fiscal Stability Program, the State Debt Refinancing
Law, the Sub-national Public Indebtedness Regime, and the Administrative Reform. The
Program consisted of policy actions to improve fiscal performance chiefly through reducing the
burden of the wage bill in the federal, state, and municipal governments, as well as in the Federal
District. The actions included introduction and initiation of the Government's Fiscal Stability
Plan, approval and implementation of laws regulating the 19th Amendment to the Constitution
(the Administrative Reform), refinancing of the state's debts, and establishment of a facility to
support states undertaking administrative reform.



3
The objective of the Bank's FARL was clear: it required the implementation of laws that
Congress had already approved and its achievement was to be measured by outcomes discussed
in section 4 below. The loan supported the entry into force of the following laws: Law No.9496
which establishes criteria for the consolidation and refinancing of the debts of the States to the
Central Government; Resolution No.78 which establishes criteria and limitations on borrowing
by the States, Municipalities, and the Federal District; Law No. 9801, which establishes rules for
dismissal of the tenured public servants of the Central Government, the States, the
Municipalities, and the Federal District; Complementary Law No.96, which establishes limits for
expenditures for employees of the Central Government, the States, the Municipalities, and the
Federal District, based on the respective entity's current net revenue; Decree No. 3151, which
regulates salary reductions of the Central Government's tenured public servants who are put
under administrative leave; and Provisional Measure No. 1977-16, which authorizes the Central
Government to deduct the amount that a State deposits for severance payments to its employees
from the monthly payment that it has to make under its Debt Refinancing Agreement.
The objective of improving fiscal performance was essential to Brazil's circumstances
and priorities, as identified by the government and by the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy in
1997 and 1998. The 1997 CAS observes that fiscal adjustment in Brazil after the Real Plan had
been more difficult than originally anticipated and points to fiscal improvement as a priority
area. The 1998 CAS observes that: "Since the full FY97 CAS, there have been important
developments with a bearing on the Bank's strategy. Most importantly, the 1997 crisis of
Southeast Asia countries had a significant initial impact on capital flows to Brazil. As with past
external shocks, the authorities reacted quickly and successfully to this new challenge, raising
interest rates to defend the currency and introducing a new set of fiscal measures to reduce the
impact on the public sector deficit and gradually introducing some flexibility in exchange rate
management. While the volume of capital flows has responded very positively, spreads remain
on the high side. The Bank will respond to the new challenges with an increased program on
non-lending services in support of macroeconomic-related structural reforms, performance and
growth." Finally, the CAS discussed on March 30, 2000 included poverty reduction and fiscal
adjustment as principal objectives. The CAS supports lending in the area of "improvements in
fiscal institutions and public sector management for better fiscal performance and incentives for
fiscal discipline."
It should be noted that, despite fiscal adjustment, the Government was able to protect
social expenditures. As discussed in Annex 8, the level of real social spending per capita
declined only slightly in 2000 to a level still above that attained in 1997 (social expenditures
expanded strongly from 1996 to 1998). Moreover, the Government determined a set of programs
that it explicitly protected from fiscal expenditure cuts. Protection of these expenditures was
supported by the Bank's Social Protection Loan that was approved in January 1999. A survey of
the beneficiaries of public expenditures conducted in 1999 indicated a relative level of customer
satisfaction of 72%. This survey is also discussed in Annex 8.
The objective of the FARL was complex as it involved policy change and improvement
in the performance of states and municipalities that do not have the same implementing capacity
as the central government, and have difficulty in adjusting personnel expenditures due to rigid
civil service legislation.



4
The proposal highlighted from the outset an important short-term risk. If interest rates
increased further and the floating exchange rate resulted in further depreciation of the real, the
cost of debt service would increase and make it difficult to achieve the public sector and debt
targets.
3.2   Revised Objective.
The objective was not revised.
3.3   Original Components:
In this single tranche special sector adjustment loan, the main components were four policies, as
follows:
1.    Fiscal Stability Program, an IMF supported program introduced in October, 1998;
2.    The State Debt Refinancing Law and the State Debt Refinancing Agreements, whereby
the States agreed to repay their debts to the Federal Government during a 30 year period and a
6% real interest rates. The agreements also included a ceiling on debt service (as a percentage of
net revenues), with the excess over that ceiling capitalized and refinanced with an additional 10-
year repayment period.
3.    Administrative Reform, whereby the Constitution was changed to allow dismissals of
civil service when under conditions of excessive personnel expenditures.
4.    Fiscal Responsibility Law ( to be supported by a follow up single tranche adjustment loan
which, in the event, materialized as the first Programmatic Fiscal Reform Structural Adjustment
Loan, approved on January 18, 2001).
ONE TRANCHE RELEASE; $505,060,000.00;
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory, based on:
(i)   Consistency of the loan with Brazil's priority in achieving fiscal balance and lowering the
debt/GDP ratio;
(ii)  Demonstrated commitment by the central government in improving fiscal balance and
preserving the stability achieved with the Real Plan since mid-1990s;
(iii) Strength of government ownership as the government had already obtained approval of
most of the legislation that formed the core of the adjustments to be implemented;



5
(iv)  Consistency of the loan with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Brazil, with the
continuation of fiscal adjustment as one of the CAS principal objectives.
4.    Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1   Outcome/achievement of objective
Achievement of objectives and outputs under the FARL was satisfactory. The
achievements of Brazil's fiscal stability program were remarkable, considering the still
unresolved financial shock originating in Argentina during 2001, the uncertainties of the global
environment, and the difficulties involved in Congress negotiations related to expenditure cuts.
4.2   Outputs by Components
The policy measures in the Fiscal Stability Program, the State Debt Refinancing Law, the
State Debt Refinancing Agreement, and the Administrative Reform had expected outcomes
summarized in Table 1 and reported in the paragraphs below. Actual outcomes confirmed
expectations of successful fiscal adjustment with few exceptions. Analysis of the programs and
factors hampering the administrative reform are found in Section 5 below.
Table 1: Expected and Actual Outcomes
Expected outcome in 2000 relative to 1999   Actual     outcome      confirmed
outcome                                     expectations?
Increase in the overall public sector fiscal balance  Yes
Reduction in the ratio of public sector net debt to  No (however, some of the increase in
GDP                                         debt figures  reflects inclusion  of
formerly excluded liabilities). This
outcome was the result of unexpected
external shocks. The adverse effect of
the shocks was contained by the
Government's exemplary management
of macro and fiscal policies.
Increase in the aggregate fiscal surplus at the state Yes
level
Reduction in the ratio of personnel expenditures to Yes *
net current revenues at all levels
Reduction in the ratio of state debt to net state Yes for some states
revenues
Additional privatization at the state level  Slow progress in privatization revenues
compared to projections in the IMF
program.
Source: Tables in supporting document No. 1 (cited in Annex 7). * Personnel expenditures at the
federal level have been below those at the state level and meet the prescribed maximum ratio of
50% of net current revenues.



6
Brazil's fiscal performance in 2000 was strong. The primary surplus of the consolidated
public sector reached 3.5 percent of estimated GDP, and exceeded the IMF program floor for
end-December 2000 (Tables 1 and 8 of supporting document No.1). For the twelve-month period
ending in October 2001, the primary surplus was 3.96% of GDP, above the Government's target
for the year (3.35% of GDP).
The Public Sector Borrowing Requirements (PSBR) declined to 4.6 percent of estimated
GDP from 10 percent in 1999 (Tables 1 and 8 of supporting document No.1). For the twelve-
month period ending in October 2001, the PSBR was 2.99% of GDP.
The net public debt remained stable at 49.4% of GDP. Nevertheless, it increased during
2001 (to 54.4% of GDP by October), reflecting the more depreciated level of the exchange rate.
The primary surplus of the states doubled to 0.4 percent of GDP helped by increased
revenues from the state level VAT (ICMS) (Table 8 of supporting document). For the twelve-
month period ending in October 2001, the primary surplus of the states was 0.5% of GDP. The
continued enforcement of the states' debt-refinancing contracts with the federal government in
combination with reduced access to new financing required the states do generate primary
surpluses to service their debts.
The municipalities recorded a primary surplus of 0.1 percent of estimated GDP in 2000.
For the twelve-month period ending in October 2001, the primary surplus of municipalities was
0.2% of GDP
The fiscal position of the public enterprises also improved to a surplus of 1.1 percent of
GDP. The improvement had more weight for the federal enterprises (Table 8 of supporting
document No.1). For the twelve-month period ending in October 2001, the primary surplus of
public enterprises was 0.9% of GDP
The ratio of personnel expenditures (as reported by the IMF) to net tax revenues (i.e., tax
revenues including net transfers, as calculated by BNDES-Banco Federativo) at the state level
declined from 92.5% in 1998 to 78.4% in 2000. The ratio of personnel expenditures to net tax
revenues at the federal level decreased from 29.1 % in 1998 to 27.4%.
The ratio of state debt to net state revenues declined from 2.00 in December 1999 to 1.90
in December 2000. Nevertheless it increased again in 2001 to about 2.2 (See also figures 3, 4,
and 5 in supporting document No.1).
Following the devaluation that occurred in January 1999, the net public debt reached
51.7% of GDP in February 1999. It stabilized within the 48%-50% range in 2000, and increased
again in 2001 to above 50%. There was progress in improving the debt structure. The share of
debt placed at fixed rates increased from 9 percent in 1999 to 15 percent at the end of 2000. The
average maturity and duration of domestic debt also increased.
Brazil's fiscal stability program continues to target fiscal consolidation and projects a
public sector consolidated primary surplus equivalent to 3.35 percent of GDP in 2001 and 3.5
percent of GDP in 2002-03. The federal budget for 2001 targets a primary surplus of the central



7
government equivalent to close to 1.8 percent of projected GDP. The primary surplus of state
and municipal governments and public enterprises is expected to be about 0.8% of GDP in 2001.
Revenues at all levels of government will perform less well than expected in 2001
because the economy will have slowed down to about 2 % in 2001. The introduction of an
automatic quarterly adjustment mechanism for domestic oil prices will safeguard the targeted
surplus of the oil account. This will now be easier as oil prices have been declining in 2001.
4.3   Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
n.a.
4.4   Financial rate of return:
n.a
4.5   Institutional development impact:
The program supported by the loan achieved three key institutional changes: (i) the
Federal Government introduced the practice of fiscal planning (planning where primary balances
are linked to debt objectives); this practice has now been institutionalized for all government
levels in the Law of Fiscal Responsibility (approved in 2001 and supported by the follow-up
Programmatic Fiscal Reform Structural Adjustment Loan); (ii) the Federal Government
institutionalized effective debt repayment by sub-national governments; the debt refinancing
agreements ensured repayment of sub-national debts to the Federal Government by  allowing
the Federal Government to deduct repayment obligations from intergovernmental transfers in
case of non-repayment; (iii) Administrative Reform improved civil service institutions by
allowing more flexibility in the dismissal of excessive personnel.
5.    Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1   Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Factors outside the control of government include external shocks (e.g., the increasing
signs of financial volatility in the U.S. economy, the sharp hike of petroleum prices through 2001
and the mounting economic uncertainty in neighboring Argentina) and domestic legal constraints
on fiscal adjustment (e.g., chiefly earmarking of revenues). External shocks increased Brazil's
domestic interest rates and depreciated Brazil's currency, raising the cost of debt to the
Government and containing the rate of growth in 1999 and 2001 (after Brazil's economic
recovery had gathered momentum throughout 2000). Earmarking of revenues has made fiscal
adjustment particularly difficult. Despite the difficulty, the Government, as discussed below,
succeeded in implementing its primary balance targets.
5.2   Factors generally subject to government control:
A major factor underlying the renewed confidence in Brazil's economy during 2000
stemmed from the authorities' continued commitment to achieving a satisfactory fiscal
adjustment and complying with the IMF Stand-by accord, which was approved in November



8
1998. The authorities focused particular attention on achieving the targets for the primary
surplus, which excludes interest charges.  In this regard, highly satisfactory results were
obtained, as discussed in section 4.
In the case of accrued interest charges, less satisfactory progress was achieved. It should
be noted that in 1999, interest charges had skyrocketed to a 13.6 percent average of GDP, more
than double the average of the preceding year. This reflected the fact that around 20 percent of
the Federal Government's securitized debt was dollar-linked and, thus, immediately impacted by
the devaluation. The fiscal cost of the devaluation (that occurred at the beginning of the year)
was absorbed thanks to the appreciation of the real in mid-1999 and the drop in "overnight"
interest rates (the rate at which the Government finances about 60 percent of its debt
obligations). As a result of these factors, accrued interest charges plummeted from 12.6 percent
of GDP in December 1999 to 6.9 percent of GDP in February 2000, their lowest level in 18
months.
During the rest of 2000, however, this trend was reversed as interest charges rose in small
monthly increments, reaching 8.1 percent of GDP by year-end. Although "overnight" interest
rates continued to decline throughout 2000, the decline occurred at a much slower pace than in
the previous year.  The bulk of the seven percent devaluation of the real in 2000 was
concentrated in the second half of the year, when the economic situation in neighboring
Argentina became increasingly unsettled. As happened in 1999, the renewed weakening of the
real immediately impacted the stock of securitized debt, since the share of dollar-linked debt
obligations remained essentially unchanged at around 20 percent. In short, the negative impact
of devaluation more than offset the reduction of interest rates, thereby causing interest charges to
slowly rise after February 2000. The rise in the primary surplus approximately equaled the
increase in interest charges. This produced a relatively stable nominal deficit and impeded
further decline in the debt/GDP ratio.
In the first quarter of 2001, the Argentina's crisis caused further depreciation of the real.
Thus progress in reducing the public debt was hampered by factors partially outside the
government's control (see section 5.1 above). Increased interest rates during 2001 raised the
interest bill to 8.8% of GDP in October 2001.
On the structural reform front, results have been substantial, although Congress failed
to approve important legislation. While Congress approved critical initiatives (e.g., the Debt
Refinancing Law; the Fiscal Responsibility Law), it failed to approve (i) the two remaining
pieces of implementing legislation for the administrative reform (a law regulating dismissals of
tenured public employees for inadequate performance and a constitutional amendment
establishing remuneration limits for public sector employees) and (ii) the proposed legislation
regulating public and private pension funds.
Also little progress was achieved in the reform of indirect taxation, except for the
presentation to Congress in early August 2000 of a constitutional amendment establishing an
explicit system to tax domestic oil products, to replace the implicit taxes embodied in the
petroleum account of the Treasury by the beginning of 2002, when the domestic oil market is
expected to be liberalized.



9
The government continued its efforts to restructure remaining state-owned banks. At the
same time, however, the privatization process of other companies showed little progress. To
strengthen the political support for privatization, the government revised the privatization models
for the three major electricity generation companies (Fumas, Eletronorte, and Chesf). In the case
of Furnas the new model expands popular ownership of shares in the company.
The scope for significant further progress in fiscal reforms requiring congressional
approval will narrow as the 2002 presidential and state elections approach. The government still
needs to pursue the passage and implementation of pending reforms (particularly the remaining
pieces of implementing legislation for the administrative reform, the reform of the indirect tax
system and some aspects of the pension system). The state governments will also have to make
further progress in the implementation of their privatization program.
5.3   Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
n.a.
5.4   Costs andfinancing
There were no changes in the original financing arrangements. The loan was approved in
March 2000 and disbursed in June 2000.
6.    Sustainability
6.1   Rationale for sustainability rating
Sustainability of the FARL is rated as likely. Brazil's program for 2001 continues to
center on fiscal consolidation. The approved 2001 budget projects that the public sector will post
once again a significant primary surplus. The Fiscal Responsibility Law (FRL) requires the
federal government to review the fiscal outcomes every two months and to take immediate
corrective steps if unforeseen events were to threaten the targeted primary surplus of the federal
government and public enterprises.
The FRL also calls for adjustment by state and municipal governments with penalties for
noncompliance. After three consecutive years of improved fiscal performance, the projected
2001 primary surplus of the states is around 0.5 percent of GDP thanks to continued restraint
required by the FRL.
At the municipal level, the completed negotiation of debt restructuring agreements
between the federal government and 180 municipalities, together with the application of the
Fiscal Responsibility Law will help maintain fiscal discipline.
All these factors seem to point to the sustainability of the progress achieved under the
Administrative and Fiscal Reform Loan. As discussed before, developments in the public
finances in the year to date (through October 2001) have been encouraging. The primary surplus
during the first ten months of 2001 has been in excess of projections with strong performances at
all levels of government.



10
The legislation introduced in 1999 (section 3) and the FRL will continue to have an
impact over the next several years. With restricted access to finance, states and municipalities
will be forced to keep fiscal adjustment in place over the numbers of years needed to bring their
debt stocks to manageable levels.
The government realizes that continued fiscal consolidation is essential to ensure a
progressive decline of the public debt/GDP ratio and is determined to continue the necessary
structural reforms. To sustain progress achieved the government will have to be prepared to
adjust macroeconomic policies if there is a downturn in foreign demand, a new terms of trade
shock, or significant turmoil in international financial markets. As Argentina's situation further
deteriorates, Brazil will further suffer from contagion. In such case, it would be preferable to see
the burden of the adjustment being carried more by fiscal policy than monetary policy because
higher interest rates will have an adverse impact on the cost of servicing the public debt and on
economic growth.
There is also the damaging electricity shortage, caused by drought and low water levels
in hydro-electric dams and slow progress in building gas-fired power stations to meet rising
demand. Industry faces severe power restrictions. And there is a danger that renewed economic
worries and political unrest start to feed off each other.
The government's chief priority is to retain Brazil's hard-won economic stability in the
face of the ongoing jitters in the financial markets. The raising of interest rates signals that the
government is determined to keep both inflation and the public debt under control. But keeping
the public debt from increasing will be challenging because, as pointed out in the FAR Loan
proposal, most of Brazil's public debt is linked either to short-term interest rates or to the
exchange rate. However, Brazil's commitment and track record of addressing fiscal issues
suggests that the authorities will be successful in this endeavor.
Finally, the external account deficit continues to be a source of vulnerability even if it is
mainly financed through net foreign direct investment. It contributes to high level of spreads on
Brazil's sovereign debt and thus increases the cost of servicing the public debt. Yet, some
important factors contribute to the improvement of the long-term sustainability of the current
account deficit. Economic efficiency has increased reflecting economic reforms and sound
macroeconomic policies, and the new exchange rate regime has improved the relative
attractiveness of traded goods. Therefore, new investments are likely to flow mainly to the traded
goods sector.
Foreign direct investment however is suffering because the global environment has
changed and within the electricity sector, privatization of state assets is likely to be put on hold.
New privatizations will be hard to push without a clearer regulatory framework and the already
privatized electricity distribution companies may prefer to wait for regulatory clarity before
expanding. Non-electricity-related foreign direct investment inflows could slow on concerns
about future energy constraints. Moreover, opposition parties could convince the public that the
privatization program is to blame for recent energy problems and raise the ideological bar for
pending privatization. The continuation of this scenario would contribute to slow down
economic growth and put at risk the virtuous circle of fiscal reform, stability and growth.



11
In sum, sustainability remains likely, albeit subject to a number of largely exogenous
shocks. It is comforting, nevertheless, that the Government has developed a record of reacting to
these shocks in an exemplary fashion. This capacity and willingness to react are at the core of a
sustainable policy framework.
6.2   Transition arrangement to regular operations
The FARL is a one-tranche adjustment operation that was approved in the context of a
longer-term program of support for fiscal adjustment in Brazil. The operation envisaged a
follow-up loan that in the event materialized as the first programmatic Fiscal Reform Structural
Adjustment Loan (PFRSAL), approved in January 2001. The new loan reflects that arrangements
have been in place for the operation of the adjustment program. The basic arrangements consist
of a federal government strongly committed to fiscal adjustment and of the institutions that the
loan supported, including the IMF-backed Fiscal Stability Program, the debt refinancing
agreements with the states, the Fiscal Responsibility Law, and the Administrative Reform. The
Ministry of Finance has the technical and managerial resources to implement the Fiscal Stability
Program, as demonstrated since 1998; the Treasury (within the Ministry of Finance) has closely
monitored and implemented the debt refinancing agreements; implementation of the FRL is
being led by the Ministry of Finance, where training is needed and is being implemented by the
Federal Government in order to ensure the success of the Law, particularly at the sub-national
level; the Administrative Reform is being implemented by the Ministry of Planning, Budget and
Administration.
Monitoring of the program is focusing on various indicators covering (i) fiscal and debt
outcomes at the federal and sub-national levels; (ii) implementation of the FRL; (iii)
implementation of administrative reform (including the burden of personnel expenditures); (iv)
implementation of the Multi-annual Budget Approach (supported by the new loan); (v) progress
of debt management and debt management institutions. Monitoring will, in particular, assess
when and whether sufficient progress will have been achieved to proceed with a follow-up loan
to the first PFRSAL.
7.    Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1   Lending
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. In the partner's comments (from the Ministry
of Finance), the borrower observes that the Bank's assistance was very positive. The Bank helped
government officials evaluate measures and articulate policy options. At the time of the loan, the
Bank had completed an analysis of debt sustainability in Brazil and it was thus well prepared for
the fiscal reform loan.
Furthermore, well before the financial contagion from the Russian crisis, the Bank had
been engaged in a dialogue with the Government on how to proceed on the debt refinancing
agreement between the central government and sub-national governments and how to engineer
an element of debt forgiveness for some states, opening the door for fiscal consolidation. The
Bank had gained experience through the State Reform/Privatization Operations to Rio de



12
Janeiro, Rio Grande do Sul, and Mato Grosso during 1996-99. These operations had focused on
supporting privatization and, to a lesser extent, fiscal adjustment at the state level. The dialogue
on debt refinancing agreements was fruitful. The agreements strengthened the budget constraints
faced by sub-national governments through a commitment to a set of fiscal targets.
The Bank also had a positive role on protecting social expenditures, which is supported
through the social protection loan made at the same time. The Government recognized that
untargeted programs needed to be reduced and programs targeted toward poorest groups
expanded such as transfers linked to school attendance.
Economic and social work that informed policy actions supported by the FARL,
included:
Carrizosa, Mauricio, "Brazil Structural Reform for Fiscal Sustainability," World Bank Report,
No.19593, Washington, D.C.: The World Bank, 1999.
Chong, Alberto. "A Note on Public Sector Reform in Brazil." Development Research Group.
Mimeo. November 10, 1998.
Carneiro, Francisco Galrao. "The Brazilian Administrative Reform in Perspective." Prepared for
the World Bank. Mimeo. December 3, 1998.
Datta, Gautam, Indermit Gill and Craig Burnside. "Brazil: From Stability to Growth through
Public Employment Reform." World Bank Report #16793-BR (in two volumes). February 17,
1998.
Dillinger, William. "Brazil. Divida Estadual: Crise e Reforma." World Bank Report #14842-
BR. May, 1995.
Dillinger, William. "Assessing State Creditworthiness in Brazil." World Bank Economic Notes
#8. April 1996.
Parel, Chris. "State Pension Systems Reform Technical Assistance Project." World Bank Project
Appraisal Document. Report #17965. June 29, 1998.
Before the FARL, the Bank's program investment operations were modified in September
1998 as the need for a major fiscal adjustment became clear. The authorities and the Bank agreed
during a Country Strategy Review on a shift in the investment lending program. The changes are
described in the Framework Paper: Special Program of Support for Brazil, SecM98-943,
November 25, 1998.
It is also worth observing that the Bank collaborated with the IMF participating in some
of their missions and the dialogue was always positive and friendly. The borrower's note (see
the partner's comments in Section 9 below) has also observed that the World Bank had a positive
role in monitoring and evaluating the implementation of policies. It also "provided useful
information and suggestions to the Brazilian government." And it continues: "the dialogue
between the Government and the Bank has been very constructive."



13
7.2   Supervision
Supervision of the FARL has been satisfactory. It has been continuous, through off-site
monitoring of fiscal developments and mission visits to several states.  This continuous
supervisory engagement is further warranted by the Bank's additional support for Brazil's fiscal
reforms. This support includes the First Programmatic Fiscal Reform Structural Adjustment
Loan (PFRSAL), approved in January 2001, which was in fact a follow up to the FARL.
Supervision of the PFRSAL, which supports, inter alia, the Fiscal Responsibility Law, has also
covered fiscal performance at the state level. Supervision of the FARL has been deep in its
coverage of finances at the state level, with two staff monitoring fiscal performance in several
states. This coverage has also been linked to ongoing ESW, in the form of State Economic
Memoranda, addressing fiscal and other economic developments at the state level in the
Northeast States. A supervision report (supporting document No.2), covering implementation of
the Fiscal Responsibility Law and other policies related to the PFRSAL was completed in
August 2001.
7.3   Overall Bank Performance
Based on the above, overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4   Preparation
Preparation by the borrower is rated satisfactory. The borrower, through the Fiscal
Stability Plan that was issued in late 1998 and through long-standing efforts at obtaining
approval of needed structural reforms, developed the key actions supported by the loan. These
efforts included the approval of the debt refinancing law (Law 9496 of 1997), the debt
refinancing agreements with 23 of the 27 Brazilian states, and the reform of constitutional civil
service provisions. These structural reforms complemented other measures regarding revenues
and expenditures to enable the primary balance levels that were targeted by the Fiscal Stability
Plan.
7.5   Government Implementation Performance
The borrower performance regarding implementation is rated as satisfactory. The
borrower was fully committed to the adjustment program. This commitment lies behind the
success of the program. Commitment to fiscal stability and to targets established in the debt
refinancing agreements with the states was particularly clear in the way the federal government
responded to threats from two states not to honor debt service payments. The firm position of the
federal government prevailed. Demonstration of commitment was also observed not only in the
fulfillment of targets, but also in the adoption of further measures to improve fiscal and debt
management. The Bank supported these additional measures (including the Law of Fiscal
responsibility) with the Programmatic Fiscal Reform Structural Adjustment Loan, approved on
January 18, 2001.



14
The majority of decisions and actions in the Letter of Development Policy were implemented
including:
*  The adoption of the Law of Fiscal Responsibility that establishes public finance norms at
the federal, state, and municipal levels. It includes targets on revenues, expenditures,
primary deficit, and debt; framework to plan on fiscal risks and a framework for
corrective action.
*  The adoption of a law defining crimes against the public finances.
*  The adoption of a multi-annual plan (PPA) that includes measurable fiscal targets and a
new management system for carrying out public programs.
*  The definition of a new integrated financial administration system in process of
development (SIAFI 21st Century). Brazil's Integrated Financial Management Systems
will track revenues and expenses and provide government managers with comprehensive
information on the financial and physical execution of the budget required for planning,
decision making and evaluation.
* New measures concerning debt management at the Secretary of Treasury of the Ministry
of Finance including the decisions to: create an analytical middle office at the Treasury
with a unified back office, create an unit to assess and quantify contingent liabilities;
introduce a risk management framework.
The major tax reform, referred to in the Letter of development Policy continues under discussion
in Congress.
The borrower responded positively to arrangements for monitoring implementation.
7.6   Implementing Agency
The implementing Agency was the federal government. Its performance is indicated by the
assessment above (7.4 and 7.5).
7. 7  Overall Borrower Performance
Based on the above, the overall borrower performance is rated satisfactory.
8.    Lessons Learned
The lessons leamed repeat wisdom common to previous adjustment programs but that are
worth emphasizing once again. We stress five points:
i.    Borrower's commitment and ownership is essential.
The success of Brazil's adjustment program would not have been possible otherwise.
ii.   A focus on outcome and performance is critical.



15
The loan had measurable outcomes that facilitated monitoring and implementation of
agreed targets.
iii.  A sound banking system is at the center of a successful adjustment program.
Following the inflationary shock of the mid-January 1999 devaluation, the Central Bank
reacted by increasing interest rates that turned into extraordinarily high real interest rates in
March. As inflationary expectations fell, nominal interest rates were allowed to decline. This
strategy successfully shifted the economy from a potentially explosive situation to a path of
steadily declining inflation, allowing real interest rates to decline gradually.
The Central Bank demonstrated its commitment to restraining inflation through tight
monetary policy, even as official forecasts pointed to a 4 percent contraction in GDP and
unemployment was rising. This resolve restored confidence partially and by April, short-termn
capital was flooding back, attracted by the high yields in Brazil's financial markets.
Brazil's approach was possible only because the banking sector was healthy. Otherwise,
Brazil would have entered a vicious circle of recession and bankruptcies. By 1999, PROER, the
1995-98 program of assistance to private banks, had restored bank's balance sheets to a healthy
position. Furthernore, since many banks had anticipated the devaluation in 1999, they had both
positioned themselves to profit from it through currency-futures contracts and hedged by holding
dollar linked government bonds. As a result, the risk of a banking sector collapse did not threaten
fiscal balance, as it had in Asia and Mexico. Public banks had also undergone restructuring
before the collapse of the real.
iv.    Monetary policy can play a central role but cannot substitute sound fiscal policy and
Cutting investment expenditures during fiscal adjustment comes with a heavy price.
Behind the energy crisis that now threatens economic growth in Brazil is the lack of
investments in new generating capacity and transmission lines since 1995. This is largely the
result of an incomplete privatization model for the electric sector that neglected increased
generating capacity needs. In the absence of private investments, the lack of public investment
contributed to the energy shortage. While the country's electricity distribution system has been
largely privatized in recent years, energy generation is mostly state-owned. State-led energy
capacity expansion has been a low priority in the course of fiscal adjustment and an incomplete
regulatory framework, especially in the tariff structure, has hurt energy investment by the private
sector.
The energy crisis could hurt fiscal accounts through sped-up investments by state
enterprises and a decline in tax revenues, as real GDP growth slows. But major potential shocks
to the fiscal targets will come from interest rates and currency moves: increased uncertainty
about growth prospects and fiscal balance has contributed to the depreciation of the real and the
central bank has been forced to raise interest rates to avoid secondary inflationary effects of the
energy crisis. The energy crisis will also have political consequences, as it may hurt president
Cardoso's popular support. It is sure to be exploited by opposition candidates in the October
2002 presidential campaign.



16
V.    The Bank tends to underestimate the difficulty of political agreements without which
reforms cannot happen and remain in place.
Resistance to social security reform and resistance to administrative reform leading to
firing of public employees are well known. Tax reforms can also prove to be very difficult.
After five years of debates in Brazil's Congress, there is now a substitute proposal on tax
reform to be voted. It creates a broad federal and state value-added tax in place of the IPI, ICMS,
and ISS. The social contributions, Cofins, Pis/Pasep and Salario-Educayao would be changed
into a single non-cumulative contribution. Municipalities would be allowed to collect a retail tax
in place of the ISS.
Although many feel that the reform of Brazil's tax system can no longer be postponed, the
federal government is concerned about the impact of eliminating cascading taxes on revenues.
On the other hand, governors worry about the impact of the VAT reform on their revenues. It is
not clear that an agreement will be reached.
VI.   Bank preparedness for assisting countries with adjustment lending depends critically on
its conducting prior economic and sector work.
The FARSAL was preceded by considerable analytical and advisory activities (see
Section 7.1) covering macro and fiscal policies, public employment and administrative reform
issues, sub-national debt issues, and pension policies. This work proved critical for the Bank's
ability to conduct a dialogue with the Government and to design a coherent program of support
with a good likelihood of achieving the positive results discussed in this report.
9.    Partner Comments
(a)   Borrower/implementing agency
The Government's comments addressed four issues as follows:
(1)       How does the Government rate the World Bank assistance in articulating policv
options, evaluating proposals for action, formulating the program? Did the bank provide any
technical assistance (such as project work to assist in the implementation of the program)?
The Fiscal and Administrative Reform Special Sector Adjustment Loan is part of the US$
4.5 billion emergency package for Brazil, approved by the World Bank to support avoiding
contagion in the aftermath of the Russian crisis. The Bank assistance was very responsive and
positive, helping the government officials in evaluating the several measures available and
fine tuning those selected for implementation.
(2)       Did the Bank monitor progress? Or provide any useful assistance in caring out the
loan?
The World Bank monitored and evaluated the carrying out of the program and provided
useful information and suggestions to the Brazilian Government during its implementation. It
is worth noting that the dialog between the Government and the Bank has been very



17
constructive and useful, creating the appropriate environment for the development of the
programmatic operation referred to below.
(3)       Comment on the adequacy of the Brazilian government's commitment to the
program.
The Brazilian Government has demonstrated its full commitment to the Program not only
by achieving positive economic results (primary surpluses above the targets set with the IMF)
but also by adopting additional measures to further improve its fiscal and administrative
management. On this regard, a follow up loan (Programmatic Fiscal Reform Structural
Adjustment Loan) of about US$ 750 million, was approved by the bank on January 18,
2001, supporting important additional measures taken by the Brazilian Government in those
areas.
(4)       Specify any political, policy or implementation measures taken by the
governnent that had a particularly positive or negative impact on the program.
Among the more important measures adopted by the Brazilian Government having positive
impact in the areas covered by the Program, and supported by the Programmatic Loan referred
to above, are:
-   The adoption of a Complementary Law establishing public finance norms regarding
fiscal management responsibility at federal, state and municipal levels (the Law of Fiscal
Responsibility);
-   The adoption of a Law defining crimes against the public finances;
-   The adoption of a new Pluriannual Plan (PPA) including, among others, measurable
fiscal targets and a new management system for the carrying out of public programs;
-   The definition of a new integrated financial administration system (SIAFI 21 st Century),
that are being developed;
-   The new arrangements within the Secretariat of Treasure for public debt management.
(b)   Cofinanciers
There were no cofinanciers in this operation.
(c)   Other Partners
Comments from State Governors, the civil service, and selected civil society institutions
are reflected in the records of the stakeholder workshop results (Annex 9).



18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR               ActuallLatest Estimate
Primary Balance (% of GDP)
Brazil 2000                          3.25%                               3.5%
States 2000                          0.5%                                0.4%
Personnel Expenditures (% of Net Current
Revenues)                            45%-46%)                            40%
Federal 2000                         4%4%                                 0
State 2000                           60.5%                               56.0%
Debt/Revenue Ratio (States)          1.9                                  1.9
1. As projected in President's Report.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
End of project



19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
N.A.: Adjustment Operation



20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N.A.: Adjustment Operation



21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
Several Missions             5   Economists (G. Nankani, S.         S             S
during 1998-99                   Bery, P. Meo, M. Carrizosa, I.
Gill.
Appraisal/Negotiation
October 1998                 4   Economists (M. Carrizosa, S.       S             S
Bery, A. Chong, F. Pereira)
February 2000                    Economist (M. Carrizosa)           S             S
Lawyer (J.A. Carvalho
Supervision
Several Missions             1   Economist (Mauricio                S             S
during FY2001                    Carrizosa)
S             S
ICR
June/July 2001;              2    Economists (Eliana                S             S
Cardoso, Mauricio
Carrizosa
September 2001              2     Economist (M. Carrizosa)          S             S
Public Sector Specialists
(Yasuhiko Matsuda, Ceres
Prates
November 2001                     Economist (M. Carrizosa),         S             S
Public Sector Specialists
(Yasuhiko Matsuda, Ceres
Prates, Joao MArcelo Borges)
December 2001                     Public Sector Specialists
(Yasuhiko Matsuda, Ceres
Prates, Joao Marcelo Borges)
(1) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                  2                       9,000
Appraisal/Negotiation                     20                       90,000
Supervision                                6                       27,000
ICR                                         6                      27,000
Total                                     34                      155,000



22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
N Macro policies                        * H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
Z Sector Policies                       0 H   *SUOM      O N  O NA
O Physical                              O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Financial                             O H   O SU O M   O N  * NA
N Institutional Development                H  * SU    M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                         C) H  O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction              0 H  O SU O M    0 N  * NA
0 Gender                          O H     SU O M   O N  * NA
E Other (Please specify)          0 H   O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
E Private sector development            0 H   ) SU 0 M   0 N  0 NA
3 Public sector management              0 H   O SU O M   O N  0 NA
0Other (Please specify)                 O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA



23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactoly)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
Z Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
Z Supervision                                       ( HS OS      Ou    OHU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
Z Preparation                                       OHS OS       O U   O HU
Z Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
E Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       O U   O HU
M Overall                                           OHS OS OU OHU



24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
From Monetary and Fiscal Reformns in the 1990s to Sustained Growth?
Brazil Institutions for Fiscal Sustainability: A Progress Report



25
Annex 8.    Beneficiary Survey Results
I.    INTRODUCTION
This paper examines whether the fiscal adjustment program has had a negative impact on
social services provision and its quality. Theoretically, one could expect that fiscal adjustment
tends to hurt public services and the poor, be that by means of cuts in social expenditures, a
reduction or at least no increase in public sector salaries (which may lower the morale of civil
servants), and the overall economic downturn likely to follow fiscal adjustment.
This paper shows partial evidence that the way in which the Brazilian government has
approached the adjustment program in the last several years may have avoided a disproportionate
adverse impact on the poor. The elements of the hypothesis are: (i) the government has
implemented well-designed social programs in parallel with the fiscal stability program; (ii)
these programs received adequate budgetary resources even during the adjustment period,
including in some cases increases in resource allocation; (iii) the government has also
implemented a range of measures to improve efficiency and effectiveness of social service
delivery (e.g., decentralization, professionalization of civil service); and (iv) available evidence
indicates improvements in social policy outcomes; (v) results of a beneficiary survey show a
moderately high level (72%) of relative user satisfaction.
To carry out this analysis, the paper relied on government budget data from 1995 to 2000
as well as the results of a National Assessment of Public Services' User Satisfaction, carried out
in 1999. Other qualitative information covered managerial changes in the design, targeting and
implementation of social projects in Brazil. Basically, the budget data used include aggregate
spending in five selected social areas (education, health, land reform, social assistance, and
labor) as well as a close monitoring of 22 key programs agreed between the GOB and the World
Bank in the context of a social protection loan that was part of the support package extended by
the IMF (in the context of the Stand-by Arrangement agreed in October 1998), the World Bank,
the IADB and various developed countries during 1998-1999
With the dramatic worsening of the international financial environment and the spread to
other emerging markets of the Asian crisis in the last quarter of 1997, the Brazilian real came
under significant pressure, a development that would happen again in 1998 in the aftermath of
the Russian crisis. This dramatic worsening of the international financial environment led the
GOB to allow the Real to float in January 1999, thereby abandoning the crawling band that had
been introduced in 1994. As a result the Real depreciated from R$1.21/US$ prior to the change
in the exchange rate to an average of R$1.52/US$ in January 1999, and of R$1.91/US$ in
February. Even before the Russia crisis, Brazil had initiated talks with the IMF and other
multilateral financial institutions in order to bring about fiscal measures and financing to
preclude further damages to its economy. Such measures included a dramatic increase in interest
rates (which reached 42'/2 percent in late October) and expenditure cuts.
The fiscal adjustment program comprised a mix of expenditure-saving and revenue-
raising measures. Some of these depended only on the decision of the executive branch of
government, either via Presidential decrees or provisional legislation. The Administration had



26
also submitted to the National Congress a comprehensive fiscal adjustment program covering
those actions which required legislative approval before entering into force.
The main goals of this program were promoting a steady increase in national savings,
reducing the burden of the public debt, and facilitating a sustainable decline in interest rates. In
addition to those measures originally agreed with the IMF during the negotiations that resulted in
the Stand-By Arrangement, the GOB was prompted to include some others in response to the
worsening international environment and the devaluation of the Brazilian currency. Among
others, those measures are as follows:
* 3% of GDP expenditure cuts in 1999, 1% of which were derived from a 20% cut in the
original 1999 federal budget plan. These cuts were to be achieved by keeping nominal
expenditures on goods and services below the budget execution levels of 1998. The
Government of Brazil publicly indicated that those cuts would be distributed in a manner
to avoid as much as possible spending reductions on health, education and social
protection.;
* cuts of investment programs of federal enterprises by the equivalent of about 0.9% of the
GDP;
* increases in domestic energy prices and other public tariffs sufficient to ensure the pass
through to final users of the cost of imported inputs;
* a reduction (equivalent to 0.15 percent of GDP) in budgeted federal expenditures on
wages and salaries, to be achieved by, inter alia, reducing new hires, postponing certain
career stream adjustments, and deferring promotions;
* an increase in the tax rate on financial transactions (CPMF) from 0.2% to 0.38% in 1999
(to be lowered again to 0.3% beginning in 2000);
* an increase in the tax rate on the corporate turnover tax (COFINS) from 2% to 3%;
* other tax measures aimed at widening the bases of existing taxes (e.g, freezing nominal
deduction levels for the income-tax);
* an increase in the rate of the IOF on consumer loans;
* the suspension until the end of the year of the rebate to exporters of the earmarked levies
on turnover (PIS and COFINS);
* an increase of 9 percentage points in the contribution to the public sector pension plan by
civil servants earning more than R$1.200,00 per month;
* extension of this contribution to public sector pensioners (at the rate of 11% for those
with pensions of R$1.200,00 or less, and 20% for all the others). Recently, the GOB
committed itself to submit to Congress the extension of this contribution to cover military
personnel, until then exempted from contributing to their pension system;



27
The Government's response to the new economic scenario in the country was not
restricted to short-term measures. Besides the above mentioned set of expenditure cuts and tax
increases, the GOB also prepared a number of structural reforms, the results of which expected
to take place within medium and long-term. The most important were:
*  further reforms of social security, with the introduction of actuarial balance to the public
system for private employees. In the public sector, pensions were limited to a cap (with
differences and a transitional period);
* regulation of the administrative reform of 1998 (the 19th Amendment to the
Constitution), with the submission to Congress of enabling legislation and other legal
instruments needed to implement the constitutional amendment. some of these
regulations are still pending.
*  commitment to reform the tax system, with the elimination of cascading taxes and the
introduction of a nationwide VAT. This reform has not materialized yet;
*  deregulation of labor legislation;
*  drafting and approval, in Congress, of a Law of Fiscal Responsibility (Lei de
Responsabilidade Fiscal - LRF);
*  implementation of a formal inflation targeting framework and submission to Congress of
a law granting increased operational autonomy to the Central Bank.
Targets for consolidated public sector primary surpluses were specified in the plan of
fiscal adjustment as a 3.0% for 1999, 3.25% for 2000, and 3.35% for 2001. The central
government's share of the surplus was set at up to 2.3% in 1999, 2.7% in 2000, and 3.0% in
2001. States and municipalities were to participate in fiscal adjustment efforts by complying with
the terms of debt-restructuring agreements signed with the central government. As such, they
were expected to meet a 0.5% GDP primary surplus for the three years. This would be
complemented by a 0.6% of GDP primary surplus for federal enterprises in 1999.
In spite of the very pessimistic assumptions considered in this fiscal adjustment program,
by the end of 1999 Brazil could show some good performance. The economy grew at 0.8% (far
better than the 3-4% originally expected decline) in 1999 and at nearly 4.5% in 2000. By late
2000, real interest rates had fallen to their lowest levels since the introduction of the Real Plan in
1994. The trade balance, however, has shown little improvement. Exports have been increasing,
but imports, particular of intermediate products, have followed suit. Thus, against an expected
US$11 billion surplus expected in 1999, final figures showed a deficit of US$1,2 billion in that
year, and US$0,7 billion in 2000. In spite of ups-and-downs, inflation was relatively controlled
over the period.



28
Since one could expect severe cuts in social spending to have negative impacts on service
quality, this paper looks at the evolution of public expenditures from 1995 to 2000 to determine
its possible effects on the quality of social services. However, beforehand, it is worth discussing
the evolution of fiscal revenues in Brazil, most specially because increased revenues were one of
the primary tools used by the central government to guarantee that resources cover expenditures.
In Table 1 below, one can see the evolution of gross fiscal revenues and their ratio to GPD. A
look at the last row of the Table indicates that fiscal revenues turned out to be a major source of
additional resources for the public sector in the last years, increasing from 30% of GDP in 1998
to 33% in 2000 (and possibly to 34%-35% in 2001). The following section examines the degree
in which this increased taxation allowed expenditures on social services, in the context of a fiscal
adjustment program that also required some containment of expenditures.
Table 1- Gross Revenue in US$ million
YEAR      1995          1996           1997           1998          1999           2000
GDP
705.449       775.475        807.814        787.499       529.398        595.881
US$   % PIB    US$   % PIB   US$    % PIB   USS   % PIB    US$   % PIB   US$    % PIB
UNION     141.180  20,01  150.048  19,35  158.718  19,65  160.786  20,42  118.961  22,47  136.874  22,97
STATES     58.682  8,32   63.583  8,20  63.949  7,92   61.314  7,79  43.260   8.17  51.773  8,69
| MlJliICI  10.104  1,43  11.031  1,42  11.876   1,47  12.108  1,54   7.980   1,51   9.072  1,52
PALITIES
: TOTAL   209.966  29,76  224.662  28,97  234.542  29,03  234.208  29,74  170.201  32,15  197.720  33,18
II.    SOCIAL EXPENDITURES
Apart from the pension system, most social expenditure programs in Brazil are executed
by sub-national governments, i.e., states and municipalities. Resources for these social
expenditures are passed on to sub-national governments as constitutionally or legally mandated
transfers and thus do not tend to suffer significant reductions even during fiscal adjustments. The
federal administration, nevertheless, plays an important role as a financier of a share of those
actions, and even executes some, including higher education, social assistance and land reform.
Social programs in Brazil represent a fundamental policy to reduce poverty and social
inequalities, hitherto among the worst in the world. Brazil's social spending has generally been
large throughout the years, but it is often poorly targeted. In fact, better targeting and
management of its social programs still remain one of Brazil's greatest challenges of its poverty
reduction efforts.



29
Recent years have witnessed a number of managerial innovations in social expenditures,
including an acceleration of decentralization, improved targeting, partnerships with civil society,
and others. Yet Brazil still needs to need to further improve the coverage of some of its social
services, such as education and healthcare. Large shares of the population still lack adequate
access to those services, which hampers their future opportunities in the labor market. Federal
programs, therefore, have aimed at building financial and management tools to extend coverage
and fine-tuning targeting to the poor.
The next section discusses managerial changes in social expenditures. Before turning to
these, however, it is important to review the recent budgetary behavior of social expenditures,
both on aggregate figures and in protected programs agreed with the World Bank and the IADB.
Table 2 below shows the evolution of federal expenditures by 4 aggregates. General
Administration includes Administration and Planning, Judiciary, Legislative and Foreign
Relations.  Economic/Infrastructure  comprises  agriculture,  communications,  regional
development, energy/mineral resources, housing/urbanism, industry/commerce/tourism, and
transports. Social Spending is the sum of budget execution from education/culture, social
assistance/pensions, health care/sanitation, and labor. National Defense and Public Safety speaks
for itself. The data below includes wages and benefits, as well as debt service, but excludes debt
refinancing and amortization and financial investments, too.
Due to methodological changes introduced to the Brazilian budget plan in 2000 (in the
context of the recent reforms of the Plano Plurianual - the PPA 2000-2003), difficulties in inter-
temporal comparisons arise. Nevertheless, despite some arbitrary choices, the aggregate figures
remain broadly comparable. From Table 2, it can be surmnised that the ratio of social spending to
the total budget declined (from 61% in 1995 to 52% in 2000). The main culprit for this decline
was the increased debt service requirement. On the other hand, Graph 1 shows that real social
spending per capita increased from 1995 to 1999, but declined in 2000. The budget plan sent to
Congress for the 2001 fiscal year provided for an increase in social spending per capita, which
could result in social spending will recover momentum. However, this increase could be
prevented by the fiscal measures that have had to be taken in response to the 2001 crises,
including the impact of the Argentina crisis on domestic interest rates. One should point out also
that as increased debt servicing compressed the share of spending in the social sectors,
allocations to other areas suffered similarly or, in some cases, more severely than the social
sectors, as Table 2 shows for the case of expenditures on infrastructure. It should also be pointed
out, as Graph 1 indicates, that the decline in social spending per capita in 2000 occurred after a
period of growth from 1995 to 1998 and brought it down to a level still above that of 1997.



30
Table 2 - Evolution Of Federal Expenditures By Function
1995       1996      1997       1998      1999      2000
General          15,209.70  18,127.65  18,792.10  28,358.59  36,095.78  67,880.43
Administration..
Infrastructure   30,181.45  30,365.66  34,516.49  34,452.90  34,298.32  13,316.19
Social Spending  84,155.64  86,790.45  91,575.04  101,235.83 103,642.34 100,045.34
National Defense  8,331.86  8,168.43   8,531.93  9,026.94   8,792.14  9,475.86
and Public Safety
Total Expenditure 137,878.65 143,452.19 153,415.56 173,074.26 182,828.58 190,717.82
Source: Ministry of Planning, Budget and Management.
GRAPH 1 - Social Spending Per Capita
800
760
,,  720
? 680
8640-
600
X 560-
 520
480
440
400
1995    1996   1997   1998    1999   2000
year
The efforts made by the GOB to spare social protection from deeper cuts in its
expenditures notwithstanding, it is clear that they have declined in relation to the total federal
budget. Housing and sanitation are two social areas that have seen a remarkable decrease in
budget allotments in the last years. Lack of a regulatory framework has precluded movements
towards the privatization of public enterprises operating in these fields, hindering future
prospects. In the housing area alone the decline in federal spending is around 50% during 1995-
2000.
In response to fiscal realities, however, the GOB decided to establish a social protection
net, comprised by 22 social programs agreed with the World Bank and the IADB. These
programs cover education, social assistance, health care, and labor, and have witnessed a steady
increase in its budget throughout the years. From the graph below, one can see that whereas
budgets for protected programs budget declined in 1999, total social spending had reached its



31
peak in that year. In 2000, on the contrary, since total social spending dropped, the budget
execution of the 22 protected programs increased, reflecting an effort to spare cuts in most
priority areas
GRAPH 2 - Total Social Spending and Protected Programs
12000         --     -    -- ---   -   120000
10000 -                                100000
c  8000                                  80000
0
E  6000                                 - 60000
4000                                  40000
2000                                  20000
---Protected Programs
0            i0                           Total Social Spending
1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000
How was it possible to maintain a high budget allocation to protected social programs?
As already pointed out, revenue-raising measures were one of the preferred tools used by the
central government to cope with the fiscal constraints following the real devaluation. In fact,
however, a steady increase in the tax burden was already in place in Brazil prior to 1998. In
1995, the total tax burden (direct and indirect taxes and contributions) amounted to 28% of the
GDP, while for 2001 (according to estimates of the National Bank for Economic and Social
Development - BNDES) this relation will reach 34,17% of the GDP. In addition, the
Government has strived to improve the management and efficiency of expenditures, as discussed
in the next section.
III.   MANAGERIAL REFORMS AND GUIDING PRINCIPLES OF SOCIAL
INTERVENTIONS - THE PURSUIT OF EFFICIENCY AND EFFECTIVENESS
As data already discussed show, fiscal adjustment efforts were accompanied by an effort
to preserve strategic social interventions. It is reasonable to say that at least a portion of the
social areas was also prioritized during the last years, as one can see, on the one hand, by the
steady increase in per capita social spending through 1999, and on the other, by the good results
achieved by these expenditures, as measured by final social indicators that show the relative
improvement of living standards in Brazil. In general, the implemented changes in social areas
have followed a group of principles that may have contributed to those outcomes. These are
discussed in the following paragraphs.



Increased Coverage
In the first place, it is important to highlight increased coverage of social services.
Brazil's income concentration is among the worst in the world, causing intense inequalities of
access by the poor to available goods and services. In the case of public services, the middle
class is the one which largely enjoys access. To extend the reach of public services to the hitherto
excluded poor segments. the government has made a significant effort to extend coverage,
especially of healthcare and education, during the period covered in this paper.
In the education sector, for instance, the increase in enrollment rates has been quite
significant throughout recent years. Thus, basic education is currently the only virtually universal
public service in Brazil. While 97 percent of children from 7 to 14 years are already enrolled in
primary school, secondary education witnessed an increase in its enrollment rate: 61,5% from
1994 to 2000 As for social indicators in the last two or three decades, one cannot help but
acknowledge that there has been a steady improvement throughout the years, with the pace of
improvement accelerating in recent years.
By and large, efforts to increase coverage aim at easing access to public services
especially by the poorest. Managerial changes put in place in recent years have helped the poor
to get to know government social programs and have established the tools for better targeting
of actions. Managerial changes can be exemplified by the Family Health Program. First of all. it
has incorporated an approach towards prevention rather than ambulatory assistance. Moreover,
design and implementation have considered sub-national government levels as essential partners,
without whom the actions would not be delivered successfully. Community involvement has
also proven paramount to success, by guaranteeing that healthcare coverage reach larger shares
of the population. In sum, one can say that inasmuch as it seems to be a program focused on
basic care, the Family Health Program is also turning out to be a feasible alternative to
universalizing healthcare among the Brazilian population.
Decentralization
It is believed that public services can be better implemented and managed if they are
executed in partnership with state and municipal governments. This includes a more effective
participation of civil society, either through the municipal councils or in the exercise of social
control. In Brazil, the decentralization of public services has been intensified during these last
years. The municipalization of healthcare - made operational through the Basic Care Program
(PAB) -, the closure of several federal offices in towns scattered across the country, the direct
dispatch of financial resources to local schools, the participation of state governments in
assessment processes, and others. - deserve to be highlighted. Also worth mentioning are the
direct-transfer programs implemented in recent years (e.g., for schooling, eradication of child
labor) through which resources are transferred directly from the central government to the
beneficiaries.



33
Civil Society Involvement
It is worthwhile mentioning the adopted procedures that seek to stimulate, and at many
times, enable the existence of social control. Every executed federal program in partnership with
state and/or municipal governments demand the participation of groups of sociopolitical actors
gathered in councils. The role of the councils in general has been to advise policies and programs
and monitor the implementation of actions to be executed through partnerships. These processes
have generally led to a significant advance in civil society participation in public action, and
help to constitute an environment that enables social control.
A relevant shift in delivery of public services has been the increasing involvement of civil
society actors in government projects. Indeed, federal resources are being allocated to help
strengthen NGOs and other institutions from civil society. In some areas, such as health, the
participation of these organizations has proven to be fundamental to the achievement of the
expected results, such as in the STD and HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Program, which
includes more than 600 NGOs among its partners.
Targeting
Another important guiding principle of social programs in the last years has been
beneficiary targeting. Mixing population criteria (youth, women, child laborers), income (below
poverty line, poverty-liners, etc) and regional distribution (northeast, north), better targeting of
social actions have not collided with universalization efforts. In fact, the simultaneous efforts are
resulting in the widening of social protection. Some examples are detailed in Addendum 1 to this
annex and include the Family Health Program, Bolsa-Escola, Eradication of Child Labor, among
others. The National Plan for Violence Prevention, for instance, takes into consideration the most
violent metropolitan areas, such as Recife, Vit6ria, Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo. The Ministry
of Labor has targeted its programs towards benefiting impoverished laborers through the abono
salarial (a wage complement), unemployed persons and also the least qualified formal
employees.
Encompassing actions in education, healthcare, social assistance and labor, the recently
introduced Alvorada Project aims at benefiting the most needy segments of the population of the
relatively poorest areas of the country, having as an indicator the Human Development Index of
the United Nations Development Program (UNDP). This indicator has been chosen for its
international acceptance as a summary indicator of the population's social development.
State Reform
In addition to the changes in sectoral policy orientations (e.g., from curative to preventive
health care), another important dimension of the change that is expected to improve the public
sector's ability to cater to the poor and the socially disadvantaged is the reform of the state.
Various far-reaching changes were made in the belief that they would pave the way for a new
administrative framework in the country. Some of them were outlined in the Guiding Plan for
State Reform. Those actions include constitutional amendments in polemic issues, such as civil
service and privatization. In terms of the civil service regime, the approval of Constitutional
Amendment #19 was a major step in the way to develop a balanced situation for the federal



34
budget. Nevertheless, further legislative regulations of the administrative reform have been
halted due to pressure from the civil service.
A matter of great importance in the efforts towards administrative and managerial reform
in the public sector is autonomy within the public sector. Autonomy and management
improvement were also addressed through in the approval of three organizations: Executive
Agencies, Social Organizations and Regulatory Agencies. Lessons drawn from evaluations of all
those organizations could then be taken into consideration in the next steps of State Reform in
Brazil.
One of the major problems in social services delivery in Brazil has always been a lack of
coordination among related agencies. With the aim of overcoming this reality, sectoral Policy
Cabinets were created during the first term of the current Administration. Policy areas were as
diverse as infrastructure, foreign trade, state reform and social projects. Comprised by the
ministers of the related areas, each policy cabinet was chaired by the President of the Republic
or, through his delegation, by the Chief Minister of the Civil House.
The Social Policy Cabinet has elaborated the Plan for Social Interventions, which
monitored the implementation of the priority actions or programs. These actions were not only
social, but also included actions in infrastructure and other areas. This locus permitted better
coordination among the ministries and programs, and also a quicker identification of needs and
conflicts hampering their implementation. Foreseeing potential partners became one of the
greatest achievements of the Cabinet, which helped in the establishment of social interventions
with higher levels of integrated work. Unfortunately, the Cabinet was abandoned in the second
term of President Cardoso, thus resulting in managerial setbacks and a loss of integration among
government areas and partnerships with stakeholders. In contrast, the Economic Policy Cabinet
remained operating, and results are clear in integration among the ministries related with the
economic realm. When the energy crisis was detected, the Presidency was quick in creating a
Sectoral Cabinet for Managing the Energy Crisis, which has resulted so far in the
accomplishment of the goals established, again proving that such is a good tool for policy
coordination and effectiveness.
Improvements in planning and budgeting were also remarkable in recent years. Changes
began in 1998 and were put into action with the implementation of the Plano Plurianual 2000-
2003 (PPA), a multi-year budget plan that strategically allocates government resources based on
programs and objectives rather than administrative units. In the PPA 2000-3, all government
expenditures are grouped into 388 programs with respective performance indicators, targets, and
program managers. The chief accomplishments of the PPA 2000-3 include a diagnosis of
development needs, a shift to budgeting based on objectives, and improved coordination,
accountability, and transparency. Ongoing Government efforts are directed at making the PPA
relevant, operational, and effective. Currently, the government is concentrating its efforts on
better coordination between the planning and budgeting offices in each ministry, especially
between the Ministry of Planning and the Ministry of Finance, and on improved technical
efficiency in the delivery of programs through managerial and ministerial action, including
closer involvement of line ministries in the determination of targets and costs. The first
evaluation of the PPA was submitted to Congress in April 2001.



35
In spite of the major innovations brought about by the implementation of the PPA, its
functioning differs considerably from ministry to ministry. Bureaucratic resistance towards the
PPA cannot be neglected, for the deep-rooted culture of designing projects and actions based on
existing information remains strong. The Federal Administration keeps designing its projects
based on the existing knowledge and organizational structure in Brasilia. While some programs
are truly targeted according to beneficiaries' needs, others lack a real connection with its final
goals. Poor professional qualification, lack of monitoring and information systems, and the
absence of other modem management tools remain challenges of the PPA.
In the human resources area, it is worthwhile to mention the strengthening of the Public
Managers career (Carreira de Gestores Puiblicos). With higher professional qualification and
higher earnings, if compared to non-managerial civil servants, public managers can work for any
government institution, and constitute an alternative for enhancing the quality of professional
public teams. For the social areas, in particular, public managers can really make a difference,
for traditionally those areas have had the less qualified personnel and the lowest wages.
Furthermnore, social areas usually don't have specific careers, as those existent in the economic
branches of the central government.
The contribution to be made by public managers, however, should not be overvalued.
Still small in number, they also face the rigidity, which is widespread in the Brazilian public
sector. Building up more flexible rules and pro-active management remain the greatest challenge
for the enhancement of the public sector functioning, either in economic or social areas.
IV.    OUTCOMES AND QUALITY OF PUBLIC SERVICES IN BRAZIL
Outcomes
The combination of steady (sometimes increasing) resources and measures to enhance
efficiency and effectiveness of social services obtained good results.
If one looks carefully at the education sector, figures speak for themselves. Enrollment
rates for basic schooling (children from 7 to 14 years-old) rose from 90.2% in 1995 to 97% in
1999, bringing 35.7 million children, teenagers and adults enrolled at basic school. In the period
from 1995 to 2000, secondary school enrollments rose more than 40%, as Table 3 shows.
The reduction of regional discrepancies to access of education is also significant. In
recent years, the expansion of secondary education in the Northern and Northeastern regions has
been higher than the national average. Whereas in the period in between 1995 and 2000 the
enrollment numbers in secondary education increased 52.4%, in the Northeastern region the
growth reached 68.1 % and in the Northern region 66.1 %. Illiteracy rates among persons 15 years
old and above, though still very high, also dropped consistently in recent years from 17.2% in
1994 to 13.3% in 1999.
Another social area that is worthwhile mentioning is land reform. Since the promulgation
of the Land Statute in 1964, only 280,000 families had been awarded land. From June 1995 to



36
June 2001 as many as 481,745 families received ownership of land. Whereas Brazil used to rank
5th in land concentration in the world, it ranks in the 12th position at this time.
In a realm where economic conditions, education and healthcare provision, along with
sanitation combine to provide results, one can also observe achievements made in recent years.
Child mortality rates have dropped from 38,4 per thousand in 1995 to 33,4 per thousand in 2000.
Although extremely high, the Northeast region has shown an even more pronounced decline,
from 68,4 in 1995 to 53 per thousand in 2000.
Table 3 - Social Indicators
1995      1996      1997       1998     1999      2000
Agrarian reform (new  42.827    61.674     81.944   101.094    85.226   108.980
beneficiary families)
Basic       schooling   90,2       -         -         -        95,7      97,1
(children in school - %)
Secondary education  5.734.831 5.739.077  6.405.057  6.968.531  7.769.199  8.192.948
(enrollment)
Child mortality         38,4     37,5       36,7      35,6      34,6      33,4
(per thousand)       I_I
Eradication  of  child   -       3.700     42.000   123.000   275.000   400.000
labor (children assisted)     I_I_I_I_I
The Program for Eradication of Child Labor has also witnessed an overwhelming
increase throughout the last years. Assisting only 3700 children in 1996, the program currently
assists more than 400,000 children, and is projected to increase to 700,000 in 2002.
Reflecting the lack of investments in recent years, almost half the Brazilian population
still lacks access to basic sanitation. In 1992 only 48% of private homes were served by adequate
sanitation services; in 2000 this share had only increased to 52,5%.
Healthcare coverage has also witnessed a significant rise since 1994. The introduction of
the Family Health Program helped spread healthcare to the most distant areas in the country. The
program started in 1994 counting on only 328 teams that assisted 1.1 million people. At the
beginning of 2000, it listed 6000 teams and it is expected to complete the year with 10,500
teams. For 2001, it is anticipated that 17,000 teams will serve 59 million inhabitants.
Undoubtedly, there is still much to be done. Better-targeting, despite improvements made
in recent years, remain a challenge for the enhancement of public service delivery in Brazil. On
the other hand, it is undeniable that the more recent developments in the social branch of the
govermment have taken the correct path. One can always say that larger shares in the federal
budget would help boost both the provision and the quality of public services in Brazil, but, as
the next section shows, quality, at this point, has more to do with improving specific aspects of
delivery.



37
Quality of Public Services in Brazil - National Assessment of Public Service's User Satisfaction
The Federal Government has carried out, in an innovative fashion, the National
Assessment of Public Services' User Satisfaction, aiming at giving voice to the population about
the quality of services provided by the public sector, and also at gathering inputs for
improvements in the delivery of social services. Due to its universal coverage objectives,
education, social welfare provision and healthcare were chosen as representative of public
services for the first round of the survey (Addendum 2 to this section provides more information
on the survey).
The results have been surprising and challenge the stereotype that usually follows public
service. As it can be observed in Table 4, quite the contrary to what may appear to be, the
evaluation Brazilians make on the three surveyed areas is rather positive: the general satisfaction
rate reached 71.8%.
Table 4- Satisfaction rate of public service's users in Brazil (%)
Population Satisfaction Rate
Dimensions
Guarantee of access/process of service executing
71,2
Quality of assistance                                    74,1
Quality of service                                       74,7
Agility in assistance                                    65,9
Adequacy of physical facilities                          73,0
Public Service Satisfaction Rate                         71,8
Despite the approval of services, public managers must not feel comfortable with them
and be complacent about the current situation. The latter only takes place due to the low level of
demand of the Brazilian population towards public services, in comparison to other countries.
The high tolerance of Brazilian users is linked to the lack of tradition in the provision of services
that now, still far from being universal, presents at the same time an adequate level of quality.
There is no general awareness that receiving a quality public service is a citizen's right, which is
not surprising in a country that has just started to aim at universal access to its public services.
Therefore, the simple access to service indicator is not always correspondent to the effective
quality of the service itself.
As Table 5 shows, public services are better appraised in smaller cities, where the
satisfaction rate averages 77,7%, contrasting to capital cities and metropolitan areas, where this
rate drops to 66,2%.



38
Table 5 - Public Service Satisfaction Rate According To City Size
5000 to  50.000 to More than Capitals and
Dimensions           49.999    99.999   100.000  metropolitan
areas
Guarantee of access/process    77,3      78,1      73,1      65,6
of service executing
Quality of assistance          80,7      82,3      75,9      67,3
Quality of service             78,8      82,2      75,9      69,8
Agility in assistance          72,0      76,4      64,1      60,2
Adequacy of physical facilities  79,6    79,9      74,2      68,3
General average                77,7      79,8      72,6      66,2
Table 6 demonstrates that satisfaction rates are higher in the wealthier regions of Brazil.
Somewhat it is surprising when contrasted to Table 6, which shows lower satisfaction rates in the
metropolitan regions. It does show, however, that in some areas, quality can be indeed evaluated,
due to the fact that access to services is not as difficult as in others.
Table 6 - Public Service Satisfaction Rate According To Region
Politico-geographic Regions in Brazil
Dimens6es          Northern  Northeast  Midwest   Southeast  South
Guarantee of access/process  68,2       65,5      66,0      72,2      77,7
of service executing
Quality of assistance        68,0       67,6      66,2      75,0      83,0
Quality of service           70,0       68,9      68,9       76,1     80.5
Agility in assistance        67,3       63,5      61,6       64,8     73,7
Adequacy of physical facilities  72,2   65,9      66,6       74,0     81,1
General average              69,2       66,3      65,8      72,4      79,2
In a global evaluation among users, public basic and secondary education achieved a high
Rate of Satisfaction - 78.5% (Table 7). The dimensions that contributed the most to the General
Satisfaction Rate were quality of assistance (82%) and quality in service (81.4%). Even the
lowest Satisfaction Rate - appropriation of physical facilities - has received a good evaluation:
74.9%.



39
Table 7 - User's Satisfaction Rate on Educational Services (%)
Users                                      Non -users
Dimensions             Given importance    Satisfaction rate  Satisfaction
rate
Guarantee of access/process of
service executing                    38,7               76,8              66,7
Quality of assistance                14,3               82,0              72,7
Quality of service                   16,2               81,4              72,1
Agility of assistance                 4,7               77,5              65,0
Adequacy of physical facilities      26,1               74 ,9             66,0
Education Services Satisfaction
Rate                                100,0               78,5              68,5
Seven variables have strongly contributed to raising the average satisfaction in regard to
educational services. The item of proper location of schools obtained the highest satisfaction
rate: 87.8%. Other variables, such as good will and willingness of the school to talk to families,
achieved an 83.3% satisfaction rate. The highest importance was credited to teacher's
competence, with an 87% satisfaction rate.
The second group is constituted by 13 variables that range from 71.8% and 79.5%
satisfaction rates. The most important of this group are the assurance of receiving free books
(71.8% satisfaction) and confidence in the school's work (79.1%).
Finally, only two variables out of the total of 22 have obtained satisfaction rates in the
region of 60%: existence of libraries, computers and laboratory facilities (66.7%), and security at
school (64.4%). This latter point should be stressed as users reported it as of the highest
relevance



40
Table 8 - Satisfaction Rate of users with education services, accordingly to
surveyed characteristics
Users                        Non-
users
SURVEYED CHARACTERISTICS                Given     Satisfaction  Satisfaction
importance     rate         rate
1   Security at school, avoiding violence       12,3        64,4        51,7
2   Teachers competence in teaching              8,7         81,4       74,4
3   Assurance of receiving free books            8,6        71,8        63,5
4   Confidence on school's work                  8,0         79,1       69,4
5   Assurance on the number of teachers at school  5,6       76,2       64,3
6   Assurance on school's vacancies              5,4         72,6       59,5
7   Teacher's understanding and care             4,9         79,1       71,8
8   Support and reinforcement provided to the    4,7         77,4       67,5
students by the school
9   Good will and interest from the school to talk  4,7      83,3       73,2
10 Assurance on not having to know people in     3,8        73,5        62,7
order to obtain school vacancies
11  Confidence on class regularity               4,1        79,5        68,3
12 Capability to inform parents whether the children  4,0    81,9       70,2
are going well or not
13 Capability of school of providing a peaceful  3,5         76,2       67,5
environment
14 Assurance on the provision of school meals    3,2        77,1        69,0
15 Existence   of  libraries,  computers  and    3,8        66,7        62,2
laboratories                                .
16 Agility in enrolling or transferring          2,9         80,5       63,9
17 Tasty, nutritive and varied school meals      2,8        74,1        69,9
18 Cleanness, maintenance and comfort of school  2,8        78,3        69,5
facilities
19 Proper location of school                     1,7        87,8        78,0
20  Provision of cultural, playful and sport activities  1,6  74,7      69,5
21  Easiness in obtaining information and orientation  1,8   82,7       72,0
from school
22  Proper schedule to assist parents            1,0         81,5       73,4
TOTAL                                          100,0          -           -
The General Satisfaction Rate for Healthcare was 64.3%. The highest ones in this sector
were given to services' quality (71.5%), appropriatness of physical facilities (67.1%) and quality
of assistance (66%), as it can be observed in Table 9 below.



41
Table 9 - User's Satisfaction Rate on Healthcare Services
Users                                Non-users
Dimensions                Attributed  Satisfaction  Satisfaction
Importance      Rate          Rate
Guarantee of access/process of service
execution                                 49,9         60,7          50,3
Quality of assistance                     7,4         66,0           55,0
Quality of service                        12,6         71,5          62,5
Agility of assistance                     20,4         56,0          46,4
Appropriateness of physical facilities    9,7          67,1          57,2
Healthcare Services Satisfaction Rate    100,0         64,3          54,3
Half of the interviewees pointed out the guarantee of access/process of execution of the
service as the most important dimension of healthcare, whereas 20.4% chose agility in
assistance. In the healthcare case, the guarantee of access and the manner in which the service is
provided are still issues to be addressed in Brazil. From the users standpoint, there is an intense
feeling of insecurity towards the likelihood of provision of basic services.
In this survey, twenty-six characteristics of healthcare services were considered. The
certainty of being assisted in the healthcare center or public emergency hospitals, reaching
11.1% in importance and 63.5% in satisfaction, and vacancies at public hospital when in need
(8.8% in importance and 54.1% satisfaction rate) were considered the two most important
services to the user families.
The highest scores of satisfaction were given to the campaigns that teach how to treat
diseases (80.5%), the physician's and nurse's care on their aspect (77.4%), and the positive
results in combating dengue and cholera (75%).
The lowest level of satisfaction was attained by the certainty of receiving free prescribed
medicine (48.8%). Speed of placement in hospitals (50.6%) and confidence on not catching
hospital infection (51.8%) came next among the most unsatisfactory characteristics. In TablelO
shows the detail of public services user's satisfaction rates for all the surveyed characteristics.



42
Table 10 - Satisfaction Rate on Healthcare BY Service characteristics
Users
Non-
users
SURVEYED CHARACTERISTICS              Attributed  Satisfaction Satisfaction
importance     rate   I     rate
Assurance of assistance in emergency hospitals or  11,1     63,5         50.6
healthcare centers
Assurance of,vacancies in pubc hospitals when in  9.8       54,1         43 5
need                 ,_'_-_.. -_._
Speed and agility of assistance by a physician   7,11       54,7         44 7
Assurance of receiving free prescribed medicine  . 7,       48,8         39 3
Confidence on not catching a hospItal.infection  6'7        51,8         43.5
Assurance of receiving the necessary and proper  6,1        58,8         49,5
assistance                 .              _
Speed of placement in hospitals                  5,0        5D,          41,2
Competence of physicians and nurses on solving the  4,7     68,2         60 7
patents' problems
Prlority and agility in emergency cases          4,1        61,6         51,2
Physician's attention and care when assisting    4,2        65,1         54.8
patients and solving their problems                     D
Assurance of not needing to know people in order to  3,3    59,8         50,0
be well assisted
Ease and agility of getting lab exams            3,2        53,6         42,9
Good will and interest from employees to patients  3,2      62,7         52,4
Precision in scheduled appointments for consultation  3,1   67,1         55,6
Capability of employees to provide information and  2,4     66,7         57,5
orientation
Existence of required materials for assistanCe   2,5        57,6         51,2
Capability of carrying out preventive campaign   2,4        80,5         72,0
against diseases
Cleanness, hygiene and conservation of facilities  2,4      68,2         59,0
Confidence on information provided in preventive  2,0       76,5         67,9
campaigns against diseases
Capability of employees to solve patients' problems  1,7    62,2         55,0
Assurance of positive outcomes in dengue combat  1,4        75,0         66,3
Convenience of timing of assistance              1,3        65,4         53,6
Ease of access to assistance centers             1,3        71,6         61,3
Care of physicians and nurses with their functions  1,2     77,4         68,2
Ease of getting information/resolving problems   1,0        61,3         50,6
Comfort of facilities/waiting room               1,0        64,2         55,7
TOTAL                                           100,0         -
V.     CONCLUSION
As far as fiscal adjustment is concerned, one cannot help but admit that recent years have
witnessed a strong control on expenditures by the federal government in Brazil. Nonetheless,
contrary to common sense expectations, social areas have been partially preserved throughout



43
the years. From 1995 to 2000, consolidated social spending rose from R$ 84,155.64 to R$
100.045,34. Real social spending per capita increased from 1995 to 1999, whereas in 2000 it
witnessed a slight decline. Furthermore, the GOB decided on the creation of a social protection
net, comprised by 22 programs, strategically targeted to reach the most vulnerable groups in the
country. These programs experienced a major increase in their budget in the last five years,
becoming one of the tools at the disposal of the country to protect vulnerable groups from
negative impacts following the implementation of fiscal adjustment policies.
Along with guaranteeing financial resources for social areas, Brazilian social programs
followed some principles and incorporated managerial improvements, such as decentralization,
universalization, targeting, increase of civil society participation, which altogether helped
enhance their results.
Social indicators show the effectiveness of these programs. For instance, enrollment rates
for basic schooling rose from 90,2% in 1995 to 97,1% in 2000. For secondary education the
enrollment raised 43% during the period. Another important indicator is the child mortality rate
- which dropped from 38,4 per thousand in 1995 to 33,4 in 2000. Families assisted by the
agrarian reform are more than 400,000 through those years, while for a period between 1964 and
1994 only 280,000 had been given land ownership.
Quality of public services in Brazil has also been evaluated from the user standpoint for
the first time in the country. Breaking some myths, the general satisfaction rate reached 71,8%.
Although representing much more the satisfaction with the possibility of access to basic services,
rather than their quality itself, the National Assessment on the Public Services Users'
Satisfaction turned out to be a useful managerial tool for the government, once it pointed out
specific areas or aspects which users claimed that needed improvement. There is much to be
done, specially in better targeting social actions, but is undeniable that the latest developments in
the social branch of the government seem to have taken the correct path.
Obviously had even more resources been allocated to social areas, they would have been
probably further strengthened. Yet, different levels of social protection put in place by the GOB
proved to be an effective tool against negative impacts of fiscal adjustment policies on the most
vulnerable groups of the population. As a trade-off, other areas have been sacrificed, as
infrastructure. By and large, though, the fact is that social areas have been to a good extent
preserved in the last years, in spite of rigid fiscal restrictions.



44
Addendum 1: Brief Description of Selected Federal Social Programs
1.     Guiding principles of social policies in the 1990's
This section provides micro-examples of the practical application of the guiding
principles described in the main text through a discussion of the Government's Alvorada Project
and the direct transfers carried out by the Federal Govermment in benefit of the Brazilian people.
Alvorada Project
An example of the efforts of the Federal Government in enhancing the focus of its social
action, the Alvorada Project aims at benefiting the most needy segments of the population of the
relatively poorest areas of the country, having as an indicator parameter the Index of Human
Development (IHD) of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). The latter has
been chosen due to its international acceptance as a synthetic indicator of social development,
comprising a broader set of values than purely economic indicators. The Index takes into account
three basic dimensions: income, life expectancy and education.
The programs selected to combat poverty in 14 states of the federation must assist the
most needy segments of the population through the combination of the following lines of action:
-     To encourage children and teenagers to finish basic and internediate schooling;
-     To assure medical assistance, especially through preventive actions, and improve basic
sanitation conditions;
-     To expand opportunities for employment and income.
Consequently, the Project entails actions in the areas of education, healthcare, labor and
social assistance. Thereafter, through regular programs already defined in the 2000-2003 PPA,
the Federal Government intents to refine its focus, and therefore to improve the effectiveness of
its outcomes in combating poverty and inequalities in the country. Among the main programs
that will need to be reinforced with the Alvorada Project, the following individual programs
should be mentioned: the Family Healthcare Program, the PETI, the National Program of Family
Agriculture Support (PRONAF), the National Program of Support to Employment and Income
Generation in Poverty Areas (PRONAGER), the Program of Reduction of Motherly and Neo-
Natal Mortality, the Program of Young Human Development Agents, and the Youth and
Adulthood Education (along with the Friendly Literacy program).
The actions of the Alvorada Project will be financed by R$ 4.1 billion of expenditures
already included in the Pluriannual Plan, and are likely to receive, in addition, R$ 2.3 billion
from the Federal Government, R$ 1.0 billion of external loans, the states' counterpart to
Prodetur and Program of Combat to Land Poverty, and R$ 4.2 billion that would be directed to
the Plan upon Congress approval to the Poverty Combating Fund. This would bring the total to
R$11.6 billion during 2000-03. The poverty and inequality reduction results to be achieved by
the Alvorada Project actions are likely to be more effective than prior programs, inasmuch as
they target those areas with the largest concentration of the poor.



45
Direct Income Transfers
Social programs in Brazil are increasingly targeted through the usage of multiple and strategic
selection criteria that are more likely to make these programs reach the most needy beneficiaries
of public resources. Similarly, better targeting to the poor is being achieved through direct
transfers to the poorest populations. An example is provided by the benefits from the FGTS
(Fundo de Garantia por Tempo de Servic,o, a wage and unemployment insurance fund), which
provides a safety net during periods of macreoconomic decline. Other noteworthy programs
include the Scholarship Fund, the PETI (Programa de Erradicayco de Trabalho Infantil), whose
successful outcomes through a simple but innovative concept have led them to be been regarded
best practices of social intervention, Income-Insurance - providing benefits to the population of
the Northeastern region impaired by the effects of droughts -, and the Food Fund - providing
resources to enable families to improve their nutritional profile at the same time they receive
medical assistance. Table I shows the intended values of direct transfers for 2002, which would
represent an increase from R$ 9.1 billion in 2000 billion to R$ 12.1 Billion, a rise of over 35% in
nominal terms.
Table I - Direct Transfers in 2002
ACTION                     ASSISTANCE         PLO 2002 (R$ million)
Unemployment Insurance and      Workers - 4,4 million        5.177,7
Qualification Fund
People = 1,4 million        3.283,9
Benefits of LOAS Continued Assistance
Families  5,4 million       1.835,0
Participation in Minimum Income
Programs
Workers  5,2 million         884,3
PIS/PASEP Wage Bonus
People = 1,6 million        300,0
Food Provision Funds
Benefited landworkers         253,3
Income Insurance                 900,000
Children/Adolescents =        175,5
Extended School Time               813,000
Children/Adolescents          235,8
Child Citizenship Fund              813,000
Total                                             12.145,5
Fonte: SOF/MP



46
2.    Evolution of programs and federal expenditures in selected social areas
Education
Education has been considered a priority since the very beginning of the current
administration. In the first place, it decided to face the challenge of basic education (children
between 7 to 14 years of age). Policy has been guided by the principles of universalization,
decentralization, municipalization, community participation in school management and higher
social control on public expenditures, as discussed before. The attendance rate (the percentage of
people at school) rose from 92.7% in 1994 to 97% in 1999, bringing 35.7 million children,
teenagers and adults enrolled at basic school. In the period in between 1994 to 2000,
intermediate school enrollments increased 66%, a clear indication of a higher rate of completion
of basic schooling and that students are continuing to study.
In December 1996 the Guidelines and Basis for National Education Act was approved. It
defined educational responsibilities for the federal state and local governments. To put in
practice the provisions of this new Act, the governrment obtained approval of Constitutional
Amendment number 14 (1996), which created the Fund for Maintenance and Development of
Basic Education and Appreciation of Teaching (FUNDEF). FUNDEF determines that, of the
25% of fiscal revenues that Constitution mandates states and municipalities to invest in
education, 60% (the equivalent to 15% of total fiscal revenues) must be allocated to basic
education. The division of this allocation between states and municipalities started then to be
proportional to the number of students at school in each education network. From the total
amount of resources destined to basic education, 60% are necessarily used for teachers' payment.
This has allowed an increase in real wages of teachers, which may help improve the quality of
teaching.
FUNDEF also defined the minimum expenditure per student per year. In 1998, the first
year of operation of the Fund, a R$ 315.00 minimum annual value was established and, as a
result, R$ 13.3 billion were distributed to states and municipalities. The Federal Government
spent R$ 542 million to complement the minimum expenditure for student a year where the
FUNDEF resources did not reach the minimum value. This complement is mandatory and comes
to benefit the poorest municipalities. In 2001 the minimum values were fixed at R$ 363 for
students from 1st to 4th grade and at R$ 381.14 for those from 5th to 8th grade and for those
receiving special education. As a result FUNDEF distributed some R$ 20 billion.
Another important educational initiative is the Scholarship Fund Program created in
2001. Since 1998 the Federal Government had been providing financial support on a monthly
basis to low-income families conditional on proof of school enrollment and attendance at classes.
With the creation of the Scholarship Fund Program, this support was expanded. It is targeted to
students from 6 to 15 years of age that belong to low-income (per capita) families and will
benefit 5.8 families all across the country, including 11 million children. Since the start of the
program last April, over 2 million children have been registered. The purpose of this action is to
stimulate the attendance through a direct income transfer (R$ 15 for children, and up to R$ 45 for
family).



47
Other noteworthy programs include (i) a Pedagogical Book Distribution program, aiming
at lowering the cost of books and improving their distribution. For 2002, R$ 325 million will be
allocated to this program, with 65.5 million schoolbooks being delivered; (ii) the National
Program of School Food Provision (PNAE), which has been reinforced by normalizing financing
procedures and by operating in a decentralized system of food purchase and provides daily meals
to over 37 million students all over Brazil; (iii) FUNDESCOLA, a program focused on the
upgrade of public schools infrastructure, which will count on resources from the School's
Reinforcement Fund (FUNDESCOLA) to support investments in construction, acquisition of
school equipment, qualification of teachers and, management of the educational system; (iv) a
program to endow schools with information technology, which started in 1996 and has already
permitted 2.5 thousand basic schools to be equipped with 25 thousand computers and 22
thousand teachers to be trained  to teach 2.5 million students to learn to use software and to
research and access the Internet (the goal for 2002 is to bring information technology to every
school in the country and link them to the Internet).
Progress has also been good in intermediate education, including technical education.
Attendance increased sharply, by 66% between 1994 and 2000. This was partly the consequence
of increased attendance in basic education. Regional discrepancies in access of education
declined, with the expansion of intermediate education in the Northern and Northeastern regions
higher than the national average: whereas in the period in between 1995 and 2000 the enrollment
numbers in intermediate education increased 52.4%, in the Northeastern region the growth
reached 68.1% and in the Northern region 66.1%. Nevertheless, the student age/grade distortion
in 2000 remains high at 54.9%. The expectation of the Federal Government is that this relation
will decline through lower failure rates and lower school evasion.
Table 2 - Enrollments in Intermediate Education
Brazil/Year           Enrollment by Education Unit
Total      Public      %      Private    %
Schools            Schools
1994 (1)   4.936.211   3.905.872   79,1   1.030.339  20,9
1995       5.374.831   4.210.346   78,3   1.164.485  21,7
1996       5.739.077   4.562.558   79,5   1.176.519  20,5
1997       6.405.057   5.137.992   80,2   1.267.065  19,8
1998       6.968.531   5.741.890   82,4   1.226.641   17,6
1999       7.769.199   6.544.835   84,2   1.222.364  15,8
2000       8.192.948   7.039.529   85.9    1.153.419  14.1
Growth %     66,0        80,2       -        11,9      -
1994-2000
Source: MEC. Educaao no Brasil - 1995-2000. Brasilia, 2001.



48
Land Reform
In Land Reform, the numbers of new beneficiaries per year has increased significantly.
The Federal Government benefited about 507,697 families between 1995 and June 2001.This
is indeed a record, as during the previous 30 years, since the edition of the Land Statute in
1964, the land reform had benefited only 280 thousand families. Whereas Brazil used to
occupy the 5th position in land concentration in the world, the country is now placed 12th. Table
8 shows the recent yearly data of beneficiary families.
Table 3 - Land Reform - Number of Assessed Families - 1995/2001
Year                          Number of Assessed Families
1995                                   42.827
1996                                   61.674
1997                                   81.944
1998                                  101.094
1999                                   85.226
2000                                   108.980
2001 (until June)                           25.952
TOTAL                                   507.697
Source: MDA.
These efforts also constitute a record in the number of expropriated unproductive large
farms: 13,547,324 hectares. Including other means of land acquisition, over 1 8 million hectares
have been allocated since 1995. This area is equivalent to the area of the states of Rio de Janeiro
and Espirito Santo altogether. The financial resources used by the Federal Government from
1995 to 2000 amounted R$ 11,271 million. Such budget was necessary for the expropriation
actions, for providing credits to beneficiaries and to cover harvest costs and investments. The
works on social and economic infra-structure demanded over R$ 412 million throughout those
four years. Through those resources 115 thousand homes, 27 thousand kilometers of local roads,
736 dams, 108 storage facilities, 458 community centers, 323 schools, 366 healthcare stations
and 9 thousand kilometers of rural eletrification have been completed.
Increased implementation of land reform was achieved partly through legislation to speed
up the process and improve incentives. With the approval of Rito Sumario Act in 1996, the speed
of action increased considerably, from 467 days before the Act to 131 days, a 72% change. The
land tax was reformed by Act 9,393/96 to make more difficult the maintenance of unproductive
large farms. The maximum tax bracket, which was 4.5%, was raised to 20% of land cost. A
Land Bank was created to finance land acquisition in the long term the acquisition of land. These
measures inverted the acquisition process. Improvements in the inspection process reduced the
cost of land acquisitions. Instead of the Federal Government searching for land, the landowners



49
were persuaded to offer it. A program that needs to be highlighted is the Land Bill, which along
with the World Bank finances the direct purchase of land by small owners, waged land workers,
"meeiros" or other partners. The favorable pace of this program was instrumental in stimulating
the approval of the complementary act that created the Land Bank. This fund was endowed with
R$ 122 million and contracted a World Bank R$ 200 million loan. It is the largest fund credit
program done so far in Brazil. Since its creation, 28,500 families have been benefited through
this financing mechanism. In 2001 it is expected to support 20 thousand families with credit.
Another noteworthy action is the National Program for Family Agriculture, which
released R$ 10.2 billion from 1995 to 2000. This program supported 3,975,516 credit contracts
with the banking system, amounting to R$1.6 million for 2000/2001's harvest. Interest is fixed
and below market. The program has benefited the poorest agricultural families from the
Northeast, whose average land income is less than R$ 1500 a year, with R$ 500 loans per
family. With fixed interest of 1% a year and a 40% discount upon capital, beneficiaries repay R$
303 after two years. In 2000, Pronaf destined R$ 24 million to this new credit line, assisting 48
thousand families. In the first semester of 2001, over R$ 65 million will benefit 130 thousand
more families.
Healthcare
Public healthcare assistance in Brazil has suffered a number of transformations since the
Federal Constitution entered into force in 1998. When the Constitution was enacted, a major
concern emerged over the necessity of allocating resources to health. Transitory constitutional
provisions allocated at least 30% of the Social Security Budget (excluding the resources of
unemployment insurance) to health. With the Unified Health System (SUS) created in 1998, the
principles of universalization of access, integrality of assistance, decentralization of service to
municipalities and social control were firmly established, at least as principles.
With the establishment of the Basic Assistance Floor (Piso Asistencial Basico) in 1998,
which introduced per capita transfers, the distribution of resources became more equitably
distributed. Nevertheless, there are still remaining differences in percapita transfers due to
differences in degree of autonomous management allowed in different regions. In 1998, the cost
per capita varied between R$ 10 and R$ 18.3. With the approval in 2001 of Constitutional
Amendment 29, resources for public healthcare were increased with minimum standards for the
three governmental levels. States and municipalities should now allocate respectively 12% to
15% of their total budget for healthcare assistance.
A major gain in efficiency was achieved with the introduction of new methods of action.
Historically centered in hospitals and, therefore, in healing and prophylactic oriented
interventions, the trend after 1991 has been towards preventive aspects and effective promotion
of health. In that year the Community Healthcare Agents Program (PACS) was created. The
program selected and trained people to act within their own communities in the provision of
basic assistance and spreading information on disease prevention, hygienic practices and
orientation of patients on finding the nearest healthcare centers. In 1994 the Family Healthcare
Program was launched. Working in partnership with the community healthcare agents, it became
the main guide for federal policies, operating in a decentralized fashion through partnerships
with states and municipalities.



50
The Family Healthcare Program, a program that will cost R2.8 billion in 2001, aims at
providing healthcare services to the poorest population in the most needy areas with both
resources and infra-structure. Such services are provided by medical teams composed of one
physician (usually a general medical doctor), a nurse, a nursing assistant and 4 to 6 community
healthcare agents, the latter recruited from the local communities. The Program succeeded in
raising the physician's and his assistant's wages, as well as driving attention to the countryside.
The program started in 1994 with 328 teams assisting 1.1 million people. For 2001, the program
will have 17,000 teams assisting 59 million people.
Each of the program's teams covers around 1000 families, making available basic care,
diagnosis and treatment, information on nourishment, hygienic practices, family planning and
disease prevention (including the sexually transmitted diseases).
The community agents are the most directly responsible for the Family Healthcare
Program along with the communities. They register all families that receive assistance, visit them
at least monthly, and watch their progress. It is their duty to report to the team physician of the
program or to the nearest hospital, the cases considered to be the most complex and/or serious.
The Program, now established in every Brazilian state, has succeeded in reducing child
mortality rates and in upgrading the families' nutritional profile. It has also relieved hospitals and
healthcare centers from massive flows of patients with simple diseases that do not require more
than follow-up.
SYocial Assistance
Federal action in social assistance increased after approval of Act 8,742 - Organic Act ol
Social Assistance (LOAS) - in December 1993. Assistance payments started in the beginning of
1996. Since then, they have covered a minimum monthly wage to people aged 67-year and
older, and those people unable for work. In both cases, the beneficiaries' per capita family
income must be inferior to one fourth of the minimum wage. The year of 1999 deserves special
attention, due to significant growth in assistance. The Federal Government continued those
payments to diminish the negative effects of economic slowdown.
The Program for Eradication of Child Labor (PETI) constitutes another priority action.
Created in 1996, PETI's goal is to eliminate children's work in dangerous, harmful and
unhealthful activities, acting in partnership with states, municipalities and civil society. The
program has three essential components that are self-articulated with the purpose of achieving
the sustainability of withdrawing 7 to 14 year-old children from labor activities. These are the
components:
-     Concession of a monthly in-cash benefit to the families, when they take their children out
of work and have them attend school;
-     Extension of regular time at school, further to the children's regular study time, aiming at
preventing them to go back to work and at providing them with complementary playful,
pedagogical, and socio-educative activities;



51
-     Guidance of families to income and employment programs, in order to allow the parents
to create better family household conditions.
PETI assists nowadays around 461 thousand children across each state of the federation,
including the Federal District, in over 1000 municipalities. Its core task is to remove from work
until the end of 2001 860 thousand children, from a universe of 1.5 million working in
dangerous, harmful or unhealthful activities.
Focusing on 15 to 17 year-old teenagers of urban caring areas, the Young Agent of
Human and Social Development Program aims at bringing back those teenagers to the
educational system, at the same time that it qualifies them for the exercise of enterprising
citizenship within their communities, mostly in the areas of healthcare, environment and
education.
The program is operated in partnership with states and municipalities, as well as with
civil society's entities, and obtaining some finance from private companies. From 2000 on, when
it was included in the Federal Government's Pluriannual Plan (PPA 2000-2003), the Young
Agent Program started to register potential beneficiaries. Acting together with the National Plan
for Public Security and the Alvorada Project, it succeeded in capitalizing around R$ 12 million in
resources. For 2001, the budgetary act bill (PLO) sent to National Congress by the Executive
Power, reserved R$ 22 million in resources for the Young Agent Program. For 2002, PLO
previews a R$ 65 million amount, whereas the goals of the program are to assist 90 thousand
young people in every unit of the Brazilian Federation, in partnership with the National Plan for
Public Security and the Alvorada Project.



52
Addendum 2: Remarks on the National Assessment of Public Service's Users Satisfaction
kUied+work and data analysis
Fieldwork was conducted during the September and October, 1999, submitting 8
thousand questionnaires. The sample divided the Brazilian population into 20 strata, based on a
matrix of geographic and city-size criterion. Municipalities with less than 5 thousand inhabitants
were not included in the assessment.
7Target population
The survey selected a statistically representative sample of the urban population in Brazil.
In addition, as a control mechanism, it was decided that non-users would also be surveyed along
with users. Questionnaires contemplated such difference as a foreword question. Thus, after
questionnaires were applied, data from those groups was interpreted separately. It is paramount
to acknowledge that data used for measuring satisfaction rates were drawn exclusively from the
questionnaires returned by public services' users.
Residential settings
In order to avoid misleading Reponses, the survey was directed to residential settings, as
opposed to service providers. By visiting the surveyed person's house, one could expect his/her
answers would take into consideration a wider perception of public services, not one specifically
based on the service received at, say, the neighborhood hospital. The pursuit of a national
satisfaction average rate depended greatly on the avoidance of such locally-influenced
perceptions.
,4pproaches
Questionnaires were designed with the aim of covering two sets of data. The first was
intended to gather socioeconomic information from the surveyed. The second set of questions
was twofold. On the one hand, it was destined to assess the levels of users' satisfaction, relative
to a defined set of dimensions and features/attributes of the services, and contrasted to the
parameters of full satisfaction established by the users themselves. Then, on the other hand, users
and non-users were stimulated to indicate, among a relatively wide array of relevant
ieatures/attributes of the public services, those they considered to be the most important, up to a
maximum five features or attributes.
(hoosing the variables
Before establishing the variables that define the essential features and/or attributes of the
services, a comprehensive debate with the managers responsible for the selected areas (pension
svstem/welfare, education and healthcare) was carried out. The discussions were conducted by a
yroup of experts in the content and management of the policy areas covered in the assessment.



53
Once defined the features and attributes, provisional questionnaires were repeatedly
tested until a final version was taken to  the field. The representative variables of the
features/attributes were associated, according to their content, with one of the predefined five
service dimensions.
Notes on the methodology
To construct the procedures for assessing the users' satisfaction, the method developed
by Professor Parsu Parasuraman (PhD. - University of Miami) was taken as reference. In fact,
such methodology was originally developed to evaluate customer satisfaction from private
services. The necessary customization was then carried through to guarantee the adequacy of the
procedures to assess the satisfaction of public services' users.
The methodology envisages assessing users' satisfaction according to five dimensions,
such as follows:
(i) Agility in assistance - refers to the willingness to help customers/users, providing
them with responses on an agile manner;
(ii) Guarantee that services will be provided with required ability - concerns to the
correct and precise way under which services will be rendered, once accessed;
(iii) Quality in assistance -- has to do with the individualized attention given to
users/customers;
(iv) Service quality - takes into consideration the knowledge and ability of employees to
correctly execute the services, along with the courtesy and willingness, in such a way that
users/customers' confidence and respect are gained;
(v) Adequacy of physical facilities - related to the functionality of facilities and their
equipment, as well as to the way employees and communication materials look;
Rates of Relative Satisfaction
Customer satisfaction was measured as a Rate of Relative Satisfaction. As
recommended in Professor Parasuraman' method, this rate results from the percentage ratio
between the rate given to the service rendered (for users), or the presumed service rendering (for
non-users), and the rate established, both by users and non-users, for full satisfaction. The rate of
relative satisfaction could then be measured for all the different surveyed service aspects, and
also to those indicated as most important.
Relative Rates rather than Average Grades
It is important to highlight that the choice for relative rates, rather than average grades,
was made in order to correct and control biases in users' answers. By means of measuring rates,



54
those biases are overshadowed by a larger, more representative set of answers, based on the
effective expectations of the users, not only on their perceptions.
Gaps in Satisfaction
Parasuraman also recommends measuring the gaps in satisfaction, which are nothing
more than the difference between the rate of full satisfaction and rate of relative satisfaction. in
other words, it is to say that if a given rate of relative satisfaction is of 78%, its gap is of 22%,
i.e., to achieve full satisfaction, relative satisfaction rates should be raised in 22%.
Closing Notes
*  Almost all persons surveyed established a below 10 grade (in a scale from 0 to
10) for a full satisfactory service.
*  The variance was high among the grades given by users and non-users. When it
comes to non-users, it is important to reaffirm that the given grades were based on
presumed perception of the public service.
*  Gaps, therefore, became the most important indicators for the users' satisfaction,
as a means for avoiding the great variance observed.
*  For instance, if a given individual indicated that a fully satisfactory service
deserved grade 8, and then rated 6 for the service he is usually provided with, the
rate of relative satisfaction would be 6:8, i.e., 75%. A gap, therefore, of 25%. If
another given individual expressed a fully satisfactory service to be 6 in the scale,
but rated 4.5% for the service he has been rendered, again the rate of relative
satisfaction would be of 75%, with a gap of 25%. In so doing, the assessment
permitted the avoidance of incorrectness caused be great variance in the answers,
focusing on the frustrated expectation from the user standpoint.
*  Before closing, one cannot help but admit that the surveyed population has
shown, through the rates given to services, very adequate perception on the
quality those services offer. This is so not only because those surveyed were able
to moderate their expectations, but also because they realistically rated the
services received. By and large, if one takes into consideration the features of
public services delivery in Brazil, it would have been unwise to expect users and
non-users  to  rate  services  10  in  the  scale  for  full satisfaction.



55
Annex 9: Stakeholder Workshop Results
I.    WORKSHOP WITH SECRETARIES OF F[NANCE
This workshop was held in Brasilia, Brazil, on November 7th, 2001. Participating from
the Bank were Messrs. Mauricio Carrizosa (Chair), Yasuhiko Matsuda, Mr. Antonio Magalhaes,
Mr. William Tyler (World Bank consultant), Mr. Joao Marcelo Borges (Consultant and
Rapporteur). Participating from the state governments were representatives from the Finance
secretariats of Bahia, Rio Grande do Sul, Para, Ceara, and Goias.
Mr. Carrizosa opened the meeting with a brief presentation on the major features of the
loan the World Bank granted Brazil with in 1998. He pointed out that the loan was intended to
support four Brazilian initiatives either already in place or on a pipeline status at that point.
Those initiatives were:
-     plan of fiscal stabilization;
-     program for restructuring states' debts with the Federal Treasury;
-     implementation of the administrative reform, as enshrined in the constitutional
amendment   No. 19;
-     support to the approval and later implementation of the Fiscal Responsibility Law.
Thereafter, Mr. Carrizosa explained that the main objective of the meeting was to
evaluate the first loan from the states' standpoint, as far as those four points were concerned, in
order to bring about information deemed necessary for the Bank to decide on the best way to
support Brazil.
Before turning the floor to the Secretaries, and highlighting the plan of fiscal
stabilization, Mr. Carrizosa raised the question below so as to guide the Finances' Secretaries in
their answers:
Is the plan of fiscal stabilization, in the way it is being implemented, helping to
consolidate a positive scenario for the states? Does it help in paving the way for economic
growth and poverty reduction?
Unanimously, the Secretaries agreed that the fiscal stabilization provided them with a
managerial tool hitherto lacking in the Brazilian public sector: a coherent and de facto budget.
Moreover, they stressed that budget and planning as distinct areas in their organization charts
have come closer lately, and are working on an integrated fashion.
Before the launching of the Plan Real, ex-ante fiscal imbalances were largely transforned
into ex-post equilibrium by rising inflation in a context of indexed revenues and only partially
indexed nominal expenditures. With the advent of price stability, this adjustment mechanism,
which masked to some extent the serious structural problems affecting the public sector, could
no longer function.



56
As their greatest concerns, the Secretaries indicated the increasing dollar-indexed share of
the public debt, and the high percentage of states' budget committed due to legal obligations,
such as either debt payments, social spending or public pensions.
The interest rates were also identified as a bottleneck for the states' financial health, in
particular, and the national finances, in general. At the state level, high interest rates, currently in
nominal 19%, tend to increase debt payments, and also to worsen the total debt/budget relation,
while at the national level, they squeeze the federal budget and decrease investment, thus
precluding higher economic growth.
States with lower debts also pointed out that the dollar-indexed share of the debt is a
matter of great concern, although the impact of instability in the exchange rate has had a smaller
impact on their accounts.
Mr. Carrizosa then asked secretaries if they envisaged any solution for the interest rates
issue in Brazil, saying he understood their high levels resulted from the high debt/GDP ratio and
the continued risk premium perceived by international financial markets.
Secretaries answered they were not able to point out a solution in the short term, but
stressed the importance of finding one that goes beyond mere monetary policy. Fiscal reform
was said to be fundamental for any solution to be given to the problem as well as balancing the
pension system's share in states' budget.
When it came to the subject of poverty reduction, the increase, specially among the
poorer segments of the population, of access to public services notwithstanding, states expressed
their frustration for the resistance showed in the overall social indicators. Although
acknowledging that fiscal and monetary stabilization proved positive for rendering public
services, by means of curbing out inflation, other factors were pointed as obstacles to further
poverty reduction, such as, i) high interest rates and their negative impact on economic growth;
ii) lack of a federal-coordinated policy aimed at regional development; iii) the energy reduction
program Brazil is currently undergoing, with its strong impact on GDP growth, at least for 2001.
Moving ahead, Mr. Carrizosa cast states' secretaries attention to the debt restructuring
issue. He raised the question of how secretaries evaluated the debt reduction in the states budget,
and further asked how fiscal balance was achieved. Reminding secretaries that states showed a
primary deficit of 1,1% of GDP in 1991, whereas nowadays they were accumulating primary
surpluses, Mr. Carrizosa asked whether such shift was made only though expenditure cuts or also
through an increase in taxation.
Speaking on the tax revenues side of the issue, secretaries affirmed that revenues
increased in the last years, specially due to ICMS. On the other hand, non-shared taxes have also
increased since 1995, resulting in a situation on which the central government retains 70% of all
taxes collected in the country. In poorer states, for which ICMS does not play a significant role
in their tax revenues, this was said to be a great problem, since they witnessed a decrease of tax
shared with the federal government in recent years. Focusing taxation on the results of economic
activity rather than on income and consumption was also pointed out as mistargeted fiscal
efforts, for they prevent higher economic growth.



57
The combat against fiscal evasion was another important action secretaries stressed. The
build-up of computerized systems for fiscal information, larger teams of fiscal agents were
reported as successful actions against fiscal evasion, which still is, nonetheless, high in Brazil.
Be that as it may, states' secretaries told that without a comprehensive fiscal reform, the
accomplishment of the contractual goals of the debt-restructuring agreements will be at stake, for
they depend on a set of economic variables out of their reach. The current scenario on which tax
revenues increases are high is one unlikely to be maintained without fiscal reform, secretaries
told.
On the expenditures side, states' secretaries highlighted various actions taken which
aimed both at reducing administrative costs and at reallocating resources to priority areas. In
their view, administrative costs have reached a level that cannot be further reduced without
putting at risk the functioning of the public apparatus. On the expenditure macro-areas, they all
said pension systems remained a focus of concern due to the impossibility states face to keep
financing them.
Speaking on the debt-restructuring agreements as a whole, secretaries affirmed that those
highly-indebted states are currently spending more on debt service than prior to the agreements,
while other states reached a better solution. This increase in debt service notwithstanding, they
judge positively the agreements, for they are permitting states to better plan their budget
allotments, since interest rates remain constant. The single issue of major concern remains the
dollar-indexed share of the debt, which significantly increases debt payments throughout the year
in a situation of currency devaluation such as the country witnesses nowadays.
After closing the subject on debt-restructuring, Mr. Carrizosa asked secretaries whether
administrative reform has had a negative impact on the provision of public services, as common
sense tells. Focusing on the future profile of the pension systems, he asked if states had already
started to hire personnel through private labor law, as now allowed by legislation.
Secretaries unanimously said no such a decrease in public service had taken place, in
spite of their admitting not to have hired personnel using the more flexible terms of the
administrative reform. They pointed out that the costs of hiring public employees under the CLT
law are not affordable by the states, although stressing that the impact on the pension system
would be positive.
In what concerns the provision of social services, secretaries rejected the common sense
perception that last years witnessed a decrease in budget allotments for those areas. As a matter
of fact, they said social spending had never reached current levels, with good results mainly on
education, public security and health care. But they also showed great frustration with the
resistance of social indicators to improve significantly as a whole.
Before closing, Mr. Carrizosa asked secretaries about the difficulties observed in the
implementation of the Fiscal Responsibility Law and also asked for suggestions for its
improvement.
Secretaries told that most of the states are already within the limits established by the
Fiscal Responsibility Law, including in personnel (exception is Rio Grande do Sul), and they all



58
praised the importance of the legislation in the overall effort to bring about a more transparent
and stable fiscal balance in Brazil.
They have also, however, showed some concern with the implementation of the law on
the municipal governments, due to their poorly qualified teams and the lack of a comprehensive
strategy of training of municipal personnel.
Secretaries highlighted as their greatest concern on the implementation of the law the
accomplishment of those indicators enshrined in the legal text that are beyond their governance.
In particular, the debt/tax collection ratio, to which exchange rates play an important role
completely out of states' reach.
Mr. Carrizosa then thanked all secretaries for their participation, expressing on behalf of
the World Bank his satisfaction with the meeting, which he suggested could be an action to be
repeated in the future.
II.   WORLD BANK WORKSHOP WITH BRAZILIAN CIVIL SERVANTS
This workshop was held in Brasilia, on December 7th, 2001. Participating from the Bank
were Messrs./Mmes. Yasuhiko Matsuda (Sr. Public Sector Specialist), Zeze Weiss (Social
Development Specialist), Geoffrey Shepherd (consultant), Ms. Ceres Prates (consultant). Joao
Marcelo Borges (consultant and rapporteur). Civil servants from the following federal
organizations were represented: National Coordination of the STD/AIDS Program, Ministry of
Finances, Ministry of Environment, Justice Tribunal - Federal District, Ministry of Education,
National Foundation for the Indigenous Peoples.
Ms. Weiss, Civil Society Official at the WB Office in Brasilia, opened the meeting,
thanking the participants for their presence and immediately tumed the floor to Mr. Matsuda,
Senior Public Sector Specialist of the WB, to proceed into his opening remarks.
Mt. Matsuda pointed out that the main goal of the meeting was to evaluate a loan of
US$500 million, signed on March, 2000, destined to help the Brazilian fiscal adjustment
program.
He then explained that a similar meeting had already occurred, focused on
macroeconomic aspects, one to which the states' secretaries of finances were invited to present
their appraisal. Another meeting was to be held later that day with civil society representatives.
Bringing together all those diverse standpoints, he said, reflected the Bank's intention to
guarantee as much social representation as possible.
Before briefly explaining the contents of the loan, Mr. Matsuda clearly stated that in
choosing the civil servants invited for the meeting, no criterion was observed. Choice was
random and helped by Ms. Weiss and Ms. Prates.
He then proceeded to point out the main components of the loan, which were as follow:
1.    Support to the Program for Fiscal Stability (initiated back to 1998)



59
2.    Support the restructuring of states' debts with the central government;
3.    Support the implementation of the administrative reform
4.    Preparation of the Fiscal Responsibility Law
Closing his remarks, he said that the Bank was interested in getting acquainted with civil
servants' perception on the fiscal adjustment as a whole, as well as whether they witnessed any
change designed to improve management efficiency within their organizations, and if they
noticed any impact of the administrative reformn on their routines.
Ms. Weiss then opened the floor for debate, inviting civil servants to express their views
on the subjects raised by Mr. Matsuda.
In broad terms, civil servants' view on the fiscal adjustment and administrative reform is
summarized below:
-     There have been efforts to rationalize expenditures and improve managerial
efficiency within different governmental organizations since 1995;
-     There remains, however, a great distance between budget planning and execution,
specially because the latter is still strongly conditioned by political aspects. From the viewpoint
of civil servants, the disproportionate role that politically-motivated decisions still play on
budget execution constitutes an obstacle for a better functioning of the public apparatus;
-     A major source of concern for civil servants is the lack of a human resources
policy/strategy for the central government. Negative results of such managerial vacuum are not
restricted to qualification or wages of personnel; rather, they can be observed in the efficiency
and effectiveness of public actions;
-     World Bank and other multilateral organizations' support to personnel contracts
under international technical agreements in Brazil draw strong criticism from civil servants, who
suggested the Bank should offer the country loans for capacity-building and professional training
and qualification, in order to help building-up skillful and committed civil servants.
As for the two first points, civil servants displayed a set of opinions and perceptions, as
well as some examples to better illustrate their cases.
A bureaucratic culture, with few components of entrepreneurship, based on countless
administrative and control procedures was said to be seriously hampering any further
enhancement of public actions. The decisive role played by political bargains in the definition of
budget execution was strongly criticized. Civil servants complained that their participation in
numerous work meetings to plan future actions of their ministries or agencies, and the results of
such meetings in the form of budget plans, etc, were commonly disregarded by upper
hierarchical levels within their organizations. Budget negotiations before the National Congress
were said to be poorly based on either technical or strategic considerations, but rather on political
constraints and bargaining.



60
One civil servant brought up an example from her ministry, by saying that although the
budget plan designed was submitted to the Ministry of Planning in April, the resources had not
yet been delivered by December 5th. Thus, she continued, money will probably be available by
Dec. 15th, and one should not expect it to be spent adequately in such a short span of time prior
to the end of the year.
Civil society engagement, however, was positively appraised by civil servants, specially
because the pressure NGOs and other institutions can put on congressmen was said to help in
their negotiations on the budget plan with the Congress. The STD/AIDS Program representative
present in the meeting reported that NGOs proved fundamental for the Program to obtain a
budgetary supplement in 2001. Congressmen were discussing whether resources should be
directed to the repair of the Salvador Airport or the STD/AIDS Program.
Another positive shift civil servants perceive are the efforts to put in place more rational
expenditures within their organizations. Although seeing those efforts more as a result of budget
restrictions rather than a move towards efficient management per se, they acknowledged changes
towards a better use of scarce resources were implemented from the stock-room to the minister
office.
Civil servants regretted, nonetheless, that no incentives were put in place to further
stimulate government organizations to make a more efficient use of resources. Positive
incentives, such as prizes for employees or higher autonomy, and negative ones, i.e., sanctions,
would have boosted up a healthy competition among different organizations, the result of which
would be in the benefit of the government as a whole, they said.
On the subject of the administrative reforn, civil servants' comments were twofold, both
under a broader view that no advance whatsoever had been made to date. First, they said political
aspects of the reform should not be neglected. From their standpoint, negotiations in Congress
were so difficult that almost no room was left for the implementation of the reform. As an
example of the deterioration of the agreement reached as of the approval of constitutional
amendment #19, they cited the various ongoing legal disputes, some of which question the very
constitutionality of the reform. Secondly, they strongly criticized personnel hiring under
international technical cooperation projects, such as those signed with the UNDP and UNESCO.
For them, the World Bank should take into consideration the need to establish a professional,
skillful and constantly-trained civil service in Brazil, and not keep on its current track of
supporting those projects (half the financial resources of which come from the World Bank and
the IADB). In their view, persons contracted in the context of those projects bear no commitment
to the public sector, and the continuation of this policy will further compromise the efficiency
and effectiveness of public actions, for it incorporates no capacity-building or training for the
permanent civil servants.
After a short coffee-break, the meeting resumed, with a consultant addressing participants
on the findings she has come to in a report being written for the World Bank. In general, she
said, the paper she is writing is aimed at assessing whether the fiscal adjustment has had a
negative impact on the quality of public services in Brazil, as one was to expect. Citing the
evolution of budget aggregates, she showed that social spending had not been hurt, although its
increase was slight. Some areas, however, and priority programs within those areas, she



61
remarked, have indeed witnessed steady resource allocation increases from 1995 through 2000.
In addition, managerial improvements were put in place that helped enhance the efficiency and
effectiveness of social actions. Before closing, she cited the results of a National Assessment of
the Satisfaction of Public Services' Users, which show a high level of satisfaction (up to 70%)
with public services.
Civil servants commented on the presentation, saying that surely social areas suffered the
negative impact of the fiscal adjustment. Although there has been a slight increase in the
resources allocated for education, for instance, a lot more should have been invested. But, at the
same time, they acknowledged that the government succeeded in protecting some programs,
which were inserted in the social protection net. For example, in the education field, the country
shows a completely different scenario today if compared to 1994, pointed out the representative
of the Ministry of Education. Other programs were also cited as successful, such as the Family
Health Program.
A last consensus perception expressed by the civil servants was that fiscal adjustment and
inflation control should not be seen as an end in itself. In their view, the country has suffered
from a "focus crisis", i.e., while focusing primarily on the need for fiscal adjustment, other
public areas were neglected. But the former, they said, are not but means, while the latter are the
ends, the goals public sector should pursue. To do so, they also emphasized, the central
government must also evaluate whether its actions are indeed priorities that should be led by the
Union.
Ill.  WORLD BANK WORKSHOP WITH BRAZILIAN CIVIL SOCIETY
REPRESENTATIVES
This workshop held in Brasilia on December 5th, 2001. Participating from the Bank were
Messrs./Mmes. Zeze Weiss, Yasuhiko Matsuda, Ceres Prates, and Joao Marcelo Borges.
Participating from civil society were the following institutions: Pastoral da Crian,a, National
Agency on Infants Rights, Brasilia Industry Federation.
Opened by Ms. Zeze Weiss, WB Official in Brazil, the meeting was intended to provide
the World Bank with civil society view on the impact of fiscal adjustment policies on the
delivery of social services in Brazil.
Mr. Yasuhiko Matsuda, WB Senior Economist, told participants that the Bank usua]l y
carries out assessments of the loans and policies it supports, and that the main Loai of the
meeting was to gather from civil society representatives inputs for an evaluation of a US$500
million loan granted to Brazil on March, 2000.
Mr. Matsuda also explained that in some countries there is a common sense perception
that fiscal adjustment tends to hurt social policies, either because resources destined to those
areas are likely to decrease or due to a decline in civil servants' productivity as a result of
shrinking wages. Therefore, he concluded before turning the floor to civil society
representatives, he would like to hear from the participants whether they perceived any negative
impact on the provision of social policies.



62
In broad terms, one can summarize civil society main views as follow:
-     Although efforts to invest in social areas have been made, much was left behind
and there is still much more to do;
-     As far as those efforts are concerned, they were mostly focused on basic access to
public services, such as combating famine, providing basic health care and guaranteeing
universal basic schooling. Income-generation, capacity-building and job creation did not receive
as much attention and resources as the country conditions required;
-     The same priority status given to fiscal adjustment and responsibility should have
been also granted to social responsibility.
SOCIEDADE - PASTORAL DA CRIANCA
Civil society representatives Said that the greatest share of the burdens from fiscal
adjustment was borne by municipalities and the private sector. While the former saw, for
instance, the Fiscal Responsibility Law (LRF) as an imposition from the central government, the
latter has suffered from a steady increase in fiscal extraction throughout recent years.
They also pointed out that there is a widespread perception that all fiscal adjustment
policies conducted by the federal government in recent years were primarily destined to comply
with an ever-increasing debt. As expected, civil society representatives did not show much
appreciation for the role that international organizations, specially the World Bank and the IMF,
play in Brazil.
For many of them, it was reported, the overwhelming amount of public resources directed
to debt payment precluded further investments in social areas, with a negative impact on the
provision of social services. The good results in basic schooling and health care notwithstanding,
civil society sees that social areas have carried the burden of Brazil's decision to run into debt.
Participants also criticized the destinations given to resources from loans contracted by
the central government. In their view, only a minor share of that money is invested in social
areas, whereas all the rest goes to debt service. As a result, they emphasized, poorly equipped
hospitals, increasing violence rates and unemployment remain a reality in Brazil.
Recent years have witnessed a significant increase of taxation in Brazil and high interest
rates have prevailed. From around 28% of GDP in 1995 to an estimated 34% of GDP in 2001,
significant amounts of money, specially from families and private businesses, have been
appropriated by the public sector, thus impeding greater investments. This story line presented
by civil society representatives resulted, from their standpoint, in modest economic growth, with
few jobs created. Therefore, income distribution in Brazil has remained one of the worst in the
world, and poverty has increased considerably in the last years.
Even though civil society representatives expressed their concern of the emphasis on
fiscal adjustment and debt payments over the years, they did agree, on the other hand, that the
Fiscal Responsibility Law can turn out to be an important tool for society to better control the



63
uses (and misuses) of public resources. Limits to indebtedness imposed by the law are also seen
as a positive aspect by civil society.
On the other hand, since spending with personnel was further restricted by the LRF, civil
society expressed great concern to the alternatives found by municipal govermnents to hire
employees. In some cases, they are contracting NGOs and under their contracts personnel can be
hired. From the civil society viewpoint, actions like this have even disparaged volunteer work in
Brazil.
Moreover, they said governmental aims become clear when the lack of a nationwide firm
resolve to improve life standards and enhance social service delivery is contrasted to the
emphasis granted to pursuing fiscal adjustment in the last years. They suggested the approval of
a Social Responsibility Law, to be applied to the same extent, and the same emphasis, of a
similar law related to fiscal control.
As for debt payments, civil society representatives reported that they have not failed to
criticize and question the increasing amounts spent over the last years. Although not in favor of
default, they stressed the need to evaluate debt arrangements vis-a-vis the social needs the
country shows.
Following a short break, the meeting resumed, with Ms. Prates addressing participants on
the findings she has come to in a report being written for the World Bank. In general, she said,
the paper she is writing is aimed at assessing whether the fiscal adjustment has had a negative
impact on the quality of public services in Brazil, as one was to expect. Citing the evolution of
budget aggregates, she showed that social spending had not been hurt, although its increase was
slight. Some areas, however, and priority programs within those areas, she remarked, have
indeed witnessed steady resource allocation increases from 1995 through 2000. In addition,
managerial improvements were put in place that helped enhance the efficiency and effectiveness
of social actions. Before closing, she cited the results of a National Assessment of the
Satisfaction of Public Services' Users, which show a high level of satisfaction (up to 70%) with
public services.
Insightful debate followed, on which civil society representatives stated that such high
levels of satisfaction were much more due to the fact that the poorest in the country had no
access to public services whatsoever, thus, when asked how they evaluated them, responses had
nothing to do with quality, but rather with access. Lacking other experiences to compare to
public services, respondents based their appraisal only on the possibility of being rendered any
service.
After a loose debate on whether resources invested in social areas had been effectively
spent, consensus was reached on some issues. For instance, poverty has indeed increased in the
last years, most federal social programs are more compensatory than catalysts for capacity-
building and income-generation, but, on the other hand, do improve life quality for those who are
abte to access such services. Further investments, then, were also said to be necessary.
In an attempt to summarize diverse opinions on the floor at that point, Mr. Matsuda stated
that it was clear, based on figures and facts, that the government has been effective not only in its
efforts towards fiscal adjustment, but also towards protecting social areas. Keeping on that track,



64
while reducing the burden from high indebtedness and maintaining macroeconomic stability,
those are the challenges Brazil has to face ahead.
Mr. Matsuda then restated his question to civil society representatives, asking them once
more if they had seen any major impact of fiscal adjustment on social policies. He said it was not
clear up to that point whether those facts brought up during the meeting were caused by fiscal
adjustment or came from past times.
In sum, they acknowledged investments made in social areas, but indicated that much
more was needed. They also made clear that debt agreements should be evaluated and
reestablished based on more realistic terms, which should not preclude higher economic growth
and great reduction of poverty. Social responsibility, they said, should follow suit to fiscal
adjustment. In case it does not happen, they reaffirmed, the country will still show for a long
time high illiteracy rates, unemployment and low life quality.









IBRD 20444R
(VENEZUELA,,.  60'       (FRER N0                    40'
;'4 iSURINAME\GUIAN
COLOMB I A         P BoaVista
A /A
-0.                   P JOA  A             .rXS-  MaCPA
fl  t\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lo
\t  \~~~~~~~~ 
<S} sr @ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *f & st / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a)io Luis 
\ 'is.'d:-'Dt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-E  'P       gr -l LDrRrE
arM -                                     Soli-6poU_
/.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W
P E R u  U  >.  _ j h} _ r .: ?N  ,  R  T  p .  .j I/a
- P. _   r..o77 " D -  0 4  -, -.,9 SBei1im
-i\ t--o  d | ,*.xr~. '-FO^O  {.  ,, ,,! I  r_i  IJ E. I
2   /     >   c ,   >    av~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uIHEAST H  aT. 
!  !  >_- r ~~~ < \   l-->   }  - ^,.} F  IJl.D- s  _ 4   ' - .2  Forrcrr
.  N      ,,  . 
C                  ~  . v  r \  />uPARAG   AY       L      C- , A< E zCastR3 ;D
!C\ H I L EJ   ~   s   ) *  <       \   J  Bs - r -5ren; R.I da Jore-r;
A.  I     .    .                                  i       'ke  F    % :-F iC DC' r.PrE >
ID.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. r.                               4JaoA
.; THP  1  1'     f      SSUTH3,1    l           B RAZ I L
., EPZI        A                                                     R C' E  N  T  I  PE A  A 
PERu ~ ~ ~~~~~~uGA
, ,,_.2             -  ,         / , 1 ,, J~EL IE,' 4 wlol ... 
1~~~~~~~~ C PJ : W'                       i _i ,1A |-S'> G, Fl S  ., _  eeLe _
I~~~~ .                / . -  : -~.SHESS& |EPet SANTO RUu  f1.G 



