                                                                                         87435
                 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                          International Development Association
                             International Finance Corporation
                        Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency

                                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                      CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                 EDS2000-67
                                                                                March 30, 2000
                                                                                 03:16:55 PM


Statement by Eugene Miagkov
Date of Meeting: March 30, 2000

                Brazil Country Assistance Strategy: Fiscal And Administrative Reform SSAL,
                                       Second Social Security SSAL


We would like to commend the Staff for producing a high quality CAS for Brazil. This
document is remarkable in terms of quality and comprehensiveness as well as process of its
preparation. We especially appreciate the rich analytical background that gives us very useful
insights into the country’s socio-economic conditions, clearly identifies the major challenges to
Brazil’s development agenda and also facilitates the correct positioning of the World Bank
Group as Brazil’s development partner. In this regard we find very valuable to include into the
CAS documents the annexes on Poverty Profile and Trends as well as Private Sector Strategy.
We are also pleased to see that the Bank’s financial assistance to Brazil is integrated into the
country’s economic planning and budgetary processes which is extremely important in terms of
assuring the local ownership of Bank’s programs and their successful implementation. We are
also pleased to note that the CAS matrix contains an assessment of the Bank’s role with respect
to each chosen strategy and specific benchmarks for assessing the Bank’s performance from the
standpoint of its ability to assist the Government with creation of effective and replicable policy
models in critical areas.

We fully support the primary emphasis of CAS on poverty reduction and fiscal adjustment that,
as we understand, is fully consistent with the strategic priorities of the Brazilian Government.
The vigorous efforts of the Government in maintaining macroeconomic equilibrium and fiscal
discipline and implementing difficult structural reforms have created necessary prerequisites for
economic growth as a basis for sustainable poverty reduction. At the same time (as CAS
document and Mr. Portugal’s statement show) the Government of Brazil is fully aware of
unresolved challenges with regard to reducing poverty and inequalities and firmly committed to
the target of decisively reducing poverty in the medium term. As CAS analysis clearly shows,
achieving these ambitious goals requires targeted efforts in the area of social policy as well as
efforts aimed at broadening the bases of growth, infrastructure development, increase in
productivity and strengthening of competitiveness of Brazilian economy as well as improved
environmental management. We believe that the CAS correctly identifies the complexities and
interdependencies in the Brazilian economy and society, adequately identifies the Bank’s
comparative advantages and appropriately sets the selectivity criteria. In this regard we can
support the proposed WBG work program in Brazil as presented in CAS with its emphasis on
targeted poverty reduction. We also welcome the close cooperation between the members of the
WBG which, as we believe, will contribute to enhancing the development effectiveness of the
program.

Subject to our special interest is the Bank’s role in the field of fiscal adjustment in Brazil. Such
issues as social security reforms, state fiscal adjustment, improvement in the quality of public
spending and fiscal institutional reforms will clearly dominate Brazil development agenda in the
future and should be at the center of Bank’s activities in the country. These issues are crucial for
countries with a federative structure in an advanced stage of decentralization. We believe that
lessons learned in Brazil can be disseminated and used in designing the fiscal restructuring
programs for other members. We look forward to seeing the results of a major fiscal study
mentioned on page 35. With respect to the distribution of Bank’s lending between Federal
Government and states we believe that the Bank’s operations should clearly support the Federal
Government’s efforts to improve financial responsibility and discipline among states and thus be
in conformity with the changing federal-state fiscal relations. On the other hand, we believe that
accommodating the CAS regional emphasis on the Northeast region with the high concentration
of poverty with its major focus on promoting fiscal stability and discipline among states can be a
challenge and will require some additional efforts from the Bank and the Government.

We find appropriate the proposed composition of the Bank’s program in terms of lending and
non-lending services. With regard to the lending program breakdown, we believe that in the
context of Brazil the shift toward an increased programmatic lending component is warranted by
the country’s sustained reform efforts. With regard to the lending volumes we believe that in the
context of Brazil the overall lending volume of US$5bln including up to US$3bn investment
lending and regular adjustment lending up to US$2bln is appropriate taking into account the size
of the economy, progress on macroeconomic and structural fronts and potential external financial
requirements.

We recognize that in the short and medium term the external risks will remain substantial and
pose a real threat to Brazil’s adjustment process. Although the country in general has restored its
access to international capital markets the unexpected market turbulence can warrant the
extension of the Bank’s program beyond regular lending program. We see hear a clear link to our
today’s discussion on strengthening the bank’s financial capacity.

The proposed lending triggers are quite clear and correspond to the goals set by the Government.
In the same time, we feel a bit uneasy about the inclusion into triggers list of annual
disbursement benchmark of US$0.5-1.0bln a year that in our view is a quantitative rather than
qualitative criterion. As CAS explains, the slowing down of disbursements was consequence of
Brazil’s adherence to a strict budgetary discipline that can be only commended. The same factor
can warrant some shifts in disbursement schedules in the future. Maybe this trigger can be
applied to the investment component but not to the entire lending program. Otherwise, we
support WBG CAS for Brazil as well as the two proposed SSAL.
