Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 7275 BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED FISCAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE REFORM SPECIAL SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF $505.06 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
March 7, 2000
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Brazil Country Managing Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY UNIT - Real (Rs.$)
US$1 = Rs.$1.77
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ANATEL    National Telecommunications (Agencia Nacional de Telecomunica,oes)
ANEEL       National Electric Energy Agency (Agencia Nacional de Energia Electrica)
BCB         Central Bank of Brazil (Banco Central do Brasil
BIS         Bank of International Settlements
BNDES       National Development Bank (Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento
Econ6mico e Social)
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CEF         Federal Housing Bank (Caixa Economica Federal)
CLT         Private Sector Labor Regime (Consolida,do das Leis TrabaIhistas)
COFINS      Financing Contribution for Social Security (Contribu,ao para o
Financiamento da Seguridade Social)
CPMF        Financial Transactions Tax (Contribu,ao Provisoria de Movimenta,ao
Financeira)
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
IBGE        Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (Instituto Brasileiro de
Geografia e Estatistica)
ICMS        Value Added Tax (Imposto de Circula,do de Mercaderias e Servi,os)
IDB         Interamerican Development Bank
IFI         International Financial Institution
IGP-DI      General Price Index - Domestic Supply (Indice Geral de Pre,os -
Disponibilidade Interna)
IMF         International Monetary Fund
IOF         Financial Operations Tax (Imposto de Operacoes Financeiras)
MF          Ministry of Finance (Ministerio da Fazenda)
PME         Monthly Employment Survey (Pesquisa Mensal de Emprego)
PNAD        National Household Survey (Pesquisa Nacional por Amostra de
Domicilios)
RGPS        General Social security Regime (Regime Geral de Previdencia Social)
RJU         Civil Service Employment Regime (Regime Juridico Unico)
SARE        State Secretariat of Administration and Patrimony (Secretaria de Estado
da Administra,do de Administra,do e do Patrim6nio)
SOE         State-owned Enterprises
S/SECAL    Special Sector Adjustment Loan
STF         Supreme Federal Tribunal (Supremo Tribunal Federal)
Vice President:          David de Ferranti
Director:                Gobind T. Nankani
Lead Economist:          Suman Bery
Task Manager:            Mauricio Carrizosa



FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
States of Brazil
AC  Acre                     PB   Paraiba
AP  Amapa                    PE   Pernambuco
AL   Alagoas                 PI   Piaui
AM  Amazonas                 PR   Parana
BA   Bahia                   RJ   Rio de Janeiro
CE   Ceara                   RN   Rio Grande do Norte
DF  Distrito Federal         RO   Rondonia
ES   Espirito Santo          RS   Rio Grande do Sul
GO  Goias                    RR  Roraima
MA  Maranhao                 SC   Santa Catarina
MG  Minas Gerais             SE   Sergipe
MT  Mato Grosso              SP   Sao Paulo
MS  Mato Grosso do Sul       TO   Tocantins
PA   Para
Tlis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official dufies. Its contents may not othierwise be disclosed without
W'orld Bank authorization.






BRAZIL
ADMINISTRATIVE AND FISCAL REFORM LOAN
Loan and Program Summary
Borrower:                    Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing Agencies:        Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Administration
Poverty Category:            Not Applicable
Amnount:                      US$505.06 Million (including financing of the front-end fee)
Terms:                        Five-year term loan, with three-year grace period, a floating
interest rate equal to 6-month US$ LIBOR plus 400 basis
points.
Commitment Fee:              0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning to
accrue 60 days after signing.
Front-end Fee:                1 percent of the loan amount, to be financed under the loan.
Diescription:                 The operation would support the Government's program to
improve Brazil's fiscal performance in general and the fiscal
performance of the states in particular, with an emphasis on
administrative reform to reduce personnel costs and increase
efficiency.
The Program consists of policy actions to improve fiscal
performance chiefly through reducing the burden of the wage
bill in the federal, state, and municipal governments, as well
as in the Federal District. The actions include introduction
and initiation of the Government's Fiscal Stability Plan,
approval and implementation of laws regulating the 19tl
Amendment to the Constitution (the Administrative Reform),
refinancing of the state's debts, and establishment of a
facility support states undertaking administrative reform.
Benefits and Risks:           The main indicators of success include an increase in the
overall public sector balance, a reduction in net public sector
debt, an increase in primary balances and a reduction in
debt/revenue ratios at the state level, and a reduction in the
level of the personnel expenditures/revenue ratio at the state
levels. Related benefits include reduced real interest rates
and higher growth resulting from improved fiscal
performance, and efficiency gains from reallocating human



resources from the public sector to productive activities in
the private sector, from increased beneficiary participation in
public sector service delivery, from undertaking performance
evaluations of the civil service, and from adopting a
managerial approach in public sector administration.
A first risk is that public sector balance and debt targets may
not be fully attained due to various reasons, including
higher interest rates on the public debt and successful
domestic pressures for additional expenditures. This risk is
mitigated by the expectation, based on the Government's
policy performance record, that any possible deviation from
attaining public sector balance and debt targets is likely to
trigger additional actions by the Government. Second, there
is the risk that recession prevents a smooth transition of
dismissed public employees to private employment,
generating some social costs. This risk is mitigated by
ongoing economic recovery, expected indemnities to
dismissed workers, and limited likelihood of dismissal of
distressed employees. Third, there is the risk that debt
agreements with the states weaken due to political pressure
from sub-national governments. This is mitigated by the
Government's strong commitment and need to enforce the
principle that states must pay their debts to ensure fiscal
sustainability.
Financing Plan:               Not Applicable
Net Present Value:            Not Applicable
Project Identification Number:  BR-PE-P063341
This report is based on the findings of Bank missions headed by Mauricio Carrizosa (task
manager, LCSPR) that visited Brasilia and several states during the period 1998-2000. Inputs to
the report were provided by Indermit Gill (LCSHD); Joachim von Amsberg (LCC5C); Alberto
Chong (DECRG); Francisco Cameiro (consultant), Francisco Pereira (consultant), and Anne
Pillay.



FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
PROPOSED FISCAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE REFORM SPECIAL
SECTORAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table of Contents
1. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS                                     1
MACROECONOMIC PERFORMANCE AND POLICIES                               1
POVERTY REDUCTION                                                   2
2. THE FISCAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE REFORM PROGRAM                     5
FISCAL REFORM ISSUES                                                5
ADMINISTRATIVE REFORM ISSUES                                        7
THE REFORM AGENDA.                                                  9
EXPECTED IMPACT OF THE REFORM PROGRAM                               21
SUSTAINABILITY OF THE REFORMS                                       28
3. THIE PROPOSED LOAN                                               30
BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY                                            30
PROGRAM OBJECTIVE                                                   30
PROGRAM DESCRIPTION                                                 31
DESCRIPTION OF FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE                                 32
PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION                              34
DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING                                           34
PROGRAM BENEFITS                                                    35
LESSONS LEARNED                                                     35
RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION PROVISIONS                                36
4. RECOMMENDATION                                                   38
5. ANNEXES                                                          39
ANNEX 1: LETTER OF SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY                        40
ANNEX 2: ACTIONS PRIOR TO BOARD PRESENTATION                        47
ANNEX 3: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                    49
ANNEX 4: KEY EXPOSURE INDICATORS                                    51
ANNEX 5: STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS                            52
ANNEX 6: STATEMENT OF IFC'S HELD AND DISBURSED PORTFOLIO            54
ANNEX 7: IFC: APPROVALS PENDING COMMITMENT                          57
ANNEX 8: BRAZIL AT A GLANCE                                         58






MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED SPECIAL SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT LOAN TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL FOR
BRAZIL'S FISCAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE REFORM PROGRAM
1.   This report proposes a special sector adjustment operation, in the amount of
US$505.06 million (including front-end fee), to support a Fiscal and Administrative
Reform Program in Brazil. This is the first of an expected program of two adjustment
operations in support of Brazil's fiscal and administrative reforms. The operations are
part of a proposed Bank package of adjustment loans totaling $2.5 billion that also
supports reform in the areas of social security and social protection expenditures. The
first loans in the latter two areas were approved in January 1999. The Bank package is an
integral part of a broader support initiative by the IFIs, including the IMF and the IDB,
together with selected bilateral governments, directly and through the BIS to help Brazil
meet its external financing requirements in support of key structural and social reforms.
2.   The objective of the Program is to improve Brazil's fiscal performance in general
and the fiscal performance of the states in particular, with an emphasis on administrative
reform to reduce personnel costs and increase their efficiency. The first loan supports
measures and actions that have already enacted and are being implemented, including
Brazil's Fiscal Stability Program, the State Debt Refinancing Law, the State Debt
refinancing agreements, the Sub-national Public Indebtedness Regime, and
Administrative Reform. The expected outcomes from these measures and actions include
an increase in the overall public sector fiscal balance and a reduction in the ratio of public
sector net debt to GDP; an increase in the aggregate fiscal surplus at the state level; a
reduction in the ratio of personnel expenditures to net current revenues at all levels; a
reduction in the ratio of state debt to net state revenues; and additional privatization at the
state level. The second loan would support additional measures to be enacted, including
Brazil's new fiscal code (the Fiscal Responsibility Law) and a pending bill that will
complete the regulation of Administrative Reform.
1. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
MACROECONOMIC PERFORMANCE AND POLICIES
3.    Since the early 1990s, Brazil has been engaged in a major reform of its economy,
moving away from import substitution and state-owned enterprises towards greater
emphasis on private initiative, competition and international integration. Considerable
progress has been made in controlling inflation and creating an improve economic
environment for private enterprise, fiscal adjustment and reform of the public sector.
From 1992 to 1997 Brazil experienced a very successful growth performance. Annual
growth averaged 4.2%, a major improvement over the average for the previous five-year
period (0.0%). Factors contributing to this positive outcome include a trade liberalization



2
during the early 1 990s and a well-designed and implemented economic stabilization
program initiated in mid-1 994 (the Real Plan), together with a favorable international
economic environment. By contrast, the last two and a half years (mid- 1997 to end- 1999)
have seen a much more volatile international economic environment with a series of
crises in international markets. These crises adversely affected growth in Latin America
and Brazil was no exception. The average rate of growth during 1998-99 was only 0.3%,
but by the end of 1999, recovery of industrial output was firmly established.
4.   As a result of the stabilization plan introduced in 1994, annual inflation declined
from over 2000% in 1993 to less than 2% in 1998. Even the large currency depreciation
of January 1999 had a fairly limited small pass-through impact on inflation. Inflation in
1999 was contained to about 20% on broad price indices and 8% on consumer price
indices. This was the result of sluggish aggregate demand and continued monetary tight
ness. Following the change in the exchange rate regime in 1999, from a crawling band to
a floating rate, Brazil introduced a sophisticated inflation targeting framework. Targets
were set at 8%, 6% and 4% respectively for 1999-2000, with a margin on each side of
two percentage points. With an improved fiscal framework (see para. 14 ) and assuming
an absence of external shocks, the inflation targets for 2000-01 are realistic. The inflation
targets provide the anchor for monetary policy.
5.    Policy performance has also improved substantially. As early as 1995, the
Government attempted to address the structural fiscal deficit unmasked by price stability.
However, lack of legislative consensus meant that fiscal adjustment lagged behind other
parts of the economic reform program. As a result, Brazil has been dependent on large
capital inflows. This dependence coupled with the prevailing exchange rate regime
implied vulnerability to sentiments in international markets. The Government responded
competently and effectively to the loss of market confidence in late-1 998 and early-1 999
with a combination of tightened monetary policy and fast-acting fiscal adjustment
measures coupled with a new drive for structural fiscal reforms. Throughout 1999, fiscal
adjustment has been carried out with tremendous effort and remarkable discipline and has
achieved the ambitious targets that were set. These measures, taken together with the
shift to a floating exchange rate in January 1999 have been successful in preserving
economic stability and regaining market confidence. Provided the external environment
remains benign, Brazil can look forward to a return to steady, non-inflationary growth.
Brazil's remaining economic vulnerability results from its continuing, though declining,
fiscal and current account deficits. As fiscal deficits are closely correlated with current
account deficits, fiscal adjustment at both national and sub-national levels are critical for
reducing vulnerability and restoring growth.
POVERTY REDUCTION
6.    Following a period of increasing poverty from 1987-1994, the Real Plan
significantly reduced poverty levels during the period 1994-1998. The national headcount
ratio (using a poverty line of R$65 per capita per month at 1996 prices) declined from



3
34% in 1993 to 22% in 19981. This beneficial effect was due to: (i) economic growth and
rising real wages; (ii) the end of inflation (salary erosion and inflation tax); (iii) a
significant appreciation of the local currency shifting relative prices toward the service
sectors in which most poor work; and (iv) a significant increase in the minimum wage to
which important income sources, such as pensions, are tied. Despite these advances,
Brazil continues to be a country with high income inequality and a high level of poverty
for its level of per-capita income. The average 1998 headcount ratio of 21.7% masks
important regional differences, with regional headcount ratios ranging from 8.5% in the
South East to 47.3 in the North-East.
7.    The succession of economic crises since 1997 has affected the poor mainly
through reduced labor demand and the resulting reduction in employment and/or real
wages. Nevertheless, since economic performance in 1999 has been much better than
feared at the time of the devaluation in early 1999, the negative poverty impact of the
crisis has also been much less severe than expected. According to available
measurements of labor incomes 2, the headcount poverty rate in six metropolitan areas
dropped from a peak of 35.3% in July 1994 to a low of 24.6% in October 1997. The rate
increased continuously from November 1997 until March 1999, when it reached 30.0%.
The latest data through September 1999 shows a slight improvement in poverty rates
indicating a reversal in the negative crisis impact. Country-wide indicators show a trend
of slowly reducing labor income inequality continuing through 1998. The rate of open
unemployment reached a high of 8.2% in March 1999 but since then has declined again
to 6.3% (December 1999).
8.    Government support for the poor during the difficult 1998-99 period has been
increasingly effective. Supported by the Bank's Social Protection S/SECAL and a parallel
operation by the IDB, the Federal Government has effectively protected the expenditures
for a core set of 22 selected priority social programs in the areas of education, health,
labor, and social assistance, considered to be particularly effective in reaching the poor.
Despite the drastic overall cuts in the 1999 budget, allocations for these programs
(totaling about R$12 billion) were protected near or above their 1998 levels. Total actual
spending for these protected programs in 1999 has slighly exceeded the Government
commitments. The Government's budget proposal for 2000 implies an increase in funding
for the total of the 22 programs of 20% over the 1999 budget proposal and 12% over the
approved 1999 budget, including very significant increases for relatively new and
promising programs that link transfer payments to poor families to children's school
attendance (Child Labor Eradication Program, and Bolsa Escola). Subnational
Governments have also contributed to social protection in the crisis period, for example
through workfare programs implemented by several states and municipalities. At the
same time, the Federal Government is proceeding with a program to improve the quality
and targeting of spending in the social area. The remaining second and third tranches of
1    Poverty data here come from a forthcoming urban poverty report based on the 1998 PNAD
household survey and a food-only poverty line.
2    Data from the Monthly Employment Survey, PME, undertaken by IBGE. This survey most likely
exaggerates the negative impact of the crisis since it is limited to six metropolitan areas (most likely the
hardest hit areas) and excludes income from transfer programs which would have compensated for some of
the loss of labor income.



4
the IDB's Social Protection Loan are linked to physical performance indicators of the
protected programs and a program of studies and steps to improve targeting and quality
of these programs. In addition, the Bank would follow with particular interest the
strengthening of the implementation framework (monitoring and evaluation, technical
assistance, training, and capacity building for participating municipalities, etc.) for the
transfer programs linked to school attendance discussed above.
9.    Increased public and political attention toward poverty problems, together with
policy reforms undertaken in recent years, strongly suggest an improved outlook for
Brazil's poor. The remarkable rise of poverty reduction into the top of Brazil's agenda of
public debate (over the last year in particular), is reflected in congressional initiative to
formulate concrete proposals for additional poverty reduction efforts and by a proposal to
create a new Poverty Alleviation Fund that has the Government's support and is currently
being debated in Congress. Structural reforms of the economy have laid the groundwork
for economic stability that would protect the poor from income fluctuations related to
failed stabilization attempts. The impact of renewed growth on poverty reduction, though
gradual, will be important. The major drive for improved education access and quality is
still recent but will yield significant poverty reduction results in the medium term. The
impact of other structural social policies including land reform, urban upgrading,
professional training, labor market reforms, and others, is difficult to quantify but
qualitatively important and expected to continue, including the social assistance
component of Social Security (which is protected under the Social Security Reform being
supported by the Bank). The poverty reducing impact of transfer programs has been large
in recent years and is also expected to continue, especially if measures for better targeting
are successfully implemented. The Government's stated goal is to reduce the poverty rate
by 50% by the year 2015. This target could be accomplished with annual average growth
of 3.5%, with the joint effect of other structural social policies and improved social
protection, and if recent improvements in outcomes from educational policies continue.3
3A detailed discussion is provided in the CAS.



5
2. THE FISCAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE REFORM
PROGRAM
10.   The proposed operation has been designed to support improvements the fiscal
performance of Brazil's public sector. Improved fiscal performance is closely linked to
administrative reform: increased efficiency in the delivery of public sector services is
regarded as one of the key components of fiscal adjustment. This is particularly so with
regard to most sub-national administrations, where personnel costs (wages and
retirement/survivorship benefits) have become unduly high with respect to revenues. An
adjustment of these costs through administrative and social security reforms is a
requirement for improving Brazil's sub-national and overall fiscal performance. The
proposed loan supports policies for federalfiscal adjustment as well as federal policy
incentives for sub-nationalfiscal adjustment, particularly through administrative reform.
FISCAL REFORM ISSUES
11.   Fiscal Imbalance. At present, fiscal adjustment is Brazil's most challenging
macroeconomic policy issue. Brazil's public sector borrowing requirement in 1998,
which amounted to 8 percent of GDP, increased the debt/GDP ratio from 34.4 to about 42
percent of GDP (Chart 1). The inadequate fiscal performance contributed to the
considerable amount of turbulence that Brazil's financial and foreign exchange markets
suffered in the aftermath of the Asia crisis in October 1997. Faltering confidence in the
crawling exchange rate band coupled with policy-led declines in interest rates (from
43.3% in November 1997 to 19.2% in August 1998, prior to the Russia crisis4) led to a
decline in liquid international reserves from the exceptional peak of $73.8 billion attained
in April to a more normal level of $40.3 billion in November of 1998. In late 1998, the
Government introduced a Fiscal Stability Program, supported by the IMF. Reserve losses
led to a change in the exchange rate system in January 1999, from the crawling exchange
rate band introduced at the onset of the Real plan to a floating rate. The resulting 64%
devaluation (from R$1.21 to R1.98 to the dollar) raised the debt/GDP ratio to about 52%
in January 1999, reflecting the dollar-denominated and dollar-indexed federal debt
(which comprised about 28% of total debt in late 1998). Furthermore, the Government
raised interest rates again to defend the currency, to 45% by February 1999, making fiscal
adjustment even more difficult and discouraging growth. The January 1999 devaluation
occurred as confidence faltered in the aftermath of a debt moratorium declared by one of
the major states in Brazil, underscoring the fragile state of sub-national finances in Brazil.
Conditions improved following the announcement of a revised agreement with the IMF
that introduced a stronger fiscal adjustment program. Since January 1999, the exchange
rate has ranged from about 1.7 to 2.1 (the rate at the end of February 2000 was 1.77),
overnight rates have returned to a level below 20 percent p.a., net public debt had
declined to 47% of GDP by end-99, and GDP growth in 1999 was about 0.8%, much
better than the -4.0 percent predicted at the beginning of the year. In November, 1999 the
IMF Board approved the fourth review under the Stand-by arrangement.
4 Over-Selic Rate



6
12.   Incentives on Expenditures. Much of the inadequate fiscal performance
originated in excessive incentives for public expenditures, including un-funded
constitutional mandates (e.g., universal access to health care) and decentralization of
revenues (but not of responsibilities5). On the expenditure side, the main structural
problems have been:
* expenditure rigidities: the limited scope for expenditure policy, as most expenditure is
predetermined by constitutional or legal provisions, including constitutional transfers,
constitutional social security benefits, health expenditures, and many others (it is
estimated that the federal government has control over only 10 percent of its budget);
* a lack offiscal balance targets: budgets are mainly driven by expenditure mandates
and not by fiscal balance objectives; and
* weak sub-national budget constraints: weakness of the budget constraints that have
been faced by sub-national governments, leading to excessive expenditures at the sub-
national level.
Some progress has been achieved in addressing expenditure rigidities, including a 20%
reduction in earmarking and an increased ability to reduce excessive public employment
The lack of fiscal balance targets is being achieved by the Government's Fiscal Stability
Plan and, more systematically, by the new fiscal code that is presently being discussed by
Congress, the Fiscal Responsibility Law. The Fiscal Responsibility Law will also
strengthen budget constraints at all levels. Reforms to strengthen the sub-national budget
constrain are discussed in the next section. The main structural reforns with a bearing on
public expenditures, including the Fiscal Responsibility Law and Social Security
Reforms are discussed in the next section.
Chart 1- Brazil Net Debt1GDP: 1974-1999
° 30.0%
E 0.0h_                             *     __*l
1 20.0%
IL 30.0%
10.0%/
O~~~~ -              D -   -   -     -   -                       
C   3..   CD      cD    2 0  , >            g                        X m288jD88Ea8r  
u    o PGoP oi lo
13.    Sub-national Finances. Until 1998, states financed their excess expenditures
through increasing debt levels.6 As a result, many states have unduly high levels of debt
in relation to their revenues. Their primary balances have been inadequate to contain
5 See Rigolon, Francisco and Giambiagi, Fabio, "A Renegocia9do das Dividas e o Regime Fiscal dos
Estados", BNDES, Textos para Discuss&o, No. 69, 1999 (July).
6It is argued that sub-national govermments in Brazil have not faced a sufficiently hard budget constraint
due to existing political incentives. An analysis of the impact of political incentives on sub-national fiscal
disequilibrium is found in Mendes, Marcos Jose, "Incentivos Electorais e Desequilibrio Fiscal de Estados e
Minicipios", Instituto Femand Braudel de Economia Mundial (1999).



7
those debt levels. As of September 1999, state gross debt/revenue ratios exceeded 2.0
for 12 of the 27 states and exceeded 1.0 for 21 of the 27 states. In 1999 (January-
November) the primary surplus for the 27 states was 3.5% of net disposable current
revenues. While this is an improvement over 1998, when states had a deficit of 6. 1% of
their net disposable revenues, the present surplus is still insufficient to reduce the ratio of
debt to revenues. With normal parameters (e.g., 6.6% real interest rate, 4% real growth in
revenues, and a debt/revenue ratio of 2.2), the minimum primary balance required to
reduce debt would be above 5.5% of current revenues. A larger real interest rate (brought
about, for example, by indexation exceeding general inflation) or sluggish revenue
growth would raise these requirements, as they did in 1999. The required surpluses will
be higher than the likely 1999 surplus. To achieve higher surpluses, many states will
need to deepen control of personnel costs, which are critical for successful adjustment.
The major focus of the Program is on reversing the overallfiscal performance of the
states by encouraging and assisting in their fiscal adjustment and in administrative
reforms.
14.  The Government's Approach to Fiscal Reform. The authorities regard fiscal
reform as a central component of the Government's program, with a bearing on
confidence, growth and public sector efficiency. In 1998, the Government introduced a
Fiscal Stability Program to improve Brazil's fiscal performance (the primary balance),
reduce public sector debt to more comfortable levels and reduce real interest rates. Lower
public debt and interest rates will improve confidence and encourage growth. Under the
Government's program, supported by the IMF, the specific aim is to bring down debt to
46.5% of GDP by the year 2001 through public sector primary surpluses exceeding 3% of
GDP. In 1999, the programmed surplus of 3.1% was comfortably met. The authorities
expect to continue obtaining the programmed surpluses chiefly through measures that
have been enacted to raise federal taxes and to control federal expenditures and through
debt refinancing agreements to encourage fiscal adjustment at the sub-national level.
However, the Government has for long realized that, over the longer tern, sustained fiscal
policy improvements require deeper structural changes in fiscal institutions, taxes,
intergovernmental relationships, public administration, and social security. These changes
will contribute to sustain fiscal adjustment and enhance public sector efficiency. They are
part of the Government's far-reaching public sector reform agenda discussed further
below.
ADMINISTRATIVE REFORM ISSUES
15.   Public Administration. Brazil's public sector administration and service delivery
has been affected by a number of factors that can be summarized as follows:
*  Bureaucratic Public Administration: Brazil's public sector, as in many other
countries, has suffered from a excessive reliance on procedures. The bureaucratic
approach to public administration is being addressed through Administrative Reform,
which places an increased focus on management and outcomes.
*  Public Enterprises: The bureaucratic approach to administration led to rigidities on
public enterprises, which had to follow the same procedures adopted by the central



8
government (e.g., rules of government procurement were extended to public
enterprises). The poor performance of public enterprises is being addressed through
the Government's aggressive privatization program (para. 43).
Mandatory tenure for civil servants. The 1988 Constitution made it mandatory for
the public sector to hire with tenure. This has made it difficult for Governments at all
levels to address labor redundancies and to adopt more effective managerial
approaches. Administrative Reform has abolished mandatory tenure for the civil
service (paras. 33-36).
* Decentralization: Although decentralization is expected to have a positive effect on
public sector efficiency and service delivery, the experience thus far in sectors such as
health and education is mixed, with much progress still to be made. To fully reap the
benefits of decentralization, administrative reform needs to reach the sub-national
level.
16.    Brazil's Approach to Administrative Reform. The Government's approach to
administrative reform, as in several other parts of the world, is that the public sector
should move from a bureaucratic state to a managerial state7. This shift implies a
rethinking of the role of the private sector and of public sector administrative and
institutional approaches. The changes are based on a classification of state activities into
four sectors: strategic core8, which defines law and policies and ultimately ensures their
enforcement; exclusive activities9, which guarantee that laws and policies are followed
and financed; excludable services'(, which are provided both by the public and private
sectors; and production of goods by public commercial enterprises. Privatization of the
later is viewed as a major action to achieve efficiency. Increased private sector
involvement in excludable services is also seen as having a positive impact on efficiency
and service delivery. Hence, Brazil has adopted privatization and other forms of private
sector involvement as major policies with regard to these state activities.
17.    The scope of privatization being limited to SOEs and, less so, to the so-called
excludable service sector (e.g., health services), public sectors normally have an interest
in direct management of a share of excludable services and dominate the strategic core
and the exclusive activities' . It is particularly in regard to these services and activities
that the proposed managerial approach entails an effort to have public administration
focus more on the outputs or outcomes of the public sector and on its clients --the
citizenry -- rather than exclusively on procedures. This requires a new administrative and
institutional approach, largely inspired by public sector reforms that took place in Britain,
New Zealand, Australia, and Sweden. Basic instruments to achieve it include
7This approach is well described by the views developed by former Administration Minister Luiz Carlos
Bresser Pereira. See, Bresser Pereira, Luiz Carlos, "Managerial Public Administration: Strategy and
Structure for a New State", in Journal of Keynesian Economics", Fall 1997, Vol. 20(1), pp. 7-23.
a Includes parliament, the courts, the presidency, and ministers, as well as the corresponding local
authorities in a federal system.
9 Includes the armed forces, the police, tax collection, regulatory agencies, and the agencies that finance
and control social services, including social security.
'0 Includes education, health, culture, and research.
1l One may note, nevertheless that the private sector has a limited role in these activities, including self-
regulation and private protection.



9
decentralization, delegation of authority and responsibility (i.e., management contracts),
and control of achievement of results. Even in the case of core services, where procedural
characteristics remain important, a focus on service delivery is to be enhanced by
stronger civil servants (i.e., competent and well-paid). In exclusive activities,
decentralization, delegation, and monitoring become paramount. In excludable activities,
autonomy, with civil society playing a role in their control, must be added. Brazil's
Administrative Reform contemplates institutional instruments to enhance the focus of
exclusive and excludable activities on management and outcomes. The reform will also
encourages efficiency by permitting the dismissal of employees that perform
inadequately.
18.   Brazil's Administrative Reform also seeks to assist fiscal adjustment through
containment of personnel expenditures. Brazil is today in a "cutback management" phase,
where public spending cuts, including cuts in personnel spending, and improved
efficiency are required to meet fiscal constraints in an economy where the tax burden
already appears too high. The Administrative Reform serves this aim by allowing
dismissal of civil servants when personnel expenditures are excessive.
THE REFORM AGENDA.
19.   Based on the approaches described above, the Government has developed and is
implementing a Fiscal and Administrative Reform agenda that can be classified into the
following key components:
* Public Sector Fiscal Reform, as contained in the Government's Fiscal Stability
Program and in Fundamental Structural Reforms with a Fiscal Impact;
* State Fiscal Reform, as provided in the State Debt Refinancing Law and the State
Debt Refinancing Agreements;
-  Administrative Reform, as established by a 1998 reform to civil service and
institutional provisions in the Constitution and by the regulation of those provisions;
*  Privatization, as implemented through the National Privatization Plan.
20.   Figure 1 links these reforms to expected outcomes. Public sector fiscal reform is
expected to increase the overall primary balance of the public sector and reduce the
burden of public sector debt. State Fiscal Reform is designed to encourage fiscal
adjustment at the state level. Administrative Reform is expected to facilitate fiscal
adjustment through reductions in personnel expenditures and to improve public sector
efficiency. The following paragraphs discuss the reforms.
21.   Public Sector Fiscal Adjustment Under the Government's Fiscal Stability
Program, the planned surpluses for 1999-2001 are 3.10%, 3.25%, and 3.35% of GDP. In
1999, the authorities exceeded the target by attaining a public sector surplus of 3.13% of
GDP. To achieve the targets, the authorities are undertaking short term fiscal measures as
well as implementing reforms to address structural sources of the fiscal deficit, including
tax reform, the fiscal code, social security reform, and sub-national finance. As discussed
before, the Government's objective is to reduce the public sector's debt/GDP ratio to



10
Figure 1: Relationship Between Policy Measures and Outcomes
POLICY MEASURES                               OUTCOMES
1~~~lb v.4 A                                              lb
84
~~  4~ ~



11
around 46.5% by the end of the year 2001, with the expectation that a sustainable stable
or declining ratio will help Brazil withstand external shocks with less disruption of the
domestic economy and that fiscal stability will help improve confidence, reduce real
interest rates, and encourage growth.
22.    Short Term Fiscal Measures. The short term fiscal measures that are being
undertaken comprise actions to both reduce expenditures and raise revenues during 1999-
2001. The short terrn fiscal measures were announced first in October 1998, in the
aftermath of the Russia crisis, and second, in March, in the aftermath of the chanRe in the
exchanpe rate system. Measures to increase revenues included increases in taxes and oil
prices , collection of previously accrued taxes (including a vigorous defense against
judicial challenges to some taxes). In 1999, these measures increased the tax/GDP ratio to
31% of GDP. Measures to contain expenditures cover lower wage adjustments,
suspended hiring and promotions, and cuts in non-labor costs and investments.
23.    Tax Reform. The authorities are also aiming at longer term measures to improve
the level and quality of fiscal outcomes. Fiscal performance has been undermined both by
the inefficiency of the tax system and by rigidities in the control of expenditures. The tax
system relies on taxes that are clearly distortionary in that their non-neutral tax rates and
cascading effects make for widely differential impacts across economic activities. Many
of the cascading taxes at the federal level were enacted chiefly to help meet federal
expenditure commitments. This required containing the amount of constitutional transfers
to the sub-national governments, which would have occurred by raising, for example, the
less distorsionary income tax. The Government is thus presently working with Congress
on a tax reform that will seek to modify taxes and tax assignment to arrive at a simpler
and more efficient tax system based on the income tax, a value added tax, and sales tax
on key high-yield goods and services, with reduced cascading of taxes and reduced
incentives for predatory tax competition among states. The tax reform will be
complemented by a reform of the fiscal code discussed further below that aims at
strengthening fiscal responsibility at all government levels.
24.    The Fiscal Responsibility Bill. Moreover, Congress is presently considering a new
fiscal code (Law of Fiscal Responsibility, already approved by Brazil's House of
Deputies) that will seek to further strengthen fiscal discipline at the federal and sub-
national level, including the mandatory establishment of fiscal targets. The new proposed
12 The CPMF, a tax on checking account debits, was increased from 0.2% to 0.38% (after being suspended
form January to June). The COFINS, a business tax on gross receipts, was increased from 2% to 3%, and
extended to the financial and infrastructure sectors (telecommunications, petroleum, electric energy and
mining). The IOF, a tax levied at various rates on loans and other financial operations, was extended to
investments in investment funds, and the tax rate on loans was raised by 0.38 percentage points temporarily
(from January to June) while the CPMF was suspended . The withheld income tax on investment income
was extended to cover income from hedging through swap operations.
13 The authorities increased oil prices by an average exceeding 60%. This improved government income
from the difference between domestic oil product prices and prices of oil imports (the petroleum account),
which had deteriorated as a result of rising international oil prices.



12
fiscal code will regulate Article 163 of the Constitution'4. The highlights of this complex
code are:
*     Fiscal Planning and Fiscal Targets: All Governments will need to determine and
implement fiscal targets with regard to debt, deficits, receipts, and expenditures.
The planning and implementation for these targets is formalized throughout the
three stages of the budget cycle: the four-year multi-annual plans, the yearly
budget directives laws, and the yearly budget laws;
*     Tax collections: Governments are responsible for establishing, projecting, and
collecting assigned taxes in a consistent fashion and to ensure that tax expenditures
or subsidies be consistent with established fiscal targets;
*     Expenditures: Governments are prohibited from undertaking a level of
expenditures that is inconsistent with fiscal targets;
*     Personnel Expenditures: Limits are set for personnel expenditures and for their
distribution across government branches;
*     Public Debt: Senate and Congress are responsible for setting limits, respectively,
on the consolidated public sector and the federal bonded debt.;
?     Privatization Proceeds: Governments cannot use privatization proceeds for
financing current expenditures;
*     Disclosure, Reporting, Enforcement and Control: Law sets obligations with regard
to ample disclosure to the public, accounting, reporting, and review.
*     Penalties: the law restricts transfers and credit to Governments incurring in various
events of non-compliance. A separate law will also establish penalties that will
apply to officials that do not comply with the provisions of the code.
Under this law, states would have stronger institutional constraints on expenditures.
Therefore approval of this bill is likely to increase the incentive to improve fiscal
performance in general and meet legal debt and personnel expenditure limits in
particular. The bill is presently being considered for final approval by the Senate.
25.    Social Security Reform. Social security reform seeks to reduce imbalances
between contributions and benefits for both public sector and private sector retirees. The
1988 Constitution established a 100% replacement rate rule for the (i.e., retirees earn at
least their last salary) on retirement benefits for the civil service (RJUI15), with no
effective provision for actuarial balance. Social security reforms have started to address
this difficult issue. In social security reform, the expected sources of improved financial
balance are:
* Increased contribution time and reduced retirement time due to (i) gradual
introduction of a minimum required period of contribution prior to retirement (in lieu
of time of service in both the RGPS and the RJU); (ii) longer time in service (in the
14 Article 163 of the Constitution provides for the issuance of a law regulating public finance, debt,
guarantees, bonds, surveillance of financial institutions, and exchange rate operations.
5 The federal social security system is comprised by (i) the Regime Geral de Previdencia Social (RGPS),
for private and public employees hired under private sector labor legislation and (ii) by the Regime Juridico
Unico (RJU), for the tenured civil service.



13
RJU) through minimum tenure (10 years in Government service, 5 years in the
current position) and minimum retirement age (53/48 for men/women with gradual
increase to 60/55, only for the RJU); (iii) elimination of most special pension
regimes;
* Reduced pension benefits or higher effective contributions/tax collection through (i)
new benefit formula for the RGPS which adjusts benefits to time of contribution and
life expectancy at time of retirement, with a monthly benefit ceiling of R$ 1255; (ii)
introduction of ceilings on RJU pension benefits equal to highest civil service salary
permitted; (iii) increased and progressive contribution rates and coverage (extension
to retirees in the RJU) through possible constitutional reform;'6 (iv) extension of
income tax on pension and survivor benefits to persons over 65 years old (RJU and
RGPS); (v) expansion of contribution obligation to all work related earnings (RGPS);
(vi) elimination of multiple pensions or simultaneous pensions and salaries (RJU);
(vii) obligation to raise contributions when the difference between benefits and
contributions or when the ratio of employer to employee contributions exceed given
limits (General Public Pension Law).
While these changes will reduce the path of deficits in the RGPS and RJU, social security
benefits remain too high to be financed only from contributions. Further reforms,
including a removal of the RJU benefit fornula from the Constitution remain a prime
requirement to attain financial balance in Brazil's social security system. A possible
constitutional reform (the Hanly Amendment) being considered by Congress would make
it mandatory for the public sector to hire new workers under the RGPS, thereby lowering
the retirement benefit cost of the flow of new entrants to the public sector. Existing
employees would continue to benefit from RJU retirement benefits. The companion
report on a Proposed Second Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan provides a
more detailed discussion of social security issues.
26.    Reform of State Finances. Brazil has already put in force debt refinancing
provisions, debt agreements with the states, and indebtedness regulations that have
strengthened the financial constraints faced by sub-national governments. These are:
* Law 9496 of 1998, which provides debt relief to the states subject to compliance
with fiscal targets (with regard to the primary surplus, debt, revenues, personnel
expenditures, investment expenditures and privatizations) and enforces debt
agreements through access to constitutional transfers as well as the states' own
revenues17.Debt agreements with 25 states have been signed. The Government is now
seeking to achieve similar agreements with indebted municipalities;
16 Introduction of these changes by law last year was rejected by the Supreme Court. The Government
submitted a new draft Constitutional Amendment to permit the changes, now under consideration by
Congress.
17 State bonded and contractual debts have been renegotiated under very favorable financial terms that
included rescheduling to a 30 year term, a real interest rate of 6 percent, and a cap on the debt
service/revenue ratio of about 11-13 percent. The agreed interest rate is much lower than current real
market interest rate, which exceeds 15 percent. Nevertheless, the agreements guaranteed collection of



14
*  Senate Resolution 78/98, which places fiscal and financial prerequisites and limits
for submission or Senate approval of new state debts; and
*  Complementary Law 96 of 1999, which suspends federal grants and disallows
federal loan guarantees and loans from federal financial institutions to those states or
municipal Governments that do not meet personnel expenditure limits established by
this law.
Establishing and enforcing these provisions will strengthen intergovernmental financial
relations in Brazil. Coupled with the strong Government commitment to stronger overall
fiscal performance, the debt agreements and indebtedness constraints are likely to revert
the recent trend toward ever larger sub-national debts. The agreements provide a partial
new debt reduction (in that the present value of the rescheduling is below its face value)
in recognition of the states' financial distress at the accumulated debt levels. But more
importantly, the agreements re-establish the principle that states should service their debt,
leading to an interruption of the indefinite accumulation of debts that led them to
insolvency.
27.    The Government expects that the debt agreements, together with constraints and
prohibitions on other sources of indebtedness, will finally force states into fiscal
responsibility. States are facing a menu of options in undertaking fiscal adjustment to
increase primary surpluses and reduce debts. This menu could include: i) reduction of tax
(ICMS) evasion; ii) reduction of subsidies; iii) raising social security contributions; iv)
privatizing/concessioning enterprises/public services v) containment of investments; vi)
containment of non-labor costs; vii) reduction of special wage benefits; viii) reduction of
temporary labor contracts; ix) audit/re-negotiation of service contracts; x) introduction of
new voluntary departure programs; xi) dismissals under the new administrative reform;
xii) placement of some employees under partially paid mandatory leave; xiii) dismissal of
non-tenured employees; xiv) elimination of existing vacancies; xv) establishment of a
binding salary ceiling; xvi) establishment of a sustainable pension benefit financing
scheme. The guaranteed debt collection andfinancing constraints comprise the basic
policy incentive that is presently expected to encourage sub-nationalfiscal adjustment.
28.   Administrative reform, discussed in detail below, will also have a fiscal impact.
The sources of fiscal savings stemming from the reform are:
* the obligation to reduce personnel expenditures to a maximum limit established by
Law;
* the ability to dismiss employees when personnel costs become excessive; and
scheduled repayments through access to the portion of revenues that are constitutionally shared with the
states as well as with the states' own revenues. This implies that states now have to pay more than before
the agreements. Before the agreements, the accrued debt service was higher, but states could always
capitalize debt by not paying, without fear of a punitive remedy. Today, the federal government is applying
this remedy to states that do not meet their debt obligations and sates are current on their debt service
obligations.



15
the ability to hire under the private sector labor regime, where social security benefit
provisions are much less onerous and where the ability to reduce redundant
employment is available.
29.   Administrative Reform. Administrative (institutional and civil service) reform
aims at reducing the burden of the wage bill on public sector expenditures and to improve
the efficiency in the delivery of public services. The Administrative Reform is chiefly
based on Constitutional Amendment 19, issued on June 4, 1998, which modified key
constitutional provisions on the civil service. The key changes in the civil service regime
included enforceable maximum limits on personnel expenditures, the abolishment of
permanent tenure for existing and new civil servants, and introduction of provisions for
reducing public sector employment when personnel expenditures are excessive or when
employee performance is inadequate. Regulation by law of these constitutional changes
is almost complete. They will allow Brazil's public sector to bring down the fiscal burden
of the wage bill. The following paragraphs discuss these laws as well as other reforms
(privatization, institutional reform, and public sector wage setting) that have a bearing on
public sector administration.
30.   Maximum Limits on Personnel Expenditures. A major source of fiscal imbalance
is the large burden of personnel expenditures, particularly at the sub-national level. A
central objective of the administrative reform is to reduce the burden of the wage bill on
public sector expenditures. On the average, state personnel expenditures (including wages
and retirement benefits) amounted to 55.2% percent of net current revenues in May 1999,
the latest date for which data is publicly available. The ratio of personnel expenditures to
revenues ranges from 26.% (Roraima)" to 80% (Rio Grande do Sul). Eighteen of the 27
states had wage revenue ratios exceeding 60%, the legal limit established in 1995 (the Lei
Camata, named after Congresswoman Rita Camata) to which states would have to adjust.
The Lei Camata limits have been reaffirmed and strengthened in the new law regulating
Article 169 of the Constitution, which provides for the issuance of limits on personnel
expenditures. 19 In the case of the Federal Government, the limit established in the new
law (50%) is above the present ratio (46%). In the case of states, the limit established in
the new law (60%) will allow nineteen states to dismiss tenured civil servants to reduce
the burden of wages. The new law is stronger in that it will prohibit federal credit and
guarantees to those states not meeting the limits. To attain the limits, states have the
options listed in para. 27. Reducing the burden of wages is a necessary component of any
program to improve fiscal performance. A Bank review of employment and wages in the
public sector indicates that there are opportunities to reduce this burden, including
employment reductions, particularly at the state level, and reduction of wages and/or
benefits in some categories of government employment where current wage levels
significantly exceed private sector comparators20.
18 In the case of Roraima, personnel expenditures are relatively low because some of the public employees
belonged to the corresponding former territories and are thus paid by the federal government.
19 The limits are also included in the Fiscal Responsibility Bill under consideration by the Senate.
20 Te World Bank, Brazil, From Stability to Growth through Public Employment Reform, Report No.
16793-BR



16
31.   High personnel expenditures, including wages and social security benefits, is one
of the key factors contributing to fiscal distress in many states. Together with other
expenditures, it explains why so many states have large primary deficits. As indicated
before (para. 13), another factor contributing to fiscal distress is the large level of
indebtedness. Chart 2 ranks states by the debt/revenue ratio in December 1998, and also
depicts the change in the debt/net revenue ratio between Dec-98 and October-99 and the
ratio of personnel expenditures to revenues in May-99. The ranking of Chart 2 indicates
which states are most in need of fiscal adjustment. It also shows that many of the highly
indebted states also have high labor expenditures (while states with debt/revenue ratios of
1.5 and above have an average personnel expenditure ratio of 0.71, states with debt
revenue ratios below 1.5 have an average personnel expenditure ratio of 0.58), suggesting
that high personnel expenditure may have contributed to deficits and indebtedness and
that lowering these expenditures may be part of the solution. Chart 2 also shows that the
highly indebted states did not generally reduce their debt/revenue ratios during 1999,
indicating the point stressed before that these states will need stronger adjustments to
approach fiscal sustainability. Wage bill reduction targets need to be part of a broader
program that covers revenues, expenditures, fiscal reform, tax reform, privatization,
administrative reform, and social security reform.
Chart 2: Brazil - State Indebtedness and Personnel Expenditures
4.0
3.5
3.0
2.5
2.0
145    - -   -   -.- -.- -_
1.5!
1.0                                   I
o hDebVRevenues (Dec-98)    E Personnel Exps./Revenues (May-99)  C Change in DebtVRevenues (Dec 98-Oct-99)
Source: Staff estimates based on data published by the Central Bank and the Administration Secretariat at the Ministry
of the Budget.
32.   Under the new regulation of Article 169 of the Constitution, limits on personnel
expenditures were strengthened chiefly through introducing penalties on non-compliance
with the limits. The preceding legislation only had the target (wage expenditures, net of
employee contributions to pension schemes, could not exceed 60% of receipts, net of
transfers), with no enforcement mechanism. Despite the lack of an enforcement
mechanism, some adjustment occurred due to revenue constraints. Average personnel
expenditure ratios declined from 70.2% in 1995 to 55.2% in May 1999. Under the new
legislation, states and municipalities will be granted an extension through the year 2001



17
to meet the limit, with two thirds of the gaps closed by May, 2000 and the remainder by
May 2001. Non-compliant states will be barred from:
*  granting salary increases or benefits;
*  creating new jobs or replacing vacancies;
* obtaining federal guarantees on external loans;
* voluntary transfers from the federal government;
*  loans from official credit institutions: senate resolution 78-98 instructs the Central
Bank not to forward to the senate any borrowing request (for IBRD, IDB, CEF,
BNDES, etc.) from a state or municipality not in compliance with legal personnel
expenditure limits or the fed-state debt agreements (25 states have signed debt
refinancing contracts thus far).
Fiscal constraints are likely to continue encouraging states and municipalities to further
raise revenues and reduce wage and other expenditures. Implementation of the new
enforcement instruments listed above is likely to strengthen the pressure on sub-national
governments to undertake the adjustments. Together with the instruments provided by the
debt agreements, the above remedies, if implemented, should provide a strong incentive
for adjustment. The analysis of how this adjustment can happen is presented further
below.
33. Tenure in Public Sector Employment. The Administrative Reform introduced
important changes in public employment provisions. The most significant is the abolition
of universal tenure in the public sector. Universal tenure was introduced by the 1988
constitution, through the so called Unified Juridical Regime (Regime Juridico Unico, or
RJU). Prior to the RJU, civil servants obtained tenure through competitive civil-service
contests or concursos (with a five year trial period where it was virtually impossible to
dismiss an employee having won a concurso). However, the public sector could still
recruit under the Consolidated Labor Regime (Consolida,do das Leis Trabalhistas, or
CLT), the private sector labor law. About 55,000 employees of the federal labor force of
596,192 are covered by the CLT regime, hired either prior to the 1988 Constitution or
under exceptions to the Constitutional provision for hiring short term employees. Under
Law 9962 of February 2000, which regulates the 19th Amendment, the CLT Regime can
be used to hire civil servants. Employees hired under this regime can be dismissed due to
poor performance or redundancies.
34.   The impact of this Constitutional amendment will be to increase the flexibility of
the public sector to adjust its labor force as well as on retirement costs of public servants.
Increased flexibility will come over time as the share of CLT employees in the public
sector work force increases due to the ability to hire all employees through the CLT labor
regime. The impact on retirement costs will occur even later when employees hired under
the CLT retire and receive the much less onerous social security benefits that apply under
the public social security system for private employees.
35.   Dismissal of Public Employees. Constitutional Amendment 19 establishes
provisions whereby a public sector agency can dismiss employees. One situation is where
a government's personnel expenditures exceed legal personnel expenditure limits. In this



18
case, a government (federal, state or municipal) can use a redundancy arrangement to
dismiss employees. This arrangement provides that a government not meeting the legal
limits will first reduce at least 20 percent of expenses on special high level and
managerial appointments (cargos em comissdo efun,oes de confian,a) in the functions
or agencies to be downsized, then dismiss non-tenured employees (servidores ndo
estaveis), and finally dismiss tenured employees, with dismissal of core employees
allowed only after 30% of other employees have been dismissed. The last step should be
based on a normative act by any of the powers (executive, legislative or judiciary) that
justifies where (i.e., in which function or agency) the dismissals will need to take place
and indicates the savings from the dismissals. Severance for dismissed tenured civil
servants is established by the amendment at one month per year of service. The law
regulating this matter establishes that dismissals should be based on highest
compensation, lowest age, or lowest number of years of service.
36.   A second situation for dismissal of a tenured employee arises when the
employee's performance has been found inadequate. This new constitutional provision is
applicable to the direct administration at all levels (federal, state, and municipal) and will
be regulated by a new complementary law (presently at the final stages of consideration
by Congress) that indicates the assessment criteria, the evaluation process, remedial
training, and criteria for dismissal (two continuous unsatisfactory marks or a total of three
non-continuous unsatisfactory marks in five years). The complementary law will also list
the core public sector positions that are relatively protected from dismissal. Definition of
these positions is required to allow dismissals due to excessive expenditure or poor
performance. The dismissals would follow an administrative process where the employee
would be fully entitled to challenge and defend against a dismissal decision. Although
performance evaluations could well improve efficiency, it is doubtful that they will result
in a large amount of dismissals. More likely, dismissals from performance evaluations
will be spread in time and amount to a minor fraction of the public sector labor force in
any given year.
37.   Public Sector Wage Setting. There is some evidence of differences between
compensation of public employees and market wages of private employees with similar
qualifications. For the federal level, on the average, managerial and technical positions
(Cargos Executivos, Cargos de Nivel Superior and Cargos de Nivel Thcnico) earn less
than market wages while the lower operational positions (Cargos Operacionais) earn
more than market wages.21 A Bank Study that adjusted comparisons for several worker
characteristics (age, sex, race, tenure, and education) found above market wages at the
federal level and in the judicial and legislative sectors, and below market wages at the
sub-national (specially municipal) level and in the education and health sectors. The
finding implies that an improved wage structure could be achieved by reducing
compensation of the overpaid categories and raising compensation of the underpaid
activities.22
21 This is based on 1995 data reported in SARE, Boletin Estatistico de Pessoal, Novembro 1999, Table 4.5.
22 See World Bank, Brazil, From Stability to Growth through Public Employment Reform, Report No.
16793-BR (February 1998), Vol. 1, Table 3..5, p. 38; and Vol. 2, Table 5.1, p.35.



19
38.   Federal wage policy has been ruled by two criteria: consistency with fiscal policy
objectives and increased consistency with market wages. Consistency with fiscal policies
presently requires minimization of average wage growth. This has been restricted both by
wage drift, by court awards on wage increases, and by higher wage increases in the
legislative and judicial branches. Since 1995, the Federal Government has not granted
across-the-board increases in wages. Nevertheless, some wages have increased due to
court awards and adjustments by the Government in specific areas. The wage freeze
resulted in a decline in average real wages in the executive branch from 1995 (when real
wages increased sharply as a result of stabilization) to 1998, with some recovery in 1999.
An index of real wages for a small sample of occupations in the executive branch
declined by 15.6% between 1995 and 1999.23 At present, Federal policy is to continue
with the wage freeze, with possible changes in wage structure to correct some wage gaps.
In contrast, real wage levels of the federal legislative and judicial branches increased
between 1995 and 1998, with some decline in 1999. All in all, the annual nominal
increase in the federal wage bill averaged 8% from 1995 to 1999, with wage levels
increasing faster, as the number of public servants declined during the period.
39.   Further adjustment of wage levels, particularly for the Legislative and Judicial
branches, will depend on further regulation of the 19 Amendment to the Constitution.
The new Article 37 indicates, in its Paragraph XI, that the maximum total compensation
in the public sector cannot exceed the compensation level of the member of the Supreme
Federal Tribunal (SFT, today at R$12.720 per month). The reform introduced an all-
encompassing concept of remuneration (subsidio) that includes all monetary benefits
derived from public employment. The concept is to be used in the determination of the
remuneration ceiling indicated above, which is to be set by a law jointly proposed by the
President, the Senate, the Chamber of Deputies and the Supreme Federal Tribunal (STF).
The ceiling is also the basis for setting remuneration for legislators and federal judges.
40.   After considerable debate, the presidents of the three branches agreed recently
(March 2, 2000) to submit a bill setting maximum monthly government compensation at
R$11.500.24 The bill would also set a governor's compensation as the ceiling on his state's
compensation, and states and municipalities would be allowed to establish sub-ceilings
(i.e., ceilings below the compensation of members of the STF) for their own
administrations25. The Government has indicated that the ceiling on the federal executive
branch will remain unchanged at R$8.000. If so, the impact of the new bill would be
limited to the judiciary and the legislature, which accounted for 14.2% of the total federal
wage bill in 1999. As with other recent developments with a fiscal impact (e.g., court
rulings on salaries or taxes), the Government is likely to offset the fiscal impact of the
new ceiling or other pressures on salaries with additional measures to contain other
expenditures or raise revenues.
41.   The Federal Government has also issued a decree (No. 3151 of August 1999) that
will allow a partial reduction of wages by mandatory administrative leave. That is,
23 See SARE, Op. Cit., Table 4.3, p.61.
24 The ceiling will exclude indemnities (ajuda de custo) to members of parliament, a bonus received by
three members of the STF, and retirement benefits on one prior job.
25 Salaries of state magistrates would remain linked to salaries of the SFT president.



20
employees may be excused from work, but would still earn a salary equal to a fraction
(years of service/35, where 35 is the number of years required for retirement). From the
purely financial perspective, this measure would encourage dismissals of the younger
employees. Civil servants on mandatory administrative leave would of course be allowed
to seek alternative employment.
42.   Institutional Reform. In institutional reform, Brazil is attempting to improve the
effectiveness of exclusive services and excludable activities. Executive agencies-- an
administrative qualification to be provided to that part of the state in charge of exclusive
activities (autarquias andfundaq6es publicas) -- and social organizations -- non-state
autonomous entities established as non-profit civil institutions in charge of delivering
excludable services such as education and health -- are the institutional venues that the
authorities expect will improve service delivery. In both cases, the state will use an
instrument -- the management contract -- to link the budget it spends on these activities
and services to results. It is expected that executive agencies will develop financial
autonomy through their own charges (e.g. fees). Such is the case of the agencies that are
being developed in Brazil to regulate infrastructure activities. While social organizations
are expected to remain dependent on the budget, they would be entitled to charge for
services, hopefully decreasing the degree of financial dependency. Although the legal
framework for these institutions is already in place, progress in the implementation of this
area will only be gradual. Examples of these new kinds of institutions are ANEEL
(Agencia Nacional de Energia Electrica) and Anatel (Agencia Nacional de
Telecomunicaqoes).
43.   Privatization. A central tenet of Brazil's public sector reform is that, to improve
public sector and general economic efficiency, public commercial enterprises should be
sold to private operators. The privatization program, begun in 1991, has already advanced
significantly, with $89.6 billion
sold (including debt transfers of     Table 1: Brazil - Privatization Program: 1991-1999
$16.5 billion) from 1991 to 1999                   US$ Billion
(Tale1) ndan ddtioal$10                                    Debt
(Table 1) and an additional $1 0  Program             Receipts  Transfers  Total
billion likely to occur this year.  Federal Privatizations    46.6  11.3   58.0
Of the assets already sold, $58.0  Telecommunications    27.0      2.1   29.1
billion were federal assets and    PND                   19.7      9.2   28.9
the remainder were sub-national    State Privatizations  25.2      6.6   31.6
assets. One half of the federal    Total                 71.8      17.8   89.6
assets sold ($29.1 billion) were  Source: BNDES
telecommunications assets or
licenses. But the privatized assets cover several other sectors, including steel, mining,
petrochemicals, railroads, banking, gas, and power. The program is expected to continue
during 2000, led by new power privatizations, but also including state banks, gas, and
water and sanitation. Although there are still some important privatizable assets, the
federal and state governments have made much progress on the plan to turn commercial
public enterprises into private hands. While this has responded to a large extent to the
financial constraints that the public sector has been experiencing, privatization is likely to
improve service delivery - a central aim of administrative reform -- to reduce fiscal
expenditures and debt accumulation to cover public enterprise losses, and to reallocate



21
public sector employees to the private sector. Privatization and concessions are changing
radically the structure of Brazil's public sector, from one with a dominating and largely
money-losing corporate component to one more focused on the more typical public sector
core, exclusive and excludable functions described before. The Government's Program
also supports this policy focus by requiring that states meet privatization targets
established in the debt agreements.
EXPECTED IMPACT OF THE REFORM PROGRAM
44.   Fiscal and administrative reform aims at increasing the overall public sector fiscal
balance, reducing the ratio of public sector net debt to GDP, increasing the aggregate
fiscal surplus at the state level, a reducing the ratio of personnel expenditures to net
current revenues at all levels, reducing the ratio of state debt to net state revenues, and
additional privatization at the state level. The reform would increase federal revenues and
reduce federal expenditures through the measures indicated before (para. 21-25). States
would be encouraged to adjust through several measures (para. 26). This would include a
reduction of the wage bill through better public sector wage policies (closer adjustment to
market wages) and a reallocation of the labor force from the public to the private sector.
This reallocation would also improve economic efficiency to the extent that there exist
redundancies both prior to the reforms as well as because of the reform (e.g., as a
consequence of improved evaluation and monitoring of the civil service). Economic
efficiency would also be positively affected by improved management of the public
institutions and of the civil service. Finally, efficiency gains would be reaped from the
results-oriented focus of institutional reformns, which would raise the quantity or improve
the quality of public services.
45.   Impact of Public Sector Fiscal Reform. The expected impact of the
Government's Public sector Fiscal Adjustment program on fiscal performance has been
discussed before (para. 21-25). The authorities are committed to achieving primary
balances of 3.25% and 3.35% in 2000 and 2001 (Table 2). The outcome in 1999 was
3.13%. The overall impact on sub-national finances thus far has been an increase in the
primary balance from -0.3% of GDP in 1998 to 0.2% of GDP in 1999. The impact on the
states has been to increase the primary balance from -0.4% in 1998 to 0.2% in 1999. The
authorities are projecting state primary balances of about 0.5% of GDP in 2000 and 2001.
These would be equivalent respectively to state primary balances of about 5.5% of net
state revenues. These surpluses are being achieved through several measures, as
discussed before.



22
Table 2: Brazil - Consolidated Public Sector Balance: 1991-2001 - (Percent of GDP)
1991   1992   1993   1994  1995  1996  1997  1998   1999  2000" 2001i
Total Nominal Balance  -28.25  45.75  -64.74  44.22  -7.05  -5.87 -6.14  -8.06 -10.01  -3.49
Fed. Govt. and BCB      -6.90  -16.31  -23.87  -16.80  -2.27  -2.56  -2.65  -5.49  -7.05
State & local govts.  -10.32  -16.90  -27.12  -19.02  -3.50  -2.71  -3.04  -2.04  -3.01
States                                                                 -1.82  -2.57
Municipalities                                                         -0.22  -0.44
State-Owned Enterprises  -11.03  -12.54 -13.75  -8.40  -1.29  -0.61  -0.45  -0.52   0.05
Total primary Balance    2.86   1.57   2.26   4.40  0.40  -0.08  -0.95  0.01   3.13  3.25  3.35
Fed. Govt. and BCB       1.04   1.10   0.88   3.05  0.57  0.39  -0.27  0.57   2.29  3.15
State and local govts.   1.47   0.06   0.62   0.46  -0.11  -0.55  -0.74  -0.19   0.22   0.1
States                                        0.19  0.46  -0.31  -0.52  -0.41   0.16   0.5   0.5
Municipalities                                0.27  -0.57  -0.24  -0.22  0.22   0.06   0.0
State-Owned Enterpnses    0.35   0.41    0.76   0.90  -0.06  0.08  0.06  -0.36   0.62  -0.2
Net Public Sector Debt    35.5   38.9   35.0   33.3  30.3  33.4  34.4  42.3   47.0           46.5
Sources: Central Bank of Brazil, IMF, and Bank staff calculations.
46.    Impact of the Reform  of State Finances. As discussed before, the states
improved their primary balance from a deficit of 4% of net current revenues 1998 to a
surplus of 2% of net current revenues in 1999. This level of surpluses is still inadequate
to reduce debt burdens. The authorities are projecting a primary surplus for the states of
about 0.5% of GDP in 2000 and 2001 (5.5% of net current revenues). This level will help
stabilize the ratio of debt to net real current revenues To reduce it to manageable levels
in the foreseeable future, the states will need to generate even higher surpluses. Chart 3
illustrates with a projection of the ratio of net debt to net current real revenues. The
projection assumes a real interest rate of 6.6% (the average estimated for the states debt),
growth of 4% per year, and a primary surplus of 5.5% in 2000, 5.5% in 2001, 10% in
2002, and 13% in 2003 and beyond. The assumption of a 13% primary corresponds to the
typical debt service cap condition in the debt refinancing agreements. Under those
assumptions, the debt/revenue ratio stabilizes this year at about 1.9 and begins to decline
in 2001. Higher real rates (say, because the price index used in the debt refinancing
contracts (the IGP-DI) increases faster than other indices), lower growth, or lower
Chart 3 - Brazil - Projected Debt of             Chart 4 - Brazil - Projected Debt of
the States: 2000-2011                           the States: 2000-2011
2.0                                              2.0
1.8                                              1.8
1.6                      6                       1.6
1.4                                        %     1.4
iz  c  1.2                                       z     1.2
eX   1.  _ __ _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _ _       .|     .
.0   a-. 
E- 10.8                                             0
o  0.6                                          -0    0.6
0    0.4                                         ;     00.4
a:0.2                        Q:0.2l
0.0                  _                           0.0
(D  ( C) CO       a O      0      O                      a tD  O     O   O   O
(D   oC 0   0   0   0   0                        o (D  CD  0   0   0       c 0
I4s  ED  -   X   m    4  (D   _                   4  <O  -   C,  n   4  <D
in,:   d(t) l    Year                                 d(          Year
Primary Surplus: 13% of Revenues                     Primary Surplus: 10% of Revenues
after 2002.                                          after 2001.



23
primary deficits would lead to a slower adjustment.26 Chart 4, for example, projects the
debt/revenue ratio based on the same assumptions of Chart 3, except that the primary
surplus on 2002 and beyond is 10% instead of 13%.
47.   Impact of Administrative Reform. To control the growth of the wage bill, after
1995, federal and sub-national authorities exercised chiefly a control of wage levels.
Apart from the impact of court decisions on some categories of wages, the Federal
Government froze wages from 1995 to 1997 (a 10% increase was granted in 1998 and
wage drift continues to push wages upward). The wage freeze continued through 1999
and could be extended to 2000. In addition, there have been some efforts at reducing
employment through voluntary departure programs, with mixed results. Towards the
future, financing restrictions, including the need to contain debt growth, are likely to
encourage both the federal and the state Governments to exercise further control of wage
expenditures. As discussed before, financing restrictions for sub-national governments
have now become more binding. The Federal Government has cut most sources of
financing to the states. Furthermore, the Federal Government completed debt
rescheduling agreements with most states. These agreements require that the states
service their debt obligations with the federal government, which can now be enforced
with recourse to constitutionally mandated transfers as well as to the governments' own
revenues. The agreements will require states to generate primary surpluses that in turn
will necessitate reductions in their wage bills. The new law setting limits on personnel
expenditures (wages plus social security benefits) also strengthens the budget constraint
and fiscal discipline, by putting further constraints on financing, transfers, wage increases
and new hires.
48.   Administrative reform at the Federal Level. The federal government will not be
able to dismiss tenured employees because the legal personnel expenditure limit (50
percent) exceeds the personnel expenditure ratio achieved by the federal government
Nevertheless, a decline in employment at the federal level will occur as a result of
attrition of tenured employees27. This will imply that benefit payments to retirees will
rise. The federal authorities expect a continued decline in the number of employees
during 1999-2000. Declines in nominal wage growth have been constrained by the fact
that, constitutionally, wages cannot be reduced and that the courts awarded wage
increases to the military. Furthermore, there is the possibility that wages in the judicial
and legislative branches increase as a result of new possible legislation on salary ceilings
(paras. 39-40). Nevertheless the Government's present stance is to continue the wage
freeze for the executive branch, at least through 2000. With 8% inflation in 1999, this
policy reduced real wages and the ratio of wages to revenues. All in all, nominal wage
and benefit payments increased from R$47.3 billion in 1998 to about R$49 billion in
1999. They are expected to increase to about R$51 and R$53 billion respectively in 2000-
26 Mathematically, the ratio of debt to net real current revenues in year t, dt = d.1. [(I+ rt)/(l+ g,) - sJI, where
d,.1 is the ratio of debt to net real current revenues in year t-l, r, is the real interest rate in year t, g, is the real
growth of revenues in year t, and s, is the ratio of the primary surplus to net real current revenues in year t.
27 Assuming that the population of retirees/survivors remains constant, attrition of tenured employees has a
favorable fiscal impact (to the extent that it is not offset by new hires).



24
01, maintaining the ratio of personnel expenditures to net current revenues at about 45%-
46% (Table 3).
Table 3 - Brazil - Federal Employment, Retirees and Survivors and Total Personnel Expenditures:
1995-2001
Year                             1995  1996   1997    1998  1999*   2000*   2001*
Federal Employees (000)          1022  1005    982      925    895      866     837
Retirees (000)                    501   516    516      534    545      557     569
Survivors (000)                   300   342    355      372    400      429     461
Total Personnel (000)            1823  1863   1853    1831   1840    1852    1868
Wages and Benefits (Million R$)  35497 40505  42848   47296  49000   51000   52630
Net Current Revenues (Million R$)   67298 89353  97041  104491 107000  111555  116304
Personnel Expenditures/Net Current  52.7% 45.3%  44.2%   45.3%  45.8%   45.7%   45.3%
Revenues
Source: 1995-1998: Ministry of Finance and SARE. 1999-2001: *Staff projections based on past growth.
49.    Administrative Reform at the State Level. The average wage expenditure ratio
declined from 71% in 1995 to 68% in 1998 (Table 4). This decline was probably due to
the fact that the sharp real wage hike of 1992-1995 in the public sector left many states in
increased fiscal and financial distress. Rising debt levels reduced the states capacity for
new indebtedness (except for accumulation of unpaid interest to the federal government).
Higher wage ratios left little for other expenditures of at least a comparable priority.
Furthermore, high real wages reduced civil service pressure for further increases.
Incentives were thus in the direction of reversing the somewhat involuntary rise in real
wage levels that had occurred through 1995 (partly due to the unexpected decline in
inflation). In sum, the decline in the personnel expenditure to net revenue ratio after 1995
reflects some correction of the unexpectedly high prior real wage increases. Some state
governments implemented voluntary departure programs to help bring down the burden
of personnel expenditures.
50.    Table 4 also shows the savings in the wage bill that would be obtained if the states
adjust as required by the new law on personnel expenditure limits. The total adjustment
in 1999, 2000 and 2001 is equal respectively to 0.3%, 0.8%, and 1.0% of GDP (about
R$3.0 billion, R$8.0 billion and R$10.0 billion respectively).28 This is respectively 5%,
12% and 15% of the total personnel bill paid by the states in 1997. The adjustment would
take place partly through growth in revenues of about 4% per year, partly through a
reduction in the real wage (albeit less so than during 1999, when inflation was relatively
high), and partly through some declines in employment (e.g., one state government
dismissed 1/3 of the civil service in early 2000).Y
2S These are the savings that would be obtained if states with personnel expenditures exceeding 60% of net
current revenues adjusted down to 60% by 2001, when compared to the hypothesis that these states
maintain the 1997 ratio of personnel expenses to current revenues (69% on the average). It is further
assumed that those states that met the limits maintain their 1997 personnel expenditure ratios.
29 Mathematically, the ratio of personnel expenditures to net current revenues in year t, C, = Ct . (1+w,).
(I+nt)/(l+gt), where C, I is the ratio of personnel expenditures to net current revenues in year t- l, wt is real
wage growth in year t, n, is employment growth in year t, and gt is real growth in net current revenues in
year t.



25
Table 4 - Brazil - Possible Savings from Application of Personnel Expenditure
Limits at the State Level: 1999-2001
Year                1995   1996  1997   1998  1999*  2000*  2001*
Personnel Expenditures/Net Current
Revenues                          71.0%  70.8%  69.0%  68.1%  65.2%  60.5%  58.1%
Savings over 1997/Net Current
Revenues                          -2.0%  -1.8%   0.0%   0.9%   3.8%   8.5%  10.9%
Savings over 1997/GDP             -0.2%  -0.2%   0.0%   0.1%   0.3%   0.8%   1.0%
Source: Ministry of Finance and Staff Estimates
51.    With the new law on expenditure limits and with the debt agreements finalized,
adjustment of personnel expenditures is likely to be stronger than before, particularly in
those states that are not meeting legal personnel expenditure limits. Under the personnel
expenditure limits law, these states cannot raise wages (wage growth would then be
limited to wage drift, which is below inflation) and cannot hire new employees (the
number of employees would then decline by attrition and dismissals). States that do not
meet the legal limits and expand wages or employment will need to find additional
revenues or financing. As financing is restricted by legal provisions and by the debt
agreements, there is a strong chance that these states are indeed being forced into
containing personnel expenditures. To do so, states have a variety of options (para.27).
These include dismissal of tenured employees already approved by the 19t Amendment
and regulated by Law 9801 of 1999.3°
52.   States meeting legal personnel expenditure limits face a situation more similar to
that of the federal government. Although pressures for real wage increases will continue
to come, debt service obligations will encourage these states to contain wage and other
expenditures. These states are also having opportunities and tools for adjustment. First,
public-private sector wage gaps still provide an opportunity for restraint, although wage
gaps appear to be lower at the state level than at the federal level. Second, inflation in
1999 and residual inflation in 2000 provide these states with an opportunity to contain
real wage growth. And third, these states can still decrease employment numbers by
attrition, voluntary departure programs, and dismissal of non-tenured personnel. But the
pressure on adjusting personnel expenditures for these states is lower, particularly in
those states that have expenditures well below limits and enjoy a manageable debt
situation.
53.    For those states in which the fraction of their personnel expenditures paid to
retirees is high, adjustment will be more challenging. Chart 5, which shows the split
between wage expenditures and retirement benefits, indicates that wage bill to revenue
ratios are not as high or as different across states as the total personnel expenditure ratios
indicate. For example, a state with a high total personnel cost/revenue ratio as Rio Grande
do Sul (80%) has a wage bill ratio below 50 percent, which is typical of other states in
Brazil. This means that for a state like Rio Grande do Sul to bring personnel expenditures
of 80 percent net revenues down to 60 percent would mean bringing salary expenditures
I' To be operational, Law 9801 needs approval of a companion bill, the Inadequate Performance Dismissal
]3ill, which defines a small set of civil service careers that are relatively (but not fully) protected from
dismissal. This bill is now in the final stages of approval.



26
from about 50% of net income to 30 percent of net income, the level attained by the states
with lowest wage expenditure/revenues ratios. This simply reflects the widely
acknowledged fact that the fiscal problem in Brazil is in large measure a social security
benefits problem. This problem is now being addressed through various measures (para.
25). Options to address the high burden of retirenment benefits will need to include higher
social security contributions (including contributions by retirees and survivors, which
would be enabled by possible constitutional reform currently under consideration by
Congress).
54.   The extent of the effective downsizing will also be strengthened by the Federal
Government's resolve to enforce legal personnel expenditure limits and the debt
agreements. Strong federal resolve for enforcement is being indicated by the
Government's commitment .to its fiscal program and its strong record of collecting debt
service under the debt agreements. This resolve will continue to be tested by local
political opposition to the required adjustments. States unable to receive transfers or
credit due to non-compliance with legal limits and the debt agreements may face enough
local disruption to possibly force extraordinary financial assistance from the federal
government. But the Federal Government's own financing constraints will limit the
amount of any extraordinary assistance. Hence enforcement of the legal provisions will
continue to strengthen. As a result, personnel expenditure ratios are likely to decline
fiurther.
Chart 5 - Brazil - State Wage and Pension Benefit Expenditures - 1997
90.0%
80.0%
0X
70.0%
0o  5.0%
Z   40.0%
30.0%
IL   1 0.0%
0.0% 
> >>  >      0 wo  Dm C          --a--aa                          i9
o -a    4 >  m " o           ->) co > u w    0 -    o    z  Xco    m om0
State
[Wage Expenditures rPension Benefits
55.   Finally, past experience suggests that fiscal responsibility and adjustment has
political rewards. During the 1998, the parties of affiliation of those Governors that
achieved good fiscal performance won the gubernatorial elections, with very few
exceptions. This suggests that fiscal responsibility is supported, perhaps as a proxy for
good administration in other areas as well. With the prospect of political reward, the
other incentives discussed before - Federal commitment, the debt agreements, and
expenditure limits -, the chances for deeper fiscal and administrative adjustment at the
sub-national level are likely to increase.



27
56.   Social Impact of Dismissals. Any adverse impact of dismissals on low income
public employees is likely to be small. There are several reasons for this. First, labor
market conditions will improve with renewed growth and reduce the time needed for
dismissed employees to find alternative employment in the private sector. Second, any
dismissed employees will receive indemnities that typically have averaged around a
year's salary (the Administrative Reform prescribes on month salary per year of service).
Third, dismissed employees, under the Administrative Reform, are more likely to be
higher income than lower income employees; one of the criteria for dismissal under the
reform is the level of income (the others are age and length of service). Finally, states
will use dismissals as a last resort to adjust their finances. As discussed before, some of
the adjustment to larger surpluses and lower personnel expenditures will take place
through increased revenues. States are also likely to first reduce excessive benefits in the
higher compensation levels.
57.   Impact on Economic Efficiency. Fiscal and administrative reform is having an
impact in five areas with a bearing on economic efficiency. First fiscal adjustment is i)
helping reduce real interest rates to encourage more rapid and efficient growth and ii)
encouraging better use of limited public sector resources. Second, privatization is
improving the efficiency of former public enterprises as well as of the services granted
under concessions. Third, there will be efficiency gains from reallocation of human
resources from the public to the private sector through dismissals or voluntary departure
programs. These efficiency gains come to the extent that labor productivity would be
higher in the private sector not only because of the possible larger value of additional
private output compared with the decline in public sector output but also because human
resources may be more efficiently managed and monitored by private firms. There is a
widely-accepted perception of absenteeism and multiple jobs in the public sector from
where one can surmise that some human resources in the public sector are not well
monitored and possibly not needed. Fourth, there is a potential long term impact of
stronger beneficiary participation in monitoring and assessing public services on public
sector productivity (the performance of the privatized enterprises is already being closely
monitored). Fifth, the new inadequate performance dismissal bill (expected to be
approved shortly) may encourage better performance by the civil service; the impact will
depend on how rigorously and how effective this law is in dismissing those that
repeatedly perform poorly. The adequacy of the evaluation methods and dismissal
processes will play a critical role. Finally, the reform seeks to strengthen the use of
performance contracts with public sector service providers to achieve a stronger focus on
outputs and public sector delivery. International experience suggests that the impact of
these contracts is limited or takes several years to materialize.
58.   Together, the effects listed above will be of significance. The decline in real
interest rates that fiscal adjustment is making possible is widely regarded as the critical
macroeconomic development that is necessary for resumed long term growth. The
Federal Government's successful efforts to deliver its services with a reduced labor force
are an indication of improved efficiency. Privatization of many services (e.g.,
telecommunications) has improved quality and/or coverage. The effects of better
monitoring and of a results oriented administration are also potentially large in that there
is much room for improvements of service delivery, particularly at the sub-national level.



28
SUSTAINABILITY OF THE REFORMS
59.   The fiscal and administrative reform impacts discussed above are short term
impacts. These emerge from the 1999-01 targets of the Fiscal Stability Program, the
fiscal targets for the same years that have been written into the debt refinancing contracts
with the states, and the personnel expenditure limits that have been defined for 2000 and
2001. The reforms discussed above will also have an impact over the next several years.
The Fiscal Stability Plan of the Federal Government provides the example of what
governments will need to do on a permanent basis as a result of the Fiscal Responsibility
Law. The debt refinancing agreements will have an impact on state fiscal behavior over
the next several years. The fiscal impact of the Social Security Reform will be
distributed over a long period of time. The personnel expenditure limits will also become
a permanent parameter for fiscal behavior at all levels. The law authorizing dismissals to
contain excessive personnel expenditures is likely to be invoked in the short term, when
rendered operational by the pending legislation, by those states with an extreme burden of
these expenditures. It will also be invoked over the long term by states that need to adjust
their expenditures. Other components of the Administrative Reform will likely have
their main impact over the long term. Dismissal provisions for inadequate performers will
have a combined effect on dismissals and performance over a longer period of time than
the two year horizon that was quantified above. The approved law that allows hiring all
public employees through the private sector labor regime will not have a significant short
term impact; over the long term, however, it will have a fundamental effect on enhanced
flexibility to manage personnel expenditures, including retirement benefits.
60.   Privatization is generally regarded as a sustainable reform in the sense that it is
not easy, albeit not impossible, to reverse. Employment and wage cuts are not sustainable
by themselves. Unlike privatization, both can easily be and often are reversed by market
or political reasons. Nevertheless, employment and wage cuts in the public sector can be
sustained when they have been triggered by a framework that makes governments'
budget constraints sufficiently binding. As discussed above, Brazil's expected
containment of labor costs in the public sector is taking place in a context of economic
conditions and fiscal reform that could make states and municipalities more fiscally
responsible. In fact, the reason why the adjustment are taking take place at all in the states
is because new fiscal conditions now impose a tougher budget constraint to Brazil's
public sector.
61.   At the state level, the budget constraint that would have been imposed by
financial markets some years ago was relaxed in Brazil when the federal government
replaced high yield state bonds with its own lower yield securities. Left on their own, the
states would probably have already been forced by financial markets into fiscal
discipline, albeit with a possible adverse impact on delivery of basis services. As fiscal
discipline did not materialize in many states, the federal government absorbed low
quality state assets, lowering the quality of its own net worth. This ultimately deteriorated
the federal government's access to finance and is now forcing a fiscal adjustment at all
levels. With restricted access to finance, and the remarkable track record of the
Government in strengthening reforms over the last 4-5 years, there is today a much



29
greater possibility that state fiscal adjustments remain in place over the number of years
needed to bring their debt stocks to manageable levels.



30
3. THE PROPOSED LOAN
BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
62.   The Framework Paper: Special Program of Support for Brazil (SecM98-943) of
November 25, 1998, outlined the Bank's overall Special Support Program for Brazil. It
proposed a US$4.5 billion package of sector adjustment loans to Brazil until end FY2001
at special pricing and maturity, plus 1 % front-end fee. The Framework Paper noted that
the 1997 CAS (discussed in the Board on June 12, 1997) and the 1998 CAS Progress
Report (discussed on June 2, 1998) acknowledged that Brazil could be subject to external
shocks. In such an eventuality, if the Government responded with corrective policy
measures, the CAS proposed to respond quickly with financial support for reforms in
various areas, including administrative reform, privatization, social security, and safety
nets. The external shock materialized in late 1998, and the Government responded with a
strong fiscal and administrative reformn program help strengthen public finances and
contain excessive personnel expenditures.
63.   The first two S/SECALs were presented to the Board on January 6, 1999, one for
Social Protection Reform (US$250 million) and the other for Social Security Reform
(US$757.57 million). The Framework Paper indicated that a Second Social Security
S/SECAL of US$757.57 million and a follow up social protection loan would be
presented to the Board at a second stage. Furthermore, an additional US$757.57 million
S/SECAL would support the enacted fiscal and administrative reforms supported by the
proposed loan (para. 65), with a follow up loan to support completion of the
administrative reforms, enactment of a new Fiscal Code presently under consideration
and continued improvements in Brazil 's fiscal and administrative performance. Brazil
has successfully met the IMF targets and has made substantial drawings from the Fund,
the bilaterals and IDB. Also, social protection is now being efficiently addressed by
other instruments. The Bank and the Authorities have agreed to draw only a further
US$1.5 billion under the special support program, and let the remaining US$2 billion
lapse. Accordingly, the current plan is to proceed with special S/SECALs in two
remaining areas: Administrative and Fiscal Reform (two single tranche loans are
envisaged) and Social Security Reform. The following paragraphs indicate the reforms
supported by the Fiscal and Administrative Reform Loan proposed by this report.
PROGRAM OBJECTIVE
64.   Given the background discussed in the previous chapter, the operation described
below would support a program with the following objective: to improve Brazil's fiscal
performance in general and the fiscal performance of the states in particular, with an
emphasis on administrative reform to reduce personnel costs and increase efficiency. This
objective falls within the CAS objectives of development and implementation of



31
structural reforms and fiscal improvement. Pursuit of these objectives is now more urgent
to sustain the gains that Brazil has achieved by reducing inflation.
PROGRAM DESCRIPTION
65.   The Program consists of policy actions to improve fiscal performance chiefly
through reducing the burden of the wage bill in the federal, state, and municipal
governments, as well as in the Federal District. The actions include introduction and
initiation of the Government's Fiscal Stability Plan, approval and implementation of laws
regulating the 1 9th Amendment to the Constitution (the Administrative Reform),
refinancing of the state's debts, and establishment of a facility support states undertaking
administrative reform. The key provisions include:
* Constitutional Reform of Public Administration: Removes mandatory tenure for
the civil service, facilitates control ofpersonnel expenditures, rationalizes the
compensation regime ofpublic sector employees, and introduces other provisions
for increased efficiency ofpublic administration; 19t Amendment to the
Constitution, issued June 19th 1998.
* Establishment of limits on personnel expenditures: 50% for the federal
Government and 60% for states and municipalities. Non-complying governments
would be unable to obtain federalfinancing or guarantees, would not be allowed
to hire or raise wages, and would not obtain voluntary transfers; Allowing
dismissals when personnel expenditures exceed the legal limits; Complementary
Law No.96/May 1999. Regulates Article 169 (1 and 2) of the Constitution, as
changed by the 19kh Amendment.
* Regulation of dismissals when personnel expenditures exceed the legal limits;
Law 9801/June 1999. Regulates Article 169 (4) of the Constitution, as changed by
the 199 Amendment.
+ Allowing public sector to hire under private sector law; Law 9962/February
2000. Establishes the public sector's employment regime, as allowed by Article 39
of the Constitution, as changed by the 19th Amendment.
* Allowing dismissals when employee performance is inadequate; Draft Law
248/1998. Regulates Article 41 (1;III) of the Constitution, as changed by the 19th
Amendment. Status: Passed by the House; Senate consideration scheduled for
March 2000.
* Allowing salary reductions to tenured workers that are put on administrative
leave (allowed by Article 41 (2&3) of the Constitution, as changed by the l9th
Amendment; does not require a law). Decree No. 3151, 1999.
* Refinancing of the States' bonded and contractual debts; Law 9496/97 provides
the framework; contracts with 25 states finalized in 1999 establish the specific
conditions with each state in regard to amounts refinanced, debt service ceilings,
and fiscal targets.
* Establishing restrictions on public sector indebtedness; Senate Resolution 78 of
1998.
* Supporting states efforts to reduce their personnel expenditures; Provisional
measure No. 1977, 2000 established a federal facility whereby the states can



32
allocate up to 4% of their debt service to pay indemnities to dismissed employees.
Debt service on the amount paid is postponed under the same financial conditions
of the debt refinancing agreements. The facility is regulated by an administrative
order (Portaria).
66.   While lowering the wage bill is probably the most important form of adjustrnent,
other actions would also be undertaken. These could include, in particular, control of
non-labor expenditures, additional contributions to finance social security benefits,
further privatization of investments, and better tax collection. These are incorporated into
the Program as described below.
DESCRIPTION OF FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
67.   The Bank's assistance would be comprised of two SSECALs in the amount of
$505.06 million each. The first loan will disburse after effectiveness, as all of the
supported measures have been approved. These measures, listed above, are described in
more detail in Annex 4. The second loan will be considered when the Inadequate
Perfornance Dismissal Bill and the Fiscal Responsibility Bill are put into effect.
Although there is some uncertainty with regard to the time when this will occur, there is a
reasonable prospect that the first bill will be put into effect during the current legislative
session.31 The bill has already been approved by the House, where its critical
controversial issues were resolved.
68. The Bank's financial assistance will help Brazil meet its external financing
requirements, while the proposed reform program supports medium-term fiscal
adjustrnent. During the year 2000, Brazil's current account deficit balance is expected to
amount to about $23 billion dollars, of which $3.5 billion are expected to come from
multilateral institutions. Moreover, the loan will also help meet the federal government's
financing requirement of about R$16 billion, and will also help lengthen the term
structure of the public sector's debt, which would reduce vulnerability to financial shocks.
69.   The Federal Government would implement actions to achieve its public sector
primary surplus and debt targets and contain the growth of the Federal wage bill,
including employment and average wages. It would also enforce legislation dealing with
state fiscal, debt performance, and personnel expenditure performance, including
Law 9496, Senate Resolution 78/98, and the new Camata Law (which regulates personnel
expenditure limits). Law 9496 contains a policy-based state debt service reduction
provision in that states that meet a set of adjustment targets (regarding debt, primary
balance, personnel expenditures, revenues, privatization, and investment) benefit from an
interest rate of 6 percent (over IGP-DI, or 8.5% today), well below the cost of the public
debt. Senate Resolution 78/98 contains provisions establishing limits on borrowing by the
states. Under the new Lei Camata the federal government must refrain from providing
31 The Inadequate Performance Dismissal Bill was approved by its Senate Committee in February and is
expected to be considered by the Senate plenary in March. If approved, it will return to the House of
Deputies for approval or rejection of changes made in the Senate, and then submitted for presidential
sanction or rejection.



33
credit, guarantees, or voluntary transfers to non-compliant states, and wage raises or new
hiring is prohibited for those states. Some of the latter remedies (credit, guarantees, and
transfers) can apply only 12 months after approval of the law (i.e., in May 2000), when
states must meet the first adjustment (2/3 of the gap from the maximum Camata ratio).
70.   The Federal Government has established a financial facility (covering up to 4%
of a state's monthly net current revenues to cover part of the indemnity payments to
separated state employees, under satisfactory employment reduction and wage
restructuring programs32. Under the financial facility, a state is allowed to postpone up to
4% of its monthly debt service to the Federal Government. The states would use this
amount for partial financing of indemnities to dismissed employees. Own financing by
the states would provide complementary funds. Under the facility, states' payments
would be added to their debt to the federal government and refinanced on the same terms
as those of the refinancing agreements.
71.   The facility provides a financing opportunity for those States that need to dismiss
employees to meet personnel expenditure limits or primary balance targets. As discussed
before, however, states are first taking less painful measures to reduce the ratio of
personnel expenditures to revenues or even letting revenue growth achieve the
adjustment. Nevertheless, a selected number of states are dismissing employees on fiscal
or efficiency grounds. Thus far, four states have used the facility. To illustrate possible
demand for the facility, it is assumed that real wages remain constant and that real
revenues grow 4% in 2000 and 2001. Under those assumptions, about 8 states would
need dismissals to meet personnel expenditure limits. These dismissals would reduce
expenditures by about R$2 billion and require indemnities of a similar amount.33 It would
be less if those states implement a reduction of real wage or benefits. Low demand for the
facility in 1999 was surely helped by inflation. In the absence of nominal wage increases,
inflation would have reduced real wages by about 8%, while low growth would have
kept current real revenues at about the same level.
72.   Access to the facility occurs on a first-come first-served basis. The amounts are
limited to 4% of the state's debt service. The measure is presently available through
March 31, 2000 and the Government has indicated that it will extend the facility through
June 2001 by means of a new provisional measure to be enacted on March 14, 2000.
73.   The mechanics of the facility are as follows: i) a state deposits at National
Treasury the amounts it intends to use for severance payments (up to 4% of the states' net
revenues); ii) the Federal Government deducts the deposited amount from the states' debt
service so that said arnount remains capitalized into debt; iii) the state provides evidence
and documentation on the indemnity payments that it needs to make; iv) the Federal
Government deposits the funds at an agreed federal financial institution for payment of
indemnities to the dismissed employees.
32 This facility has already been created by the Provisional Measure No. 1977/99.
33 Legal indemnities amount to a month per year of service.



34
PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION
74.   The implementing agencies include the Ministry of Finance (MF) and the
Secretariat of Administration (SARE). The Ministry of Finance would implement:
*  Public sector fiscal and debt targets;
* Federal wage bill policy (jointly with SARE, at the Budget Office);
*  Remedies (transfers and official finance to states; prohibition to raise salaries or
employment at non-complying states) under the Personnel Expenditures Limits Bill;
*  Monitoring and remedies under the Federal/State debt rescheduling agreements;
*  Monitoring of personnel expenditure savings and compliance with legal personnel
expenditure limits at the state level;
The Secretary of Administration (SARE) would implement:
* Federal wage bill targets (jointly with MF);
* Presentation of Inadequate Performance Dismissal to Congress;
Program supervision will consist of monitoring progress towards meeting the Program
objective of improving overall public sector and state fiscal performance and reduction
of personnel expenditures. Three bi-annual Bank supervision missions are projected
beginning about September 2000 to review and discuss these matters. The final
supervision mission would be in September 2001 and would include preparation of the
Implementation completion report.. To permit such supervision the Government (MF and
SARE) would furnish the Bank with required information regarding the matters related to
these conditions, including public sector fiscal and debt performance, federal
employment and wage statistics, state and municipal fiscal and debt statistics, compliance
with state debt rescheduling agreements, federal official credit flows and stocks to states,
hiring by skill and legal regime, changes in personnel expenditures (salaries and
retirement benefits) by state, compliance with debt/revenue and primary surplus targets
by state, compliance with personnel expenditure limits, and privatized and state owned
enterprises by state.
75.   Specifically, supervision missions will focus on assessing performance with
respect to projections of the key outcome variables aimed by the program. These include
the Public sector deficit, public sector debt, the federal wage bill, and the states
performance with regard to the primary deficit, the debt/revenue ratio, the ratio of
personnel expenditures to net current revenues, and privatization.
DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING
76.   The loan would disburse under the Bank's provisions for fast disbursing
operations, which require no procurement of goods or services. The flow of the proceeds
form the loan would be as follows:



35
*  The Bank deposits the proceeds in a Government's account at Banco do Brasil, New
York;
* The proceeds enter into the Central Bank of Brazil's International Reserves Account,
denominated in dollars;
*  The Central Bank enters the counterpart proceeds, denominated in domestic currency,
into the Government's account at the Central Bank (the Conta Unica do Tesouro).
This account earns the average yield of Treasury bills at the Central Bank;
*  The Conta Unica do Tesouro has a classification of funds by revenue source. The
domestic currency proceeds at the Government's account at the Central Bank (Conta
Unica do Tesouro) are classified as Resources from Foreign Credit (account item No.
148);
*  Expenditure of the proceeds from the loan at the Conta Unica do Tesouro is
earmarked, in the Federal Budget, for repayment of federal external debt;
* To repay debt, the Government uses the earmarked domestic currency proceeds in its
Central Bank account to purchase the required dollars from a bank;
* The procedures described above are subject to Ministry of Finance internal controls
(Secretaria Federal de Control) and to external controls by the Accounts Tribunal.
The Bank may require audits of the account into which the proceeds of the loan will be
disbursed.
PROGRAM BENEFITS
77.   The Program seeks to help improve fiscal performance, particularly at the state
level. The main indicators of success include the path of the overall public sector balance
and net public sector debt, the path of primary balances and debt/revenue ratios at the
state level, and the level of the personnel expenditures/revenue ratio at the federal and
state levels. Related benefits include reduced real interest rates and higher growth
resulting from improved fiscal performance, and efficiency gains from reallocating
human resources from the public sector to productive activities in the private sector, from
increased beneficiary participation in public sector service delivery, from undertaking
performance evaluations of the civil service, and from adopting a managerial approach in
public sector administration.
LESSONS LEARNED
78.   The Bank developed an initial experience through the State Reform/Privatization
Operations to three Brazilian states (Rio de Janeiro, Rio Grande do Sul, and Mato
Grosso) during 1996-1999. These operations focused on supporting chiefly privatization
and, to a lesser extent, fiscal adjustment at the state level. The early assessment is that
these operations were successful in achieving irreversible privatizations that have
contributed to efficiency and service delivery. The operations for Rio de Janeiro and Rio
Grande do Sul were not successful in improving fiscal performance. The chief reasons
were: (i) Brazilian states were unable to adjust personnel expenditures, their major
expenditure, due to rigid civil service legislation; (ii) Brazilian states have not had strong
incentives to adjust, given the availability of federal financing. Conditions regarding



36
these constraints have improved. The debt agreements between states and the federal
government, together with Senate regulations, have strengthened constraints on
indebtedness and enforcement of debt repayments. These will encourage fiscal
adjustment at the state level. Furthermore, administrative reform will soon allow states
with unduly high personnel expenditures to dismiss redundant employees.
RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION PROVISIONS
79.   Three short term program risks should be underscored:
*  First, public sector balance and debt targets may not be fully attained due to various
reasons, including higher interest rates on the public debt and successful domestic
pressures for additional expenditures (e.g., salary increases due to an excessive salary
ceiling), and insufficient adjustment of personnel expenditures at the state level. The
Government is making every effort, thus far successful, to ensure that targets are met
but these efforts could be undermined by factors outside of its control. The proposed
Program is one of the efforts that have been put in place to help the public sector
attain its financial targets. The Government has a good track record of reacting to
crises. It is expected that any possible deviation from attaining public sector balance
and debt targets is likely to trigger additional actions by the Government (e.g.,
mandatory administrative leave, dismissals of non-tenured employees) including
strong enforcement of remedies for non-compliance with personnel expenditure
limits at the sub-national level.
*  Second, there is the risk that recession prevents a smooth transition of dismissed
public employees to private employment, generating some social costs. This risk is
contained because (i) labor market conditions will improve with expected renewed
growth; (ii) any dismissed employees will receive indemnities that typically have
averaged around a year's salary; (iii) dismissed employees, under the Administrative
Reform, are more likely to be higher income than lower income employees; (iv) states
will use dismissals as a last resort to adjust their finances, after actions to reduce
excessive benefits and raise revenues. (see para. 56).
*  Third, there is the risk that debt agreements weaken due to political pressure from
sub-national governments. This would undermine perhaps the most important
instrument to presently impose a strong budget constraint on state governments.
although repayment under the new state-federal debt agreements has only now begun,
thus far the federal govermment has held steadfastly to its legal obligation to collect.
Although there is scope for negotiation upon review of selected targets built in into
the debt agreements, the principle that states' should repay their debts (as opposed to
simply accumulating debt service into the debt stock) has been re-established within a
framework of reducing the states' level of indebtedness over time.
80.   Long term risks are linked to the expected long term impacts of the program
(para. 59). These risks include softened public sector balance an debt targets in the
aftermath of the Government's Stability Program and, again, insufficient enforcement of
the debt refinancing agreements. These risks are contained by the likely approval and



37
implementation of the Fiscal Responsibility Law, which prescribes fiscal planning
discipline at all levels on a more permanent basis. Moreover, these risks are likely to be
contained by governments' increasing awareness of the benefits deriving fiscal
discipline.
All in all, the benefits of the project are important and the mitigating factors to the stated
risks are strong.



38
4. RECOMMENDATION
81.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Washington D.C.
April 6, 1998
Attachments



39
5. ANNEXES



40
ANNEX 1: LETTER OF SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Brasilia, March 7, 2000
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Washington, DC
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
This letter of sector policy discusses progress in the economic stability program of
the Brazilian Government, including developments in its fiscal policy framework and in
policies with regard to administrative reform. We are writing to request financial
assistance from IBRD, in the form of a special sector adjustment loan and in support of
the implementation of these policies. Brazil's Fiscal and Administrative reforms are
central components of the Government's structural reform program. We believe they
should be a part of the reforms supported by the Bank's package of special adjustment
loans that was initiated last year in response to the adverse effects on Brazil of the 1997-
98 international shocks.
Macroeconomic Outcomes and Prospects
Following the international commercial and financial shocks that swept emerging
markets worldwide during the second semesters of 1997 and 1998, Brazil strengthened its
strategy of reducing the country's main macroeconomic imbalances. It decided to float its
currency, accelerate the adjustment of the public sector and speed up major structural
reforms designed to put the economy on a better footing. The positive outcomes from the
stronger policy stance are already in evidence, notwithstanding the pessimistic growth,
unemployment and inflation forecasts in the afterrnath of the devaluation. The following
paragraphs discuss these outcomes in 1999 as well as the outlook for the year 2000.
The Economy in 1999
Preliminary figures indicate that GDP growth was 0.8% in 1999, well above
projections at the beginning of the year. The open unemployment rate, although at a high
level of 7.6 %, did not increase on average during the year. The exchange rate, after
reaching a peak of over 2 reais per dollar, from 1.2 real at the end of 1998, stabilized
below 1.8 real at end-1999. Inflation, as measured by the main consumer price index,
reached 8.9%, well within the target band established for the whole year by the
government. The limited pass-through of the exchange rate devaluation to domestic
prices was due to the tight monetary and fiscal policy, a sizable output gap in the
presence of a weak demand, and the previous formal de-indexation of the economy. With
less volatility in the foreign exchange market and with inflation under control, the Central
Bank, after increasing short nominal interest rates to above 40% per year in early March,
gradually reduced its rates to 19% by the end of the year.



41
The major economic imbalances were clearly reduced in 1999. The primary
surplus of the public sector - which in the case of Brazil encompasses the federal
government, the Central Bank, states, municipalities, social security and state enterprises
of all three levels of government - increased from 0% in 1998 to 3.1% of GDP. The
fiscal adjustment together with the exchange rate stabilization and the reduction of real
interest rates, put the net debt of the whole public sector expressed in terms of GDP on a
downward trend. Net public sector debt, which had risen to 51.7% in January 1999 after
the float of the real, came gradually down to 47.0% of GDP in December.
The current account deficit of the balance of payments showed a significant
reduction. The deficit fell from US$ 33.6 billion to US$ 24.3 billion in 1999, thanks to a
smaller trade deficit - which fell from US$ 6.6 billion to US$ 1.2 billion - and
improvements in the balance of important services, including international travel and
profits and dividends. The current account deficit was more than financed by direct
investment, which reached a record level of US$ 30 billion in 1999. The larger size of
foreign investment gives a good picture of increased international investor confidence in
the long term perspectives of the Brazilian economy.
Despite the significant overall cuts in the 1999 budget, the Government has
successfully protected key social expenditures. These include the 22 priority programs in
education, health, labor, and social assistance supported under World Bank and IDB
special loans. In these programs, 1999 budget allocations were near or above their 1998
levels and indications are that full budget execution occurred. Furthermore, the
Government's budget proposal for 2000 implies an increase in funding for the total of the
22 programs of 20% over the 1999 budget proposal and 12% over the approved 1999
budget, including very significant increases for relatively new and promising programs
that link transfer payments to poor families to children's school attendance (Child Labor
Eradication Program, and Bolsa Escola).  Subnational Governments have also
contributed to social protection in the crisis period, for example through workfare
programs implemented by several states and municipalities. At the same time, the Federal
Government is proceeding with a program to improve the quality and targeting of
spending in the social area.
Prospects for 2000
Prospects for 2000 indicate a clear improvement in Brazil's general economic
performance. Annual growth is projected to pick up moderately and stay at about 4%.
This increase in growth is likely to contain unemployment. Inflation has already started a
downward trend and the official objective to limit consumer inflation to about 6% seems
well within reach. Under the Government's Fiscal Stability Program, the primary surplus
of the whole public sector is projected to increase to 3.25% of GDP in the year 2000 (and
to 3.35% of GDP in 2001). As stabilization proceeds, real interest rates are expected to
decline further.
Exports are expected to gain momentum in a more favorable external environment
and following an increase in the quantum of basic exports in 1999. In spite of the
resumption of growth, the current account deficit is expected to be lower than the 1999
number. Even though a reduction in foreign direct investment is foreseen, it is expected
that FDI will still be sufficiently large - about US$ 25 billion - to cover the current



42
account deficit. If the privatization program is fully implemented in 2000, privatization
proceeds are expected to amount approximately to US$ 12 billion ( R$ 22,2 billion ) of
which around 20% will come from privatization of State companies, and to surpass, on an
accumulated basis (1991-2000), the threshold of US$ 100 billion which puts the Brazilian
privatization program among the largest in the world.
The Government's Fiscal and Administrative Reform Program
Behind the encouraging results achieved so far by the Brazilian economy lie
important policy changes. As indicated, Brazil has been operating a floating exchange
rate regime since mid-January 1999, leaving behind a long tradition of administered
exchange rate policy. In line with the shift in the exchange rate regime, the Government
decided to establish, beginning in July 1999, a formal inflation targeting framework for
monetary policy. This means that the monetary authority is not pursuing an exchange
rate objective anymore. Targets for inflation, within a tolerance interval of about 2
percentage points, have been set for three years: 8% for 1999, 6% for 2000, and 4% for
2001.
Besides shifts in exchange and monetary regimes, there have also been significant
changes in fiscal policy. Central to the present fiscal program is a sharp increase of the
primary surplus designed to bring the net public debt to GDP ratio on a downward trend.
The government's 1999-2001 program aims at bringing the net public debt down to 46%
of GDP at the end of 2001. In order to achieve this objective, the Government adopted
measures to cut expenditures and raise revenues in the short run and decided to push
forward with structural reforms to improve the sustainability of the fiscal position in the
long run. These structural reforms cover social security, a new fiscal code, the tax reform,
debt management, privatization, intergovernmental relations, and administrative reform.
Social security possibly remains the most important policy challenge from the
fiscal viewpoint. The constitutional amendment on social security, approved in December
1998, represented an important step towards the improvement of the system and the
reduction of its deficit. The major changes were the removal of the benefit formula from
the Constitution for the General Social Security Regime (RGPS), the adoption of years of
contribution instead of years service as the criterion for retirement, the incorporation of
the concept of actuarially fair and fiscally balanced pension regimes, the phased
elimination of early retirement programs, and the imposition of a minimum retirement
age for the civil service regime (the RJU). Law 9876, enacted on November 26, 1999,
established new rules for retirement in the private sector, including among them, the
"fator previdenciario", a new benefit formula for the general social security regime
(RGPS) that extends the worker's reference wage to eventually include the worker's entire
working life. The new formula is actuarially fair and fiscally balanced.
The government recognizes, however, that the reforms enacted to date are not
sufficient to ensure the financial viability of the social security system over the medium
term. Therefore, it continues working with Congress on new measures, including a
proposal for a constitutional amendment regulating the contribution of retired public
sector workers as well as a bill providing for a complementary pension plan for such
workers.



43
A Fiscal Responsibility Bill was approved by the Lower House of Congress in
January of 2000, and will soon be ready to be voted by the Senate. The main objective of
this law is to firmly establish fiscal planning throughout the full budget cycle (the multi-
annual plans, the fiscal directives laws, and the budget laws), to strengthen the
consistency between revenue projections and collections, to ensure that increases in
expenditures be consistent with fiscal targets, to promote fiscal transparency, and to
improve fiscal sustainability through a stricter control on public finances at all three
levels of government. The law indicates that quantitative limits must be set on
indebtedness and includes limits on personnel expenditures. It also prohibits the use of
new borrowings to finance current expenditures and the further refinancing of debts of
one level of government by another.
A major tax reform is also presently under discussion in Congress. The tax
reform does not seek to increase revenues. It aims to streamline the present cumbersome
indirect tax system and to improve the efficiency impact of the tax system. The main
objective of the reform is to consolidate the existing indirect Federal, State and Municipal
taxes into a national value added tax, to be shared among all levels of government. The
reform aims also at eliminating the scope for "fiscal wars" among states, reducing
evasion, and minimizing distortions due to cascading taxes.
With the easing of the financial crisis, the Government has given renewed
attention to improving its debt management. The central objective of this effort has been
to extend the maturity of domestic debt issues, to increase the proportion at fixed interest
rates and to reduce the range of instruments so as to increase their liquidity and their
marketability. Through these efforts, the Treasury recently made domestic placements
with a maturity of one months, extending the prior benchmark of three months. In
international placements, a successful thirty- year issue was made in February. This will
help establish a benchmark for private borrowers.
The privatization program has been a landmark in the fundamental changes that
have been occurring in the economy. The proceeds from the sale of companies of
various sectors have permitted a major repayment of public debt. Further more,
privatization has led to reduced production costs, increased investment, and improved
competitiveness. For the year 2000, the program  encompasses  privatization of
companies in the electricity sector (Furnas, COPEL, CELPE and CEPISA) and in the
financial sector (BANESPA and IRB - RE), and progress in the privatization of water and
sewerage.
A major component of the Government's program has been to promote and assist
fiscal adjustment at the sub-national level. The state debt refinancing law (Law 9496
of 1997) provided the legal framework for the refinancing of state debts. Agreements
have been signed with 25 out of the 27 Brazilian States. As a result of these agreements
States are expected to generate a primary surplus of 0.5% of GDP in 2000 and 2001. A
complementary provision is Senate Resolution 78 of 1998, which establishes conditions
for Senate approval of new credit operations by sub-national governments.
The refinancing agreements intend to induce long term financial and economic
equilibrium at the state level. As a general rule, State debts were refinanced on a 30-year
maturity basis, an interest rate of IGP-DI plus 6% per year (IGP-DI is the general price



44
index for domestically supplied goods), and with monthly payments ceilings within a
range of 11,5% to 15% of the States' real net revenue. In case of noncompliance with
debt repayments, the federal government may withhold transfers to States or collect from
the state's own revenues. New borrowings were also restricted. Additionally, a ceiling
was established for the ratio of debt to net revenues. In addition, specific targets for
privatization and for personnel expenditures were set. As a result of the privatization
targets, privatization at the state level, is expected to amount to about US$2,5 billion in
the year. In relation to personnel expenditures, the States must abide by Complementary
Law 96 of May 31, 1999, which limits payroll expenditures to a maximum of 60% of net
revenue. Under this law, States will need to reduce their excess personnel expenditures
by two thirds by May 2000 and the remaining third by May 2001.
An important component of the reform process initiated in Brazil is the reform of
the State. A landmark in this process was the approval of the l9'h Amendment to the
Constitution (the Administrative Reform). The reform improved the public sector's
flexibility in the hiring and dismissal of public employees and in the reduction of
personnel expenditures when these expenditures are excessive. It also changed the regime
for setting maximum limits on civil service remuneration, introduced the principle of
efficiency into constitutional criteria for public administration, and strengthened the
autonomy of the public sector's indirect administration. Other provisions aim to achieve
higher levels of transparency and efficiency in budget management, to establish
regulatory agencies in areas where the State is not the sole provider of services such as
telecommunications and oil, and to streamline public administration.
Most of the key laws regulating the Admninistrative Reform are already into effect.
On May 31, 1999, President Cardoso sanctioned a law establishing that States and
municipalities cannot spend more than 60% of net current revenue on personnel
expenditures. The ceiling for the Federal government is 50% of its net current revenue,
but expenditures have been maintained and are expected to remain below that level. This
has been possible due to a decline in the number of federal civil servants, from 567,7
thousand in 1995 to 497,7 thousand in 1999, resulting from the Government's policy of
eliminating public positions and containing new hires. Further declines are expected as
new departures continue to exceed hires. If the ceilings are not met, a precise sequencing
of measures to be taken is defined in the legislation. Law 9801 of June 14, 1999
established provisions for the dismissal of public employees in case of excessive
personnel expenditures.. Law 9962 of February 22, 2000 established the public sector's
employment regime. Under this law, the public sector has been enabled to hire for all
careers under the private sector labor regime. This will improve the flexibility of public
sector employment and reduce future pension liabilities of the public sector. Finally, a
new bill governing the dismissal of public officials due to inadequate performance and
defining a group of "exclusive state careers" (a limited set of core public sector careers
that are relatively protected from dismissal) is presently under discussion in Congress. It
was approved by the House and a Senate Committee. Approval by the full Senate is still
pending. The amendments introduced by the Senate will have to be subject to a new vote
by the House.
At the Federal level, a number of specific measures has also been taken to
streamline public service, increase efficiency levels and improve the quality of



45
regulation. They cover, inter alia, a 20 per cent reduction in special appointments
(Cargos em Commissdo) and an extension of the probation period for new public
employees from two to three years. A new redundancy program was implemented in
1999. As a result, 5733 public officials were declared redundant, resulting in savings of
R$ 88 million per year. In August 1999, the Federal government offered Federal public
officials the choice of a four-hour workday (instead of the usual eight hours) with a
proportional reduction in salaries. It also offered the possibility of a three-year leave
without pay, renewable for three more years.
Furthermore, reference must be made to the Government's four-year development
plan, entitled Avanca Brasil - Plano Plurianual /PPA 2000/3, which currently awaits final
approval in Congress. Based on an earlier study of investment priorities, the PPA 2000/3
represents a shift in public management approach toward professional program
administration.  It coordinates Government spending for the next four years and
addresses the main challenges faced by Brazil, including the achievement of sustained
development and growth, the fight against poverty, and the consolidation of economic
stability and of democracy. It also serves as a basis for the elaboration of the annual
budget proposal.
States and municipalities have also been engaged in reducing the public machinery
and reforming public administration at large. Many States have carried out redundancy
programs, established salary ceilings, initiated audits in the payment system, and reduced
special appointments. In an effort to create the conditions for States to make use of the
opportunities opened by the Administrative reform, the Federal government has issued a
provisional measure and supporting regulation allowing States to allocate, until June 30,
2001, 4% of their debt payments owed to the Federal Treasury to finance indemnities to
dismissed employees.
Request for Financial Assistance
The Government - including the Executive, Congressional and Judicial branches -
remains firmly committed to its program of fiscal adjustment and administrative reform
as outlined above, and would welcome World Bank financial assistance. We appreciate
the prompt consideration that the World Bank management and staff have given to the
Program of Support for Brazil and would particularly welcome the inclusion of the first
US500 million Fiscal and Administrative Reform Special Sector Adjustment Loan in the
program, in support of the measures that have been enacted and are under
implementation. We look forward to working together with the Bank on a proposed
future loan as further fiscal and administrative reforms take place.
Dr. Amaury Bier                                  Dr. Martus Tavares
Acting Minister of Finance                       Minister of Planning
Budget and Administration






47
ANNEX 2: ACTIONS PRIOR TO BOARD PRESENTATION
Page 1 of 2
Actions Prior to Board Presentation
Policy Area                                                            I' loan                                                                         2' loan
Overall Fiscal Framework       Fiscal Stability Program in place:                                                                        A.  Fiscal Stability Program in place:
*   Public Sector Primary Surpluses to increase to 3.1%, 3.25%/o, and 3.35% of GDP respectively in 1999, 2000, 2001.  *   Public Sector Primary Surpluses to increase to 3.1%,
Target exceeded in 1999.                                                                                  3.25%, and 3.35% of GDP respectively in 1999,2000,
*   Net Public Sector Debtto decline to 46.5% of GDP by the year2001                                           2001. Target exceeded in 1999.
*   Net Public Sector Debt to decline to 46.5% of GDP by the
year 2001.
B.  Continued progress in improving fiscal performance at
the state level.
Sub-National Debt Agreements   A.  State Debt Refinancing Criteria Approved (Law 9496/98):                                               A.  Law of Fiscal Responsibility Passed.
and Sub-National Borrowing     *   Determines Six Fiscal Adjustment Variables (debt/revenue ratio, primary balance, personnel expenditures, own  B.  Implementation of Executive actions allowed by
revenues, privatization/adm. Reform, investment expenditures).                                            Federal/State debt agreements:
*   Establishes debt refinancing conditions (rate of interest-6%; indexation of principal=IGP-DI; amortization=30 years   *   Enforce collection of debt service, including execution of
(Tabela Price); Maximum Debt Service=determined in individual contracts as a percentage of net revenues, with  guarantee provided by revenues and constitutional
excess accruals automatically refinance on the same terns.                                                transfers.
*   Determines that States not meeting targets with regard to the fiscal adjustment variables will: (i) pay a rate of interest   *   Enforce the adjustment targets of the agreements through
equal to the cost of federal debt + I percentage point; (ii) increase maximum debt service by 4 percentage points  charging federal debt cost rates to non-complying states.
*   Prohibits States with debtlrevenue>l from issuing Bonds                                               Implementation of Senate Resolution 78/98, whereby sub-
*   Allows a state to bonrow only if it meets debt/revenue target.                                        national governments cannot undertake borrowing that:
*   Requires debt contracts to include the following guarantees: i) state taxes; ii) constitutional transfers from the income   C.  Implementation of Senate Resolution 78/98, whereby sub-
and industrial products tax.                                                                              national governments cannot undertake borrowing that
fB.  Refinancing of States' Debt Completed:                                                               *   Violate debt refinancing agreements
*   Law 9496 of 1997, provides for a 30 year refinancing of the states' bonded and contractual debt, at a 6% real rate, with   *   Violate limits on the ratios of new borrowing, debt service
debt service caps, and targets with respect to the primary surplus, debt, investment and personnel expenditures,  and total debt to net revenues,
revenues and privatization;                                                                           *   Exceed budgeted investments (except if such investments
*   Agreements finalized with 25 states.                                                                        are targeted to a senate-approved program for improving
C.  Sub-national Borrowing Conditions Established (Senate Resolution 78/98):                                    fiscal/financial administration).
*   New borrowing must meet debt refinancing agreement limits and cannot exceed capital expenditure or 18% of net  Furthermore the Central Bank cannot submit for senate
revenues;                                                                                            approval credit operations to sub-national governments with
*   Total Debt service cannot exceed 13 percent of revenues                                               primary deficits or loans in default to domestic financial
*   The total Debt/revenue ratio cannot exceed two in 1998 and 1/10 less each year to reach unity in 2008.  institutions.
*   Primary balance cannot be negative;
*   Borrower cannot be in default with any domestic financial institution.



48
ANNEX 2 (Cont.)
Page 2 of 2
Annex 3: Actions Prior to Board Presentation
Policy Arez                                                                      V loan                                                                              2- loan
Fiscal and Administrative       A. Constitutional reform of Public Administration Approved: 19' Amendment to the Constitution. Key provisions cover:  A. Complementary Administrative Reform Legislation Approved:
Reform Actions                  *   Removal of mandatory tenure from public sector employment;                                              Inadequate Performance Dismissal Bill:
*   Permits dismissals and expenditure reductions when personnel expenditures exceed legal limits;          *   Establishes Evaluation Criteria and Process;
*   Regulates the setting of salary ceilings and introduces the concept of an all-encompassing salary (subsidio) covering  e   Establishes Dismissal Process
all sources of compensation;                                                                           *   Defines civil service careers relatively shielded from
+   Introduces various other provisions to increase public sector efficiency;                                   dismissal ( "Servidor Estavel que Desenvolve Alividade
B. Complementary Administrative Reform Legislation Approved:                                                    Exclusiva de Estado ")
(i) Excess Employment Dismissal Bill (Regulation of Constitutional Provision 169 (4)). Dismissals will require:  B Implementation of enforcement remedies by the National
*   An executive act by any of the three powers;                                                            Treasury to those states not meeting personnel expenditure limits.
* A general criteria of dismissal (lowest number of years of service; highest remuneration; or lowest age);
In addition, dismissal of core tenured employees (Servidor Estavel que Desenvolve Atividade Exclusiva de Estado) will
require dismissal of at least 30 percent of other employees. Each executive act cannot reduce more than 30 percent of core
employees.
(ii) Limits on Personnel Expenditures to Net Revenue Ratios:
*    Federal (50 0%) and Sub-National Govermments (60%).
*    Permit wage bill reductions in the following order: a) At least 20 percent of expenses on special appointments
(cargos em comiss.ro efunc6es de conflanca); b) Dismissal of non-tenured employees; and c) Dismissal of tenured
employees.
*    Govemments would need to achieve two thirds of the required adjustment in 2000 and one third in 2001.
Enforcement actions would include: a) No new credit operations from federal financial institutions (Year 2000); b)
No new Federal Guarantees (Year 2000); c) No voluntary transfers (Year 2000); d) Prohibition to increase
employment or positions; e) Prohibition to raise wages or benefits;
(ii) Civil Service Legal Regime Bill: extends the private sector labor regime to new hiring in the public sector
(iii) Issuance of Decree allowing partially paid mandatory leave (servidores em disponibilidade);
Assistance Fund                 A. Facility established to cover severance payment by adjusting states (presently regulated by Medida Provisoria 1977-
121/00. Federal Govemment authorized to finance state severance payments, up to 4% of their net revenues. On March 14,
2000, the Govemment will extend the faculty through June, 2001.
B. Regulation of Facility to be re-enacted on March 14, 2000.



49
ANNEX 3: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Page I of 2
Brazil - Key Economic Indicators
Actual              Estimate            Projected
T.Adr t.,             I LJQA    1 oosI  acuQ  1 07    102 I  1000 QQQ        90(11   9009
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic produ&               100.0  100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Agriculture                         9.9    9.0    8.3       7.9     8.4    8.7    8.3       8.2     8.2
Industry                            40.0    36.7    29.4   29.7    28.8   29.7   28.4   28.1    28.0
Services                           50.2   54.3    62.3   62.4    62.8    61.6   63.2   63.7   63.8
Total Consumption                    77.5   79.5    81.4   81.4   81.4    80.2   79.0   77.4   76.8
Gross domestic fixed investment      20.7   20.5    19.1    19.6    19.9    19.9   21.1    22.4   22.5
Government investment               3.6    2.5    2.3       2.2     2.2      1.9    2.1     2.1     2.7
Private investment                  18.5    19.8    18.4   19.0    19.1    19.1   20.0   21.4   20.8
(includes increase in stocks)
Exports (GNFS)                        9.5     7.7    7.1      7.6     7.4     9.9    10.7    11.5   12.2
Imports(GNFS)                         9.2    9.5      9.2    10.2   10.1    11.1    11.8   12.3    12.6
Gross domestic savings               22.5   20.5    18.6   18.6    18.6    19.8   21.0    22.6   23.2
Gross national savings               21.3    19.5    17.3    16.9    16.3    16.6   17.8    19.4   19.7
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product             546230 704168 774869 804113  775356  564946 570878 579508 593768
(US$ million at current prices)
GNP per capita (US$, Atlas method)   3060   3690   4340   4790   4570   4666   4540   4541   4629
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 1995 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  5.9%    4.2%    2.8%    3.2%    0.1%    0.8%    3.7%    4.0%    4.0%
Gross Domestic Income              5.6%    4.9%    2.4%    3.7%    0.8%    0.6%    3.6%    4.0%    4.0%
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1995 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices 4.4%    2.8%    1.4%    1.8%   -1.2%   -0.7%    2.2%    2.5%    2.5%
Total consumption                  4.3%    5.0%    2.3%    2.5%    0.0%   -1.4%    0.8%    0.7%    2.1%
Private consumption                7.7%   15.2%    0.3%    1.0%   -0.3%    2.1%    3.5%    4.3%    2.0%
Balance of Payments (US$ miHions)
Exports (GNFS)                     46702  49544  51853  56831   55479  55981   61103  66747  72429
Merchandise FOB                  43545  46506  47747  52990  51120  46930  51408  56461  61506
Imports (GNFS)                    40131   58749  64958  74147  70517  62679  67255  71425   74573
Merchandise FOB                  33079  49858  53286  61347  57558  48310  52176  55743   58178
Resource balance                    6571   -9205  -13105  -17316  -15038  -6698  -6152  -4678  -2144
Net currenttransfers                2588    3973   2899   2216    1886   -647    806    1063   1064
Current account balance            -1689  -17972  -24347  -33430  -34946  -25090  -24721  -23711  -23111
Net private foreign direct investment  2356   4778   9644   17879  26110  30000  25140   15000   15000
Long-term loans (net)               4421    6547   12681   18409  26342  -16874   2846   9212   3796
Official                          -2134   -1576   -533   -1533   4850   -1077   1173    5505    1121
Private                           6555    8123   13214   19942  21492  -15797   1673   3707   2675
Othercapitatnet,incl.effors&oonanissions)  7851   20127   11039  -10659  -25997    288   6029   7830   8031
Changeinreserves                  -12939  -13480  -9017   7801    8491   11676  -9293   -8331   -3715
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)           1.2   -1.3    -1.7   -2.2    -1.9    -1.2    -1.1   -0.8    -0.4
Real annual growth rates ( YR95 prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)            6.6   -2.0   35.8       1.8    4.0      6.9    6.5      6.2    5.8
Primary                            17.6   -1.9    5.6    6.1    13.8        1.0    4.0    3.0    3.1
Manufactures                        2.7    -2.0    5.3      0.0    2.2    11.1    8.0       8.2     7.3
Merchandise imports (CIF)           25.5   38.7    6.1    14.5    8.3   -15.7    3.3         3.2     1.6
(Continued)



50
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
Brazil - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual               Estimate             Projected
Indicator              1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)e
Nonfinancial revenue                  18.6    19.6    17.8    18.6    20.4    21.1    20.7    20.5    20.5
Current expenditures                  15.9    18.9    17.6    18.0    18.9    18.4    17.4    17.3    17.3
Primary Balance                        3.1     0.6      0.4    -0.3      0.6     2.4     2.7      2.7     2.7
Capital expenditure                    1.0     0.8      0.8     0.9      1.1     0.5     0.7      1.0     1.1
Foreign financing                       ..      ..       ..      ..       ..      ..
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                                41.7    29.7    27.7    29.4    28.7    29.4    29.4    29.4    29.4
GrowthofM2(%)                       1211.9    31.9    12.2    18.4       1.4    12.6    10.1      8.6     8.6
Privatesectorcreditgrowthl            81.6   115.9      9.3    42.6    59.8   -82.3   382.6   299.3   -45.3
total credit growth (%/.)
Price indices( YR95 =100)
Merchandise export price index       120.3   127.7   127.2   122.8   116.8   109.6   112.8   116.6   120.1
Merchandise import price index       114.8   124.1   127.3   118.1   104.8   110.1   115.1   119.2   122.5
Merchandise terms of trade index     104.8   102.9    99.9   104.0   111.5    99.5    97.9    97.8    98.0
Real exchange rate (LCU/US$f          97.3   110.5   112.2   118.0   120.8       1.4      1.5     1.6     1.6
Real interest rates                 23.3%   12.2%   14.8%   28.6%   24.6%   14.0%   13.3%   12.6%   12.0%
Consumerprice index (%change)       2075.9    66.0    15.8      6.9      2.7     8.6     6.0      4.0     4.0
GDP deflator (% change)             2239.1    77.6    17.2      7.8      3.6     9.0     6.2      4.4     4.4
a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Consolidated central government.
£ "LCU" denotes "local currency units." A decrease in LCU/US$ denotes appreciation.



51
ANNEX 4: KEY EXPOSURE INDICATORS
Brazil - Key Exposure Indicators
Actual               Estimate            Proiected
lndicator             1994  1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Total debt outstanding and       151209  159037  180785  194882  236058  221791  223987  228085  231232
disbursed (TDO) (US$mj
Net disbursements (US$ml           1909    9097   15242   18276   23309  -11389    2198    4122    3145
Total debt service (TDS)          16212   21681   25078   38243   40226   73694   54732   49000   44143
(US$m)a
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XG§'                         296.4   280.6   300.7   293.5   362.9   369.2   344.6   321.6   301.5
TDO/GDP                           27.7    22.6    23.3    24.2    30.4    39.3    39.2    39.4    38.9
TDS/XGS                           31.8    38.2    41.7    57.6    61.8   122.7    84.2    69.1    57.6
Concessional/TDO                    ..      ..      ..      ..       ..    0.7      0.8      2.1     0.8
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS                 20.8    14.0    12.7      8.5     8.1     3.5     5.4      5.5    10.0
Preferred creditor DS/public      28.8    18.7    17.6    12.2    12.0    17.9    48.8    33.0    29.3
DS (%)'
IBRD DS/XGS                        3.7     3.3     2.7     2.2      2.1     2.5     2.3      2.3     2.5
IBRDTDO(US$mf                    6311    6038    5876    5743    6298    7116    8294    9666   10859
Of which present value of
guarantees (US$m)
Share of IBRD portfolio (%)        5.5     5.6     5.5     5.1      5.3     5.7     6.1      6.8     7.5
IDA TDO (US$m)f                     0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0       0
IFC (US$m)
Loans                             464      567     328     402     430      141
Equity and quasi-equity /c         123     166      56      44     106       51
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$m)             95      129     164     201      195
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the IMF, and the
Bank for Intemational Settlements.
d. Includes present value of guarantees.
e. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.



52
ANNEX 5: STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
Closed Projects    173
Difference Between
Board  I acqt PSRR                                           Expected and Actual
Date                                            Supervision Rating b/          Original Amnaint In I[S$ Millinng    nighijrqPmPntc'
Fiscal                                       navainpmant Lmplampntatinn
Year  Active Projects                                                        IBRD         IDA    Cancel.  Undisb.      Orig. Frm Rev'd
OnNjattias    Prgrass
1989    P006370   NE IRRI JAIBA                    S             S              71.0        0.0        0.0      0.2       0.2       0.0
1990    P006453   NE IRRIG I                       S             U             210.0        0.0        0.0     14.8      83.8      52.1
1992    P006505   MATO GROSSO NAT RES              U             U             205.0        0.0        0.0     48.4      48.4       0.0
1992    P006454   RONDONIA NTRL RES. M             U             U             167.0        0.0        0.0     27.4      27.4       0.0
1992    P006368   WATER SECTOR MODERNI             S             S             250.0        0.0        0.0      1.1       1.1       0.0
1993    P006541    BR WTR Q/PLN(SP/PR/FED)         S             S             245.0        0.0        9.3     15.5      24.8      15.5
1993    P006547   METRO TRANSP. RIO                S             S             128.5        0.0        0.0      0.3       0.3       0.0
1993    P006540   WTR Q/PLN(MINAS GERA             S             S               0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
1994    P006524   BR MINAS MNC.DEVELOPMT           S             S             150.0        0.0        9.7     24.7      34.4      29.4
1994    P006558   BR PARANA BASIC EDUC             S             S              96.0        0.0        0.0     15.4      15.4       0.0
1994    P006522   ESP.SANTO WATER                  U             U             154.0        0.0        4.0     68.3      72.3      68.3
1994    P006543   M. GERAIS BASIC EDUC             S             S             150.0        0.0        0.0     19.7      19.7       0.0
1995    P006564   BELO H M.TSP                     S             S              99.0        0.0        0.0     35.0      28.4       0.0
1995    P006436   Ceara Urban Development & Water R&,ource       S             140.0        0.0        0.0     47.5      47.5       2.1
1995    P038882   RECIFE M.TSP                     S             S             102.0        0.0        0.0     66.0      53.8       0.0
1995    P035717   RURAL POV. (BAHIA)               S             S             105.0        0.0        0.0     35.1      20.7       0.0
1995    P038884   RURAL POV.- CEARA                S             S              70.0        0.0        0.0     10.9       0.3       0.0
1995    P038885   RURAL POV.-SERGIPE               S             S              36.0        0.0        0.0      5.5       0.1       0.0
1996    P037828   BR (PR)R.POVERTY                 S             S             175.0        0.0        0.0    128.8      98.8       0.0
1996    P006512   BR ENV/CONS(CVRD)                U             U              50.0        0.0        0.0     16.5      12.1       0.0
1996    P006554   HLTH SCTR REFORM                 S             S             300.0        0.0        0.0    209.5    169.5        0.0
1996    P040028   RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURG             S             S             350.0        0.0       50.0     37.4      69.1      37.4
1997    P043871   (PIAUI)R.POVERTY                 S             S              30.0        0.0        0.0      6.8      -0.6       0.0
1997    P043873   AG TECH DEV.                     S             S              60.0        0.0        0.0     45.3      22.5       0.0
1997    P006562   BAHIA MUN.DV                     S             S             100.0        0.0        0.0     89.9      49.2       2.3
1997    P046052   CEARAVWTR PILOT                  S             S               9.6        0.0        0.0      6.4       6.4       0.5
1997    P006532   FED HWY DECENTR                  S             S             300.0        0.0        0.0    234.3    154.3        0.0
1997    P006475   LAND RFM PILOT                   S             S              90.0        0.0        0.0     55.1      30.5       0.0
1997    P048870   MT STATE PRIV.                   HS            S              45.0        0.0        0.0     13.2      13.2       1.1



53
Difference Between
I at PSR.                                                Expected and Actual
Board
-^                                           -    ISupivalon Rating ..   OR"a"'i Amnn in US; Miliuii        fighurqpmAntg
Fiscal                                    nvlpAtIpannaln
Year Active Projects                     D            Im tstion        IBRD        IDA    Cancel.  Undisb.    Orig. Frm Rev'd
1997   P042566   R.POVERTY(PE)                 S            S             39.0       0.0       0.0     11.8      3.9      0.0
1997   P038896   R.POVERTY(RGN)                S            S             24.0       0.0       0.0     11.0      5.0      0.0
1997   P034578   RGS HWY MGT                   S            S             70.0       0.0       0.0    62.6      34.3      4.0
1997   P043868   RGS LAND MGT/POVERTY          S            S            100.0       0.0       0.0    86.9      31.0      0.0
1998   P006559   (BF-R)SP.TSP                  S            S             45.0       0.0       0.0    45.0      34.3      0.0
1998   P035728   BAHIAWTR RESOURCES            S            S             51.0       0.0       0.0    36.7      23.3      0.0
1998   P050762   BR Fundescola I                            S 5           62.5       0.0       0.0     19.3    -13.6      0.0
1998   P006474   BR LAND MGT 3 (SAO PAULO)    S             S             55.0       0.0       0.0    55.0      16.1      0.0
1998   P038947   BR SC. & TECH 3               S            S            155.0       0.0       0.0    131.7    50.9       0.0
1998   P048357   CEN.BANK TAL                  S            S             20.0       0.0       0.0    14.3    14.3        0.0
1998   P038895   FED.WTR MGT                   S            S            198.0       0.0       0.0    159.4    67.8       1.2
1998   P006549   GAS SCTR DEV PROJECT          HS           HS           130.0       0.0       0.0    88.9      88.9      0.0
1998   P051701   MARANHAO R.POVERTY            S            S             80.0       0.0       0.0    51.5       0.3      0.0
1998   P042565   PARAIBA R.POVERTY             S            S             60.0       0.0       0.0    44.7       5.0      0.0
1998   P057910   PENSION REFORM LIL            HS           S              5.0       0.0       0.0      4.7      4.7      0.0
1998   P043421   RJ M.TRANSIT PRJ.             S            S            186.0       0.0       0.0    178.1    126.8      0.0
1998   P043420   WATER S.MOD.2                 S            S            150.0       0.0       0.0    150.0     72.6     19.0
1999   P054120   AIDS 2                        S            S            165.0       0.0       0.0    128.9    38.9       0.0
1999   P055388   ANIMAL&PLANT DIS. CO          S            S             44.0       0.0       0.0    44.0       4.2      0.0
1999   P058129   BR EMER. FIRE PREVENTION      U            U             15.0       0.0       0.0     15.0      5.3      0.0
1999   P043874   DISEASE SURVEILLANCE          S            S            100.0       0.0       0.0    96.5      34.9      0.0
1999   P048869   SALVADOR URBAN TRANS          S            S            150.0       0.0       0.0    150.0     14.6      0.0
2000   P006449   BR CEARA WTR MGT                                        136.0       0.0       0.0    136.0      0.0       0.0
2000   P039200   BR ENERGY EFFICIENCY                                     43.4       0.0       0.0    43.4       0.0       0.0
2000   P035741   BR NATL ENV 2                  S           S             15.0       0.0       0.0     15.0      0.0       0.0
2000   P039199   PROSANEAR 2                                              30.3       0.0       0.0    30.3       0.0       0.0
TOTAL                                                 6017.3       0.0      73.0   3089.6   1766.9    232.9
- No rating established yet.



54
ANNEX 6: STATEMENT OF IFC'S HELD AND DISBURSED PORTFOLIO
CAS Annex B8 (IFC) for Brazil
Brazil
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 12/31/1999
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                       Disbursed
FY Approval      Companv          Loan   Equity  Ouasi Partic  Loan  Equity Ouasi Partic
1995 AEF Comp Avicole    0.27    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.27   0.00  0.00    0.00
1999 AEF FasoMine        1.00    0.45   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00    0.00
1992 AEF Growela         0.15    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.15   0.00  0.00    0.00
1993 AEF Htl Tropico     0.52    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.52   0.00  0.00    0.00
1996 AEF Notacam         0.69    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.69   0.00  0.00    0.00
1994/96 AEF Proleg          0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00    0.00
1999 AEF Saicam          0.00    0.00   0.38   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00    0.00
1994/96 AEF United Trspt    0.28    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.28   0.00  0.00    0.00
1979 Alucam              0.00    0.93   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.93  0.00    0.00
1998 Arteb              20.00    7.00   0.00  20.00  20.00   7.00  0.00   20.00
1999 BAC Bank            0.00    0.00   5.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.65    0.00
1993 BACELL              6.00   15.70   0.00  16.20   6.00  15.70  0.00   16.20
1990/91/92 Bahia Sul          0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00    0.00
1996 Banco Bradesco      15.51    0.00   0.00  22.36  15.51   0.00  0.00   22.36
1999 Bank of Shanghai    0.00   21.76   0.00   0.00   0.00  21.76  0.00    0.00
1996 Beijing Hormel      4.28    0.50   0.00   4.40   4.28   0.50  0.00    4.40
1997 Bompreco           25.00    0.00   5.00   0.00  25.00   0.00  5.00    0.00
1991 Bradesco-Bahia      3.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   3.00   0.00  0.00    0.00
1991 Bradesco-Eucatex    7.50    0.00   0.00   0.00   7.50   0.00  0.00    0.00
1995 Bradesco-Hering     7.50    0.00   0.00   0.00   7.50   0.00  0.00    0.00
1991 Bradesco-Petrofl    7.50    0.00   0.00   0.00   7.50   0.00  0.00    0.00
1991 Bradesco-Romi       0.79    0.40   0.00   0.00   0.79   0.40  0.00    0.00
1995 Brahma- BRA        17.50    0.00   5.00  36.90  17.50   0.00  5.00   36.90
1981 Brasilpar           0.00    0.04   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.04  0.00    0.00
1998 BSC                13.18    0.00   0.00   7.06  13.18   0.00  0.00    7.06
1998 Caltex Ocean       21.00    0.00   0.00  45.00  21.00   0.00  0.00   45.00
1995 Cambuhy/MC         15.00    0.00   0.00   0.00  15.00   0.00  0.00    0.00
1999 Celhart            13.90    1.50   0.00   0.00  13.90   1.50  0.00    0.00
1993/96 CEVAL               0.00   10.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  10.00  0.00    0.00
1994/96 CHAPECO            15.00    0.00   0.00   5.00  15.00   0.00  0.00    5.00
1998 Chengdu Chemical    0.00    3.20   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00    0.00
1998 Chengxin-IBCA       0.00    0.36   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.36  0.00    0.00
1987/92/94 China Bicycles      0.00    0.95   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.95  0.00    0.00



55
Held                      Disbursed
FY'Approval     Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi Partic  Loan  Equity Quasi Partic
1994 China Walden JV    0.00    5.40   0.00   0.00   0.00   5.40  0.00    0.00
1994 China Walden Mgt    0.00    0.01   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.01  0.00    0.00
1986 CICAM               1.93    0.00   0.00   0.00   1.93   0.00  0.00    0.00
1998 CIG Port Holding   0.00    1.50   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.50  0.00    0.00
1973/78/83 CODEMIN           0.00    0.40   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.40  0.00    0.00
1997 Copesul           35.00    0.00   0.00 154.29  35.00   0.00  0.00  154.29
1993/97/00 Coteminas         0.00    0.53   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.53  0.00    0.00
1992 CRP-Caderi         0.00    0.68   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.68  0.00    0.00
1994 Dalian Glass       19.36    2.40   0.00  36.89  19.36   2.40  0.00   36.89
1980/92 DENPASA            0.00    0.00   0.12   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.05    0.00
1998 Devnya Cement     29.98    0.00   0.00   0.00  23.22   0.00  0.00    0.00
1998 Dixie Toga         0.00   15.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  15.00  0.00    0.00
1999 Dujiangyan        25.59    0.00   0.00  30.00   0.00   0.00  0.00    0.00
1995 Dupont Suzhou     20.25    4.15   0.00  36.40  20.25   4.15  0.00   36.40
1987/96/97 Duratex          22.00    0.00   0.00  66.33  22.00   0.00  0.00   66.33
1994 Dynamic Fund       0.00   12.35   0.00   0.00   0.00  10.70  0.00    0.00
1997 Ecobank-Burkina    0.00    0.25   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.25  0.00    0.00
1999 Eliane            32.00    0.00  13.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00    0.00
1998 Empesca            5.00    0.00  10.00   0.00   5.00   0.00 10.00    0.00
1990 ENGEPOL            0.66    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.66   0.00  0.00    0.00
1994 Euromerchant FND   0.00    5.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   4.50  0.00    0.00
1998 Fosfertil         20.00    0.00   0.00  45.00  15.08   0.00  0.00   33.92
1998 Fras-le           10.00    0.00  10.00   0.00  10.00   0.00  6.70    0.00
1994 GAVEA              8.75    0.00   5.50   0.00   8.75   0.00  5.50    0.00
1995/96/98 Globocabo         0.00    9.91   0.00   0.00   0.00   9.91  0.00    0.00
1994 GP Capital         0.00   14.04   0.00   0.00   0.00  14.00  0.00    0.00
1997 Guilmana-Amorim    28.92    0.00   0.00  81.42  28.92   0.00  0.00   81.42
1999 Hansom             0.00   16.10   0.00   0.00   0.00  16.10  0.00    0.00
1998 Icatu Equity       0.00   30.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.80  0.00    0.00
1999 Innova SA         20.00    5.00   0.00  60.00   0.00   5.00  0.00    0.00
1996 Interlease Inc.    3.21    0.30   0.00   0.00   1.71   0.30  0.00    0.00
1980/87/97 Ipiranga         40.00    0.00   0.00 150.00  40.00   0.00  0.00  150.00
1996 Jingyang          40.00    0.00   0.00 100.00  40.00   0.00  0.00  100.00
2000 Kronospan Bulgar    12.62    0.00   0.00   9.08   8.22   0.00  0.00    5.91
1995 LATASA-Brazil    11.67    0.00   0.00   1.50  11.67   0.00  0.00    1.50
1998 Leshan Scana       6.10    1.35   0.00   0.00   3.50   1.35  0.00    0.00
1996/97 Lightel            0.00    8.17   0.00   0.00   0.00   8.17  0.00    0.00
1995 Lojas Americana   22.00    0.00   5.00  10.00  22.00   0.00  5.00   10.00
1993 Macedo Alimentos   9.04    0.00   5.00   0.00   9.04   0.00  5.00    0.00
1996 Mallory            6.55    0.00   0.00   0.00   6.55   0.00  0.00    0.00
1987/92/96 MBR               0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00    0.00



56
Held                      Disbursed
FY Approval     Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi Partic  Loan  Equity Quasi Partic
1996 NanjingKumho       11.68    3.81   0.00  33.22  11.68   3.81  0.00   33.22
1995 Newbridge Inv.     0.00    5.44   0.00   0.00   0.00   2.13  0.00    0.00
1997 Ningbo             0.00    2.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   2.00  0.00    0.00
1980/88 OPP                0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00    0.00
1997 Orient Finance     13.33    0.00   0.00  16.67  13.33   0.00  0.00   16.67
1975/96 OxitenoNE         20.00    0.00   0.00   0.00  20.00   0.00  0.00    0.00
1996 Pacific Ports      0.00    3.64   0.00   0.00   0.00   3.64  0.00    0.00
1994 Para Pigmentos    29.66    0.00   9.00  27.55  29.66   0.00  9.00   27.55
1992/94/97/98 Pecten Cameroon  45.47    0.00   0.00 144.00  17.46   0.00  0.00   55.29
1987/96 Perdigao          26.25    0.00   0.00  12.00  26.25   0.00  0.00   12.00
1982/84/86 PISA              0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00    0.00
1989/95 PolitenoInd.      11.69    0.00   0.00   0.00  11.69   0.00  0.00    0.00
1994 Portobello        10.93    5.00   0.00   0.00  10.93   5.00  0.00    0.00
1997 PTP Hubei          12.63    0.00   0.00  25.38  12.63   0.00  0.00   25.38
1994/97 PTP Leshan         3.60    0.00   0.00   0.00   3.60   0.00  0.00    0.00
2000 Puras               4.00    0.00   1.00   0.00   4.00   0.00  1.00    0.00
1998 Rabobank SHFC      2.03    0.00   0.00   2.03   2.03   0.00  0.00    2.03
1998 Randon             7.00    0.00   3.00   0.00   7.00   0.00  3.00    0.00
1995 Rhodiaco/PTA       17.50    0.00   0.00  15.00  17.50   0.00  0.00   15.00
1991 Rhodia-Ster        4.29    5.95   0.00   0.00   4.29   5.95  0.00    0.00
1990 Ripasa             1.43    5.00   0.00   0.00   1.43   5.00  0.00    0.00
1997 Rodovia           35.00    0.00   0.00  79.50  33.07   0.00  0.00   75.13
1994/96 S.A.I.C.C.         0.00    2.85   0.00   0.00   0.00   2.85  0.00    0.00
1994/95/97 Sadia            27.00    0.00   9.00 144.00  27.00   0.00  9.00  144.00
1997 Samarco            15.30    0.00   0.00  12.00  15.30   0.00  0.00   12.00
1998 Saraiva            15.00    3.00   0.00   0.00  15.00   3.00  0.00    0.00
1999 SEF Britagem        1.25    0.00   0.19   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00    0.00
1998 SGBB               0.00    0.38   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.38  0.00    0.00
1998 Shanghai Krupp    30.00    0.00   0.00  68.80   0.00   0.00  0.00    0.00
1993 Shenzhen PCCP      3.76    0.99   0.00   0.00   3.76   0.99  0.00    0.00
1997 Sofia Hilton      10.80    0.00   2.00   9.50   3.27   0.00  2.00    0.00
1987/97 SP Alpargatas     23.33    0.00   5.00   0.00  23.33   0.00  5.00    0.00
1997 Sucorrico         13.50    0.00   0.00   0.00  13.50   0.00  0.00    0.00
1995 Suzhou PVC        22.00    2.48   0.00  22.20  22.00   2.48  0.00   22.20
1998 Tecon Rio Grande   7.50    0.00   5.50  18.00   5.25   0.00  5.50   12.61
1996 TIGRE             21.15    0.00   5.00  14.95  21.15   0.00  5.00   14.95
1992/93 TRIKEM             0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00    0.00
1993 Votorantim        10.43    0.00   0.00   0.71  10.43   0.00  0.00    0.71
1999 Vulcabras         20.00    0.00   0.00   0.00  20.00   0.00  0.00    0.00
1996 Weihai Weidongri   4.13    0.00   0.00   0.00   4.13   0.00  0.00    0.00
1997 Wembley            0.00   10.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  10.00  0.00    0.00
1999 Wiest              9.00    0.00   8.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  8.00    0.00
1998 WIT                5.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00    0.00
1993 Yantai Cement      12.47    1.95   0.00   6.66  12.47   1.95  0.00    6.66
1998 Zhen Jing          0.00    2.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   2.00  0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        1134.31  249.82 111.69 1590.00 950.57 212.47 90.40 1308.98



57
ANNEX 7: IFC: APPROVALS PENDING COMMITMENT
Approvals Pending Commitment (In US$ Thousands)
FY Approval       Company           Loan    Equity  Quasi  Partic
1999 AutoBAn             35000        0      0  46000
1997 CTBC                35000        0      0 150000
1999 Cibrasec                0    7500       0       0
1998 Cima Hermosillo      7000        0      0       0
1998 FSA                 35000        0  10000  45000
2000 Fleury               9000        0   6000       0
1998 Fras-le                 0        0      0  15000
2000 Frutera              7000        0      0       0
1996 GlobocaboII             0        0      0  38000
1999 Growth Fund             0    5000       0       0
1998 Guinea Seguros          0  134.73       0       0
1999 Innovative HS           0        0   6250       0
2000 InverCap                 0    1000      0       0
1998 Ipiranga-RI 2           0   92.07       0       0
1999 JOSAPAR             13000        0   7000       0
1999 MBRLTDP             20000        0   5000 115000
1996 Oxiteno/Ethylo          0    5000       0       0
1998 Randon                  0        0      0  15000
2000 Rio Bravo           50000        0      0  65000
1997 SP Alpargatas II        0        0      0  30000
1997 Safari Intl.         2000      750      0       0
2000 Saltillo S.A.       35000        0      0  45000
1999 Saradar Equity          0      998      0       0
1998 Unibanco            40000        0      0 250000
1997 Unipak-Nile             0        0      0   5000
Total Pending Commitrnent:      288000 20474.8  34250 819000



58                                        ANNEX 8
Annex A2: Brazil at a glance
Latin    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Ameica   middle-    -......
Bjaj  B  & Carib.   ncomo       Development diamond
1998
Pooulabtion. mid-vear (millions)                       165.9        502       S88                  Life expectancy
GNP aer cooita (Atls meftOd, US$)                      4.570      3.940     4.860
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billons)                        758.0      1,978     2.862
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Populationr (%)                                          1.4        1.6        1.4
Labor force (%)                                          1.7        23        2.0      GNP                               Gross
EE                    ~~~     ~~per                      primary
Moat wrcent eatimte (laest year available, 11248) 1capita                                                             enrlment
Poverty (% of DoDulaefon below natfonal Dovertv line)    117
Urban oDulation (% of totalaoultffon)                     80        75         77
Life exDectancv at birth (vears)                          67         70        70
Infant mortalitv (Der 1O 0  ve birhs)                     34         32        27
Child malnutrition 1% of children under 5)                 6          a                          Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of pooulebton)                    69         75        79
Ilfiteracv(%oftooulationao&15+)                         i16          13        11
Gross primarv enroliment (% of school-aoe Poulonl i 7    123        1131      108           -Brazil
Male                                                    ..          .         .*              Upper-middleincome group
Female
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS biffions)                            176.2    294.1      820.4     750.8
Grossdomesticinvestrent/GDP                    221      22,3       21.3       21.2
Exports of goods and services/GDP               7.3      9.5        7.6       6.9                      Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     21.4     25.6       15.6       188
Gross natonal savings/GDP                      19.7     21.8       16.9       16.6
Current account balance/GDP                    -2.9     -0,5       -4.1      -4.7
Interest payments/GDP                           1.2      2.1        1.2        1.4     Domestic                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 23.9     40.7       23.6       28.2    Savings
Total debt service/exports                     42.5:   41,7        57,4       67.7
Presentvalueof debt/GDP                          ,.                22.5                                 v
Present value of debt/exports                    ..               277.4
Indebtedness
i19747  198-98       1997    :1998  11999'3
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   3.0       2.4      3.2        0.2        3 0               Brazil
GNP per capita                        0.5       0.5      1.9       -1.4       1.0                 Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and sevices         10.1       4.8      1.8        0.2       6,2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(X of GDP)                                                                            1
Agriculture                                    14.7     10.0        8.1        8.6    12T
Industry                                       38.6     45.9       35.2      37.5
Manufacturing                                29.3      32.0       22.8      243       4
Services                                       46.7     44.1       56.7       539    o     _      _____    _ 0
Private consumption                            69.2     62.3       63.2      68.5      4      93   94   55   96   97   98
General oovemmentconsumotion                    9.4     12.2       181        127                       GDI    -GDP
Imports of goods and services                   7.9      6.2       10.2        9.2
(average annual growth)                    197747  1988-98        1997       1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                     3.5      2.5        1.9        0.5     4
Industry                                        2.7      1.8        5.5        0.5
Manufacturing                                 2.3       0.7        3.8       0.5    20
Services                                        3.2      2.6        3.5        1.2
Private consumption                             3.6      5.3        2.4       -3.4                  9
General oovemment consumoton                    4.0     -1.5        8.0        214    95   96   97   98
Gross domestic investment                      -1.3      2.1        6.2        0.1    20
Imports of goods and services                  -2.6     13.4       13.9        8.9                    Exports   -*Imports
Gross national product                          2.7      2.0        3.3        0.0
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



59
Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987      1997      1998     Inflation (%)
Domestfc prices                                                                     3,000
(% change)
Consumer prices                                      228.3        6.9      2.7    2,000
Implicit GDP deffator                        46.2   204.1         7.8      0.0    1,0004
Govemment flnance                                                                      __
(% of GDP, includes cunent grants)                                                           93   94     95 9s        97   9a
Current revenue                                       10.4       18.6     21.2    a1,0m0 -
Current budget balance                                 -1.4      -1.8     -4.6              -     GDP deflator   CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                               -2.8       -2.7     -5.7
TRADE
1977     1987      1 1997      98     Export and import levels (USS millilons)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                 26,225     52,990    47,176    ao,000
Coffee                                              2,185     3,094     2,505
Soybeans                                            2,325     5,729     4,580    00,oo0
Manufactures                                       14,331    32,736    27,601
Total imports (d)                                   15,053    81,354    53,012    40,000
Food                                                 500      3,290     2,961            i      -L                -
Fuel and energy                               ,,   4,674      3,220     3,903      ,,3.000
Capital goods                                       3,958    26,232    25,282         o         O N   E S
Exoort orice index (1995=100)                           78        96        92            s2  93  94  Ds  9a  97  sa
lmDort Doce index (1995=100)                            81        95        84               *Exports     EIlmports
Terms oftrade (1995=100)                                97       101       108
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977     1987      1997      1998     Cunent account balance to GOP rato (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services              13,003   28,073     56,831    55,479    2 T
Imports of goods and services              14,646   17,749    74,147    70,517
Resource balance                           -1,643   10,324   -17,316   -15,038       0o
92 93 9
Net income                                 -3,469  -11,699   -18,331   -21,794
Netcurrenttransfers                             4      -43      2,216    1,886    -2
Current account balance                    -5,108   -1,418   -33,430   -34,946                          E     u-I
Finandng items (net)                        5,629      363    25,629    28,455
Changes in net reserves                      -521    1,055      7,801    8,491     4
Memo:
Reserves includina cold (US$ millions)      7.256    6.420    51.729    43.366
Conversion rate (DEC, locaUUSS)          5.14E-12  1.43E-8        1.1       1.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987      1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                      ComposIton of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       42,037  119,820    193,683   212,069                     6298
IBRD                                      1,371    9,384      5,743    6,298                           5310
IDA                                           0        0         0         0             49229               5284
Total debt service                          5,737   11,956     38,091    44,049                                   12844
IBRD                                        204    1,555      1,428     1,373
IDA                                           0        0         0         0
Comoosition of net resource flows
Official grants                               5       35        63        80
Official creditors                          415       10    -1,820    -2,571
Private creditors                         5,708     -690     19,890   -28,999
Foreign direct investment                 1,833    1,225     19,652    23,737
Portfolio equity                              0       78      5,300    -1,852                             133324
World Bank program
Commitments                                 319    1,394      1,104     1,291     A-IBRD                       E-Bilateral
Disbursements                               299      915      1,416     1,240     B - DA    D - Other multlateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                        101      887      1,049      995      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                   198       48       368       245
Interest payments                           104      688       380       378
Net transfers                                95    -841        -12      -133
Development Economics



