Document of
The World Bank                   FILE P CC?,47Y
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.2846-PO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORTUGAL
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
May 30, 1980
Industrial Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PORTUGAL
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Currency Equivalents                         Weights and Measures
Excep't where otherwise indicated,       1 metric ton (t) - 1,000 kilograms (kg)
all figures are quoted in US Dollars   1 metric ton (t) - 2,204 pounds (lb)
(US$) and Portuguese Escudos (Esc.)    1 kilometer (km) - 0.62 miles
Exchange rate as of December 1979:       1 kilogram  (kg) - 2.204 pounds (lb)
Esc. 1.0  - US$0.02                 1 hectare   (ha) - 2.47 acres
Esc. 47.5 - US$1.0
Esc. 1,000,000 - US$21,050
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
COMETNA    -   Companhia Metalurgica Nacional S.A.R.L.
C.P.       -   Caminho de Ferro (Portuguese National Railways)
EDP        -   Electricidade de Portugal (Electricity Company of
Portugal)
EEC        -   European Economic Community
EIB        -   European Investment Bank
FFE        -   Fundo de Fomento Exportacao (Fund for Export Development)
IAPMEI     -   Instituto de Apoio as Pequenas e Medias Empresas
(Institute for the support of small and medium enterprises)
INE        -   Instituto Nacional de Estatistica
(National Institute of Statistics)
IPE        -   Instituto dos Participacoes do Estado
(Institute for State Participation)
MFEP       -   Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MIT        -   Ministerio da Industria e Technologia
(Ministry of Industry and Technology)
OSHA       -   Occupational Safety and Health Administration (US)
PMU        -   Project Management Unit
SOREFAME   -   Sociedades Reunidas de Fabricacoes Metalicas S.A.R.L.
UGT        -   Uniao General de Trabalhadores
Esc.       -   Escudos
Kwh        -   Kilowatt hours
MW         -   Megawatts
tpy        -   tons per year
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Portugal )
IPE                     )
COMETNA                 )  January 1 to December 31
SOREFAME                )
Industrial Projects Department
May 1980



PORTUGAL                           FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   INTRODUCTION * .. ..............................***.*....t...............  1
II.   THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR AND THE ENGINEERING INDUSTRIES..               2
A.   The Manufacturing Sector             ...........................   2
B.   The Mechanical and Engineering Industries ....          ......    4
1.  Role in the Manufacturing Sector ....         ...........     4
2.  Structure, Composition and Development .........              4
3.  Problems and Prospects of Future Growth .... ....             6
C.   Project Relevance . ............... ..................            8
III.   THE HOLDING COMPANY AND THE BORROWERS             ...................    8
A.   IPE - The Holding Company ............  ..............             8
1.   Background ....................................             8
2.   Organization and Management             ....................  9
3.   Financial Structure                         .     .         10
B.   The Borrowers  ........                                  ....    10
1. COMETNA   . .................  10
2.  SOREFAME .. o ......oo ....................    14
IV.   THE MARKET   ....     .............        oooo .....o ....o ....    18
A.   Introduction ................              ..... ...........     18
B.   The Market for the Products ... .o..................    19
1.  Steel Castings . . .......   ..o .... . . ..     19
2.  Industrial Valves  .oo................              . . .    21
3.  Hydro-Power Generation Equipment ...         ........ ..    23
C.   Marketing and Sales Organization   .... .........                24
D.   Prices and Competitiveness . ...              .    .......       25
V.   THE PROJECT  ........  o        ..................o ....... o.    26
A.   Project Objectives and Scope            ............  o... ....    26
B.   Project Description         ....... .....   ...ooo ..... o    27
C.   Project Organization ........  ..... .... ..o .... ....... .     28
D.   Process, Technology and Licensing Agreements  ...  o.    29
This report was prepared by Messrs. Sethi, Sood and Nadkarni of the
Industrial Projects Department.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Continued)                                                  Page No.
E.   Location and Infrastructure ........................             29
F.   Ecology ............................................             29
G.   Raw Materials and Components .......................             30
H.   Employment, Training and Productivity ....          ..........   31
I.   Project Management and Implementation ..............             32
1.   Organization and Management ....          ...............  32
2.   Project Implementation Schedule ....          ...........  32
VI.   CAPITAL COSTS, FINANCING PLAN AND PROCUREMENT ....          .......    33
A.   Capital Costs ......................................             33
B.   Financing Plan .....................................             34
C.   Procurement and Retroactive Financing ....          ..........   36
D.   Allocation and Disbursement of Bank Loan ....         .......    37
VII.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ......................................              37
A.   Revenues and Operating Costs .......................             37
B.   Financial Projections ..............................             39
C.   Financial Rates of Return ..........................             40
D.   Break-even Analysis ................................             41
E.   Financial Covenants ................................             41
F.   Auditing and Reporting Requirements ......  I   .........        42
G.   Major Risks ........................................             42
VIII.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .......................................              43
A.   Economic Costs and Benefits ....           ....................  43
B.   Economic Rates of Return ...........................             43
C.   Foreign Exchange Savings and Other Benefits ... .....            45
IX.   AGREEMENTS       ........................  .......................    46
ANNEXES
3-1      IPE:  Summarized Financial Statements
3-2      COMETNA and SOREFANE:  Sales Performance since 1973
3-3      COMETNA:  Historical Financial Statements
3-4      COMETNA and SOREFAME:  Financial Assistance under Viability
Contracts and Additional Measures proposed by the Bank
3-5      COMETNA and SOREFAME:  Assumptions Used and Financial Projections
Without Project
3-6      SOREFAME:  Historical Financial Statements



- iii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES
5-1     General Layout of Steel Foundry
5-2     Layout of Valve Plant
5-3     General Layout of SOREFAME's Power Generation Equipment
Manufacturing Facilities
5-4     New Steel Foundry:  Organization Chart
5-5     New Valve Plant:  Organization Chart
5-6     COMETNA:  Project Management Unit
5-7     Project Implementation Schedule
6-1     Capital Cost Estimates
6-2     Financing Plan
6-3     Items to be Financed by the Bank
6-4     Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
7-1     Assumptions Used in Project Financial Projections
7-2     COMETNA Foundry:  Projected Income Statements
7-3     COMETNA Valve Plant:  Projected Income Statements
7-4     SOREFAME Hydro-Power Equipment Component:  Projected Income Statements
7-5     COMETNA Projected Financial Statements with Project
7-6     SOREFAME Projected Financial Statements with Project
8-1     Economic Return and Sensitivity Analysis
8-2     Domestic Resource Cost Measure Calculations
MAP IBRD 14812R - PORTUGAL: Location of Existing and New Facilities
of COMETNA and SOREFAME
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   Selected Reports and Studies on Subsector
Al.  "Market survey for steel castings in Portugal and selected foreign
countries", prepared by the consulting company, Entwicklungsberatung
GmbH, West Germany.
A2.  Study on Portuguese market of industrial valves in steel and iron
casting, prepared by consulting company, CODES, Portugal, on
behalf of SERI engineering company, France.
A3.  Preliminary report of an overall rationalization study in mechanical
industries of Portugal, prepared by consulting company, SICAI-TPL,
Italy.
A4.  "Industria Metalomecanica Pesada", a report on the heavy metallo-
mechanic sector 1975, 1977, prepared by Banco de Fomento Nacional.



- iv -
Table of Contents (Continued)
B.   Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Prolect
Bl. Initial feasibility study on new steel foundry, prepared by
Knight Wegenstein AG, Switzerland.
B2. Feasibility study of steel foundry, prepared by George Fischer AG,
Switzerland.
B3. Feasibility study of the valve subproject, prepared by SERI Renault
Engineering, France.
B4. Feasibility study of hydro-power generation equipment prepared
by SICAI-TPL, Italy.
C.   Selected Working Papers
Cl. Statistics on steel castings production, exports and imports.
C2. Market for hydro-power generation equipment in Portugal.
C3. Assumptions for working capital requirements.
C4.  Viability contracts for COMETNA and SOREFAME.
C5. Assumptions underlying financial projections.
C6. Miscellaneous statements relating to financial projections.
C7. Financial and economic return calculations.
Industrial Projects Department
May 1980



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Portugal has requested Bank assistance to finance
a project that would modernize and expand the facilities of two of Portugal's
leading mechanical engineering enterprises. The two state-controlled
enterprises -- Companhia Metalurgica Nacional, S.A.R.L. (COMETNA) and
Sociedades Reunidas de Fabricacoes Metalicas, S.A.R.L. (SOREFAME) -- like
several others have been hard hit by the disruptions following the country's
revolution in 1974, and to some extent, by the unfavorable changes in world
markets after 1973. In view of subsequent improvements in the capital goods
markets in Portugal and the potential of becoming competitive in export
markets, which are particularly important to Portugal in view of its likely
accession to the European Economic Community (EEC), the companies now face
improved market prospects. Their ability to take advantage of these prospects
is, however, impaired by their severely weakened financial situation and
facility limitations. To overcome these constraints and enhance the companies'
long-term competitiveness and profitabiliy, the Government has instituted
financial restructuring schemes to strengthen their financial position, and
the proposed Project is designed to supplement this effort by modernizing and
expanding their productive facilities.
1.02      The Project consists of three major components:  (i) the relocation
and expansion of COMETNA's steel foundry; (ii) the relocation and expansion of
COMETNA's valve plant; and (iii) the restructuring and expansion of SOREFAME's
hydro-power equipment manufacturing division. The increased output of steel
castings, valves, and hydro-power generation equipment would contribute to
both exports and import-substitution in line with established investment
priorities. The Project also includes components to support a comprehensive
study of the engineering subsector in Portugal and to introduce a pollution
control system to improve the working and environmental conditions in COMETNA's
existing foundry.
1.03      The proposed borrowers -- COMETNA and SOREFAME -  are majority-
Government-owned through the state holding company, Instituto dos Participacoes
do Estado (IPE). The Project components will be implemented, operated and
owned by the respective enterprises.
1.04      The total financing required for the Project is estimated at
US$89 million equivalent, of which US$52 million is in foreign exchange.
A Bank loan of US$44 million is proposed, and would cover 49% of the total
financing and 85% of the foreign exchange requirements of the Project.
Foreign exchange requirements in the amount of around US$6.8 million are
expected to be financed by foreign and local banks. The remaining financing
requirements (US$38.2 million including US$1.2 million in foreign exchange)
will be financed through equity contributions from the IPE/Government and
through loans from local banks.
1.05      The Project was initially identified in 1977 as part of the Bank's
work on manufacturing export industries (Report No. 1695a-PO, Manufacturing
Export Industries in Portugal, dated December 27, 1977). The Bank has played
an important role in the formulation and further development of the Project,
and provided inputs in its design which was carried out with the assistance of
Georg Fischer of Switzerland (for the steel foundry), SERI-Renault Engineering
of France (for the valve plant), and SICAI-TPL of Italy (for the hydro-power
equipment component). The Bank's involvement extended further into a study



of the four state-controlled enterprises in the heavy metalworking sector --
COMETNA, SOREFAME, EQUIMETAL and MOMPOR -- with a view to rationalizing the
activities of these large enterprises. The Project was preappraised in July
1979. It was appraised in November 1979 by Messrs. Sethi (Chief), Sood,
Nadkarni of the Industrial Projects Department, and Messrs. Cognet and Appleton
(Consultants).
II. THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR AND THE ENGINEERING INDUSTRIES
A.   The Manufacturing Sector
2.01      A detailed description of the Portuguese manufacturing sector
is given in the report entitled "Manufacturing Export Industries in Portugal"
(Report No. 1695a-PO, dated December 27, 1977). Current trends and prospects
were also reviewed in the report "An Updating Report of the Portuguese Economy"
(Report No. 2214-PO, dated September 7, 1978). Manufacturing is the leading
sector in the Portuguese economy and, in 1978, accounted for about 36% of
GDP, 24% of employment, 37% of total investment, and 70% 1/ of exports.
Manufacturing output grew at an average annual rate of around 11% between
1963-73, and led the rapid growth of the Portuguese economy during this
period. After 1973, the manufacturing industry was directly affected by the
fundamental changes in Portugal following the revolution, and to some extent
by the worldwide economic slowdown. Output increased only by 3% in 1974,
fell by 10% in 1975, before increasing by 4.5% in 1976 and by over 9% in 1977.
Growth slowed to 3.3% in 1978 as Portugal adopted stabilization measures
recommended by the IMF. In 1978, manufacturing output was only 10% higher
than in 1973.
2.02      The high growth during 1963-73 was concentrated in a relatively
small number of the large enterprises that enjoyed privileged access to credit
and to foreign technology, while the vast majority of small and medium enter-
prises were given little assistance and few incentives to modernize and expand.
The growth was also attributable'to low wages, low prices of raw materials
and energy, preferential markets for Portuguese exports in the former colonies
and protective tariffs. The resulting industrial structure proved particularly
vulnerable following the 1974 revolution. On the demand side, markets in the
former colonies were at least temporarily lost. The world economic slowdown
and sluggish demand in Western Europe also made it an extraordinarily unfavor-
able time to develop new foreign markets. In the domestic market, the redis-
tribution of income following the revolution meant less demand for products
geared to upper-middle class consumption.
2.03      On the supply side, immediately after the revolution labor relations
deteriorated sharply resulting in strikes, absenteeism, lock-outs and indis-
cipline in a number of factories. With the sharp rises in Portuguese wages,
controlled domestic prices and little adjustment of the exchange rate till
1976, industrial profits fell sharply. Many firms suffered severe losses which
could only be compensated through the liberal provision of credit through the
banking system. These losses could not be reduced through a reduction in the
1/  If wines and processed food are included the share of exports would
increase to around 80%.



labor force because of the very restrictive laws on dismissals. When demand
revived, entrepreneurs were not willing to add new workers however, for fear of
another profit squeeze, and an inability in such a situatioan to release the
newly hired labor. In some instances there was also the fear that any enlarge-
ment of the labor force would shift the balance within the factory more towards
control by trade unions.
2.04      Post-revolution developments also significantly altered the owner-
ship structure of industry. Prior to the revolution, industrial companies,
with the exception of armaments producers were all in the private sector.
Within one year of the revolution, the Government nationalized banks, insurance
companies, power companies, the major transportation agencies and the large
industrial groups in the steel, oil refining, chemicals, cement, ship-building,
tea and tobacco industries. The Government also, directly and indirectly,
acquired shareholdings in over 1,300 companies, as a result of its national-
ization actions. The state administration had initially neither the expe-
rience nor the organizational mechanisms to deal with this new sector of the
economy. Confusion and uncertainty prevailed in both the public 1/ and private
sectors. To compensate for the resulting sluggishness of private investment,
the Government in 1976 embarked on an ambitious program of public investment in
industry, mostly concentrated in the SINES industrial zone. It also initiated
a number of measures to restore confidence in the private sector.
2.05      Legislation passed in July 1977 defined the armaments, petroleum,
petrochemical, iron and steel, fertilizers, and cement industries as basic
national industries reserved to the public sector. The private sector, on the
other hand, was free to invest in all other industries. The Government also
committed itself not to undertake further nationalization, and established
the necessary organization and mechanisms for dealing with its newly acquired
ownership in industry. The foreign investment law was revised providing
greater assurance to foreign investors. The laws on labor dismissal were
eased. Finally, to solve the problem of the heavy debt burden facing public
and private companies, legislation pertaining to their economic-financial
rehabilitation was enacted. Under this legislation, which is implemented
through viability contracts, an'economically viable yet financially troubled
enterprise may obtain consolidation of its old debts, new loans at subsidized
rates and other financial and fiscal benefits by committing itself to certain
production, productivity and financial targets. These actions together with
other measures have brought about a slow recovery of confidence in the private
sector. The results have also been generally positive in the public sector
reflecting considerable improvements in managerial capabilities and increased
stability in the country.
2.06      Industry will clearly remain the leading sector in Portugal's future
growth. The restructuring of the Portuguese economy requires a rapid recovery
and expansion of manufactured exports along with vast improvements in agricul-
tural productivity. By 1985, Portugal is likely to be a member of the EEC. It
must by then substantially improve the productivity of its industrial sector to
enable it to withstand competition from other producers within the community
and also take advantage of the new markets resulting from membership in the
I/   According to the Government classification, the "public sector", com-
prises only public enterprises in which the State has 100% ownership.
Companies in which the State is either a majority or minority share-
holder are registered as "private".



EEC. Recent measures have brought positive results; manufactured exports in
1978 increased by 21% in dollar terms, and again accelerated in 1979.
2.07      Portugal is well-situated to utilize its comparative advantage in
terms of natural resources (such as forestry inputs for manufacturing), in
the availability of labor and engineering skills at still relatively low
costs, and a geographical location affording easy access to markets in Western
Europe, North Africa and the Middle East. However, continued increases in
manufactured exports will depend crucially on further Government measures to:
(i) improve the investment climate; (ii) enable financial and organizational
restructuring of troubled enterprises; (iii) encourage financing of export-
oriented investment; (iv) stabilize management-labor union relations; (v)
further strengthen existing incentive systems to encourage exports; and (vi)
provide assistance to enterprises to expand their technological capabilities.
The mechanical and engineering industries, which account for around a quarter
of all manufactured exports, will be particularly important in this regard.
B.   The Mechanical and Engineering Industries
1.   Role in the Manufacturing Sector
2.08      The mechanical and engineering industries, hereinafter called the
engineering industries, represent the leading subsector in Portugal's manu-
facturing sector, and their role has been consistently growing in importance.
The subsector is defined to include metal products (including fabricated
products), non-electric machinery, electrical equipment/components and trans-
port equipment/components. The subsector accounts for around 20% of employ-
ment, 18% of production and 28% 1/ of exports in manufacturing. While the
subsector is an important part of the manufacturing sector, its share therein
is less significant than in other countries in the EEC, thus implying a lower
level of engineering development. This is also reflected in the high share
of engineering product imports (52%) in the total domestic consumption of
engineering products (para. 2.10).
2.   Structure, Composition and Development
2.09      The subsector is characterized by a large number of small enter-
prises. Of a total of about 1,200 in 1977, over 70% are small enterprises
which employ less than 50 people, around 10% employ 50-100 people, around
18.5% employ 100-1,000 people, and only about 1.5% (or 18 enterprises) have
a labor force of over 1,000. The large enterprises dominate the plant
equipment and machinery manufacturing activity and account for a significant
portion of the output in the transport categories. The ownership of the
subsector reflects significant Government control, particularly of the larger
enterprises. Following the revolution, the Government nationalized the ship-
building industry into 100% Government-owned public companies and acquired a
controlling interest in four of the other large engineering enterprises.
Within the subsector, transport equipment/components, primarily comprised of
the shipbuilding and repair and automobile manufacture and assembly industries,
account for the greatest share of the subsector (41% of production), followed
by electrical equipment/components (24%), metal products (23%) and non-electric
machinery (12%).
2.10      The development of the subsector in the 1970s is illustrated in the
following table. The real growth rates have been markedly lower after the 1974
1/   If wines and processed foods are included, export share would drop to 24%.



revolution in line with the performance of the Portuguese economy, as discussed
earlier (paras. 2.01-2.03). While comparable figures are not available for
1978, other data indicate a real production growth of around 2%, in line with
the overall slowdown of the manufacturing sector.
PORTUGAL: Development of Engineering Industries
(Current Prices: Esc. million)
Average Annual
Growth Rate %
1971    1973    1976   1977   1971-73 1973-77
Employment a/ (000s)                91.2    97.7   114.2   120.8        7.0    5.4
Production  (A)                    15,430  25,109  43,280  63,900   27.6   26.3
Value-added (B)                     6,467  11,353  20,635  27,923   32.5   25.2
Exports a/  (C)                     5,122   7,224   9,312  14,927   41.0   19.9
Imports a/  (D)                    21,893  25,445  34,768  52,776   16.2   20.0
Index of Home & Import Prices         100      117      202     278    8.0   24.2
Value-added/Production              0.42    0.45    0.48    0.44
Import Ratio (D/(A+D-C))             -       0.59    0.51    0.52
a/   1972 figure substituted for 1971 (for which comparable data is not
available).  Accordingly 1972-73 growth rate substituted for the
1971-73 rate.
Source:   MIT, Instituto Nacional de Estatistica (INE).
2.11      Exports and Imports:  The exports and imports of the three major
categories of engineering goods are shown in the following table:
PORTUGAL: Trade in Engineering Goods
(Current Prices: US$ million)
Average Annual
Growth Rate %
1963  1973  1976  1977   1978  1963-73  1973-76 1976-78
Imports
Non-electric Machinery    84    433   480    626   714   17.8            3.5      22.0
Electrical Machinery        38    189   263    260   311   17.4         11.6       8.7
Transport Equipment         54    360   323    415   416   20.9         (3.5)    13.5
Total                 176    982 1,066  1,301 1,441   18.8          2.8     16.3
Exports
Non-electric Machinery       7      79    57      90    78   27.4    (10.3)    17.0
Electric Machinery           5    122   119    139   163   37.6         (0.8)    17.0
Transport Equipment          2      44    53      71    88   36.2        6.4      28.9
Total                  14    245   229    300   329   33.1         (2.2)    19.9
Source:   UN International Trade Statistics.
The interruption in the high growth of exports between 1973-76 was partly
attributable to the loss of markets in the former colonies. The share of
former colonies in the export of machinery and transport equipment declined
from 22% in 1973 to around 5% in 1976. The return to increased stability in
Portugal and an improved climate is illustrated in the strong growth of exports



- 6 -
after 1976. For the engineering industries as a whole export volume growth in
1978 was around 8%, and provisional data indicate strong performance in 1979.
2.12      An analysis of the exports and imports shows the Portuguese engi-
neering subsector's dependence on other countries at the upper end of tech-
nology. Exports are generally limited to standard machine tools and rela-
tively simple industrial machinery, office machines, electrical switchgear
and electro-mechanical telecommunications equipment, components and interme-
diates such as castings, transport equipment (primarily ships and boats) and
some heavy engineering goods such as power-generation equipment components.
The technology limitations are further illustrated by the growing dependence
on imports of industrial machinery despite numerous incentives for import-
substitution. Portugal is well-suited to capitalize on its available pool of
engineering manpower and experienced manufacturing workforce. While costs of
these elements have risen since 1973, the increases have been kept below the
levels of domestic inflation, and the costs, even after allowing for lower
productivity, remain low relative to other industrialized countries. Material
inputs, while primarily imported, are generally available at prices in line
with prevailing international levels. The potential for increased exports
exists both in the areas where exports have been strong traditionally and,
with additional technological and other support, in heavy engineering goods of
a custom or jobbing nature, where the engineering and labor content is high.
2.13      Financial Performance and Recent Measures:  The general conditions
prevailing in Portugal in the years following the revolution, have adversely
affected the financial performance of the enterprises in the engineering
industry, as also in other industries in the manufacturing sector. The
deterioration of their financial structure between 1973-76 is discussed below
based on an aggregate of 12 of the largest companies 1/ in the subsector.
During that period, the companies' profitability plunged sharply with the
return on equity declining from 11% to -33%, and the reliance on debt to
finance increases in assets (primarily, working capital) increased from 67% to
90%. Together these factors weakened an originally remarkably strong capital
structure (65% equity in 1973) to marginal levels (29% equity in 1976), with
four of the companies depleting their equity entirely through accumulated
losses. Financial charges which nearly tripled as a proportion of the value of
production in this period have continued to increase; for four of the largest
companies, financial charges in 1978 averaged 18% of the value of production.
2.14      Along with other industries, the subsector has begun to benefit from
measures undertaken by the Government to improve the future prospects of the
manufacturing sector; financially, the most significant of these is the viability
contract legislation enacted in 1977 and expanded in 1979 (para. 2.05). As
implementation proceeds, the financial situation of companies in the subsector
and in manufacturing as a whole can be expected to improve significantly.
3.   Problems and Prospects of Future Growth
2.15      Portugal has a long-standing experience in the engineering indus-
tries. The industry has well-established manufacturing skills but continues
to rely heavily on other countries at the sophisticated engineering and
technology level (para. 2.12). As public investment programs, particularly
in the nationalized industries, are again intensified, the domestic market
1/   After 1976, these have been consolidated into 10 companies, and in 4 of
these the Government holds a controlling interest.



- 7 -
for engineering products can be expected to expand rapidly. To effectively
compete in this market and avail of increased export opportunities, partic-
ularly in view of Portugal's likely accession to the EEC, the engineering
industry needs to be developed further. Given proper support, the industry's
output and exports can be expected to grow at a much faster rate than manufac-
turing as a whole. The Government has already adopted a number of measures to
provide such support (para. 2.05), but a number of weaknesses specific to the
engineering subsector and relevant to all industry remain, as discussed below.
2.16      The engineering industry has received little attention as subsector.
There is no single entity within the Government responsible for formulating
policy and development plans for the subsector; policies and plans, except
where prepared on an ad-hoc basis, are virtually non-existent. As a first
step in coordinating the future development of the subsector and formulating a
coherent set of policies, a clear delineation of responsibility and a detailed
subsector study are vital. A start has already been made with a study for
rationalizing the development of the heavy engineering activity in the state-
controlled enterprises (para 1.05) as part of the preparation of the proposed
Project. Also a limited review of the subsector is understood to be underway.
However, a comprehensive review and planning exercise has not yet been con-
ducted. The Government has agreed that a comprehensive sub-sector study with
recommendations for formulation of policies/incentives will be completed and
submitted to the Bank for an exchange of views by December 1981, and that
agreed recommendations will be implemented promptly thereafter. The framework
of the terms of reference and the general time schedule for such a study
have also been agreed to.
2.17      In the context of such a study, the following areas merit particular
attention:
(i) Export Promotion: While export prospects for the engineering sub-
sector are generally favorable (para. 2.12), their development will require
additional support in the form of market-intelligence and related marketing
services. Such services are available on a limited scale through the Export
Development Fund (Fundo de Fomento Exportacao-FFE). Also, export incentives
available to Portuguese industry need to be reexamined. A recent Bank loan
included a component for extensive study of export promotion measures, includ-
ing joint export-marketing and incentives (Report 2312-PO entitled Small and
Medium Scale Industry Development Project, dated April 24, 1979, paras. 5.26
to 5.28). Further, many heavy manufacturing activities in this subsector
require special export incentives such as working capital financing (in view
of long production lead times) and additional support such as favorable export
sales financing in order to be internationally competitive;
(ii) Institutional Mechanisms: As noted earlier (para. 2.16), there is
no subsector-specific entity at the Government level capable of coordinating
the development of this subsector. Technical assistance to Portuguese industry
is provided primarily by the Institute for the support of Small and Medium
Enterprises (IAPMEI), and IPE, the Institute of State Participation which
oversees the operations of companies in which the State has an ownership
interest. These institutions have been established after 1974, and they
are yet to reach an adequate level of effectiveness in dealing with the full
range of their responsibilities. These existing institutions need to be
strengthened, and supplemented.
(iii) Technological Support. Support to the engineering industry to
enable it to upgrade existing technological levels is vital to its further



- 8 -
development, particularly with regard to exports.   The above-mentioned recent
Bank loan included a component for assistance in this area directed to specific
industries relevant to small and medium enterprises (Report No. 2312-PO, paras.
5.20 to 5.25). Future efforts should include assistance to the engineering
subsector. Such assistance to strengthen technological support to industry
will also promote the further development of supplying industries thus
reducing the dependence on imports of components. In addition, financial or
tax incentives to promote in-house technical development activity need closer
assessment; and
(iv) Management Development: Portugal's industrial enterprises were, in
the past, characterized by centralized control by their owners with little
attention to management systems. The management situation was worsened with
the dramatic disruptions and discontinuity following the revolution, parti-
cularly in enterprises where the State acquired control.   The areas deserving
the most urgent attention within management are long-term planning, accounting
and control, marketing, production-planning and management. While MIT has
recently expanded its training programs with Bank support (Education Project,
Report No. 1807-PO, paras. 2.22 to 2.25), and IAPMEI and IPE have made a start
with some management education programs, a much larger effort will be required
in the future.
2.18      Finally, as noted previously, the further development of the engi-
neering subsector will crucially depend on Government measures to improve the
investment climate and future prospects of manufacturing as a whole (para. 2.07).
C.   Project Relevance
2.19      The proposed Project represents a significant investment in the
further development of the engineering subsector in Portugal. It will assist
in the modernization and expansion of two of the leading companies in the
subsector in which the State has a controlling interest. The investment is
directed to the expansion of exports (and import substitution) relying pri-
marily on the availability of low cost engineering skills and trained labor,
improved productivity, and the companies' long-standing experience in their
respective fields. Technical assistance components are included to promote
acquisition and adaptation of new technologies, and to improve marketing
and other management capabilities. The Bank has played a prominent role in
the preparation and formulation of the Project (para. 1.05). A start has
also been made in strengthening IPE, to better fulfill its role of overseeing
state-controlled enterprises under its purview, particularly with regard to
project development and management. Funds are also being provided to enable
the Government to undertake further studies to assist in planning, policy
formulation and the identification of promising development opportunities
within the subsector. The Project should go a long way in improving future
prospects of the two companies, and serve as a model for similar investments
and financial restructuring in other enterprises in this subsector and else-
where in industry.
III. THE HOLDING COMPANY AND THE BORROWERS
A.   IPE -  The Holding Company
1.   Background
3.01      The Project was initiated by the Instituto dos Participacoes do
Estado (IPE). IPE was established in 1976 to manage the State's shareholdings



-9-
in about 300 of the 1,300 companies in which the State acquired majority
or minority ownership following the nationalizations since 1974, remaining
companies being assigned on a sectoral basis to other Government agencies.
IPE's main functions are the following: (i) management of the State share-
holdings in various companies; (ii) implementation of national economic plans
and policies for particular industrial subsectors; (iii) supervision of the
management of the acquired companies, and nomination of managers in cases
where IPE has a controlling interest; (iv) coordination of activities between
its subsidiary companies and other public enterprises; (v) assistance to its
companies in management training and in carrying out necessary economic and
financial studies; and (vi) promotion and implementation of new projects.
3.02      In carrying out its functions, IPE's strategy is to maintain
effective control over the companies in which it participates, to keep them
financially viable and whenever possible, to encourage private investors as
minority partners in the companies under its jurisdiction. The Government
and IPE determined in July 1979 that only about 65-70 of the over 300 com-
panies initially assigned to IPE should form the core group under IPE, with
the remainder to be transferred to sector agencies. COMETNA and SOREFAME, the
borrowers of the proposed Bank loan, along with about 8-9 other companies in
the engineering industries subsector form a part of this core group under IPE.
IPE has majority ownership in about two-thirds of these companies including
in COMETNA (92%) and SOREFAME (74%). While COMETNA and SOREFAME will be the
actual borrowers, IPE will closely monitor the implementation of the Project.
2.   Organization and Management
3.03      IPE is an autonomous public company responsible primarily to the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MFEP). IPE's principal management
organs are the General Council, the Board of Directors, and the Auditing
Committee. The General Council consists of representatives of the principal
economic ministries, central and regional planning councils, trade unions, and
of the companies under IPE's jurisdiction. The President of the Council is an
MFEP representative. The General Council meets every six months; it examines
and approves IPE's multi-annual and annual plans of activity and reviews IPE's
annual budget and other periodic operational reports. The Board of Directors
consists of a Chairman and a number of directors appointed by the Council of
Ministers on the recommendation of MFEP. A new Chairman has been appointed
recently to succeed the previous incumbent who has completed his terms of 3
years. The new Chairman has held several responsible positions in Portugal
under previous administrations and is well regarded as a capable and effective
administrator. The Board meets at least once a week; it has been granted
adequate operational powers to ensure a smooth and effective discharge of
IPE's functions. The Auditing Committee consists of a chairman and two
members appointed by MFEP. Its main functions are to oversee compliance with
applicable laws and regulations, monitor values of assets and liabilities, and
decide on major accounting issues.
3.04      In line with the growth of its activities, IPE's staffing has
increased to about 90 persons. IPE has three departments in charge of sub-
sidiary companies including one department recently created for overseeing
its subsidiaries in the engineering industries subsector. In relation to
the expanded range of its activities, IPE's staffing is still not adequate.
Assurances have been obtained that, as regards the Project, IPE will further
strengthen the implementation, monitoring, control and liaison apparatus



- 10 -
through the establishment and adequate staffing by October 1980 of a Project
Monitoring Unit specifically for the Project (para. 5.19).
3.   Financial Structure
3.05      IPE equity capital is entirely owned by the Government.  It can
be increased or reduced only by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning.
Other sources of funds available to IPE include income from its investments
in various companies, and fees that IPE is allowed to charge for various
management and auditing services. In addition, IPE can raise funds by issuing
fixed or variable income bonds and can also negotiate loans in national or
foreign currency, in some instances through a special decree of the Ministry
of Finance and Economic Planning.
3.06      IPE's summarized financial results for 1977 and 1978 are shown
in Annex 3-1. Performance improved in 1978 mainly due to a sharp increase
in IPE's income from its participations in affiliated companies. Provisional
results for 1979 (net income of about Esc. 34 million) submitted by IPE show
a continuing improvement in profits. Pending the finalization of the core
group of companies under IPE (para. 3.02), it has not so far initiated an
indepth evaluation of its portfolio of investments. IPE has agreed to engage
independent auditors to complete such an evaluation by December 1981.
B.   The Borrowers
1.   COMETNA
3.07      Background:  COMETNA was founded in 1898 as a small mechanical
workshop. It presently owns and operates the largest steel foundry in Portugal
in addition to a cast iron foundry, a metal-working plant and a valve plant.
COMETNA's principal products together with the main consuming industries are:
(i) railways - bogies, wheels, brake cylinders and track equipment; (ii) cement
industry - grinder shanks, paving slabs and assorted equipment; (iii) steel
plants - rolling mills, rolling-mill cylinders and ingot molds; (iv) stone
quarries and mines - crushers, jaws and hammers; (v) chemical and petrochemical
plants - valves; and (vi) power plants - components for hydraulic and steam
turbines. COMETNA has a well-established reputation in Portugal for the
technical quality of its castings and valves and has been successful in
exporting a substantial part of its production (para. 4.07). The Company has
a number of technical licenses from firms in the US, the Federal Republic of
Germany, UK and Italy for the production of equipment for the cement, steel,
railroad, and power generation industries.
3.08      Until 1975, COMETNA belonged to a group of companies controlled
by Mr. Alfredo Alves, a prominent Portuguese entrepreneur. Following its
nationalization in 1975 and the establishment of IPE in 1976, the latter
now holds 92% of COMETNA's share capital of Escudos 246 million (US$5.2
million equivalent). The remaining 8% is held by MAGUE (a prominent Portuguese
private sector undertaking manufacturing thermal power and other industrial
equipment) and by the Alves family.
3.09      Organization and Management:  Under Mr. Alfredo Alves, COMETNA's
management structure was highly centralized. Following nationalization, Mr.
Alves left Portugal and COMETNA also lost a large number of its top and middle
managers. The situation was further exacerbated, up to May 1979, by the sub-
sequent rapid turnover of key personnel, at both the Board and lower levels
of management resulting in a lack of management direction. The Company



- 11 -
suffered significant losses between 1976-78 (paras. 3.14-3.15) and management
and labor morale declined progressively due to the increasing uncertainty
about the Company's future prospects. In May 1979, IPE replaced COMETNA's top
management and the new team has initiated several organizational and operational
changes to improve COMETNA's operations. These changes along with the restored
confidence in the Company's future in light of the proposed Project investment
in the steel foundry and valve plant and the finalization of the financial
assistance measures under the viability contract (para. 3.16) have signifi-
cantly revitalized management morale and enthusiasm. Earlier difficulties in
attracting qualified personnel have been resolved with recent improvements in
COMETNA's compensation package and in its future prospects.
3.10      The Company's current organization chart is given on the following
page and represents a substantial improvement over the previous situation in
terms of defining specific responsibilities. COMETNA's present Board of
Directors consists of five members all of whom are nominated by IPE and have
operational responsibilities in the Company's management. COMETNA's present
Chairman is a competent individual, with substantial experience in the foundry
industry in Portugal. Several of the other Board members also have substan-
tial experience in the functional areas they supervise in the Company. The
middle management situation has improved substantially and COMETNA has, for
instance, recently hired qualified persons to reinforce its finance, account-
ing and other departments. COMETNA's management has also initiated steps to
reinforce the production, finance and marketing functions through the estab-
lishment of appropriate production planning, cost and divisional accounting,
and management information reporting systems. The Company is currently
exploring with a reputed US software firm the introduction of suitable
computer-based packages for accounting and management information reporting
purposes. Assurances have been obtained that the progress in these areas
especially in pricing policy, will be annually reviewed with the Bank till
Project completion.
3.11      Manufacturing Facilities and Employment:  COMETNA's principal manu-
facturing facilities are the following: (i) steel foundry (5,000 tpy capacity)
and iron foundry (10,000 tpy) in Amadora 1/; (ii) valve plant (3,000 units per
year) in Lisbon; and (iii) machine shop (400,000 man-hours per year), forge
(3,000 tpy) and fabrication shop (120,000 man-hours per year) in Palmela 1/.
The combined annual capacity is estimated to amount to a production value of
US$27.8 million in 1979 US$ terms.
3.12      Details of the specific equipment at these plants are available
in the Project files. Most of COMETNA's equipment at the foundries in
Amadora (thickly populated suburban Lisbon) and the valve plant in Lisbon,
and to a lesser extent, at Palmela (50 km southeast of Lisbon), is old,
some of the facilities being in use for over 20 years. The layout of the
two foundries does not permit convenient installation of equipment, leading
to problems in material flow and handling. Further, the ventilation, lighting
and pollution control systems are less than adequate, thereby affecting work
conditions and productivity. The Project will significantly contribute to
an upgrading of COMETNA's steel castings facilities and also create better
working and environmental conditions in the iron foundry.
3.13      COMETNA currently employs around 1,900 personnel of which, about 54%
are in Amadora, 26% in Palmela, and the remaining 20% in Lisbon. There are
two main labor unions, Intersindical and UGT. The membership of Intersindical,
1/   Map, IBRD 14812R.



- 12 -
COMETNA: CURRENT ORGANIZATION
Board of Di ret r l
I
Prnidont
(M CGideiral
Now Proifs          I 
Iand Ctrwlot=D,t                   Public Rebvion
.in4~~~~~~Scrfmla
|  OrganiDtion  l     H=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P.on.
| Board Mebe ;;30 B      Mrtmb r    Bor = obe ;7 1 |  ord Member  l l 3aowd Mmbrwrtt 
(T~ Pintol       (P.-a JII       (M. Caldeirs)     IF. Faita        ( M. Morm)} 
I Meral Woricig;     Dvsion for Oormn  Lisbon  A Arator; t5w1   Firinnes 8urget  j Hurnan  
| artge Prozrt  o   oel  Vaha, Plant  landt lmeon Founeirin  |  and Pur chaung.    Resoutras i
Str|                                                      Aounting"  |  -nn
r  Adm  and   |  [  Adm   nd   |   <  Aam  and  l   l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:an
Int.emai Serwicus Onivl
is drawn mainly from the plant workers (about 1,700) whereas most administra-
tive and clerical staff (about 200) are members of UGT. After initial friction
following the revolution in 1974, labor-management relations have been fairly
stable in recent years. COMETNA's skilled labor is competent and the quality
of the Company's castings and valves has consistently been remarkably high
despite the constraints imposed by the old and worn-out equipment, past lack
of adequate middle management, and the unsatisfactory working conditions in
the foundries which have led to some absenteeism for health reasons. Improve-
ments in labor productivity from the present low level are expected, however,
following the establishment of the new steel foundry and the improvement of
working environment conditions in the existing iron foundry (paras. 5.01,
5.15) and the consequent expected reduction in absenteeism.
3.14     Past Sales Performance:  COMETNA's sales performance since 1973 is
shown in Annex 3-2. The Company's sales-mix continues to be diversified. In
1979, the steel, cement, and ceramics industries accounted for around 32% of
the total sales of around US$18.7 million equivalent. Rail and track equipment
accounted for 19%; the remainder was diversified across a number of uses.



- 13 -
Exports accounted for 22% of sales. The share of exports in total sales
declined between 1974 and 1977 reflecting the loss of Portugal's colonial
markets after 1974 and the difficult conditions in international markets after
1973. However, export sales have increased substantially since then, to about
22% of total sales in 1979 mainly on account of sharp increases in exports of
castings.
3.15      Past and Present Financial Situation:  COMETNA's financial perform-
ance since 1970 is summarized in the following table. Details are given
in Annex 3-3. Under a recently introduced Decree Law, certain Portuguese
companies including COMETNA are required to have an annual audit of their
financial situation carried out in specified detail. COMETNA has agreed to
have such an audit undertaken expeditiously.
COMETNA: Summarized Financial Statements
1970   1972   1974   1976   1977   1978           1979
---------------unaudited---------------   (provisional)
Production (Current
Esc. million) a/      326    421    739    723    810    858             990
Sales (Current Esc.
million) a/            268    370    525    785    685    853             890
Ratios
Net Income (Loss)/
Sales (%)             2.2    0.1      -    (4.6) (19.4) (20.2)         (24.1)
Interest/Sales (%)      4.5    5.1    4.8    5.3   10.8   18.8            20.2
Labor Costs/Value
of Production (%)   30.2   32.8   29.9   40.1   42.5   44.8            45.8
Debt: Equity Ratio   81:19  82:18  76:24   -ve    -ve    -ve              -ve
a/   The difference between production and sales figures reflects annual
changes to inventories and production not directed to sales, e.g.
for maintenance and repairs.
3.16      In line with the experience of other companies in the engineering
industries subsector, the progressive deterioration in CDMETNA's financial
performance resulted from four basic causes. First, the loss of Portugal's
colonies deprived COMETNA of some of its major traditional markets (para.
2.11) in conjunction with the standstill in domestic investment. Second,
labor costs increased substantially due to the social pressures in Portugal
consequent to the revolution in 1974. Third, COMETNA, in view of cash losses
from operations, was forced to increasingly resort to short-term borrowings to
meet its funds needs. Together with the steep rise in interest rates since
1977 which, moreover, were applied retroactively to existing debt as well,
this led to substantially higher interest charges than could have been foreseen
by the Company. Fourth, COMETNA's pricing of its products did not adequately
cover the rapidly increasing costs of operation, including the high interest
charges. In early 1979, the Portuguese Government initiated discussion of a
viability contract (para. 2.05) for COMETNA aimed at the Company's financial
rehabilitation. The initial draft viability contract had to be revised as
COMETNA's estimated losses in 1979 were higher than envisaged. The Bank re-
viewed the proposed revised contract and recommended to the Portuguese Govern-



- 14 -
ment that additional financial measures were essential to lay the basis for
making COMETNA a viable operation in the future. The Bank's principal
recommendations concern additional cash equity, conversion of long-term debt
into equity, rescheduling of debt repayment, and additional interest subsidies.
Details of the measures under the viability contract with supplemental
measures to be undertaken by IPE are given in Annex 3-4. The contract was
approved by the Government in April 1980. Execution of the contract is
proposed as a condition for effectiveness of the loan. Implementation of the
contract measures is expected to significantly strengthen COMETNA's financial
situation and alleviate the burden arising from the high interest charges.
Further, recent steps to improve overall operations (paras. 3.09-3.10), to
increase prices (para. 4.24) and the proposed Project investment are expected
to provide the basis for the future profitability of COMETNA.
3.17      Financial Projections:  Based on the above, financial projections
have been prepared for the Company's current operations (without taking into
account the impact of the Project), and are summarized in Annex 3-5, along
with the assumptions and methodology underlying these projections (Projections
incorporating the Project are presented later in para. 7.05). The expected
improvement in COMETNA's financial performance in 1980 as compared to 1979 is
largely the result of the real increase in prices in late 1979 and the improved
order book and the implementation of some financial restructuring measures.
This in turn relies on increased capacity utilization and productivity which
are deemed feasible in view of the management and labor improvements (paras.
3.09-3.10). The financial restructuring measures and the recent actions and
plans of the new management team are expected to contribute significantly to
turning around the financial performance of the Company. This will provide a
viable financial base in the existing operations for the implementation of the
new investments proposed under the Project.
2.   SOREFAME
3.18      Background:  SOREFAME was established in 1943 as a manufacturer
of hydroelectric and irrigation equipment. It is the largest private sector
(as defined in para. 2.04) enterprise in the engineering industries subsector
and, in 1976, was among the top 10 enterprises in Portugal in terms of number
of employees. SOREFAME's principal products are: hydromechanical equipment
such as gates, penstocks, and related equipment; electromechanical equipment
such as turbines and generators for hydroelectric power stations; equipment
for the chemical and petrochemical industries like pressure vessels, spherical
tanks, and heat exchangers; railway passenger coaches and locomotives; and
steel structures like bridges and metallic frames. The Company has licences
from reputed firms in the US, France, UK and the Federal Republic of Germany
for manufacture of hydromechanical, railway and chemical equipment. SOREFAME
has been exporting a substantial proportion (35% in 1978) of its production
since 1949, especially hydro-mechanical equipment where it has an established
reputation. The Company also has subsidiaries in Brazil and South Africa
which it has licensed to produce hydromechanical equipment.
3.19      SOREFAME was nationalized in 1975 when the banks that held a
majority of its shares were nationalized. The banks' shares were later
transferred to IPE which currently holds about 74% of SOREFAME's share
capital of Escudos 950 million (US$19.95 million equivalent). Of the remain-
ing 26%, 20% is held by ALSTHOM (a prominent French manufacturer of electro-
mechanical equipment and the Company's licensor for turbine-generator sets),
and 6% by individual private investors.



- 15 -
3.20      Organization and Management:  SOREFAME's current organizational chart
shown on the following page incorporates necessary modifications first recom-
mended by the Bank in June 1979. It represents a considerable improvement over
the previous situation which was characterized by a high degree of centralization
of functions with ill-defined lines of responsibility. The Board of Directors
consists of 6 members of whom 5 are nominated by IPE and one by ALSTHOM. The
present Chairman of the Board of Directors has an established reputation as an
industrial leader in Portugal. Other positions in the Board are occupied by
SOREFAME's higher level managers who are well qualified and competent, and have
been with the Company for a number of years. Specific improvements in the
current organization structure include the functional integration of responsi-
bilities with each Board member being put operationally in charge of a specific
functional area and the creation of a separate department for exports marketing.
With these changes, the Company has overcome earlier weaknesses in its organiza-
tional structure which led to a diffusion of responsibilities and adversely
affected operations. The Company's support departments, including a strong
engineering department, are adequate for its requirements. It has also
installed and is increasingly utilizing computer-based cost accounting and
management information reporting systems based on packages obtained from a US
software firm specializing in this area. The Company will engage management
consultants to recommend further improvements in its organization and operations.
3.21      Manufacturing Facilities and Employment:  SOREFAME's principal
manufacturing activities are located at Amora and Amadora 1/. These include:
(i) platework products (6,000 tpy capacity) and structures for construction/
offshore works (863,000 man-hours per year) at both locations; (ii) industrial
equipment manufacture (4,000 tpy) at Amadora; and (iii) rolling stock manufac-
ture (150 coaches per year) also at Amadora. The combined annual capacity,
excluding rolling stock, is estimated to amount to a production value of
around US$45 million equivalent in 1979 US$ terms.
3.22      Details of the specific equipment at each plant are available in the
Project files. The greater part of SOREFAME's manufacturing facilities are
located at its Amadora complex, which contains both the Industrial Equipment
and Rolling Stock divisions as well as parts of the Platework and Construction
divisions. Some of the facilities in these divisions are in need of replace-
ment. There is also the need for installation of new equipment to balance
existing facilities and to enable diversified and increased production. It is
in this context that SOREFAME is taking steps for the rationalization, upgrading,
and expansion of its present facilities as proposed under the Project.
3.23      SOREFAME currently employs about 4,250 personnel, which are distri-
buted in the different divisions as follows: head office (19%), industrial
equipment (34%), rolling stock (25%) and platework, structural and offshore
construction (22%). As in COMETNA, there are two trade unions, Intersindical
and UGT (para. 3.13), with most plant workers (about 2,450) belonging to
Intersindical and most administrative and clerical staff (about 1,800) to UGT.
In the past, particularly following the revolution in 1974, failure of manage-
ment and the unions to agree on labor issues led to strikes, absenteeism and
consequent loss in productivity. However, morale has improved considerably
since then, with absenteeism showing a declining trend in all departments. The
Company has recently instituted incentives to continue to reduce absenteeism,
and is taking further steps to enhance the improvement in labor relations.
1/   Map, IBRD 14812R.



PORTUGAL
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
SOREFAME: CURRENT ORGANIZATION
Bowd of
Pnstidont
L  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
(S.| or                                  Mn)  r                                                    M (J. IgeO)        MC.11 Mtgeirl   |                                         Manr            Do       S al e                         Rt-son   |t
Power  Rolling        Industrial         ~~~~~MosiMv        Rde4tat. Coro                                                         ~                                                                         t
R.letio~~~~         Stock             Equipsinant ~~~~~~Conssrmucon .                                                                                                                           noi            Aisthon, N*Vis.T
Drosion  Disision       Osc.eion          ~~Dwiciion                                                                                        otl
- Pubiic R.H tions   - Enginering      - Egoin.ng          - Engineering    - Brkips           - G*n al            - Iflustory                            Enpo" Panning      -     rch      - Power Equip. Div. Sos   - Fin
- i4.ith a*d         - Fsatrino          - Fricstson        - Fdklticn         end Str-%Wms       Maintnan            Conrol                               b Finencing        - Oslity       - Rolling Stock Din. Stte    - Accoundti
Soniot Sorinces    - Ertion            - In erntm         - Erction        - Pnadric"ted      - Spclot Projects    - P,o   rne                         - Export Mrketg                     - Indst. Equip. Div. Sol
- Lasr Legislation   - Internal            Accomnting       - Intern.l         Building                             - Equipsnnt                          -E tion                             - Mod. Cont. Div. Sttos
- Prsonnotl h          Accouning                              Acco.nsing       Spcuil Structure                     - Ross Meser                                                               Mketing
Training                                                                   -.Inrna                                - Tech. Control
Accounting



- 17 -
3.24      Past Sales Performance:  SOREFAME's past sales performance since
1973 is shown in Annex 3-2. In 1978, hydromechanical equipment, industrial
equipment and rolling stock accounted for over 80% of the total sales of
around US$23 million equivalent. Around 35% of sales were directed to exports,
primarily composed of hydromechanical equipment for power generation and
industrial equipment for chemical processing.
3.25      Sales have declined in real terms since 1973, and increased by only
40% between 1973 and 1978 compared to domestic inflation during the period
of 195% and US inflation of 55%. The general reasons for the decline were
similar to those in the case of COMETNA (para. 3.16) and were the result of
unfavorable domestic and foreign market conditions during the period. In the
domestic market, SOREFAME was particularly affected by the inability, due to
budgetary constraints, of the Portuguese National Railways (C.P.) and the
Lisbon Metro to place orders for rolling stock on the scale earlier contracted
with the Company. SOREFAME, in anticipation of the increased orders, had
substantially expanded capacity, including employment, in the rolling stock
division and had started work on some of the orders. Consequently, SOREFAME
had to close one of the three production lines for rolling stock. Other
SOREFAME divisions, where the Company had also increased capacity and employ-
ment, were also affected by shortfalls in expected orders albeit to a lesser
extent. The declining share of exports in total sales since 1975 indicates
the difficulties faced by the Company in the overseas markets during the
recessionary period. However, SOREFAME's estimated sales increased substan-
tially in 1979 as compared to the previous two years (Annex 3-2), and based
on current order books, the Company expects both total production and sales
to further increase significantly in 1980 (Annex 3-5). For subsequent years,
while the Company expects the situation in the rolling stock market to improve
gradually, it is also considering possible diversification into manufacture
of tram cars and related urban transport (for which it anticipates adequate
domestic demand) should this prove necessary to fully utilize its rolling
stock production capacity. The outlook for the other divisions, especially
hydro-mechanical and power equipment, on the other hand, is considerably more
promising (paras. 4.16 to 4.19).
3.26      Past and Present Financial Situation:  SOREFAME's financial per-
formance since 1970 is summarized in the following table and detailed in
Annex 3-6. As in the case of COMETNA (para. 3.15), SOREFAME has agreed to
have a detailed audit of its financial situation carried out expeditiously.
3.27      The reasons for SOREFAME's deteriorating financial performance are
similar to those for COMETNA described earlier (para. 3.16) together with some
specific circumstances affecting SOREFAME (para. 3.25). SOREFAME was affected
even more severely than COMETNA by the rapid escalation of labor costs and
interest charges during 1974-79. Under the prevailing labor legislation, the
Company was unable to release its surplus labor arising from the shortfall in
expected orders. SOREFAME also operated largely under fixed price contracts
during the period and was thus unable to cover its rapidly escalating costs,
especially labor and interest charges. Also, SOREFAME's domestic customers
are mostly public and state-controlled entities, which like itself, were faced
with the same unfavorable economic and financial conditions. SOREFAME's
ability to negotiate appropriate prices was further affected by the prevailing
domestic competition in the then tight market. However, with the March 1979
accord (para. 4.17) on market-sharing and specialization, and the expected
improvement in its cash flow under the viability contract, SOREFAME is now in



- 18 -
SOREFAMIE: Summarized Financial Statements
1970    1972    1974    1976    1977    1978        1979
-----------------unaudited------------------  (provisional)
Income Statements
Production (Current
Esc. million) a/         398     782      937   1,629   1,773   2,092      2,696
Sales (Current
Esc. million) a/         329     743      804   1,118   1,441   1,143      2,472
Ratios
Net Income (Loss)/
Sales (%)               6.1     4.3    (4.6)  (18.4)  (30.4)  (43.5)   (33.5)
Interest/Sales (%)        3.0     2.3      4.2    16.7    25.1    47.8      26.4
Labor Costs/Value
of Production (%)      35.4    31.7    44.4    47.9    49.4    46.2       47.0
Debt: Equity Ratio    27:73   27:73   44:56   81:19   76:24   74:26        89:11
a/   The difference between production and sales figures reflects annual
additions to inventories and production not direction to sales, e.g.
for maintenance and repairs.
a vastly improved situation. In this context, some recent contracts concluded
by the Company reflect adequate flexibility for price revisions to accommodate
increased costs, if any. As in the case of COMETNA (para. 3.16), the Portuguese
Government initiated a viability contract in 1978, and revised it in 1979 since
SOREFAME's losses in 1978 were higher than envisaged. The Bank recommended
additional measures which aim at restoring the Company to a sound financial
position (Annex 3-4). Execution of the contract, which was approved by the
Government in April, is proposed as a condition of effectiveness of the loan.
3.28      Financial Prolections:  Based on the aspects discussed above,
financial projections for the C6mpany (without taking into account the impact
of the Project) are summarized in Annex 3-5 along with the assumptions under-
lying these projections. (Consolidated projections with the Project are
presented later in para. 7.05). The expected improvements in SOREFAME's
markets (para. 3.25) and thus in its sales, and the financial restructuring
measures are projected to restore SOREFAME to a sound financial position by
1982. The increased sales, in turn, will enable the Company to benefit from
higher capacity utilization and better utilization of its currently under-
utilized labor force which it cannot reduce under existing legislation.
IV. THE MARKET
A.   Introduction
4.01      The products to be manufactured under the Project are (i) inter-
mediate components like steel castings and industrial valves produced by
COMETNA for manufacturing industries such as petroleum, chemical and petro-
chemical, steel, cement, mining, railways, automobiles, and shipping, and
(ii) capital goods like hydraulic turbines, generators, hydraulic gates, and
penstocks for power generation, produced by SOREFAMIE. In the absence of a



- 19 -
clearly defined medium/long-term development policy in Portugal it is diffi-
cult to make market forecasts. However, future demand projections have been
prepared, taking into account (i) specific development projects, already
established or likely to be established, which would utilize the type of goods
produced by the Project; (ii) the likely growth of various consuming sectors;
(iii) the possibility of import substitution through domestic production; and
(iv) the possibility of exporting different products, based on considerations
of quality and cost-competitiveness. In the following sections, the demand
and market for the products of the three principal Project components, namely
steel castings, industrial valves, and hydro-power generation equipment, is
examined to establish the viability of the production targets in the Project.
B.   The Market for the Products
1.   Steel Castings
4.02      Supply and Demand of Castings:  There are about 90 small and medium
size foundries in Portugal, of which only four produce steel castings. In
1978 the total output was 8,900 tons, of which 2,000 tons were exported. The
remaining 6,900 tons were sold in the domestic market and accounted for about
95% of total domestic consumption. The following table gives past and pro-
jected demand and supply of steel castings in Portugal for selected years up
to 1990:
PORTUGAL: Demand/Supply for Steel Castings
(tons per year)
Average Annual Growth
1974      1978       1985      1990              Rate (%)
----Actual----       ---Forecast---       1978-85        1985-90
Production       8,900    8,900      15,300   20,300         8.0            5.8
Imports            400      400         500      500
Total Supply    9,300    9,300       15,800   20,800         7.8            5.6
Domestic
Consumption   7,000    7,300       10,800   13,800         5.8            5.0
Exports          2,300    2,000       5,000    7,000        14.0            7.0
Exports % of
Production        26       22          33       34
Source:  Based on market study for steel castings prepared by
Entwicklungsberatung GmbH, Germany.
4.03      Major users of steel castings in Portugal are the chemical, petro-
chemical, and petroleum industries (valves and pumps); railway equipment
(bogies, crossings, wheels, etc.); automobile and shipping industries; and
the agricultural machinery manufacturing industry; which following the 1974
revolution are being operated, to a great extent, by state-owned or state-
controlled enterprises. Primarily as a result of uncertainties regarding
economic policies in the past few years, and the consequent low level of
domestic investment, domestic consumption of steel castings remained virtually
static at about 7,000 tpy during 1974-78. The level of production also showed
no growth reflecting the lack of investment. In comparison with other coun-
tries at the same or higher level of economic development, the present per
capita consumption of steel castings in Portugal is at relatively low levels,
as illustrated in the table below:



- 20 -
Per Capita Consumption of Steel Castings in Selected Countries, 1977
(kg/capita)
U.S.A.            7.6                 Sweden             3.4
Japan             5.5                 Spain             3.0
Germany           4.8                 Yugoslavia         2.6
France            4.3                 Italy              1.7
United Kingdom   3.8                  Portugal          0.8
Source:   United Nations annual industrial statistics
and GATT trade statistics.
4.04      Current investment plans in Portuguese foundries other than COMETNA
indicate that production of steel castings in Portugal will increase from
8,900 tpy to 10,300 tpy by 1985. The new foundry, forming part of the Project,
would further increase the total production to about 15,000 tpy by 1985 and
possibly to 20,000 tpy by 1990.
4.05      The future demand for steel castings in Portugal was assessed
in a market study carried out in May 1979 by a German consulting company,
Entwicklungsberatung GmbH, retained by the Bank. Based on a review of the
future investment plans of individual consuming sectors (para. 4.03), and
the likely demand which these would generate for steel castings, the demand
for steel castings is expected to grow at an average annual rate of 5.8%
until 1985. This growth rate and that projected for the domestic production
of castings is in line with the Bank's projections of Gross Domestic Product
and output in Portugal 1/. For the 1985-1990 period, a somewhat lower
rate of growth of 5% per annum for the demand of steel castings has been
assumed.
4.06      Because of the low prices of Portuguese castings relative to
European levels, and the fact that demand will come to a great extent from
state-owned or state-controlled enterprises, which have existing arrangements
with Portuguese suppliers, imports are estimated to remain at a low level.
4.07      Portugal is a net exporter of steel castings.  Against imports
of 400 tpy, it exported on average about 2,000 tpy of steel castings during
the period of 1974-78. Portugal is well placed to export steel castings.
In most developed countries foundries are operating below full capacity,
due greatly to high labor costs and enforcement of strict environmental
regulations. The developed countries are relying increasingly on imports from
developing countries of the less sophisticated steel castings. Portugal has
gained a good reputation for steel castings of good quality among customers in
the United States, Canada, Great Britain, Sweden, and the Federal Republic of
Germany. In its market study, Entwicklungsberatung GmbH assessed the future
demand of current overseas customers for castings from Portugal at about
10,000-15,000 tons per year of steel castings in the next five years (1980-85);
however, for the purpose of the Project, conservative figures of 5,000 tons in
1985 and 7,000 tons in 1990 have been assumed.
4.08      COMETNA's Market Position:  COMETNA is the largest producer and
exporter of steel castings in Portugal. In 1978, the Company's production
1/   Report No. 2214-PO, mentioned earlier in para. 2.01.



- 21 -
of 4,000 tons accounted for about 45% of Portugal's total output of these
products. Out of its 1978 production, it sold 2,400 tons (60%) in the domestic
market, representing a market share of about 33% and the remaining 1,600 tons
(40%) was exported, equivalent to about 80% of total Portuguese exports of
these products. COMETNA's main consumers are the railways, mining, cement, and
steel industries, and various mechanical equipment manufacturers. With the
operation of the proposed steel foundry, COMETNA will significantly increase
its production of steel castings, raising its share in the domestic market
from 33% in 1978 to 56% in 1985.
4.09      COMETNA's main clients abroad are located in Western Europe and
North America. Due to capacity constraints, COMETNA has not been able to meet
its clients' potential demand, which is well above the level of COMETNA's
present shipments to them. After the Project starts production, COMETNA is
expected to be in a position to about double its exports to 4,000 tons in 1985
and 6,000 tons in 1990. COMETNA's exports will then account for about 40% of
its production. This percentage is in line with COMETNA's recent experience
(para. 4.08) and its current 1980 export orders for steel castings of 38%.
2.   Industrial Valves
4.10      Introduction:  Industrial valves can be classified into four major
categories: automatic valves, fluid power valves, general valves and manual
valves. Manual valves, also known as industrial valves account for about one
third share of the total valve market in the world. They perform primarily
two basic functions--shutoff and throttling service--and are of many designs
like globe, check, gate, butterfly, ball, etc. Industrial valves offered in
the international market generally range from 10 to 1,500 mm in diameter;
however, 80% of the market is concentrated in the range of 50 mm to 200 mm.
The major users of industrial valves are the chemical and processing indus-
tries, electric and gas utilities, mining and manufacturing industries, and
water/sewage facilities. The chemical and processing industries represent
about 45% of the total use with the requirement for valves in these industries
amounting, in value, to 1 to 2% of total fixed assets.
4.11      Supply and Demand:  At present, there are seven enterprises in
Portugal manufacturing industrial valves together producing 14,100 valves
(600 tons) in 1978. Taking into account the current expansion plans of these
manufacturers, including COMETNA, annual production is expected to increase
to 30,300 valves (1,000 tons) by 1985.  The industrial valves manufact red
in Portugal range from 10 to 600 mm in diameter and from 4 to 40 kg/cm in
pressure.  However, a major part of the production is presently co centrated
in the middle range of 50 to 200 mm in diameter and 10 to 16 kg/cm in
pressure, conforming to a large extent to the range offered in the interna-
tional market. The table on the next page gives past and projected demand and
supply of valves in Portugal.
4.12      The demand for industrial valves can be classified into two groups:
(i) original equipment market as a result of new investments, and (ii) re-
placement market due to maintenance and repair investments. The higher con-
sumption of valves in 1976 and 1978 shown in the following table resulted
mainly from the new investments in Portugal's SINES refinery and in an ethylene
project. Excluding these two major investments, the average demand in the



- 22 -
period 1974-78 was about 50,000 valves (1,500 tons) per year. Based on a
close review of the projects likely to be implemented in the 1980-84 period,
it is expected that the demand from new investment projects would be about
54,000 valves during that period or on average about 10,800 valves per year.
The demand arising from repairs and maintenance is assumed to grow at 2% per
annum or to 57,300 valves per year by 1985. The total annual demand would
then be about 68,100 valves in 1985.
PORTUGAL: Demand/Supply for Industrial Valves
(Numbers)
1975      1976       1977       1978      1985
---------------Actual---------------   Forecast
Production                      11,100    13,500    10,400    14,100    30,300
Imports                         44,200    74,100    34,600    59,800    37,800
Supply/Domestic Consumption   55,300    87,600    45,000    73,900    68,100
Imports as % of Supply            79.9       84.6      76.9       80.9       55.5
Source: Based on market study prepared by CODES, Portugal.
4.13      During the period 1974-78, imports covered 80-85% of total domestic
requirements of valves in Portugal. These imports were concentrated in the
lower rapges of valves with diameter up to 100 mm and pressure higher than
16 kg/cm . The principal reasons for such substantial imports are primarily
the nonavailability in Portugal of specific types of valves, and long delivery
periods associated with the limited availability of domestic castings and
forgings. With the implementation of new investments in the foundry and
forge sectors now underway in Portugal, castings and forgings of good quality
to support domestic valve production are expected to be more readily available.
The share of imports in the market for valves would correspondingly be reduced.
Nevertheless as indicated in para. 4.11, even in 1985 imports would still
account for more than half of the domestic consumption of industrial valves.
4.14      Exports of industrial valves have not been taken into account in
the above analysis. Portugal exported about 800 tpy of valve bodies in the
form of castings in the past three years (1975-78), and it plans to export
2,000 tpy in the 1980's. While industrial valves manufactured in Portugal
conform to the internationally recognized DIN and ASA norms, penetration into
the international market has been difficult. The original equipment market
is controlled by international engineering companies operating in the oil,
chemical, fertilizer and energy sectors, which tend to rely on companies with
which they are familiar for the valve requirements. However, as Portuguese
companies increasingly seek collaboration with engineering firms in the
future, increasing international market penetration is expected.
4.15      COMETNA's Market Position:  COMETNA is the largest manufacturer of
valves in Portugal. In 1978, it produced 3,100 valves (430 tons), equivalent
to 22% of Portugal's total production in numbers and to about 72% in terms of
tonnage.  When the new plant comes into operation, COMETNA is expected to
increase its share in domestic production to about 50% in numbers and about
75% in tonnage. The major increase in COMETNA's production would be in the
low size range of valves, which have so far been imported.



- 23 -
3.   Hydro-Power Generation Ecquipment
4.16      A detailed analysis of the market for hydro-power generation equip-
ment manufactured in Portugal is provided in the Project files. The power
generation capacity added in Portugal during 1973-77 was largely made up of
thermal power which accounted for 60% of the total installed capacity of 1,059
MW in this period. Over the same period, power consumption increased at a
rate of 9.4% and in the future is expected to grow at an average annual rate
of 8%. In line with this forecast, the Electricity Company of Portugal (EDP)
has planned an expansion program for thermal and hydro plants at a total
investment cost of about US$1.7 billion over the years 1980-84. The projected
pattern of installed capacity would then be:
PORTUGAL: Projection of Installed Power Capacity (MW)
Percent increase
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984    1984 over 1979
Hydro           2,358  2,508  2,673  2,876  2,981  3,035           29.6
Thermal         1,638  1,638  2.058  2,058  2,393  2,728           66.5
Total           3,996  4,146  4.731  4 934  5,374  5.763           44.2
Source:  Feasibility Study of the Project prepared by SICAI-TPL, Italy.
In addition, several other projects are at bidding stage for commissioning by
1987, leading to an addition of about 200 MW/year for the period 1980-87. By
1987, around 50% of Portugal's surveyed hydroelectric resources are expected
to be utilized. EDP also believes that, taking into account the expected
costs and availability of other forms of energy, the remaining hydro resources
will in most part be exploited by the end of the century. The equipment
deriving from this planning, comprising hydraulic gates, penstocks, turbines,
generators, etc. will form a steady continuous market for the Project.
4.17      The manufacture of hydro and thermal power plant equipment in
Portugal has been governed since March 1979 by an agreement under the authority
of the Ministry of Industry and Technology. Under this agreement SOREFAME
will be the sole domestic supplier of equipment for hydro power stations using
the technology of two French companies, NEYRPIC and ALSTHOM; and MAGUE, a
private manufacturing enterprise will be the sole domestic supplier of equip-
ment for thermal power stations. This agreement provides also, that (i) 30%
(in value) of each hydro turbine ordered by EDP will be imported from NEYRPIC.
In return NEYRPIC will place orders with SOREFAME for a value of at least 30%
of the value of the EDP import and that (ii) 15% (in value) of each hydro
generator ordered by EDP will be imported from ALSTHOM. In return ALSTHOM
will place orders with SOREFAME for a value of 20% of such import.
4.18      The overall sales of the hydro-power generation equipment to be
manufactured by SOREFAME, taking into account the factors mentioned above and
SOREFAME's expansion plans, are illustrated below. The market comprises a
number of complex products which are difficult to define in physical units.
It is therefore assessed in terms of sales value.



- 24 -
SOREFAME: Sales of Hydro-Power Equipment
(in constant 1979 US$ million)
1976      1977    1978    1985  a/
-------Actual---------    Forecast
Sales                      5.4       8.1      7.5      40.8
of which:
Domestic                 3.3       3.9      1.0      30.0
Exports                 2.1        4.2      6.5      10.8
Exports % of Sales         39         52      87        26
a/   Average annual forecast for 1985-1989, assuming that
the Project is implemented as scheduled.
Source: Based on feasibility study prepared by SICAI, Italy.
4.19      Portugal has a good record of achievement in the export market
for hydro-power equipment. Over the past three years (1976-78) over 40% of
SOREFAME's total sales derived from exports. Further, export prospects in
the future are good, specially in view of current energy problems worldwide
with a projected resurgence of schemes to use available hydro resources. In
the light of past export achievements, it is expected that on average exports
of around 25% of its total sales will be attainable in the future.
C.   Marketing and Sales Organization
4.20      COMETNA has recently decentralized its sales organization.  The
sales responsibility for different product groups -- castings, industrial
valves, plant equipment, and special projects -- rests with individual plant
general managers who report to the Board. The current sales organization for
castings and industrial valves is appropriate. However, when the new Project
is implemented, COMETNA plans to supplement the present activities of the
sales organization with additional market research and promotion activities
under the direct operational responsibility of a Board member.
4.21       In the domestic market, selling castings and industrial valves
is, at present, mainly restricted to the follow-up of sales enquiries and
technical assistance rather than active promotion. However, when the new
plants for castings and valves come on stream, COMETNA plans to change its
policy into active selling through strengthening the present staff. Further,
it will be able to provide quicker response to customer requirements and
increase the reliability of delivery. No difficulty in this regard is
expected. However, COMETNA has agreed to review its pricing policies annually
with the Bank (para. 3.10).
4.22      As for export sales, COMETNA has gained sufficient experience in
conducting business abroad, specially for castings. The Company has already
initiated activities to strengthen its contacts with present clients, explore
new markets and seek cooperation agreements with foreign companies for the
supply of castings to increase its exports. This is essential in view of the
fact that once the steady state operation of the new foundry has been reached,
about 40% of the production is expected to be exported.



- 25 -
4.23      As mentioned earlier (para. 4.17), SOREFAME is the sole supplier of
hydro-power generation equipment to one major customer, EDP, and consequently
an elaborate domestic sales organization is not relevant. Nevertheless, the
Company is involved in the early phases of technical planning and implementa-
tion of various hydropower projects and has sufficient qualified staff to
render this service and to keep close contacts with the Government agencies
and a continuous information exchange with EDP. As far as exports are con-
cerned, SOREFAME has experience in exporting hydromechanical components and
parts. To further promote its exports, the Company has also reorganized its
export division, planning to increase the strength from 25 presently to 40
people. In addition, work overseas is acquired through the licensors NEYRPIC
and ALSTHOM, and through a network of agents and other contacts. These
arrangements are considered adequate.
D.   Prices and Competitiveness
4.24      COMETNA's prices for castings and valves in the past have been
well below international levels. This has partially resulted from the Com-
pany's inadequate accounting and pricing systems which, for example, have
not made allowances to enable the Company to keep abreast of inflation. New
management, appointed in May 1979 (para. 3.09), has taken a number of steps
to improve the situation in this regard. Price increases of 25% were imple-
mented since then. Further, COMETNA is currently in the process of implement-
ing a computerized data processing system to maintain its accounts on a
product by product basis. It has also taken steps to introduce a price
escalation mechanism into its pricing system. In addition to an annual review
of its pricing policies (para. 3.10), COMETNA has agreed to complete by not
later than December 31, 1980, a study of its prices, aimed at formulating a
short-term action program and a long-term policy.
4.25      The following table shows a comparison of COMETNA's prices in
October 1979 (after above-mentioned increases) for a range of products with
the estimated lowest sales prices of German (Federal Republic), Swiss and
French companies.
COMETNA: Comparison of Selling Prices (FOB) October 1979
(Esc. per kg)
Estimated   European Price
COMETNA's   European    as percentage of
Product                                Price       Price       COMETNA's price
Carbon steel valves                       90         107             119
Railway bogies                            90         107             119
Railway wheels                            45          65             144
High alloy steel parts                    85         169             199
Steel mill rolls                          74         92              124
Low alloy steel grinding media            33          74             224
Average (based on COMETNA mix)            80         100             125
Source:  Feasibility study prepared by Georg Fischer AG, Switzerland.
The low level of prices coupled with good product quality has resulted in
increased demand of castings by foreign customers. The average price level
per kilogram of castings on export markets is presently 25% higher than those
prevailing in OOMETNA. COMETNA intends to implement a real price increase of
an average of about IO0 once the new foundry starts production enabling the



- 26 -
Company to provide quality castings consistently and within competitive
delivery schedules. Such an increase is deemed to be realistically possible
without in any way jeopardizing the Company's strong competitive po4ition
and ability in establishing new markets. Domestic prices are free of price
controls and are approximately on the same level as the export prices. Higher
prices could, most likely, be achieved; however, an increase of only 10%
(still 15% below the international level) has been conservatively assumed in
the financial projections.
4.26      In case of industrial valves, COMETNA's expertise in the past has
been in the supply of large valves of over 50 mm diameter. In this range of
valves, COMETNA's prices are about 20-25% lower than the average price of
imports from Europe and 15% below the lowest price for imports. For small
diameter valves of less than 50 mm COMETNA will face competition from imports
from other low cost countries, especially Spain. As noted earlier, this is
the range of valves in which, as a part of the new Project, COMETNA intends to
substitute for present imports. With the increase in the productivity, and
prompt and reliable delivery expected to result from the new plant, COMETNA
is expected to enjoy a strong competitive position. In addition, the plant
design permits flexibility in the choice of the product mix to allow COMETNA
to penetrate into the most profitable markets.
4.27      Pricing has also been a problem within SOREFAME for the hydro-power
generation equipment, with costs increasing at a faster rate than the prices
charged. SOREFAME's failure to keep prices in line with rapidly rising costs
was partly due to its inability to suitably revise its pricing methods to take
into account the high rates of inflation. Further on the domestic market,
the competition from other Portuguese suppliers of similar equipment forced
the Company to keep its prices low. Finally, in light of the low capacity
utilization and related low productivity, the Company accepted low prices to
fill its order books. As far as future pricing is concerned, SOREFAME has
corrected the problem of coping with inflation and recent contracts include
revision formulae to take the actual cost increase, that may occur, into
account. Also, within Portugal it will no longer be in competition with
other manufacturers due to the agreement with EDP to be the sole supplier
(para. 4.17). In the international market, on the other hand, SOREFAME faces
difficult competition, especially due to the high costs arising from the
current high level of financial charges in turn resulting from its weak
financial position, and the lack of specific export support mechanisms such
as export sales financing, which is offered by a number of its competitors.
However, after improvements in the Company's financially situation and
increasing productivity upon implementation of the Project, SOREFAME's com-
petitive position is expected to improve substantially. Also, the Government
is reviewing and is expected to implement specific export incentives and
support facilities which would further enhance SOREFAME's competitiveness
(paras. 2.16 and 2.17(i)).
V. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Objectives and Scope
5.01      The primary objective of the Project is to contribute towards the
improvement of performance of the Portuguese engineering industries subsector
through the relocation, modernization and expansion of COMETNA's steel casting
and valve facilities to a new location (para. 5.11), and the rationalization



- 27 -
and expansion of SOREFAME's existing hydro-power generation equipment manu-
facturing facilities, which lacked adequate reinvestments in past years.
Further, the existing COMETNA foundry in Amadora is situated in a populated
residential area with unsatisfactory pollution control systems, thereby
having an adverse impact on the working and residential environment. The new
facilities included in the Project, in addition to improving the working and
environmental conditions, are expected to lead to better product quality and
higher labor productivity.
5.02      The proposed Project includes three major components:  (i)  Reloca-
tion and expansion of COMETNA's existing steel casting foundry (5,000 tpy
capacity) to an initial capacity of 10,000 tpy with provision for future
expansion; (ii) relocation and expansion of COMETNAA's present facilities
for the production of industrial valves (3,000 units per year) to a capacity
of 15,000 units per year including diversification of products; and (iii)
rationalization and expansion of SOREFAME's hydro-power equipment manufactur-
ing facilities to being able to produce selected equipment for one hydro-power
plant per year of up to 250 MW capacity (as against 150 MW presently). In
addition the Project includes a technical assistance component to undertake
a study of the engineering subsector (para. 2.16). The Project also provides
for proper environmental control facilities in COMETNA's existing foundry,
which will continue to produce iron castings, until these facilites are also
moved to the new location at a later date.
B.   Project Description
5.03      With an initial planned capacity of 10,000 tpy, the new foundry will
produce steel castings, weighing up to a maximum of 7 tons for the domestic
and export markets. COMETNA plans to limit its present wide range of castings
of about 2,000 different items by concentrating on about 600 important and
intricate castings. However, the design of the plant will permit considerable
flexibility to meet the changing needs of customers. The product-mix at full
effective capacity of 10,000 torns in 1986 would be as follows: Valve bodies
3,000; railway parts 3,100; components for steel industry 700; parts for cement
industry 2,800; and miscellaneous 400 tons.
5.04      The design of the plant is appropriate for an economical medium
sized foundry. The buildings and the layout also take into account possible
further expansion to 15,000 tpy, now tentatively planned to come on-stream by
1989. The proposed plant will be equipped primarily with new manufacturing
and auxiliary facilities, as the present steel foundry equipment is old and
obsolete. Some of the equipment of the present facilities will be used by the
iron foundry, which will continue its operations at the present premises. The
new production facilities will include (i) a main shop with sections such as:
melting, equipped with 3 arc furnaces of 6-ton capacity and one medium fre-
quency induction furnace of 2-tons capacity; machine molding with three semi-
automatic lines for grinding media, small and large steel castings; hand
molding for wheels, rolls and heavy parts; sand plant with preparation and
regeneration equipment; and core making; and (ii) a secondary shop consisting
of fettling, gritblasting, heat treatment, grinding and finishing sections.
The plant will also include a pattern shop, a maintenance shop and other
auxiliary facilities. The plant layout is shown in Annex 5-1.
5.05      The valve plant will replace the present manufacturing facilities
of COMETNA in Lisbon, which produce about 3,000 valves per year. The new



- 28 -
plant with an effective capacity of about 15,000 units per year in 1985 is
planned to produce the following product-mix: 10,500 pieces (150 tons) of
upto 50 mm; 3,500 pieces (250 tons) of 50-150 mm; and 1,000 pieces (350 tons)
of over 150 mm diameter. The design of the valve plant has, however, made
provision to accommodate changes within the full range of the industrial
valves sizes from 10 to 600 mm diameter and also of the various types such as
globe, gate and non-return valves. An adjustment towards the higher propor-
tion of larger valves could increase the production of the plant to 1,200 tons
of valves per year. The new facilities are designed for repetitive, small and
medium-size batch production runs based on the product-mix and the proposed
size of the plant. They include various machine tools such as numerically
controlled turning lathes, a multi-spindle drilling machine, horizontal boring
mills, milling machines, special testing facilities, painting and finishing
equipment. Some machinery from the existing facilities, such as two machine
tools, testing and painting equipment will be incorporated in the new plant.
The equipment to be transferred is generally in good condition but will be
overhauled before installation. The plant layout is shown in Annex 5-2.
5.06      Within the hydro-power equipment manufacturing component of the
Project, the existing facilities of SOREFAME will be reorganized, expanded
and rationalized by concentrating different production activities in three
main complexes--fabrication, machining, and electrical-cum-assembly facil-
ities. The reorganization will substantially improve the existing plant
facilities to enable SOREFAME to undertake the manufacture of larger hydro-
power units up to 300 MW, versus up to 150 MW at present. The fabrication
shop will be strengthened with equipment like a 12m longitudinal automatic
submerged arc column, heavy welding positioners, welding machines, a heat
treatment furnace for heavy pieces up to 150-tons weight, five cranes of
different capacities, painting and other auxiliary equipment. The machine
shop will have large machine tools to handle heavy and bulky cubicle and
cylindrical precision components. The machinery will include such items as
a large vertical lathe for pieces up to 12m diameter, boring mills, and a
turning lathe for parts up to 10m in length. Some small investments are
included in the electrical-cum-assembly shop to rationalize certain processes.
The production facilities on completion of the subproject are presented in
Annex 5-3.
C.   Project Organization
5.07      The three subprojects are to be implemented by COMETNA and SOREFAME,
and will be operated as individual profit centers within their other activi-
ties. As regards the foundry, COMETNA is presently seeking a foreign partner
to participate financially in the new venture. Such an approach is planned
by the Company to raise equity and to enhance its future export prospects.
From the technical and technological point of view, COMETNA does not need a
foreign partner, as it has sufficient experience in modern foundry techniques
(para. 5.08). While the prospects for foreign participation appear limited at
the present time, COMETNA plans to continue to pursue its efforts in this
direction, without intending to modify drastically the scope of the Project,
were it to find such a partner. The new foundry will, therefore, be initially
established as a clearly delineated division of COMETNA with the possibility
of conversion into a separate company. COMETNA has agreed not to enter into
any collaboration without the prior approval of the Bank. The organizational



- 29 -
set-up of the new foundry and the new valve plant is shown in Annex 5-4 and
Annex 5-5; that of the hydro-power component remains unchanged (para. 3.20).
D.   Process, Technology and Licensing Arrangements
5.08      The various products proposed for manufacture under ti.: Project
require production processes and technologies which are already being used in
varying degrees by the existing companies. These were acquired by them either
through licensing agreements with foreign companies or through their own
development activities and accumulated practical experience over many years of
operations. COMETNA and SOREFAME already possess various technical assistance
and licensing agreements with reputed European companies (paras. 3.07 and
3.18). The technology applied in the foundry is based on the modern processes
and equipment presently available on the market. Furthermore, COMETNA's
intention to seek foreign participation would lead to further access to future
developments in casting production technologies.
5.09      COMETNA's present industrial valve technology meets the market
requirements. However, in order to continuously upgrade its technological
base, COMETNA will, by end December 1980, set up an engineering department to
analyze various developments in the valve industry and has also agreed to
make arrangements for technical assistance to develop new valve designs and
technology.
5.10      As mentioned earlier (para. 4.17), SOREFAME already possesses
licensing agreements with French companies, NEYRPIC for hydraulic turbines
and ALSTHOM for power generators. To ensure effective transfer of technology
from the licensing companies, the liaison responsibility is assigned directly
to a member of the Company's Board of Directors. Further, the Company main-
tains its own research and development department in the metallurgical and
welding fields.
E.   Location and Infrastructure
5.11      Two components of the Project, namely the foundry and the valve
plant under COMETNA will be relocated from their existing facilities in
Amadora and Lisbon respectively, to a new site. The hydro-power equipment
component will involve the expansion of the existing facilities of SOREFAME
in Amadora. The site 1/ selected for the foundry is within a radius of
about 5 km from the present foundry facilities, and has been approved by the
concerned authorities. The on-site services like electricity, water, telephone
and sewage will be easily available. All formalities regarding the acquisition
of the site have been completed. The Government has agreed to ensure the
provision of necessary infrastructure in line with the project schedule. The
valve plant will be installed within the foundry complex, as the proximity
will minimize the transportation costs of rough steel castings, which are the
major input for the production of valves and to minimize investments.
F.   Ecology
5.12      According to the Portuguese law it is obligatory for industrial
establishments to obtain certification from the Office of Environmental and
1/   Map, IBRD 14812R.



- 30 -
Safety Control as to whether the required conditions for pollution protection
have been met. There are only limited governmental environmental standards;
however, adequate features have been incorporated in the foundry design for
the prevention of pollution and for maintaining adequate safety and health
standards in line with OSHA-codes. The plant is designed to include (i) dust
collection units for all arc furnaces, sand systems, shakeouts, sand reclama-
tion, shotblast units, weld-arc repair and grinding systems; (ii) noise
reduction devices at all shakeout areas; (iii) electrostatic precipitators for
absorption of fumes and particles of arc furnaces; (iv) sound absorbing work
booths for all finishing stations; and (v) individual ventilation control in
various areas of the main shop. Various environmental control devices incor-
porated in the design are expected to keep the pollution levels below the
Threshold Limit Value (TLV) of OSHA-codes. In view of the particular impor-
tance of environmental consideration, it is also planned to improve the dust
and fume collection system of the existing foundry so as to achieve improved
working and ecological conditions. The production facilities of the valve
plant will be relatively clean with no adverse effects on the environment.
In the hydro-power equipment component, no major environmental problems are
anticipated. SOREFANE already practices various health and safety measures
in its plant comparable to those in similar manufacturing facilities in
Europe. All the measures for the Project components, especially for the
foundry, are judged to provide adequate and satisfactory environmental and
safety control facilities. Nevertheless, assurances have been obtained
with regard to the proper final design, implementation and operation of the
various control facilities.
G.   Raw Materials and Components
5.13      The main raw materials for the foundry are steel scrap, ferro-
alloys, various sands, refractory materials, electrodes, and chemicals and
additives for molds. Major part of these raw materials are available in
Portugal, however various ferro-alloys, additives, and some special types
of sand will be imported. For the valve plant, the main material inputs
are castings and forgings, which will be domestically produced in Portugal
primarily by COMETNA itself. Some parts and components will partly be pur-
chased locally from existing suppliers in Portugal and partly imported from
Europe.
5.14      The products in the hydro-power equipment component are predomi-
nately either machined or fabricated parts. The major inputs for the first
group are sophisticated castings and forgings, which are partially locally
available from COMETNA and partially imported. Plates, bars and profiles will
form the raw materials for the fabricated items. Except for some categories
of bars and profiles, which are locally available, all other raw materials
will be imported. In addition to these raw materials the Company needs a
variety of parts and components, such as controls, electrical systems, special
alloy items, etc. which will be entirely imported. The availability of
imported raw materials and components in required quantities for the Project
components -- in value terms 45% of the total material costs at full production
for the foundry, 10% for the valve plant, and 70% for the hydro-power component
(para. 7.04) -- presents no difficulty as SOREFAME and COMETNA have well
established contacts with foreign suppliers.



- 31 -
H.   Employment, Training and Productivity
5.15      Since it is partially a relocation and modernization project, the
Project will create additional employment for only about 350 people. Most
of the labor force will be obtained from existing facilities, thereby con-
solidating employment of another 560 people in the foundry and valve plant,
which would have been jeopardized otherwise in the near future. The investment
cost per job created (or saved) equals US$69,000 for the foundry, US$63,000
for the valve plant and US$91,000 for the hydropower component (incremental),
and US$73,000 for the Project as a whole. At full production, the labor
productivity in the three major Project components is expected to increase
substantially. The increase in productivity (paras. 5.16-5.18) is one of the
major features of the Project and would enable the Companies to better utilize
their present labor force in various activities. The productivity targets
proposed in the Project are judged to be realistic. They are still about 20%
lower than those attainable in similar plants with a comparable product mix in
more industrialized countries.
5.16      Following the relocation, modernization and expansion of the steel
foundry, as provided for in the Project, the foundry's labor productivity is
expected to improve to 100 man hours per ton of castings as against the
present 190 man hours. Based on this productivity, the new plant would
require 620 people (mostly to be provided by COMETNA's existing steel casting
facilities). COMETNA's labor force is well-skilled and trained. Neverthe-
less, the foundry component includes provision for technical assistance to
train the people in operating the new equipment. Further, a part of the
present operational labor will be employed to erect the equipment and gain
skills and to familiarize themselves with the new equipment. This will ensure
the availability of a trained team in the start-up phase. As mentioned earlier
(para. 5.11), the new plant is located within a radius of 5 km of the existing
facilities and, thus, is not expected to pose any special problems with
respect to transportation of the labor force.
5.17      The valve subproject is expected to require about 90 people in
single shift at full production, of these about 20-30 people will be trans-
ferred from the present facilities in Lisbon and the rest will be recruited
from the outside. COMETNA will make necessary arrangements for technical
assistance to train people on the new machine tools. The new plant will
also result in significant improvements in labor productivity, increasing it
by about 100% at full production.
5.18      In the hydro-power equipment component, SOREFAME presently employs
about 1,500 people. Following reorganization, modernization and expansion of
the existing facilities under the Project, SOREFAME will recruit about 200
people from outside or transfer labor from its rolling stock division, in case
the Company is not able to acquire the expected orders from the Portuguese
Railways (para. 3.25). At full capacity utilization of the facilities in
1984, the productivity is expected to be 750 Escudos (1979 terms) per manhour
as against the present 490 Escudos (1979 terms) per manhour, showing an
increase of more than 50%. The productivity increase will be achieved through
the addition of new equipment and SOREFAME's own training program; no problems
are expected in the operation of the new equipment.



- 32 -
I.   Project Management and Implementation
1.   Organization and Management
5.19      COMETNA and SOREFAME will be responsible for the implementation of
the corresponding Project components. IPE will also set up in its own organi-
zation a Project Monitoring Unit with adequate staffing (para. 3.04). This
unit will expedite the required government actions, coordinate project manage-
ment at the two companies where required, and serve as a focal point for Bank
contact.
5.20      For the execution of the foundry and valve plant, COMETNA is in
the process of establishing a Project Management Unit (PMU). A former foundry
manager with extensive operational as well as project implementation experience
has been assigned primary responsibility for implementation. He will work
under the guidance of the Company's management board. The proposed organiza-
tion of the PMU is shown in Annex 5-6. The Company has already started
seeking experienced personnel in technical, budget and project control functions
and intends to build-up the staff with the necessary qualifications by June
1980. The PMU is seeking foreign technical assistance for the detailed
engineering, preparation and selection of equipment, construction management,
supervision of erection of the foundry, training of personnel and installation
of a management information system. The Company has selected, in consultation
with the Bank, a qualified consultancy firm for this task. Civil and infra-
structure construction work as well as equipment erection will be undertaken
by Portuguese contractors with the assistance of COMETNA's operational people.
The consulting firm will be responsible for overall coordination of its work
with that of the Portuguese contractors. In addition to technical assistance,
suppliers of the equipment are to provide necessary assistance for the erec-
tion and start-up of the plant.
5.21      The detailed design of COMETNA's valve plant will also be undertaken
by the consulting firm associated with the foundry component. It will also be
responsible for the civil works and for the erection of the equipment to be
undertaken by the Portuguese contractors. The SOREFAME Project component,
consisting mainly of the erection of machine tools in existing buildings, is
simple in its implementation. The civil engineering work along with the
erection of the equipment will be carried out by SOREFAME's own experienced
civil construction department. The production engineering department will be
responsible for the specification and selection of equipment. These arrange-
ments for Project implementation are considered adequate.
2.   Project Implementation Schedule
5.22      The schedule for Project implementation is shown in Annex 5-7.
For the foundry component, COMETNA has appointed the technical consultants
for detailed engineering and qualified Portuguese consultants for the related
civil engineering in May 1980. Based on the appointment of consultants and
following the detailed engineering, equipment specification and corresponding
tender documents for critical items are expected to be ready by about mid-1980
with order placement beginning soon thereafter. The Company plans mechanical
completion of the facilities by the end of 1982 and start of production in
1983. Full production of 10,000 tons is expected to be achieved in 1986.



- 33 -
5.23      For the valve plant, equipment specifications are expected to be
finalized by June 1980 and orders placed by September 1980 leading to mechanical
completion by the end of 1981.  For the hydropower equipment component under
SOREFAME, the Company has already initiated procurement actions. Advertisements
for international bidding have been placed, and the Company is in the process
of prequalifying prospective bidders. The preparation of detailed specifica-
tions for the machinery and equipment is well advanced. For ont critical long
delivery item (a vertical turning lathe), SOREFAME expects to place the order
by the end of June 1980, i.e. prior to scheduled loan signature. All equipment
is expected to be operational by the end of 1981.
VI. CAPITAL COSTS, FINANCING PLAN AND PROCUREMENT
A.   Capital Costs
6.01      The total Project financing required is estimated at US$89.0 million,
of which US$52.0 million or 58% would be in foreign exchange. The detailed cost
breakdown by principal Project components is given in Annex 6-1 and the over-
all costs of the Project as a whole and of various components are summarized
in the table on the following page.
6.02      The base cost estimates were prepared by foreign engineering firms--
Georg Fischer, Switzerland for the foundry, SERI-Renault, France for the
valve plant, and SICAI, Italy for the hydro-power equipment component, on
the basis of quotations received in October 1979 from equipment suppliers in
Europe. The estimates were discussed with the concerned engineering firms
and the Companies and revised, based on changes of equipment design to suit
Portuguese working conditions. Civil and building work costs are based on an
estimate of total volume of work required for the foundry and valve plant and
unit prices calculated by a reputed Portuguese construction company, which
carried out the site selection and related soil tests. The estimates for
engineering and technical assistance, which are based on proposals already
received by the companies, include foreign consultancy services of about 230
man-months for detailed engineering, management system development and techni-
cal assistance for COMETNA and about 40 man-months for management systems
assistance to SOREFAME. The total man-month cost of these services, including
fees, overheads and other expenses, is expected to be around US$10,000.
Around 120 man-months of assistance is also envisioned for the subsector
studies at a similar cost.
6.03      In line with the Government policy for major investment projects,
all imported equipment and material for the Project will be exempted from
import duties and taxes. A physical contingency factor of 10% has been
added to the base cost estimates and is considered adequate. Price contin-
gencies arising from annual escalation of both local and foreign costs of
equipment, materials, civil works and other capital items in US$ terms are
projected to be 10.5% in 1980, 9% in 1981 and 8% thereafter. These inter-
national price escalation rates were used for both local and foreign capital
expenditure (expressed in US$) on the assumption that, in future, differences
in the international and domestic inflation rates would be accounted for by
corresponding adjustments in the exchange rate in line with the Government
current policy in this respect. The price contingencies represent about 20%
of the base cost estimates plus physical contingencies. The installed cost
estimate of the Project including contingencies is considered reasonable and
adequate.



- 34 -
Prolect Capital Cost Estimates
Current Esc. Million a/ Current US$ Million
Local  Foreigr- Total    Local Forei___   otal    %
Civil Works and Buildings               594      138     732    12.4    2.9   15.3   30.6
Machinery, Equipment and Spares         180   1,126   1,306       3.8   23.7   27.5   55.0
Installation & Supervision               86       47     133      1.8    1.0    2.8    5.6
Engineering & Technical Assistance    28         128     156      0.6    2.7    3.3    6.6
Preoperating & Start-up Expenses         14       43      57      0.3    0.8    1.1    2.2
Base Cost                         902   1,482   2,384    18.9   31.1   50.0  100.0
Physical Contingencies                   86      138     224      1.8    3.0    4.8    9.6
Price Contingencies                     185      328     513      3.9    6.9   10.8   21.6
Installed Cost                  1,173   1,948   3,121    24.6   41.0   65.6  131.2
Incremental Working Capital             441      171     612      9.3    3.6   12.9   25.8
Environmental Control System             14       57      71      0.3    1.2    1.5    3.0
Subsector Studies                        47      57      104      1.0    1.2    2.2    4.4
Project Cost                    1,675   2,233   3,908    35.2   47.0   82.2  164.4
Interest during construction             86     237      323      1.8    5.0    6.8   13.6
Total Financing Required        1.761   2,470   4,231    37.0   52.0   89.0  178.0
of which:
Foundry                         1,177   1,519   2,696    24.6   32.2   56.8   63.8
Valve Plant                       180      162      342      3.8    3.4    7.2    8.1
Hydro-Power Component             342      675   1,017       7.3   14.0   21.3   23.9
Environmental Control System       14       57       71     0.3    1.2    1.5    1.7
Subsector Studies                  48       57      105     1.0    1.2    2.2    2.5
1,761   2,470   4,231    37.0   52.0   89.0  100.0
a/   The costs in Escudos have been calculated from US$ cost using an exchange
rate of Esc. 47.5 = US$1.00.
b/   Includes indirect foreign exchange component which is estimated to be
US$4.3 million (about Esc. 200 million).
6.04      Working capital requirements have been estimated at US$12.9 million,
taking into account price escalation as described in the preceding paragraph.
The relatively low requirement is due to the reason that a part of the Project
will replace the existing old facilities and is also based on assumptions that
COMETNA and SOREFAME will improve their working capital management over that
existing presently in their operations (Annex 3-5). Further, the implementa-
tion of the viability contracts (paras. 3.16, 3.27) will also improve the
working capital position of the Companies. Interest during construction is
estimated at US$6.8 million, based on the investment schedule and an interest
rate of 10% (in US$ terms) for all debts, from both local and foreign sources.
B.   Financing Plan
6.05      The total financing requirements for the Project as a whole are
proposed to be covered as follows. Details for the principal components
of the Project are given in Annex 6-2.



- 35 -
Project Financing Plan
(current US$ million)
Local     Foreign      Total      Percentage
Foundry, Valve & Hydro-
Power Components
Equity
IPE                             32.9         1.2 a/    34.1          40
Debt
IBRD                               -       41.6        41.6          49
Other Sources                    2.8         6.8        9.6          11
Sub-total Debt                   2.8       48.4        51.2          60
Financing Need for Principal
Components                        35.7        49.6       85.3         100
Environmental Control System          0.3 b/      1.2 c/      1.5
Subsector Studies                     1.0 d/      1.2 c/      2.2
Total Financing                      37.0        52.0        89.0
a/ For indirect foreign exchange.
b/ To be financed from local debt.
cI Proposed to be financed by the Bank.
dI To be financed by Government contribution.
6.06      Of the total financing requirements of US$89.0 million for the Project,
the local currency component is estimated at US$37.0 million. In view of the
present financial situation of COMETNA and SOREFAME, 40% of the cost of each
Project component (other than environmental control system and subsector studies)
will be covered by equity. Assurances have been obtained from IPE that it will
ensure provision of US$25.6 million and US$8.5 million in equity funds for
COMETNA and SOREFAME respectively. The timing of the equity participation
has also been agreed. Finally, the Government has agreed to guarantee the
provision of such equity and the maintenance of a maximum debt equity ratio of
60:40 for each of the Companies, and to ensure the provision of US$1.0 million
to cover the local currency costs of the subsector studies.
6.07      Debt financing requirements are expected to amount to US$51.2 million
for the principal project components and US$2.7 million for the environmealtal
control system and subsector studies. The proposed Bank loan of US$44.0 mil-
lion equivalent, which would also finance the foreign exchange element of
interest during construction, the environmental control system and the sub-
sector studies, would cover 49% of the total cost and 85% of the foreign
exchange cost. The loan would be made directly to COMETNA (US$33.4 million)
and SOREFAME (US$10.6 million), and will be guaranteed by the Government. The
foreign exchange risk will be borne by COMETNA and SOREFAME. The portion of
the loan for subsector studies will also be extended to COMETNA, which would
make it available to the Government. The term of the loan would be for 15
years including 3 years grace at an annual rate of 10% with the difference
between the 10% and the prevailing Bank's lending rate of 8.25% payable to the
Government as a guarantee and administration fee.
6.08      The remaining portion of the debt financing (US$9.9 million), which
includes US$3.5 million to be contracted by June 30, 1981, is expected to be
covered by commercial loans.  IPE has agreed to provide necessary funds
including additional funds as may be required to cover any financing
shortfalls and cost overruns, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, to complete the Project in a manner that ensures compliance with the



- 36 -
financial covenants. The Government has also agreed to provide, if needed,
funds to complete the Project.
C.   Procurement and Retroactive Financing
6.09      The Bank loan is proposed to finance the foreign exchange costs of
equipment and machinery, engineering services, subsector studies and interest
during construction. Procurement will be in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines and a detailed list of the items to be financed by the Bank is
given in Annex 6-3. Equipment packages costing over US$100,000 equivalent
each will be procured by international competitive bidding, while packages
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each (up to a maximum total of US$4
million) will be obtained through limited international tendering, under which
the borrower may award contracts after having received at least three compar-
able bids from qualified suppliers in at least three eligible countries.
6.10      Portuguese suppliers are expected to bid directly for some packages
with an approximate value of US$2.5 million. In such cases a margin of
preference of 15% or the applicable import duty, whichever is less, will be
accorded to the bids from qualified domestic bidders. Also, in a few key
packages of foundry equipment (melting shop, sand plant and molding lines),
incorporation of domestically fabricated components in the main foreign bid
is expected. However, in view of the need to assign single contractor
responsibility for these packages, these packages have been included in their
entirety under Bank-financed items, while allowing the local suppliers to
participate as subsuppliers to the main bidder. For the purpose of bid
comparison of these packages, a preference margin of 15% of the c.i.f. bid
price or the applicable import duty, whichever is less, will be accorded to
clearly identified and separable Portuguese components (which have more than
20% domestic value added) incorporated in the foreign bids. The mechanism of
bid evaluation for such packages will be specified in the bid documents. The
total amount of such components is expected to be under US$3 million.
6.11      Civil engineering, civil works, erection contracts and some equipment
which is expected to be procured locally will be financed by the Companies
with Portuguese funds. The civil engineering contract for the foundry and the
valve plant is expected to be awarded in June 1980. Civil construction,
building works and erection contracts will be awarded after competitive
bidding among local contractors. The capabilities of these contractors are
considered adequate for timely and efficient completion of these works.
6.12      COMETNA has awarded the contract for detailed engineering of the
foundry in May 1980 (paras. 5.21, 6.02). An early appointment of a consulting
company was crucial for meeting the Project implementation schedule. A part
payment of US$150,000 for these services is expected to be paid prior to the
signature of the loan. This amount is proposed to be retroactively financed
under the loan. Retroactive financing is also proposed to cover the down
payment of around US$450,000 of a total value of US$4.5 million for a critical
long delivery vertical turning lathe for SOREFAME (para. 5.23). The lathe is
needed urgently in order for SOREFAME to meet its schedule for the supply of
hydropower equipment.
D.   Allocation and Disbursement of Bank Loan
6.13      The allocation of the proposed Bank loan of US$44 million will be
as follows. Details are given in Annex 6-3.



- 37 -
Allocation of Bank Loan
(US$ million)
COMETNA        SOREFAME
Category                                                Total       Application
Machinery, Equipment         21.3            8.4        29.7   100% of foreign expenditure
and Spares                                                   and 100% of local expenditure
ex-factory
Engineering and               4.8            0.4         5.2   100% of foreign expenditure
other Services                                               and 90% of expenditure of
local consultants
Environmental                 1.0             -          1.0   100% of foreign expenditure
Control System                                               and 100% of local expenditure
ex-factory
Subsector Studies             1.2             -          1.2   100% of foreign expenditure
and 90% of expenditure of
local consultants
Interest During
Construction                4.0            1.0        5.0
Unallocated                   1.1            0.8         1.9
33.4          10.6        44.0
6.14      The disbursement schedule for the Bank loan given in Annex 6-4 is
based on estimates of order placement and expected delivery times for equipment
in line with the implementation schedule (para. 5.22). The Bank loan will be
disbursed against 100% of the foreign exchange cost of equipment and machinery;
100% of the ex-factory local costs of subcontracts where these form part of
internationally bid packages and of direct local purchases; and 100% of the
foreign costs and 90% of local consultancy costs of engineering services and
subsector studies. Portuguese suppliers are expected to bid for components
and packages not exceeding US$5.5 million (para. 6.10); probable local
currency financing under the Bank loan based on this level of participation
is estimated at around US$4 million.
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.   Revenues and Operating Costs
7.01      The main assumptions underlying the projections are detailed in
Annex 3-5 for the Companies' existing operations and in Annex 7-1 for the
Project components. Revenues and costs have been inflated to current terms
up to the achievement of full production (1986 for COMETNA and 1984 for
SOREFAME) and maintained constant thereafter. The financial projections are
expressed in current U.S. dollars instead of Escudos and are based on inter-
national inflation rates projected by the Bank. This approach assumes that
any difference between domestic and international inflation rates will be
accounted for by appropriate exchange rate adjustments, a policy currently
being followed and expected to be continued by the Government.



- 38 -
7.02      Revenues:  It is assumed that the foundry will start commercial
production in 1983 and the valve plant and the hydro-power equipment component
in 1982. Projected income statements showing annual revenue and operating costs
for the different Project components are given in Annexes 7-2 through 7-4.
Project Production Build-ups and Sales Revenues
(current US$ million)
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Foundry
Production (tons)                            -     4,000   7,000   9,000  10,000
Sales Revenues                               -      10.0   18.7    25.7   30.4
Valve Plant
Production (tons)                           450      530      650      750    750
Sales Revenues                              2.9     3.7      4.8     5.9    6.3
Hydro-Power Equipment Component a/
Production                                  5.5    14.0    19.7    19.7   19.7
Sales Revenue b/                            3.4     8.1    15.0    19.7   19.7
a/   On an incremental basis.
b/   Expressed in constant terms after 1984.
7.03      The production build-ups are considered achievable as the implement-
ing Companies have adequate experience in operating similar plant and equip-
ment. Consequently, the foundry is expected to reach full production in
1986, the valve plant in 1985 and the hydro-power equipment component in 1984.
After allowing for the 10% real increase in the price of castings planned to
be implemented by COMETNA management when the foundry starts production,
prices for castings and valves remain 15% below comparable international
levels (paras. 4.25-4.26). Although this differential suggests that even
higher prices would be feasible, Project revenues for the foundry and the
valve plant have been conservatively based on this level of prices for the
purposes of financial projections. For SOREFAME's hydro-power equipment
component, it is assumed that the Company will be able to maintain its real
prices and compete successfully in the international market. Finally, it is
important that the Companies set appropriate prices so as to earn a reasonable
return on their capital provided their facilities are operated efficiently
and the Government does not preclude them from doing so. COMETNA has agreed
to review its pricing policies annually with the Bank (para. 3.10), and
assurances have been obtained from: (i) COMETNA and SOREFAME that they will
set prices that will enable them to earn an adequate return on invested
capital, and (ii) the Government that, if and when it intends to introduce
any measures which might significantly affect the prices that the Companies
are able to charge their domestic customers, it will consult with the Bank
prior to implementing any such measures.
7.04      Operating Costs:  Project operating costs are based on feasibility
reports prepared by consultants (para. 1.05) and supplemented with data on
current operations supplied by the Companies (Annex 7-1). The table on the
next page shows comparative production costs for the existing and Project
facilities. All three Project components are expected to lead to substantial
gains in labor productivity (paras. 5.16-5.18). For the new foundry and valve
plant, productivity improvements, as shown below, are expected to amount to
around 60% (US$520 to US$320/ton) and 75% (US$1.06 to US$0.60/kg) respectively.



- 39 -
For SOREFAME, it is expected that the Project component will reduce the share
of manufacturing labor costs in total production of the hydro-power equipment
division from about 26% at present to 22%. Material costs will increase for
the new foundry on account of the more sophisticated product mix, but are
expected to be more than offset by the lower labor costs per ton and the
higher average prices for the superior product-mix. The situation is expected
to be similar for the valve plant. For SOREFAME, projected material costs
are in line with the Company's current experience for the same product.
Overall, the operating cost estimates are judged to be satisfactory.
Comparison of Price/Cost Structure between Project
Components (at full production) and Existing Operations
(1979 US$ terms)
Hydro-Power Equipment
Foundry              Valve Plant                    Division
(US$'000/ton)               (US$/kg)                    (US$ million)
Existing  %  New   %  Existing   %   New   %   Without            With
Project   %  Project  %
Average Price a/    1.53    100  1.73  100  4.35    100   4.80  100  28.1 b/ 100  40.8 b/100
Production Costs
Materials           0.17     11  0.22   13  2.50      57   2.60   54  10.0    36  14.5   36
Consumables &
Utilities         0.33     22  0.28   16  0.08       2  0.10    2    1.0       4    1.3     3
Labor               0.52     34  0.32   18  1.06      24  0.60   13   7.3    26   9.0   22
Total          1.02    67  0.82   47  3.64       83   3.30   69   18.3    66  24.8   61
Margin              0.51     33  0.91   53  0.71      17  1.50  31   9.8    34  16.0   39
a/  For comparability, the average prices shown for the existing steel foundry
and valve plant are derived by applying the expected prices for the new
steel foundry and valve plant to the 1979 product-mixes of the existing
steel foundry and valve plant respectively.
b/   Value of production.   -
B.   Financial Projections
7.05      The main assumptions underlying the projections are given in Annex 7-1.
Consolidated financial statements for COMETNA incorporating the new foundry and
the valve plant and for SOREFAME incorporating the hydro-power equipment component
are given in Annexes 7-5 and 7-6 respectively and summarized in the table on the
following page. The financial projections assume that the viability contract
together with the additional measures through IPE (Annex 3-4) will be implemented
in full as scheduled. The consolidated projections for COMETNA indicate
satisfactory financial ratios through 1990. For SOREFAME, as shown, the debt
service coverage is low up to the start-up of the Project primarily due to
high interest expenses (on past debt) in relation to the Company's internal
cash generation. However, this is considered acceptable as the Government
and IPE are willing to provide the Company adequate funds to meet its opera-
tional needs and debt service requirements as well as for investments. The
situation is expected to improve once the Project starts production and the
Company's financial ratios are projected to reach the stipulated levels
by end 1982, i.e., before the commencement of amortization of the Bank loan.



- 40 -
COMETNA AND SOREFAME: Summary of Consolidated Financial Projections
with Project
(current a/ US$ million)
A.  COMETNA                      1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1985   1987
(provis.)
Income Statements
Sales                          18.7   24.3   28.2   34.8   42.5   61.8   69.0
Pre-tax Profit                 (4.5)  (0.6)   0.4    0.9   (1.5)   6.9   11.2
Net Profit b/                  (4.5)  (0.6)   0.4    0.9   (1.5)   4.1    6.7
Balance Sheet
Current Assets c/              25.1   30.8   33.9   35.7   33.8   42.6   54.6
Surplus Cash                    -       -      -       0.8    3.2    1.9    4.4
Current Liabilities            34.9   19.7   21.7   23.2   24.9   26.8   27.5
Med. & Long-Term Debt           2.0   18.9   30.7   43.4   40.3   31.9   24.7
Equity                         (7.5)  13.9   30.5   35.2   33.8   35.2   38.8
Ratios
Current Ratio d/                0.7    1.6    1.6    1.6    1.5    1.7    2.2
Debt:Equity Ratio               -ve   58:42  50:50  55:45  54:46  45:55  32:68
Debt Service Coverage b/        0.0    1.2    1.8    1.4    1.3    1.4    2.0
B. SOREFAME
Income Statements
Sales                          51.9   70.9   57.3   97.3  109.0  129.4  129.4
Pre-tax Profit                (17.4)  (4.1)  (2.7)   4.4   11.7   17.7   19.3
Net Profit b/                 (17.4)  (4.1)  (2.7)   4.4   11.7   10.6   11.6
Balance Sheet
Current Assets c/              95.7  108.5  118.3  133.5  145.8  160.5  160.5
Surplus Cash                    -       -      2.5    2.9   11.6   26.3   38.1
Current Liabilities           115.4   74.1   81.5   94.6  106.1  112.3  113.6
Med. & Long-Term Debt          42.9   73.1   78.1   69.8   62.6   51.2   37.1
Equity                          5.2   30.7   38.9   45.9   57.6   86.0  104.5
Ratios
Current Ratio d/                0.8    1.5    1.5    1.4    1.5    1.7    1.7
Debt:Equity Ratio              89:11  70:30  67:33  60:40  52:48  37:63  26:74
Debt Service Coverage b/        0.0    0.4    0.8    1.6    1.4    1.7    1.6
a/   In current terms through 1986 for COMETNA and 1984 for SOREFAME, constant
terms thereafter.
b/   Net profit and debt service coverage in 1985 and 1987 reflect the effect
of tax payments from which the Companies are exempt till 1984 under the
viability contracts.
c/   Excluding surplus cash.
d/   Including surplus cash.
C.   Financial Rates of Return
7.06      The Project's pre-tax financial rates of return on the basis of
revenue and cost streams adjusted to real 1979 US$ terms are considered
adequate and are as follows: foundry (13.5%), valve plant (10.3%) and hydro-
power equipment component (34.3%). The after-tax returns are 10.3%, 7.1% and
27.6% respectively. The comparatively high rate of return for the hydro-power
equipment component of the Project reflects the fact that, in this case, a
relatively small debottlenecking investment leads to a substantial increase in
productive capacity. Results of the sensitivity tests on the Project's rates
of return are discussed in detail in relation to its economic return (paras.
8.03 and 8.04).



- 41 -
D.   Break-even Analysis
7.07      Based on the projected income statements (Annexes 7-1 through 7-3),
the Project components would start to make net positive contributions to the
Companies' cash flow and earnings in 1985 for the foundry, 1984 for the valve
plant and 1982 for the hydro-power component. The break-even capacity utili-
zation levels are shown in the following table:
Project Break-even
(% of capacity utilization)
Hydro-Power
Foundry    Valve Plant    Equip. Component a/
Cash Break-Even                         62           71                33
Profit Break-Even                       69           72                39
a/   On an incremental basis.
The profit break-even levels are higher than the cash break-even levels as
the impact of depreciation is larger than that of debt repayment.
E.   Financial Covenants
7.08      The Government and IPE have agreed to implement the financial
restructuring measures for COMETNA and SOREFAME (paras. 3.16, 3.27). Based on
the projections, which incorporate these measures, it is expected that the
Companies will achieve a sound financial position and maintain satisfactory
financial ratios essential for viable operations. However, to ensure main-
tenance of a sound financial position, agreement was reached that: (i) The
Borrowers (i.e. COMETNA and SOREFAME) will maintain a minimum current ratio of
1.3; (ii) COMETNA will reach a maximum debt/equity ratio of 60:40 by end 1980
and SOREFAME by end 1982 (SOREFAME will reach a maximum debt-equity ratio of
75:25 by end 1980 and 70:30 by end 1981), and maintain it thereafter; and the
Borrowers will not, without the prior consent of the Bank, incur new debt
if, as a consequence, this leads to a debt-equity ratio higher than 60:40 or a
debt service coverage lower than 1.5; (iii) In case of a financing shortfall
and/or an overrun in the Project cost, IPE/the Government will supply the
additional funds necessary to complete 1/ the Project consistent with the
Borrowers maintaining annuaLly a maximum debtequity ratio of 60:40 (para.
6.06); (iv) In order to ensure adequate management attention to the Project,
COMETNA and SOREFAME will not, without the prior consent of the Bank, under-
take in any one year until Project completion, investments unrelated to the
Project exceeding US$3 million and US$5 million respectively; (v) The Govern-
ment and IPE will take all necessary steps to see that the Borrowers are
enabled to maintain financial ratios as covenanted; (vi) The Government and
IPE will not take any actions to transfer or change majority ownership of the
Borrowers without the prior consent of the Bank to the arrangements for an
orderly transfer of obligations with regard to the Project; and (vii) The
Borrowers will not create subsidiary companies or enter into financial or
technical collaboration without the prior consent of the Bank.
1/   Completion for the foundry and valve plant is defined as the achievement
of 2 months continuous production at the rate of 8,000 metric tons per year
and 600 metric tons per year respectively. For the hydro-power equipment
component, it is defined as achievement of production at 80% of capacity
for at least 3 continuous months.



- 42 -
F.   Auditing and Reporting Requirements
7.09      IPE, COMETNA and SOREFAME have agreed to have financial audits
undertaken by independent auditors. Assurances have been obtained that (i)
IPE and the Borrowers will submit independently audited financial reports
within six and four months respectively of the closing of each fiscal year;
(ii) the Borrowers will submit monthly progress reports and quarterly finan-
cial statements and projections within 45 days of the end of the period; and
(iii) after completion of the Project, the Borrowers will prepare and furnish
to the Bank a comprehensive report on the Project, its implementation, initial
operation, and the costs and benefits derived and expected to be derived
thereon. In addition, IPE has agreed that it will complete an independent
audit of its investments by December 1981 and COMETNA has agreed to establish
appropriate divisional accounting systems by December 1980 to the satisfaction
of the Bank.
G.   Malor Risks
7.10      Major risks associated with the Project can be divided into two
categories: (i) those beyond the control of the Companies; and (ii) Company
associated risks. The most significant of the risks beyond the control of
the Companies, is that of substantially lower than expected rates of domestic
growth or planned investment. Such lower growth rates could have significant
adverse impacts on the markets for the hydro-power equipment component under
SOREFAME. Any inability of EDP, the sole domestic purchaser of such equipment,
to implement its hydropower expansion schemes as planned will affect SOREFAME's
domestic sales. Further, a continuing inability of the Portuguese Railways (CP)
to purchase rolling stock from SOREFAME as contracted earlier could adversely
affect the Company's future profitability and cash-flow. Based on intensive
discussions with EDP, CP and other concerned authorities in Portugal, the risk
of such an eventuality is, however, judged to be low. Moreover, both SOREFAME
and COMETNA could partly compensate for less than expected domestic sales of
their products through further increases in exports where they have been com-
peting successfully thus far and are further strengthening their capabilities.
7.11      Another risk is the future establishment of competing additional
capacity in the Projects' products. However, the Government has already
initiated in March 1979 policies for the orderly development of the companies
in these areas based on market sharing and product specialization and it is
expected that this would continue in the future. Recommendations for the
overall rational development of the subsector expected to result from the
proposed study (para 2.16), are expected to further curtail such a risk.
7.12      The most significant of the risks associated with the Companies,
is that of their inability to turn around their performance based on current
plans and programs. As stressed earlier, recent management actions coupled
with the measures proposed for both companies to establish a sound financial
position indicate that the Companies are already on their way to bringing
about such a turnaround. Further, significant safeguards in terms of improved
management systems have been built into the Project to further enhance the
Companies' prospects. Another risk relates to any failure of the Companies,
particularly SOREFAME, and the labor unions to continue the current improving
trends in relations, as such failure could adversely affect the Companies'
future labor productivity and competitive ability. However, in view of the



- 43 -
general positive atmosphere within the Companies and their recent actions and
ongoing program to adequately reinforce the above areas (para. 3.23) as neces-
sary, these risks are reduced to a great extent. Nevertheless, the Bank will
periodically review these areas to ensure that appropriate measures are imple-
mented to promote further improvements. Both Companies do not face any
major technical risk which could seriously jeopardise Project execution as they
have both successfully implemented similar investments and operated similar
plant and equipment.
VIII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.   Economic Costs and Benefits
8.01      For calculating the economic costs and benefits of the Project
components, border prices based on international prices have been used for
all tradeable goods and services and domestic prices for all non-tradeables.
8.02      As noted earlier (paras. 4.25 and 4.26), COMETNA's prices for steel
castings and valves are well below comparable international levels. For the
economic analysis, these have been increased by 15% to reflect the lowest
competitive international price. No adjustments have been made in the
output prices for hydro-power equipment since SOREFAME's prices are already
in line with international levels. As regards inputs, prices for scrap and
domestically supplied ferro-alloys have been increased by up to 30% to reflect
prevailing international levels, prices of castings (input to valve plant and
hydro-power component) have been increased by 15%, prices of other intermedi-
ates increased by 10-15%, and the price of power has been increased by 15% to
reflect present prices of energy inputs. These changes result in an increase
in the direct production costs (excluding labor) of 20% in the foundry, and
10% in the valve plant and the hydro-power equipment component. A life of 13
years has been assumed for the hydro-power component to reflect the likelihood
of more rapid obsolescence, 15 years for the valve plant, and 17 years for the
foundry. No scrap value has been assumed.
B.   Economic Rates of Return
8.03      The economic rate of return for the foundry and valve plant has been
calculated, based on treating the proposed components as greenfield investments.
The return for the hydro-power component is calculated based on the incremental
costs and benefits associated with the Project investment. The economic rates
of return for the base case are presented in the following table:
Economic Rates of Return (%) - Base Case
Steel Foundry                                    16.3
Valve Plant                                      16.6
Hydro-power Equipment Component                  31.9
Project (all components)                         19.9



- 44 -
The economic returns for the Base Case are higher for the foundry and valve
plant and lower for the hydro-power equipment component than the respective
financial returns due to the economic adjustments outlined in para. 8.02. The
increase in the return of the valve plant is higher than for the foundry due
to the smaller adjustment in its input costs and due to its greater sensitivity
to changes in output prices (para. 8.04). The economic rates of return for
the foundry and valve plant based on incremental considerations (to reflect
the alternative of the continuing operations without the benefit of the
planned investment) are 15.0% and 16.1% respectively. It should be noted
that the incremental returns are only marginally lower than in the Base Case
since the existing plants effectively have a low profitability based on low
productivity due to old facilities, short remaining useful life and significant
reinvestment requirements if production and quality are to be maintained at
acceptable levels. Further, the steel foundry design incorporates the potential
for expansion to 15,000 tons with minimal additional investment. If the costs
and benefits of such an expansion are included in the analysis, the economic
return of the foundry increases to 18.5%.
8.04      The sensitivity of the Base case rates of return to changes in
various cost and benefit parameters is illustrated in the following table in
terms of the percentage changes in these parameters that would "switch" the
rate of return to 12%.
Switching Values
(% changes to "switch" rate of return to 12%)
Steel Foundry Valve Plant Hydro-Power Equipment
Capital Costs                       37%            34%              166%
Output Prices                      (12%)           (6%)             (27%)
Operating Costs                     21%             8%               50%
Labor Costs                         94%            51%              198%
Of the various parameters, changes are most probable in the area of capital
costs; however, as shown above the Project components are only marginally
sensitive to such changes. While sensitivity is high with regard to changes
in output prices particularly for the valve plant and the foundry, a decrease
in these prices is not considered probable in view of the conservative assump-
tion that the economic price equals the lowest price prevailing presently for
these products in the international markets. The return for these components
is also reasonably sensitive to changes in operating costs. However, for most
operating cost components, such as material inputs, increases are likely to
be accompanied by offsetting output price increases. Sensitivity is low
with regard to the labor cost component, which could increase without such
offsetting changes. Based on these considerations, the risk of a decrease in
the economic return to below 12% is considered negligible for the hydro-power
component, very low for the foundry component, and low for the valve plant.
Sensitivity analysis is further detailed in Annex 8-1.



- 45 -
C.   Foreign Exchange Savings and Other Benefits
8.05      As can be expected from the economic rates of return, which are
derived based on official exchange rates, the Project components prove to be
fairly efficient in converting domestic resources to foreign exchange. The
Domestic Resource Cost measure (DRC) 1/, equals 46.9 for the fou-.ry, 46.9 for
the valve plant and 28.9 for the hydro-power component, and 41.0 for the Project
as a whole. These compare favorably with a shadow exchange rate of 58 Escudos/
US Dollar. Details are shown in Annex 8-2. The Project's net foreign exchange
savings after provision for debt service of foreign loans is expected to amount
to US$20 million annually in constant 1980 dollars when the components reach full
production as compared to the foreign exchange component investment of about
US$45 million. In addition to the adequate economic rate of return, the Project
will generate substantial other economic benefits. The expansion of steel
castings production is expected to provide the foundation for the development
of a number of related engineering industries based on domestic availability
of quality castings. Further, the relocation of the steel foundry and environ-
mental improvements in the existing foundry are expected to significantly
enhance the working conditions for 800 foundry workers in COMETNA. The valve
plant is expected to upgrade technology of valve production in Portugal and
permit the country to penetrate the market for small sophisticated valves
which have traditionally been imported. The valve plant is expected to rely
significantly on outside vendors for the supply of a number of valve fittings,
such as seals, special nuts and screws, and would thus promote the development
of small and medium-sized supplying industries. The hydro-power equipment
component will also serve to upgrade Portuguese capability in the manufacture
of hydro-power equipment from the present limit of 150 MW plants to 300 MW
plants. Also, as illustrated in the high rate of return, it will substan-
tially increase productive capacity with a relatively small de-bottlenecking
investment.
8.06      The direct additional employment impact of the Project is estimated
at around 350 persons. In addition, it consolidates employment of another
560 persons in the foundry and valve plants, which would have been otherwise
jeopardized by the shutdown of the obsolete facilities in the near future.
Based on the investment cost (including working capital) of about US$66.7
million, the investment per direct job created (or saved) amounts to US$73,000
(para. 5.15).
8.07      The Project investment in the modernization and expansion of domestic
capacity in the selected mechanical engineering industries is in line with
Portugal's comparative advantage in these industries. The advantage derives
from the availability of trained labor and engineering manpower at costs which
are low relative to those in other producing countries. Labor costs which
account for 13-22% of sales (para 7.04) for the Project components in Portugal
would account for much higher proportions (around 25-40%) in other European
1/   DRC is, herein, defined as the domestic resource costs incurred per unit
of foreign exchange earned or saved, i.e. the ratio of the discounted net
present value of domestic economic costs and benefits (in local currency
units) to the net present value of the economic foreign exchange costs._
and benefits (in US$), discounted at the opportunity cost of capital.



- 46 -
countries, where comparable wage rates range between around 150% (Spain,
Italy) and 300% (Federal Republic of Germany) of those in Portugal. For
example, the labor cost in the foundry component of around US$320/ton of
product in Portugal compares with around US$450/ton in Spain and much higher
levels in Germany. This significant advantage justifies the expansion and
further development of the selected industries. Further, the companies
already possess engineering and technological capabilities and adequate
experience in the respective fields thereby requiring minimal investment in
training and technology transfer.
8.08      The sector study to be carried out under the Project (para. 2.16)
is considered important in planning and coordinating the future development
of the subsector including the formulation of appropriate policies and in-
centives. The implementation of these policies is expected to, over time,
upgrade technological and management capabilities and promote increased
exports. The Project will serve to strengthen IPE particularly in its proj-
ect development and management functions. Finally it is expected to serve
as a model for future efforts in the rehabilitation of other enterprises in
the engineering subsector and other parts of the manufacturing sector.
IX. AGREE21ENTS
9.01      Execution of the viability contracts for COMETNA and SOREFAME is
judged to be critical for the Project and is proposed as a condition for
effectiveness of the loan (paras. 3.16 and 3.27).
9.02        The following major agreements were reached:
A.   With the Government that it will: (i)  carry out a comprehensive sub-
sector study, and implement agreed recommendations (para. 2.16); (ii)
guarantee to meet any shortfall in equity contributions by shareholders,
and provide funds to complete the Project (paras. 6.06 and 6.08);
(iii) provide US$1.0 million equivalent to cover the local costs of the
subsector studies (para. 6.06); (iv) consult with the Bank prior to
implementing any measures that would prevent the Borrowers from setting
appropriate prices (para. 7.03); (v) implement the financial restructur-
ing measures for COMETNA and SOREFAME (para. 7.08); and (vi) not take any
action to transfer ownership of COMETNA and SOREFAME from IPE without
prior consent of the Bank of the transfer arrangements (para. 7.08).
B.   With IPE that it will:  (i) set up a Project Monitoring Unit with
adequate staffing (paras. 3.04 and 5.19); (ii) engage an independent
auditor to undertake by December 1981 an evaluation of its portfolio of
investments (para. 3.06); (iii) provide US$34.1 million in equity funds
during the Project construction and guarantee provision of other necessary
funds to complete the Project (paras. 6.06 and 6.08); (iv) not relinquish
of its own accord its majority ownership in COMETNA and SOREFAME without
prior consent of the Bank (para. 7.08); and (v) comply with auditing and
reporting requirements (para. 7.09).



- 47 -
C.   With COMETNA and SOREFAME that they will:  (i) undertake to implement
and operate the plant facilities to comply with environmental, safety
and health standards acceptable to the Bank (para. 5.12); (ii) pay a
guarantee fee to the Government (para. 6.07); (iii) set prices that
enable them to earn an adequate return on capital (para. 7.03); (iv)
abide by the financial and related covenants applicable to the Company
(para. 7.08) and (v) comply with auditing and reporting requirements
(para. 7.09).
D.   With COMETNA that it will:  (i) review annually with the Bank until
Project completion its organizational, marketing and pricing policies
(paras. 3.10 and 4.21); (ii) carry out a study on the adequacy of the
pricing of its products (para. 4.24); (iii) not to enter into any
collaboration for the foundry component without prior approval of the
Bank (para. 5.07); (iv) set up an engineering department in the valve
plant and make arrangements for technical assistance for the design
and technology of valves by December 1980 (para. 5.09); (v) staff ade-
quately a Project Management Unit to coordinate and control various
activities of the Project (para. 5.20); (vi) make available US$1.2
million of the loan proceeds to the Government (para. 6.07); and (vii)
introduce by December 1980 in consultation with the Bank a divisional
accounting system (para. 7.09).
9.03      Based on the above agreements, the Project is suitable for a Bank
loan of US$33.4 million equivalent to COMETNA and US$10.6 million equivalent
to SOREFAME, for 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at a cost of 10% per
annum, including a fee of 1.75% payable to the Government.
Industrial Projects Department
May 1980



- 48 -
ANNEX 3-1
PORTUGAL
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
IPE: SUMMARIZED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Esc. million)
1977        1978
(unaudited) a/
Income Statements
Income from Investments                                  1.9      66.3
Other Income                                              -         2.0
Total Income                                             1.9       68.3
Cost of Operations                                      28.1      59.5
Net Income                                             (26.2)       8.8
Balance Sheets
Current Assets                                        685.9   1,341.1
Financial Investments                                 238.6   1,942.0
Net Fixed Assets                                        82.4       95.3
Other Assets                                             -          5.1
Total Assets                                        1,006.9   3,383.5
Current Liabilities                                    20.0      167.6
Medium and Long-term Debt                                -     1,069.6
Other Debt                                               -          0.5
Paid-in Equity                                      1,013.1   2,163.2
Retained Earnings                                    (26.2)    (17.4)
Financial Ratios
Current Ratio                                         34.3        8.0
Debt:Equity Ratio                                    0:100       33:67
a/   Means unaudited by an independent external auditor.  Nonetheless,
all accounts are audited by a body responsible to the Board and
published in the form of an Annual Report.
Industrial Projects Department
May 1980



- 49 -
ANNEX 3-2
PORTUGAL
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
COMETNA AND SOREFAME: SALES PERFORMANCE SINCE 1973
(Current Esc. million)
A.  COMETNA                            1973  1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979
(est.)
Cement industry equipment              44   182   211   264    80    76    82
Steel industry equipment               41    46   152    79    86   121   158
Valves                                  12    19    11    58    35    53    56
Rail & Track equipment                125   120    91   172   196   276   171
Ceramics industry equipment            12    15       9     9    15    46    43
Construction equipment                 17    15       4     5    12    17    23
Power plant equipment                  16      3      -     -      2      -     -
Raw castings for exports               11    46    71    46    43    71   119
Trash carts and containers              13    10    19    32    42    61   130
Other                                  91    69    58   120   174   132   108
Total:                                382   525   626   785   685   853   890
of which - Exports a/                87   245   121   143    76   139   196
(% of exports to total sales)        23    47    19    18    11    16    22
B.   SOREFAME                     1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978
Hydromechanical equipment          395      345      360      165     249      305
Industrial equipment                 2        7       65     405      511      398
Rolling stock                      394      401      231      316     433      223
Bridges and structures               -       29       79       83      117     163
Other                               21       22      213      149      131      54
Total                              812      804      948   1,118   1,441   1,143
of which:
Exports a/                    n.a.    n.a.    455        523      393      395
(Exports as % of Total Sales)   n.a.    n.a.          48      47       27       35
a/   Including exports to Portugal's former colonies.
Industrial Projects Department
May 1980



- 50 -                             ANNEX 3-3
Page 1.
PORTUGAL
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES FROJECT
_____________________________
COMETNA: HISTORICAL INCOME STATEMENTS
-------------------------------------
(ESC. MILLION)
1970  1971  1972  1973  1974  1975  1976  1977  1978   1979
VALUE OF PRODUCTION              326   387   421   436   739   749   723   810   858    990
LESS: CHANGES IN INVENTORIES    58    84    51    54   214   123   (62)  125          5    100
SALES                            268   303   370   382   525   626   785   685   853    890
COSTS OF OPERATION
MATERIALS                      130   142   150   145   178   245   256   265   325    420
SUBCONT. & UTILS.              55    84    80   *84   287   206   125   220   121         74
TAXES & ROYALTIES                4     -     8      7     7      3     5    13    12       15
SUP-TOTAL                      189   226   238   236   472   454   386   498   458    509
FERSON. I ADMIN. COSTS          98   119   138   149   221   268   290   344   384    503
DEPR. & AMORT.                  24    23    24    23    20    19    24    21    24        23
SUB-TOTAL                      122   142   162   172   241   287   314   365   408    526
TOTAL COST OF OPERATIONS         311   368   400   408   713   741   700   863   866  1,035
LESS: INVENTORY ADJUSTMENT        58    84    51    54   214   123   (62)  125        5    100
COST OF GOODS SOLD               253   284   349   354   499   618   762   738   861    935
GROSS PROFIT                      15    19    21    28    26       8    23   (53)   (8)   (45)
NET INTEREST CHARGES              12    13    19    23    25    31    42    74   160    180
INCOME FROM SALES                  3     6     2      5     1   (23)  (19) (127) (168)  (225)
OTHER INCOME/PROVISIONS            3     -      -    (3)    1   (25)  (17)   (6)    4)        8
PROFIT AFTER TAX                   6     6      2     2     2   (48)  (36) (133) (172)  (2217)
INDUSTRIAL FROJECTS DEPARTMENT
MAY 1980



- 51 -
PORTUGAL
--------                                       A}niX 3-J
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT                              Page 2
_____________________________
COMETNA: HISTORICAL BALANCE SHEETS
(ESC. MILLION)
1970  1971  1972  1973  1974  1975  1976   1977   1978
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS
CASH AND DEPOSITS                     68      9    15    65      9      8    27      38     11
ACCOUNTS/NOTES RECEIVABLE             67    57    69    94   138   194   282    301    418
OTHER RECEIVABLES                      2      9     4      9    18    51    29       29     34
INVENTORIES
FINISHED GOODS                         -    21    23    24    26    25    34         36     35
WORK IN PROCESS                        -   133   141   184   385   450   353    446    422
MATERIALS AND CONSUMABLES              -    56    60    54    83   118   114    148    212
TOTAL INVENTORIES                    108   210   224   262   494   593   501    630    669
PREPAID EXPENSES                       -      -     -      -     -      -     5      14     16
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                   245   285   312   430   659   846   844  1,012  1,148
INVESTMENTS                              2      2     2      4     3      3     3       3      3
GROSS FIXED ASSETS                     237   258   286   295   305   321   331    361    383
LESS: ACC. DEPR.                     131   146   167   185   204   219   237    258    278
NET FIXED ASSETS                       106   112   119   110   101   102    94    103    105
INTANGIBLE ASSETS                        9      4     4      4     4      2     2       1      3
ASSETS IN PROGRESS                       6      9     7      2     3      5     6       5     27
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS                     123   127   132   120   111   112   105    112    138
TOTAL ASSETS                           368   412   444   550   770   958   949  1,124  1,286
==m   =-.-  ss=  ==== MaM =s==  ===  =====  =====
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
CURRENT LIABILITIES
ADVANCES FROM CUSTOMERS                -   104    51   212   372   495   279    301    225
OTHER PAYABLES                         -      -     -      -     -   181   227    335    358
SHORT-TERM LOANS                       -      -     -      -     -    67   324    404    664
PAYABLES TO STATE                      -      -     -      -     -    49    62      34    107
OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES            156   14i   163   139   215    74    49        49      31
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES              156   251   214   351   587   866   941  1,123  1,385
MEDIUM AND LONG TERM LIABILITIES
LOANS                                  -      -     -      -     -      -    -      26      68
DUE TO STATE I OTHERS                  -      -     -      -     -      -     -     33      23
TOTAL MEDIUM AND LONG-TERM DEBT        172   118   198   156   139    82    33        59      91
TOTAL LIAIBLITIES                      328   369   402   507   726   948   974  l,182  1,476
EQUITY
SHARE CAPITAL                          9      9    40    40    40    55    55    155    195
REVALUATION AND * OTHER RESERVES    26    28        -      1     2     4      4      4       4
ACCUM. RETAINED EARNINGS               5      6     2      2     2   (49)  (84)  (217)  (389)
TOTAL EQUITY                            40    43    42    43    44    10   (25)   (58)  (190)
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY           368   412   444   550   770   958   949  19124  1,286
__,  ,= =    ==   ==   =    ==    =======    ==    =
RATIOS
CURRENT RATIO                       1.57  1.14  1.46  1.23  1.12  0.98  0.90   0.90   0.83
LONG-TERM DEBT TO EQUITY            81:19 73:27 82:18 78:22 76:24  89:11    -       -      -
INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
May 1980



PORTUGAL
MECHANICAL INWUSTRIES PROJECT
COMETNA AND SOREFAME: FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE UNDER VIABILITY
CONTRACTS AND SUPPLEMENTAL MEASURES THROUGH IPE
(Esc. Million)
SOREFAME                                       COMETNA                                     BOTH TOGETHER
1980    1981    1982    1983    1980-83        1980    1981    1982    1983    1980-83         1980    1981    1982    1983    1980-83
Measures Included in Viability
Contracts
A.     Cash Measures
1. Cash Equity                                  500     375      135     125      1,135        205       50      -        _        255         705     425      135     125      1,390
2. New Subordinated Loans                                -        -        -         -        -          -       -                  -           -       -        -       -         -
3. New Long Term Loans for Investments          236      -        -       -         236         52       -       -        _         52         288      -        -       -         288
4. Working Capital Loans                        150      -        -       -         150        100       -       -        -        100         250       -       -        -        250
5. Interest Subsidies                           515     378      360     310      1.563         99       89      77       50       315         614     467      437      360     1,878
Sub-Total                            1,401      753     495      435     3,084         456     139       77      50        722       1,857     892     572      485      3,806
B.     Conversion Measures
Conversion of Short-term into
Long-term Debt                              1,809      -        -       -       1,809        664       -       -        -        664      2,473       -       -         -      2,473
Total of Cost and Conversion         3.210      753     495      435     4.893       1.120     139       77      50      1.386      4,330       892    572     485       6 279
Measures
Supplemental Measures Through IPE
A.     Cash Measures                                      a/
1, Cash Equity                                  200      -        -       -        200         100       50      40      -         190        300        50     40        -        390
2. Interest Subsidies                                                        -                    -          -         -        -                   -        -       -               -
Sub-Total                              200       -       -        -        200         100      50       40      _         190        300       50      40        -        390
B.     Conversion Measures
3. Conversion of Existing Long-term
Loans into Equity/Subordinated Debt         610      -        -       -        610         250       -       -       -         250        860        -      -                  860
Total of Cash and Conversion           810       -                         810         350      50       40      -         440      12160       50      40        -      1.250
Measures                                                                                                                                       -      -
Total Assistance
Cash Measures                                 1,601     753      495     435     3,284         556      189     11      50        912      2,157       942    612     485       4,196
Conversion Measures                          2.419       -        -       -      2.419         914      _        -       -         914      3,333                                3.333
Grand Total                          4.020      753     495      435     5.703       1,470     189      117      50      1.826     5,490       942    612      485       7.529
a/Proposed by IPE to be provided as an interest free shareholder's loan.
Industrial Projects Department
May 1980



- 53 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 1
PORTUGAL
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
COMETNA AND SOREFAME: ASSUMPTIONS USED AND FINANCIAL
PROJECTIONS WITHOUT PROJECT
A.   Introduction
1.        The financial projections have been made in current US dollars
instead of Escudos, using the Bank's projections of expected international
inflation as follows: 1980 - 10.5%, 1981 - 9%, 1982 - 8%, 1983-85 - 7%, and
1986 - 6%. This approach assumes that any difference between domestic and
international inflation rates will be accounted for by appropriate exchange
rate adjustments in line with the Government's current policy which is expected
to continue in the future. Both revenues and costs have been escalated into
current terms up to achievement of full production (1986 for COMETNA and 1984
for SOREFAME) and maintained constant thereafter. Assumptions regarding
financial projections of the Company's existing operations are detailed
separately for COMETNA and SOREFAME in Tables 1 and 2 in this Annex, and
briefly discussed in the following paragraphs.
2.        For the purposes of calculating the debt/equity ratio, the Companies'
subordinated debt (guaranteed to be serviced by IPE in case the Companies are
unable to do so while maintaining the ratios stipulated in the financial
covenants), has been treated as equity. In the case of COMETNA, such debt
amounts to Esc. 250 million (US$5.25 million) and for SOREFAME, Esc. 810
million (US$17.0 million). The financial projections assume, however, that
the Companies would continue to service this debt in addition to their other
debt. The projected financial ratios calculated accordingly on this basis are
satisfactory.
B.   COMETNA
3.        Revenues:  Projected sales revenues for 1980 (Table 1) reflect
the real average price increase of 10% achieved by the Company in late 1979,
and a real production increase of 4.8% based on the current order books. For
subsequent years, projections are based on the anticipated production in-
creases shown which are deemed achievable in light of the Company's past
experience. The decline in real production after 1983 reflects the phasing
out of the valve plant and the gradual projected decline of the existing steel
foundry due to increasing wearing-out of machinery and equipment, and space
constraints.



- 54 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 2
4.        Operating Costs:  Costs of raw materials and of subcontracts,
consumables and utilities (Table 1) have been projected on the basis of the
Company's 1979 experience. The declining ratios of labor and of administra-
tive selling costs to sales reflect productivity increases and better utiliza-
tion of administrative and commercial personnel which are considered achiev-
able. Maintenance costs have been projected to increase with the continued
use of the existing old facilities. Depreciation and amortization is based
on the Company's current practice. In estimating financial charges (in US$
terms), starting with the average interest rates actually borne by the Company
in 1979, interest rates have been projected to progressively decline to
international levels (10%) in keeping with the expected decline in inter-
national inflation (para. 1).
5.        Working Capital:  COMETNA's current working capital ratios reflect
the tight financial situation faced by the Company and many of its domestic
customers during the period 1974-79. With the financial assistance under
the viability contracts, COMETNA's working capital management is expected
to improve as required under the viability contract. Projections have
been made assuming future improvements that are considered achievable.
6.        Taxes:  Under the viability contracts, the Company is exempt from
payment of income taxes till 1984. For subsequent years, a tax rate of
40% is assumed based on the prevailing rates.
C.   SOREFAME
7.        Revenues:  Projections for 1980 reflect a 11% increase in real
value of production based on current order books. For subsequent years,
projections are based on anticipated increased capacity utilization and
productivity increases enabled by market improvements and the improving labor
situation. The production increases are considered achievable in light of the
current underutilization of capacity and labor, particularly in the rolling
stock and platework product divisions, caused primarily by shortfalls in
previously expected orders. With the market-sharing and specialization
accords initiated by the Government, the Company is expected to improve its
competitive situation and be able in future to maintain its prices in real
terms.
8.        Operating Costs, Working Capital and Taxes:  Specific assumptions
have been made for SOREFAME (Table 2) following the same general considerations
and approach as in the case of COMETNA (paras. 3 to 6).
Industrial Projects Department
May 1980



PORTUGAL
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
COMETNA:  Assumptions in Financial Projections Without Project
1979     1980       1981     1982      1983      1984     1985      1986
Income Statements                                                                      b/
Production Increase-/            (1979 = 100)                         100.0    104.8      111.0    115,5    112.8    108.2    102.8    102.8
Productivity Increase            (1979 = 100)                         100.0    104.8      111.0    115.5
Real Price Increasec/             (1979 = 100)                        100.0    110.0      110.0    110.0    110.0    110.0    110.0    110.0
Sales Revenues                    (in constant 1979 US$ million)        18.7     21.6      22.8      23.8      23.8     22.3
Inflation Index                  (mid-1979 = 100)                     100.0    112.5      123.5    134.0    144.1    154.2    165.0    175.7
Sales Revenues                    (current US$ million)                 18.7     24.3      28.2      31.9      34.2     34,4      34.9      37.2
Costs of Operations
Raw Materials                    (% of sales)                          42.4      39.0       39.0     39.0      39.0     39.0      39.0      39.0
Subcontract, Services + Others  (% of sales)                             7.5      5.8        5.8      5.8       5.8      5.8       5.8       5.8
Labor                                                                   37.6     32.0       30.7     29.5      29.5     29.9      30.8      30.8
Depreciation + Amort.            (current US$ million)                  0.5       1.1        1.3      1.4       1.4      1.2       1.2       1.2
Maintenance                       (current US$ million)                  -        0.1        0.1      0.1       0.4      0.6       0.7       0.7
Admin. + Sell. Costs              (%. of sales)                         13.3     11.3       10.9     10.4      10.4      10.4     10.8.    10.8
U'
Working Capital
Minimum cash                      (months of cash oper. expenses)          1        1          1        1         1         1        1         1
Accounts Receivable               (months of sales)                      5.2      5.2          5      4.5         4      3.5         3         3
Inventories
- Raw Materials                  (months of consumption)                6.9       6.5       5.2       3.9       2.6      2.6       2.6       2.6
- Work in frocess                (months of sales)                      6.1       6.0       5.5       5.0       4.5      4.5       4.5       4.5
- Finished Goods                 (months of sales)                      0.5       0.5       0.5       0.5       0.5      0.5       0.5      0.5
Advances from Clients             (months of sales)                      3.4      3.4       3.4       3.4       3.4      3.4       3.4       3:4
Accounts Payable                  (months of purchases of materials,
subcontracts and services)          8.0       7.8       7.2       6.5       5.0      3.5       3.5       3.5
Reinvestment for Replacement        (current US$ million)                 0.6       0.6       0.6       0.7       0.7      0.7       0.8       0.8
a/ Decline in real production after 1983 reflects the phasing out of the existing valve plant and projected progressive decline of the
existing steel foundry.
b/ Based on current order books.
c/ In late 1979.
Industrial Projects Department
May 1980
Li



PORTUIGAL
MECHANiCAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
*SOREFAME: Assumptions in Financial Projections Without Project
1979     1980       1981     1982      1983      1984      1985     1986
Income Statements                                                                       a/
Production Increase               (1979 ' 100)                         100.0    111.3      108.6    119.8    125.8    125.8    125.8    125.8
Value of Production               (constant 1979 US$ million)           56.6      63.0      60.9      67.8      71.2      71.2     71.2      71.2
Inflation Index                   (mid-1979 =100)                      100.0    112.5       123.5    134.0    144.1    154.2    154.2    154.2
Value of Production               (current US$ million)                 56.6      70.9      75.2      90.8    102.6    109.8    109.8    109.8
Inventory changes                 (current US$ million)                  4.7        -       17.9       3.0      1.7        -         -         -
Sales Revenues                    (current US$ million)                 51.9      70.9      57.3      93.8    100.9    109.8       109.8    109.8
Costs of Operations
Materials                         (% of productioni)                    30.0      30.0       30.0     30.0      30.0      30.0      30.0     30.0
Subcontracts & Utilities          (% of production)                     19.6      19.6       16.0     16.0      16.0      16.0      16.0     16.0
Labor                             (7 of production)                     37.2      33.2       33.2     30.0      28.4      28.4     28A4      28.4
Deprec. & Amort.                  (current US$ million)                  3.2       3.3        3.4      3.5       3.6.      3.7       3.8      3.8
Adm. & Selling Costs              (7 of production)                      9.8       8.8        8.8      7.9       7.5       7.5       7.5      7.5
Working Capital
Minimum Cash                      (months of cash oper. expenses)        0.9       0.9          1         1        1         1         1         1
Accounts Receivable               (months of sales)                       0.2      6.2        5.8      4.8       4.3       4.3      4.3       4.3
Inventories
- Raw Materials                   (months of consumption)                8.8       8.4       8.0       8.0       8.0       8.0      8.0       8.0
- Work-in-Process                 (months of production)                io.9       8.7      11.1       8.8       8.0      7.4       7.4       7.4
- Finished Goods_/                (% of production)
Advances from Clients             (% of inventories)                    64.0      65.0      70.0      75.0      75.0      75.0     75.0      75.0
Accounts Payable                  (months of purchases of materials,
subcontracts and services)           4.8       4.8       4.8       4.8       4.8      4.8       4.8       4.8
Reinvestment for Replacement        (current US$ million)                    -       1.8        1.4      1.5       1.6       1.6       1.6      1.6
a/ Based on current books.
b/ Represents a very small percentage of total inventories.
Industrial Projects Department
May 1980



- 57 -
ANNEX 3-5
Table 3
COMETNA AND SOREFAIE:  SUMMARIZED FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS WITHOUT PROJECT
(Current US$ million)
A.  COMETNA                   1979    1980   1981   1982   1983   1 85   1987
(provis.)
Income Statements
Sales                          18.7   24.3   28.2   31.9   33.5   34.9   37.2
Net Income (Loss) a/           (4.5)  (0.6)   0.4    0.7    1.0    0.5    1.0
Balance Sheets
Current Assets                 25.1   30.8   33.9   36.0   34.6   31.6   32.2
Current Liabilities            34.9   19.7   20.7   22.6   21.6   20.3   20.5
Medium and Long-term Debt    2.0   11.8   10.7    9.7    8.6    6.5    5.5
Equity                         (7.5)   9.2   11.7   12.1   12.1   11.4   12.1
Ratios
Net Income (Loss)/Sales (%) (24.1) (2.5)   1.5    2.1    3.0    1.5    2.6
Interest/Sales (%)             20.2    9.1    7.7    8.8    6.9    5.1    4.2
Current Ratio                   0.7    1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6
Debt-Equity Ratio              -ve   56:44   48:52  44:56  42:58  36:64  31:69
Debt Service Coverage a/        0.0    1.2    1.8    1.3    1.1    1.0    1.5
B. SOREFAME
Income Statements
Sales                          51.9   70.9   57.3   93.8  100.9  109.8  109.8
Net Income (Loss) a/          (17.4)  (4.1)  (2.7)   3.1    7.4    5.9    6.3
Balance Sheets
Current Assets                 95.7  108.5  118.3  129.3  138.0  148.4  151.4
Current Liabilities           115.4   74.1   81.7   92.1   95.1   96.3   97.6
Net Fixed Assets               55.2   51.9   49.3   47.2   45.1   40.9   36.6
Medium and Long-term Debt   42.9   71.2   68.0   59.2   53.0   43.3   30.9
Equity                          5.2   28.6   33.1   38.5   45.9   59.4   67.9
Ratios
Net Income (Loss/
Sales (%)                  (33.5)  (5.8)  (4.7)   3.3    7.3    5.4    5.8
Interest/Sales (%)             26.4    5.8   10.8    6.0    4.9    3.4    3.1
Current Ratio                   0.8    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.5    1.5
Debt-Equity Ratio             89:11  72:28   68:32  61:39  54:46  42:58  31:69
Debt Service Coverage a/        0.0    0.4    0.8    1.4    1.2    1.4    1.3
a/   Net income and debt service coverage in 1985 and 1987 reflect the effect
of tax payments from which the Companies are exempt till 1984 under the
viability contracts.
Industrial Projects Department
May 1980



- 58 -                                 ANNEX 3-6
Page 1
PORTUGAL
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
SOREFAME: HISTORICAL INCOME STATEMENTS
-------------------------------------
(ESC. MILLION)
1970  1971  1972  1973  1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979
VALUE OF PRODUCTION              398   634   782   929   937  1P172  1,629  1,773  2,092  2,696
L_ESS: CHANGES IN INVENTORIES    69    49    39   115   133    224    511    332    949    224
SALES                            329   585   743   813   804    948  1,118  1,441  1,143  2,472
COSTS OF OPERATION
MATfRIALS                      156   266   356   387   346    288    423    531    634    636
SUBCONT. & UTILS.               40    89    91   150   136    315    336    357    382    528
TAXES I ROYALTIES                1      1  I 1       1     4       3       5     10      iO      10
SUB--TOTAL                     197   356   448   538   486    606    764    898  1,026  1,374
FERSON. S ADMIN. COSTS         141   194   248   308   416    509    781    876    967  1,267
DEPR. S AMORT.                  20    23    31    28    30        36      78     86      89    150
MISC. OTHER CHARG.               4      6     9    .9      7       7      11      -       -       -
SUB-TOTAL                      165   223   288   345   453    552    870    962  1,056  1,417
TOTAL COST OF OPERATIONS         362   579   736   883   939  1,158  1,634  t,860  2,082  2,791
LESS: INVENTORY ADJUSTMENT        69    49    39   115   133    224    511    332    949    224
COST OF GOODS SOLDI              293   530   697   768   806    934  1,123  1,528  1,133  2,567
GROSS FROFIT                      36    55    46    45    (2)    14         (5)   (87)    10    (95)
NET INTEREST CHARGES              10    13    17    20    34        99    167    362    546    752
INCOME FROM SALES                 26    42    29    25   (36)   (85)  (192)  (449)  (536)  (847)
OTHER INCOME/PROVISIONS           (6)  (17)    3       4   (10)      1    (14)    11       39      17
FROFIT AFTER TAX                  20    25    32    29   (46)   (84)  (206)  (438)  (497)  (1330)
INDIJSTRIAL PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
MAY 1980



- 59 -
PORTUGAL
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT                                  ANNEX 3-6
______ ______________________                                  Pa-g-er Z
SOREFAME: HISTORICAL BALANCE SHEETS
(ESC. MILLION)
1970   1971  1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   197.3
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS
CASH AND DEPOSITS                      120      53    23       12     48      53      83      91    107
ACCOUNTS/NOTES RECEIVABLE               44 -  242   134    125    227    376    375    562    56.
OTHER RECEIVABLES                       70    154    77       69    124    151    256    116    249
INVENTORIES
FINISHED GOODS                           5       3      8       3      2       2       3       a      10
WORK IN PROCESS                        218    243   262    354    431    583  1,237  1,497  2,381
MATERIALS AND CONSUMABLES              114    122   129    134    168    283    271    312    475
TOTAL INVENTORIES                      337    367   398    491    601    868  1,511  1,816  2,866
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS                     -       -     -       -       -       -       -       5      9
rOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                     571    815   631    697    999  1,448  2,226  2,589  3,797
MEDIUM-TERM RECEIVABLES                    -       -      -       -     43    128    195    199    145
INVESTMENTS                               57      51    76      69      69      71      72      81     80
GROSS FIXED ASSETS                       277    333   408    426    457    618  1,100  1.984  3,004
LESS: ACC. DEPR.                       127    145   165    184    206    255    371    439    517
NET FIXED ASSETS                         150    188   242    242    251    363    729  1,545  2,487
INTANGIBLE ASSETS                         28      23    13      26      34      42      64     52      41
ASSETS IN FROGRESS                         9      19      9     39    158    322    308    238    255
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS                       244    281   340    376    511    798  1,173  1,916  2,866
TOTAL ASSETS                             815  1.096   971  1.073  19553  2,374  3,594  4,704  6,806
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
CURRENT LIABILITIES
ADVANCES FROM CUSTOMERS                427    629   429    330    376    471  1,155  1,312  1,483
OTHER PAYABLES                          69    118   134    120    157    164    191    289    442
SHORT-TERM LOANS                        46      17    47      52    313    584    875  1,333  1,509
PAYABLES TO STATE                        -       -      -      -       -       -       -      53     99
OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES               24      88    69    122    182    310    227    183    448
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES                566    851   679    623  1,029  1,529  2,448  3,169  3,980
MEDIUM AND LONG TERM LIABILITIES
LOANS                                   43      33    58      52    122    330    871  1,056  1,983
DUE TO STATE I OTHERS                   23      19    22      32    106    154        62      86     73
TOTAL MEDIUM AND LONG-TERM DEBT           66      52    80       83    230    484    933  1,143  2,056
ADVANCE BILLINGS                           -       -      -       -       -      -       -      30      49
TOTAL LIAIBLITIES                        632    903   759    706  1.259  2.013  3,381  4,342  6,085
EQUITY
SHARE CAPITAL                          160    160   160    250    250    250    400    400    400
REVALUATION AND I OTHER RESERVES         3       8    20      88      90      90      90    677  1,535
SUBSIDIES                                -       -      -      -       -    150        -       -       -
ACCUM. RETAINED EARNINGS                 -       -      -      -       -    (46)  (130)  (277)  (715)
EARNINGS FOR CURRENT PERIOD             20      25    32      29    (46)   (84)  (148)  (438)  (497)
TOTAL EQUITY                             183    193   212    367    294    361    213    362    723
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY             815  1,096   971  1,073  1.553  2t374  3P594  4,704  6,808
RATIOS
CURRENT RATIO                         1.01   0.96  0.93   1.12   0.97   0.95   0.91   0.82   0.95
LONG-TERM DEBT TO EOUITY             27:73  21:79  27:73  18:82  44:56   57:43  81:19   76:24  74:26
INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
May 1980



PORTUGAL
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
GENERAL LAYOUT OF STEEL FOUNDRY
BUILDING EXPANSION                           -                                                                                             I
SAND PLANT
MACHINE MOLDING              -     -___
IGRINDING MEDIA)
MACHINE MOLDING
CORE SHOP          (MEDIUM WEIGHT)
AND                                    2 
I  z  0       STORAGE           ~~~MACHINE MOLDING      OZz        < jf:
STORAGE            (HEAVY WEIGHT)'       (D z 
WHEEL AND ROLLS          F    Z    >
MOLDING
j 0000 :: HANDCO~~~~~~~~~~~NVEYOR    I         AND-FLOOR I   u00  00I. 
H                            F L OOMO L D I N G   M O L D I N G   j  -  -                       _ _ _ _ _
...............   ..........   .. ..    .. .  ....                                       ~ ~~~~~~~~SITE   FOR     FUTURE
RELOCATION OF
FLAME CUT       WELD AND GRINDING                                              GREY IRON FOUNDRY
1 01 |I I | | |  I ;   W;Hr HS | i |z                                                                                                                                    0
1               F-                      HEL S  I I    I I  RC AIR    |P| ANDGRICNTING I   o  1
I 0000 1                   00 L       0: f l  01  MES; | A N D W  E 2  L 4   D   I NGJTREATMENT  I     -1
I    1 ifi;7 7fd      A     0i  Z3                                 SHIPPINGE    D       /5201       0  
O z           ~~~FLAME CUT           REPAIRS                  I
I    5                          I  I.D00                                                         400
AND WELDI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANG DGRI  I
t~~~~~~~O COLLECTNIO
LBUIDING EXPANSION                                     GATE
Industrial Projects Department
May      1980                                                                       1ig;;0040;0000000ilt0i:  <   -ii0000i0-000000000W                          d  a   -   1
World Bank-15



PORTUGAL
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
LAYOUT OF VALVE PLANT
| -tLarge Valves Assembly
I~~~~,                                                                                                      EZZI  II  
-  -  -  -  -  -  -   - I                      ~~~~STORAGE
STORAGE                       i                                                                                        L         MACHINED PARTS
FINISHED PRODUCTS                                      TESTING                             ASSEMBLY                         c        OUTSIDE SUPPLIED
SHIPPING                      LI/PARTS
PAINTING|                         -     ------                                                         RAW MATERIALS
_ _ . = =_                        =           __   _ =- __  __            -- __ _ -w        |
STO RAG E            K                                                                                                                    ST RA0
STORAGE
STOROUGCASNGE                                                   MACHINING                                                                 TOOLING
ROUGH CASTING                                                                                                                  0SHARPENING
|______________     ________________________      ___---                      7  O O m ---- -----    - -          - -   ___ __--75 .00     m-- -------
Industrial Projects Department
May 1980                                                                                                                                                   World Bank - 21155
I t



PORTUGAL
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
GENERAL LAYOUT OF HYDRO-POWER GENERATION EQUPMENT
MANUFACTURING FACILITIES
Paint Shop -
Rolling
|   RECEPTION    |                                                                                           |                 F              Stock       DesignOffice
Division     DeinOic
I 'j  S    '        'S       ''               i                                                             ' i  4                                                      rzle t
>   n                        ;                                   H E A V Y M A C H I N E S~~ HYRUI AN ELCR                                                          Prod.
L_EHEAVYCUL ASSEMBLY SHOP             T        UE/
HEAT_                               __                   _______________                          I                    1       1        ;/e
MAGNETIC SHEEl PROO )JITIl N     r                                                                                                          l,
Industrial ProjectS Department
May  1980                                                                                                                                                                 Wrr su   15



- 63 -                                                ANNEX 5-4
PORTUGAL
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
NEW STEEL FOUNDRY: ORGANIZATION CHART
Board of
Directors          l
General Manager
Planning                     Engineering
_  Melting    |      i_   __~Mehods   |                                                   Purchase|
_  Molding                        CoUntrtol                                              _Administration
Hand Molding                   Laboratories                                                       t and
_Finishing
Major functions performed by headquarters
-|Maintenance|
Industrial Projects Department
January 1980
World Bank - 21 151



- 64 -
ANNEX 5-5
PORTUGAL
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
NEW VALVE PLANT: ORGANIZATION CHART
Board of
|          Directors
General Manager
TechncialrProdM in                                        a f    s  p            a       General.
Industrial Projects Departmenttion                             Sales                         Services
Product   |              ]    Planning   |                     Sales                         Personnel
Deveiopment llllll.
-|Engineering |               [ Machining                       A fter Sales  |             Admninistration
IndustrialiProjecty DepartmentWorld Banku-21152
May 1980



- 65 -                                               ANNEX 5-6
fORTUGAL
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
COMETNA: PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
Manager
Project Development
I SUppOrt      |
I                                                   I
Financing       |
Cost Control                 Procurement               Technical Coordination             Civil Works
Schedule Control                                                                           Coordination
Industriai Projects Department
May 1980
World Bank -21148



PORTUGAL
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Activity                            1980                                  1981                                1982                                  1983
I   I  IT I       I   I   I   I   I  I I I  I  I  I  1  1                                                   
Basic Design
Criteria                               - _
Civil Engineering                       _  _
Technical Engineering
Civil Works
and Installation
Bids Preparations
Ordering and Delivery
Equipment
Installation
V
Production Start
Foundry                                            V Commercial Production.
----V ~ Valve
Power Generation Equipinent
Industrial Projects Department
Janutary 1980
World Bank -21157



PORTU GAL
MECHANICAL INWSTRIES PROJECT
CAPITAL COST ESTIMATES
(in current US $ million)
COMETNA - FWNyRY                        COfETNA - VALVE PLANT              SOREFAME - HThRO-P   ER EQUIP.                      PROJECT
Local      Foreign-    Total            Local      Foreign -     Total          Local       Toreign       o Tcal         Local      Foreign */   Total
Civil Works 6 Buildings             11.35        2.63       13.98            0.94        0.18         1.12            0.17        0.04         0.21          12.46         2.85       15.31
Machinery, Equipsasnt,Spares.                                                  i.
Insurance and Freight                1.86       14.18        16.04           0.55         1.73         2.28           1.34         7.79        9.13            3.75       23.70        27.45
Installation & Supervision           0.60        0.86         1.46           0.11        0.10         0.21            1.05          -          1.05           1.76         0.96        2.72
Engineering & Tech. Assistance       0.46        2.27         2.73           0.16        0.09          0.25            -          0.37         0.37           0.62         2.73         3.35
Preparatory & Start-up Expenses      0.21        0.77         0.98           0.06        0.09          0.15            -            _            -            0.27         0.86         1.13
Base Cost                      14.48       20.71        35.19           1.82         2.19         4.01           2.56        8.20        10.76           18.86       31.10        49.96
Physical Contingenciea               1.45        2.07         3.52           0.18        0.22          0.40           0.22        0.66         0.88            1.85        2.95         4.80      _
Price Contingencies                  3.04        4.97         8.01           0.35        0.44          0.79           0.47         1.51        1.98            3.86        6.92        10.78      1
Installed Cost                 18.97        27.75       46.72           2.35         2.85         5.20           3.25        10.37       13.62           24.57       40.97        65.54
W4oteking Capital (Increm.)          4.16        0.80         4.96           1.26        0.15          1.41           3.86        2.66         6.52            9.28        3.61        12.89
Environmental Control System           -                        -              -           -             -              -            -           -            0.30         1.20         1.50
Subsector Studies                                                               -           -            -               -                        -            1.00         1.20        2.ZO
Total Project Cost            23.13       28.55       51.68            3.61        3.00          6.61           7.11       13.03        20.14          35.15        46.98       82.13
interest during Construction         1.48        3.62        5.10            0.20        0.35         0.55            0.16        1.04         1.20           1.84         5.01        6.85
Total Financing Required      24.61       3217        56.78            3.81        3.35          7.16           7.27       14.07        21.34          36.99        51.99       88.98
1i Includes indirect foreign exchange cqmponent
Industrial Projects Department
May 1980
ON



PORTUGAL
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN
(current US$ million)
COMETNA                 COMETNA                 SOREFAME
Foundry               Valve Plant         Hydro-Power Equip.    Principal Components
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total
Equity
IPE              22.7       -    22.7    2.9         -     2.9    7.3      1.2      8.5   32.9      1.2    34.1
Debt                                 -
co
IBRD                -    28.2    28.2       -      2.8     2.8       -    10.6    10.6       -    41.6    41.6
Other Sources    1.9      4.0      5.9    0.9      0.6     1.5       -     2.2      2.2    2.8      6.8      9.6
Sub-Total Debt   1.9    32.2    34.1    0.9        3.4     4.3       -    12.8    12.8    2.8    48.4    51.2
a/                      b/                       CI
Financing Need    24.6    32.2-   56.8    3.8        3.4"    7.2    7.3    14.0-   21.3   35.7    49.6    85.3
a/   Includes US$3.1 million indirect foreign exchange.
b/   Includes US$0.4 million indirect foreign exchange.
c/   Includes US$0.8 million indirect foreign exchange.                                                                       x
Industrial Projects Department
May 1980



- 69 -
ANNEX 6-3
PORTUGAL
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
ITEMS TO BE FINANCED BY THE BANK
Category                                        Amount of Loan
(000 US$ equivalent)
Foundry
Melting Shop                                          3,490
Molding and Sand Preparation Shop                     8,180
Core Shop                                               390
Fettling, Heat Treatment and Finishing                3,350
Auxiliary Equipment and Miscellaneous                 3,990
Engineering and Other Services                        4,500
Interest During Construction                          3,700
Sub-Total Foundry                                    27,600
Valve Plant
Machine Tools                                         1,360
Material Handling, Equipment & Tools                    560
Engineering & Miscellaneous                             330
Interest During Construction                            300
Sub-Total Valve Plant                                 2,550
Hydro-Power Equipment Component
Management Consultancy Services                         400
Machine Tools                                         6,200
Heat Treatment & Welding Equipment                    2,200
Interest During Construction                          1,000
9,800
Environmental Control System                                          1,000
Subsector Studies                                                     1,200
Unallocated                                                           1,850
Total                                                400
Industrial Projects Department
May 1980



- 70 -
ANNEX 6-4
PORTUGAL
a.
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE FOR BANK LOAN
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year
and Quarter            Disbursement          Cumulative        Undisbursed Amount
1980          IV                                                         44.0
1981          I                                                          44.0
II               4.0                 4.0                   40.0
III              3.2                 7.2                   36.8
IV               3.6                10.8                   33.2
1982         I                 4.8                15.6                   28.4
II               5.6                21.2                   22.8
III              4.2                25.4                   18.6
IV               5.4                30.8                   13.2
1983         I                 3.3                34.1                    9.9
II               4.7                38.8                    5.2
III              3.0                41.8                    2.2
IV               2.2                44.0                    0.0
Industrial Projects Department
May 1980



- 71 -
ANNEX 7-1
Page 1
PORTUGAL
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS USED IN PROJECT FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
A.   Introduction
1.        This Annex summarizes the main assumptions (Table) used in the
financial projections of the Project components, and in the consolidated
projections of the Companies including the Project. (Assumptions and metho-
dology used in financial projections of the Companies' existing operations are
given in Annex 3-5).
B.   Revenues
2.        Sales revenues in current US$ terms have been projected for the
Project components on the basis of the expected production build-ups and
international inflation (Table). For the steel foundry, an increase of 10%
in the average real price of castings (as planned by COMETNA management) is
assumed once the new foundry starts production. With this increase, the
average price of castings will amount to US$1,730 per ton in 1979 US$ terms.
However, average prices would still be about 15% below international levels.
3.        For the valve plant, though COMETNA is expected to be in a vastly
improved competitive position with the establishment of the new plant, it will
still initially face substantial competition from other low-cost countries.
especially Spain, as a substantial part of its product-mix would be small
diameter valves, where the competition is most severe. For the financial
projections, it is conservatively assumed, therefore, that COMETNA will
maintain average valve prices in real terms.
4.        For the hydro-power equipment component, as SOREFAME is the sole
domestic supplier to EDP and, moreover, is covered by a Government-sponsored
accord regarding future supply of such equipment to EDP, it is assumed that
prices will be maintained in real terms. As regards exports, SOREFAME's
prices are already in line with international levels and it is expected that
the Company will maintain them in real terms.
C.   Operating Costs
5.        Main categories of operating costs for the three Project components
are shown in the Table. For the steel foundry, average unit costs of major
inputs are as follows: ferrous scrap (Esc. 4.5/kg); pig iron (Esc. 13.5/kg);
silica sand (Esc. 540/ton); ferro-manganese (Esc. 19/kg); ferro-silicon
(Esc. 20.9/kg); ferro-chromium (Esc. 110/kg); and electric power (Esc. 1.45/kwh).



- 72 -
ANNEX 7-1
Page 2
6.        For the valve plant, the average unit cost of foundry items, the
principal inputs, for representative valve sizes are assumed as follows:
Valve Plant - Principal Input Costs/Unit
(Esc./kg)
2" Valve               4" Valve                  10" Valve
Body                 94                     83                        83
Bonnet              109                     83                        83
Others              115-139                115-122                   109-122
7.        For the hydro-power equipment component, material costs have been
projected on the basis of the existing operations for similar products in
SOREFAME's power equipment division.
8.        Labor costs have been projected for the three Project components
on the basis of the phased transfer/increase of the labor force, taking into
account the Companies' present wage and salary practices, including social
charges and benefits, and in the case of COMETNA's steel foundry and valve
plant, the increased costs of transporting personnel to the new plant site.
C.   Other Charges
9.        Interest charges have been estimated using an average interest
rate of 10% in keeping with the expected decline in international inflation.
Interest during construction has been capitalized, and consequently, does
not enter the income statements till commencement of commercial production.
10.       Depreciation and amortization have been calculated using the follow-
ing amortization periods: Buildings and civil works (25 years); machinery and
equipment (10-15 years); erection, administration and supervision (5 years);
pre-operation expenses (5 years); and spare parts, freight and insurance (5
years).
11.       Taxes are paid on the consolidated income (including income from the
Project) of the Companies. Under the viability contracts, the Companies are
exempt from income tax payment till 1984. For subsequent years, a tax rate of
40% is assumed based on existing rates.
D.   Working Capital
12.       Under the viability contracts, the Companies are required to improve
their working capital management. In view of the improved financial situation
with the implementation of the viability contracts and management's efforts
at improving the Companies' working capital situation as required under the
viability contracts, the working capital assumptions for the Project components
(Table) are deemed adequate.



- 73 -
ANNEX 7-1
Page 3
E.   Consolidated Projections
13.       In consolidating the new steel foundry and the valve plant with
COMETNA's existing operations, it is assumed that the existing steel foundry
and valve plant will gradually be phased-out--the steel foundry by 1985, and
the valve plant by 1983.
Industrial Projects Department
May 1980



PORTUGAL
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Project: Assumptions in Financial Projections
Hydro-Power Equips7nt
Foundry                                Valve Plant                             Component -
1983      1984      1985        1986      1982      1983      1984        1985       1982      1983        1984
Income Statements
Capacity Utilization            (7)                                    40.0       70.0      90.0      100.0      60.0       70.7      86.7       100.0      32.0       76.0      100.0
Sales/Production b/            (const. 1979 US$mill.)                   6.9       12.1      15.6       17.3        2.2       2.6       3.1         3.6       4.1        9.7       12.8
Inflation Index                (mid-1979=100)                         144.1     154.2      165.0      175.7    134.0      144.1      154.2      165.0      134.0    144.1        154.2
Sales/Production b/             (current US$mill.)                     10.0       18.7      25.7       30.4       2.9        3.7       4.8         5.9       5.5       14.0       19.7
Costs of Operation
Materials                      (7. of sales/prodn.)                   --------------25.6-         -      -       -      -        54.0----------- - ---    ----------35.6----------
Subcontracts, Consumables
+ Utilities                  (X of sales/prodn.)                    ---------------5.2---------------         ---------------5.5---------------          -----------1.5----------
Labor c/                       (                    )                  28.0      20.9       19.1       17.1      13.8       16.0      16.6        15.0      10.8      16.7        13.2 2
Depreciation + Amort.          (current US$mill.)                     ---------------3.5---------------           0.4        0.4       0.4        0.3        1.1        1.J        1.1
Adm. + Sell. Costs              (% of sales/prodn.)                    16.1      12.6       11.3        9.3       4.8        5.1       5.2         4.7   -----------0 d/_---------
Working Capital
Minimum Cash                    (mos. of cash operating exp.)         ---------------1------- -------    ---------------1-----------------                 -----------I------------
Accounts Receivable             (moe. of sales)                       ---------------2-----------------         ---------------2-----------------            3.4        3.0        3.0
Inventories
- Raw  Materials               (mqso   of consumption)                ---------------2-----------------         ---------------2-----------------            8.0       8.0         8.0
- Work in Process              (mos. of production)                   ---------------1.5---------------         ---------------1.5---------------          -----------8.7----------
- Finished Goods               (mos. of production)                   ---------------0.5---------------         ---------------  5---------                            0-
Advances from Clients             (mos. of sales)                       ---------------1-----------------          ---------------70-----------------        ----------75.07--------
Accounts Payable                  (mos. of purchases)                    ----------- 3-3-3.4-
a/  On an incremental basis for the Project component.
b/ In the case of the hydro-power equipment component, costs have been related to total production instead of sales
on account of the annual inventory charges arising from the longer production time compared to the steel foundry
and the valve plant.
c/  Including maintenance.
d/  The Project will utilize the current administrative and sales organization.
e/  % of inventories.
Industrial Projects Department                                                                                                                                                            F 
January 1980



- 75 -                               ANNEX 7-2
P ORTUGAL
MECHANICAL INDIUSTRIES PROJECT
COMETNA: PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENTS FOR FOUNDiRY
__________________________________________.______
(CURRENT.US$ MILLION -a/)
1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
SALES                   9.96  18.66  25.66  30.36  30.36  30.36  30.36  30.36
COST OF GOODS SOLD
MATERIALS             2.55   4.78   6.57   7.77   7.77   7.77   7.77   7,77
SUBCONT. & UTILS.    0.40   0.75   1.03   1.21   1.21   1,21   1.21   1.21
LABOR                 2.31   3.18   3.78   4.02   4.02   4.02   4.02   4.02
TAXES I ROYALTIES    0.12   0.23   0.32   0.38   0.38   0.38   0.38   0.38
SUBTOTAL              5.38   8.94  11.70  13.38  13.38  13.38  13.38  13.38.
INDIRECT EXPENSES
DEPR. I AMORT.        3.53   3.53   3.53   3.53   3.53   2.56   2.56   2.56
ADM. & SELL. COSTS   1.60   2.35   2.58   2.81   2.81   2.81   2.81   2.81
MAINTENANCE           0.48   0.72   1.11   1.18   1.18   1.18   1.18   1.18
SUBTOTAL              5.61   6.60   7.22   7.52   7.52   6.55   6.55   6.55
GROSS PROFIT           (1.03)  3.12   6.74   9.46   9.46  10.43  10.43  10.43
NET INTEREST CHARGES   1.59   3.09  .278   2,48   2.17   1.85   1.53   1.24
PROFIT BEFORE TAXES   (2.62)  0.03   3.96   6.98   7,29   8.58   8.90   9.19
.Y'  IN CURRENT TERMS TILL 1986,CONSTANI THEREAFTER.
INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS DiEPARTMENT
MAY 1980



- 76.-                               ANNEX 7-3
PORTUGAL
MECHANICAL ItNDUSTRIES PROJECT
_____________________________
COMETNA? PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENTS FOR VALVE FLANT
---------------------------------------------------
(CURRENT US$ MILLION A/)
1982   1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
SALES                 2.89   3.69  4.83  5*94  6.33  6.33  6.33  6.33  6.33
COST OF GOODS SOLD
MATERIALS           1.56   1.99  2.61  3.21  3.42  3.42  3.42  3.42  3.42
SUBCONT. & UTILS.   0.06   0.07  0.10  0.12  0.13  0.13  0.13  0.13  0.13
LABOR               0.37   0.53  0.7L  0.76  0.81  0.81  0.81  0.81  0.81
TAXES & ROYALTIES   0.10   0.13  0.17  0.21  0.23  0.23  0.23  0.23  0.23
SUBTOTAL            2.09   2.72  3.59  4.30  4.59  4.59  4.59  4.59  4.59
INDIRECT EXPENSES
DEF'R. & AMORT.     0.43.  0.43  0.43  0.29  0.29  0.29  0.29  0.29  0.29
AlM. & SELL. COSTS  0.14   0.19  0.25  0.28  0.29  0.29  0.29  0.29  0.29
MAINTENANCE         0.03   0.06  0.09  0.13  0.14  0.14  0.14  0.14  0.14
SUBTOTAL            0.60   0.68  0.77  0.70  0.72  0.72  0.72  0.72  0,72
GROSS PROFIT          0.20   0.29  0.47  0.94  1.02  1,02  1.02  1.02  1.02
NET INTEREST CHARGES  0.17   0.33  0.32  0.29  0.26  0.23  0.20  0.17  0.13
PROFIT BEFORE TAXES   0.03  (0.04) 0.15  0.65  0.76  0.79  0.82  0.85  0.39
A/  IN CURRENT TERMS TILL 1986,CONSTANT THEREAFTER,
INDIUSTRIAL PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
MAY 1980



77 -                                         ANNEX 7-4
FORTUGAL
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
SOREFAME: INCREM. INCOME STATEMENTS - POWER EQUIPf. TVIYSION
(CURRENT US$ MILLION  A/)
1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
VALUE OF PRODUCTION              5.46  13.96  19.66  19.66  19.66  19.66  19.66  19.66  19.66
LESS: INVENTORY CHANGES          2.05   5.88   4.71         -       -       -              --
SALES                            3.41   8.08  14.95  19.66  19.66  19.66  19.66  19.66  19.66
COST OF OPERATIONS
MArERIALS                      1.94   4.94   6.95   6.95   6.95   6.95   6.95   6.95   6.95
SUBCONTRACTS AND UTILITIES  0,08   0.28   0.31   0.31   0.31   0.31   0.31   0.31   0.31
LABOR                          0.59   2.43   2.60   2.60   2.60   2.60   2.60   2.60   2.60
SUBTOTAL                       2.61   7.65   9.86   9.86   9.86   9.86   9.86   9.86   9.S6
DEPREC. AND AMORT.             1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   0.80   0.80   0.80   (.80
SUBTOTAL                       1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   0.80   0.80   0.80   0.80
TOTAL COST OF OPERATIONS         3.61   8.65  10.86  10.86  10.86  10.66  10.66  10.66  10.66
LESS: INVENTORY ADJUSTMENT    2.05   5.88   4.71            -       -      -       -       -       -
COST OF GOODS SOLD               1.56   2.77   6.15  10.86  10.86  10.66  10.66  L0.66  10.66
GROSS PROFIT                     1.85   5.31   8.80   8.80   8.80   9.00   9.00   9.00   9.00
A/ IN CURRENT TERMS TILL 1984,CONSTANT THEREAFTER.
INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
MAY e980



- 78 -                                                ANNEX 7-5
Page 1
PORTUGAL
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
COMETNAI PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENTS WITH PROJECT
-------------------------------------------------
(CURRENT US$ MILLION A/)
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985.  1986   1987   1998   1989   1990
SALES                      18.71  24.27  28.23  34.77  42.49  52.96  61.76  69.99  68.98  68.98  68.98  68.98
COST OF GOODS SOLD
MATERIALS                7.93   9.47  11.01  13.99  15.79  18.84  21.54  23.78  23.78  23.78  23.78  23.78
SUBCONT. I UTILS.         1.40   1.40   1.41   1.63   1.91   2.32   2.66   2.95   2.95   2.95   2.95   2.95
LABOR                     7.02   7.76   9.67   9.78  11.44  12.55  13.34  14.20  14.20  14.20  14.20  14.20
TAXES S ROYALTIES        0.07   0.09   0.11   0.22   0.36   0.51   0.64   0.73   0.73   0.73   0.73   0.73
SUBTOTAL                 16.42  18.72  21.20  25.64  29.50  34.22  38.18  41.66  41.66  41.66  41.66  41.66
INDIRECT EXPENSES
DEPR. I AMORT.          .0.46   1.13   1.29   1.82   5.35   5.44   5.14   5.14   5.14   4.17   4.17   4.17
ADM. I SELL. COSTS       2.43   2.75   3.08   3.48   4.29   5.12   5.43   5,85   5.85   5.85   5.85   5.85
MAINTENANCE              0.06   0.08   0.09   0.12   0.64   0.92   1.36   1.44   1.44   1.44   1.44   1.44
SUBTOTAL                 2.95   3.96   4.45   5.42  10.28  11.48  11.93  12.43  12.43  11.46  11.46  11.46
GROSS PROFIT               (0.66)  1.59   2.59   3.71   2.71   7.16  11.65  14.89  14.89  15.86  15.86  15.86
GROSS INTEREST CHARGES    3.78   4.30   4.05   4.43   5.26   6.21   5.43   4.57   3.68   3.22   2.82   2.40
INTEREST SUBSIDIES             -   2.08   1.87   1.64   1.07   0.86   0.64   0.32          -       -       -      -
NET INTEREST CHARGES        3.78   2.22   2.18   2.79   4.19   5.35   4.79   4.25   3.68   3.22   2.82   2.40
OTHER INCOME/PROVISIONS  (0.10)       -       -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -       -      -
PROFIT BEFORE TAXES        (4.54) (0.63)  0.40   0.92  (1.49)  1.81   6.86  10.64  11.21  12.64  13.04  13.46
LESS:TAXES                     -      -       -       -      -       -   2.74   4.26   4.48   5.06   5.22   5.38
PROFIT AFTER TAXES         (4.54) (0*63)  0.40   0.92  (1.48)  1.81   4.12   6.38   6.73   7.58   7.82   8.08
A/ IN CURRENT TERMS TILL i986,CONSTANT THEREAFTER.
INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
MAY 1980



- 79 -                                                                    ANNX 7-5
PORTUGAL                                                            Page  2
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES_PROJECT
CONETNA: PROJECTED FLOW OF FUNDS WITH PROJECT
(CURRENT USS MILLION A/)
1979   1990   1981   1982   1993   1994   199!    1996    1997   1988   1999   1990
SOURCES
FROM OPERATIONS
NET PROFIT BEF. INT. I TAX  (0.76)  1.59   2.58   3.71   2.71   7.16  11.65  14.89  14.89  15.96  15.86  15.86
DEPREC. I AMORT.                 0.46   1.13   1.28   1.82   5.35   5.44   5.14   5.14   5.14   4.17   4.17   4.17
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION        (0.30)  2.72   3.96   5.53   8.06  12.60  1.6.79  20.03  20.03  20.03  20.03  20.03
INCREASE IN DEST
PROJECT
LTD FROM WORLD BANK                  -   4.50  13.72  14.14   1.02           -       -       -        -       -       -       -
LTD FROM DOM. SOURCES                -   2.58   1.16         -       -            .-         -        -       -       -       -
SUB-TOTAL                            - 7.09  12.99  13.74   1.02             -       -       -        -       -       -       -
NON-PROJECT
LTD (INCL. CONY. OF STD)         0.09   9.80         -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -
SNORT-TERM LOANS                   3.03        -       -       -       -   0.52         -       -       -       -       -       -
O3TAL FROM DEBT                    3.11  16.99  12.98  13.74   1.02   0.52             -       -        -       -       -       -
INCREASE IN EQUITY
SHARE CAP. 'SUBORD. DEBT
I SUPRIMENTOS                   1.05  16.36  16.25   3.76   0.07  (0.39) (0.56) (0.54)              -       -       -        -
ASSET REVALUATION                    -   5.60        -       -       -               -       -       -        -       -       -
TOTAL FROM EQUITY                1.05  21.96  16,25   3.76   0.07  (0.39  (0.56) (0.54)               -       -       -       -
TOTAL SOURCES                      3.86  41.56  32.99  23.03   9.15  12.73  16.23  19.49  20.03  20.03  20.03  20.03
APPLICATIONS
INCREASE IN FIXED ASSETS
PROJECT                              -  11.75  27.03  17.31   1.41           -       -       -       -        -       -       -
NON-PROJECT                      0.72   6.70   1.59   0.83   0.68   0.79   0.81   0.88   0.88   0.99   0.88   0.88
SUB-TOTAL                        0.72  19.45  28.61  19.14   2.09   0.79   0.91   0.88   0.99   0.89   0.98   0.99
REPAYMENT OF LTD
PROJECT
WORLD BANK                           -       -       -       -       - 2.79   2.79   2.78    2.79   2.79   2.79   2.79
DOMESTIC  LOANS-                             -       -       -       -   0.33   0.33   0.33   0.33   0.33   0.33   0.33
SUB-TOTAL                            -       -       -       -       - 3.11   3.11   3.11    3.11   3.11    3.11   3.11
NONPROJECT
LTD                               -       -        -       - 1.05   1.05   1.05   1.05    1.05    1.05   1.05   1.05
REPAY. OF OTHER DUES-   0.80                           -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -       -
CONY. OF STD INTO LTD                  -13.94          -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -       -       -
TOTAL REPAY. OF LTD I
CONY. OF STD INTO LTD.               -  14,74        -       -   1.05   4.16   4,16   4.16   4.16   4.16   4.16   4.16
INTEREST PAYMENTS
NET INTEREST                     3.78   2.22   2.19   2.79   4.19   5.35   4.79   4.25   3.68   3.22   2.92   2.40
TAXES                                -       -       -       -       -       -   2.74   4.~6   4.48   5.06   5.22   5.39
INCREASE IN WaRK. CAP. REQUIRED
PROJECT                              -       -       -   0.75   3.00   2.59   2.11   1.26             -       -       -       -
NON-PROJECT                     (0.64)  5.23   1.61  (0.80) (3.65)  0.64  (0,91)  0.87               -        -       -       -
SUB-TOTAL                      (0.64)  5.23   1.61  (0.05) (0.65)  3.22   1.20   2.13               -       -       -       -
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                3.96  40.64  32.40  20.88   6.69  13.51  13.70  15.68  13.20  13.32  13.08  12.92
REPAYMENT OF STD/
CASH SURPLUS                       -   0.92   0.59   2.15   2.47            -   2.53   3.91   6.83   6.71   6.95   7.21
_4/ IN CURRENT TERMS TILL 1996. CONSTANT THEREAFTER.
INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
MAY 1990



- 80 -                                                            ANNEX 7-5
Page 3
PORTUGAL
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
COMETNA: PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS WITH PROJECT
----------------------------------------------
(CURRENT US$ MILLION .gh)
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1994    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS
MINIMUM CASH                           0.64    1.83    2.07    2.48    2.92    3.42    3.82    4.17    4.17    4.17    4.17    4.17
SURPLUS CASH                              -        -        -    0.80    3.23    1.88    4.36    8.14   14.97   21.68   28.63   35.84
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                    6.96   10.51   12.22   12.44   11.88   12.51   12.82   14.20   14.20   14.20   14.20   14.20
OTHER RECEIVABLES                      2.06    1.26    1.26    1.26    1.26    1.26    1.26    1.26    1.26    1.26    1.26    1.2o
INVENTORIES
FINISHED GOODS                       1.05    1.01    1.18    1.44    1.72    2.11    2.47    2.74    2.74    2.74    2.74    2.74
WORK IN PROCESS                     10.29   12.14   12.93   13.65   12.53   13.94   15.26   16.70   16.70   16.70   16.70   16.70
MATERIALS                            3-97    3.95    4.13    4.30    3.20    3.72    4.19    4.60    4.60    4.60    4.60    4.60
TOTAL INVENTORIES                   15.31   17.10   18.24   19.39   17.45   19.77   21.92   24.04   24.04   24.04   24.04   24.04
PREPAID EXPENSES                       0.09    0.12    0.14    0.17    0.21    0.26    0.31    0.34    0.34    0.34    0.34    0.34
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                  25.06   30.82   33.93   36.54   36.95   39.10   44.49   52.15   58.98   65.69   72.64   79.85
INVESTMENTS AND 
MEDIUM-TERM RECEIVABLES                0.06    0.06    0.06    0.06    0.06    0.06    0.06    0.06    0.06    0.06    0.06    0.06
FIXED ASSETS
GROSS FIXED ASSETS
PROJECT                                 -   11.75   38.78   56.09   57.50   57.50   57.50   57.50   57.50   57.50   57.50   57.50
NON-PROJECT                         10.23   16.93   18.51   19.34   20.02   20.80   21.61   22.49   23.37   24.25   25.13   26.01
SUB-TOTAL                           10.23   29.68   57.29   75.43   77.52   78.30   79.11   79.99   80.87   81.75   82.63   83.51
LESS: ACC. DEPR.                           -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -
PROJECT                                 -        -        -    0.43    4.39    8.35   12.17   15.99   19.81   22.66   25.51   28.36
NON-PROJECT                          6.59    7.72    9.00   10.39   11.78   13.26   14.58   15.90   17.22   18.54   19.86   21.18
SUB-TOTAL                            6.59    7.72    9.00   10.82   16.17   21.61   26.75   31.89   37.03   41.20   45.37   49.54
NET FIXED ASSETS                       3.64   20.96   48.29   64.61   61.35   56.69   52.36   48.10   43.84   40.55   37.26   33.97
INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS                0.06    0.06    0.06    0.06    0.06    0.06    0.06    0.06    0.06    0.06    0.06    0.06
ASSETS-IN-PROGRESS                     0.61    0.53    0.53    0.53    0.53    0.53    0.53    0.53    0.53    0.53    0.53    0.53
TOTAL ASSETS                          29.43   52.43   82.87  101.80   98.95   96.44   97.50  100.90  103.47  106.89  110.55  114.47
_=,s, ,:,, k,,... ....  .... =...  ......  ........  ....... ...  ......  ......... ......  ......... .-,.......... . -...*- ..... -. -
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
CURRENT LIABILITIES
ADVANCES FROM CUSTOMERS                5.04    6.80    7.90    9.17    9.22   10.17   11.06   12.09   12.09   12.09   12.09   12.09
PAYABLES 1 SHORT-TERM DEBT            25.93    8.96    8.77   .8.01    6.55    5.83    6.60    7.29    7.29    7.29    7.29    7.29
CURRENT PORTION OF LTD DEBT               -        -    1.05    2.10    5.21    5.21    5.21    4.16    4.16    4.16    4.16    4.16
OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES              3.95    3.95    3.95    3.95    3.95    3.95    3.95    3.95    3.95    3.95    3.95    3.95
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES             34.92   19.71   21.67   23.23   24.93   25.16   26.82   27.49   27.49   27.49   27.49   27.49
LONG-TERM DEBT
LTD FROM WORLD BANK                       -    4.50   18.22   32.36   33.38   30.60   27.82   25.04   22.26   19.48   16.70   13.92
LTD FROM OTHERS                        1.99   14.37   13.53   13.13   12.08   10.70    9.32    7.94    6.36    5.18    3.80    2.42
LESS: CURR. PORT. OF LTD                  -        -    1.05    2.10    5.21    5.21    5.21    4.16    4.16    4.16    4.16    4.16
NET LONG TERM DEBT                     1.99   18.87   30.70   43.39   40.25   36.09   31.93   28.82   24.66   20.50   16.34   12.18
EQUITY
SHARE CAPITAL & SUBORD. DEBT           5.15   21.51   37.76   41.52   41.59   41.20   40.64   40.10   40.10   40.10   40.10   40.10
REVAL. t OTHER RESERVES                0.08    5.68    5.68    5.68    5.68    5.68    5.68    5.68    5.68    5.68    5.68    5.68
ACCUM. RET. EARN. FROM PREV. YEARS  (8.17) (12.71) (13.34) (12.94) (12.02) (13.50) (11.69)  (7.57)  (1.19)   5.54   13.12   20.94
RETAINED EARN. FOR CURR. PERIOD       (4.54)  (0.63)   0.40    0.92   (1.48)   1.81    4.12    6.38    6.73    7.58    7.82    8.08
TOTAL EOUITY                          (7.48)  13.85   30.50   35.18   33.77   35.19   38.75   44.59   51.32   58.90   66.72   74.80
TOTAL LIABILITIES 1 EQUITY            29.43   52.43   82.87  101.80   98.95   96.44   97.50  100.90  103.47  106.89  110.55  114.47
.....  ......  ......  ......  ......  ......  ......  ......  ......  - ....  ......  ......
RATIOS
DEBT/EQUITY RATIO                      -ve    58:42   50:50   55:45   54:46   50:50   45:55   39:61   32:68   26:74   20:80   14:86
CURRENT RATIO                           0.7      1.6     1.6      1.6     1.5      1.6      1.7     1.9      2.1     2.4      2.6     2.9
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE                  (0.1)    1.2      1.8      1.4     1.3      1.2      1.4     1.7      2.0     2.0      2.1     2.2
A IN CURRENT TERMS TILL 1986, CONSTANT THEREAFTER.
INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
MAY 1980



- 81  -                                                     ANNEX  7-6
Page 1
PORTUGAL
NECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
_____________________________
SOREFANE: PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENTS WITH PROJECT
--------------------------__------_-__-_-----------
(CURRENT US. MILLION A/)
1979   1990   1981   1992    1983    1984    1985    1986    1997    1998    1989    1990
VALUE OF PRODUCTION              56.62  70.88  75.21  96.21  116.54  129.43  129.43  129.43  129.43  129.43  129.43  129.43
LESS: INVENTORY CHANGES           4.71      -  17.89  (1.05)   7.54    4.71          -        -       -        -       -        -
SALES                            51.91  70.88  57.32  97.26  109.00  124.72  129.43  129.43  129.43  129.43  129.43  129.43
COST OF OPERATIONS
MATERIALS                      17.55  21.97  22.56  29.17   35.71   39.88   39.88   39,88   39.88   39.88   39.88   39.88
SUBCONTRACTS AND UTILITIES   11.10  13.89  12.03  14.60   16.69   17.97   17.87   17.87   17.87   17.97   17.87   17.87
LABOR                         21.05  23.55  24.99  27.87   31.64   33.86   33.86   33.96   33.86   33.86   33.86   33.86
SUBTOTAL                       49.70  59.41  59.58  71.64   84.04   91.61   91.61   91.61   91.61   91.61   91.61   91.61
ADM. AND SELL. COSTS            5.56   6.22   6.60   7.20    7.71    8.25    8.2S    8.25    8.25    8.25    8.25    9.25
OPER. FIN. CHARGES              1.93   1.98   2.18   2.36    2.56    2.74    2.74    2.74    2.74    2.74    2.74    2.74
DEPREC. AND AMORT.              3.15   3.26   3.36   4.47    4.57    4.68    4.78    4.78    4.58    4.58    4.58    4.58
SUBTOTAL                      10.64  11,46  12.14  14.03   14.84   15.67   15.77   15.77   15.57   15.57   15.57   15.57
TOTAL COST OF OPERATIONS         60.34  70.87  71.72  85.67   98.98  107.28  107.38  107.38  107.18  107.18  107.19  107.19
LESS! INVENTORY ADJUSTMENT        4.71      -  17.89  (1.05)   7.54    4.71          -        -       -        -       -        -
COST OF GOODS SOLD               55.63  70.87  53.83  86.72   91.34  102.57  107.38  107.38  107.18  107.18  107.18  107.18
GROSS PROFIT                     (3.72)  0.01   3.49  10.54   17.66   22.15   22.05   22.05   22.25   22.25   22.25   22.25
NET INTEREST CHARGES             13.73   4.08   6.22   6.15    6.00    4.73    4.33    3.96    2.96    3.00    2.48    1.99
PROFIT BEFORE TAXES             (17.45) (4.07) (2.73)  4.39   11.66   17.42   17.72   19.09   19.29   19.25   19.77   20.26
LESS:TAXES                           -      -       -      -        -       -    7.09    7.24    7.72    7.70    7.91    8.10
PROFIT AFTER TAXES              (17.45) (4.07) (2.73)  4.39   11.66   17.42   10.63   10.95  l.57   11.55   11.86   12.16
.a IN CURRENT TERMS TILL 1994,CONSTANT THEREAFTER.
INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
MAY 1980



-82-                                                                      ANNEX 7-6
?;;s 2
PORTUGAL
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
_ __ __ __ -_ --- _ _--   _ --- _-----_ _
SOREFArEI PROJECTED FLOW OF FUNDS WITH PROJECT
(CURRENT US$ MILLION  A/)
1979   1980   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1986   1997   1998   1989   1990
SOURCES
FROM OPERATIONS
NET PROFIT 8EF. INT. B TAX  (3.72)  0.01   3.49  10.54  17.66  22.15  22.05  22.05  22.25  22.25  22.25  22.25
DEPREC. I AMORT.                3.15   3.26   3.36   4.47   4.57  .4.69   4.79   4.78   4.58   4.58   4.59   4.58
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION       (0.57)  3.27   6.85  15.01  22.23  26.93  26.93  26.93  26.83  26.E3  26.93  26.83
INCREASE IN DEBT
PROJECT
LTD fROM WORLD BANK                 -   1.90   9.26   0.41         -       -       -       -       -       -       -      -
SUR-TOTAL                           -   1.90   8.26   0.41         -       -       -       -       -       -       -      -
NON-PROJECT
LTD (INLL. CONY. OF STD)        4.29  30.14        -       -       -       -       -       - 
SHORT-TERM LOANS                  10.56   2.05        -       -      -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
TOTAL FROM DEBT                  14.94  34.09   9.26   0.41          -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
INCREASE IN EQUITY
SHARE CAP. SU8ORD. DEBT
1 SUPRIMENTOS                 11.55  29.56  10.90   2.65   0.05   1.09  10.74) (1.94) (2.07) (2.24) (2.39) (2.76)
TOTAL FROM EQUITY              11.55  29.56  10.90   2.65   0.05    1.09  (0.74) (1.94) (2.07) (2.24) (2.39) (2.76)
PRICE COMP./DISINVEST.              -   1.47       -   1.99   2.10         -       -       -       -       -       -       -
TOTAL SOURCES                    25.82  68.39  26.01  19.96  24.39  27.91  26.09  24.89  24.76  24.59  24.44  24.07
es .  ....  .....  ...... .....  ...... .. .s....  .....  ...... .....  ...... ..... ............. Aw...
APPLICATIONS
INCREASE IN FIXED ASSETS
PROJECT                             -   3.95  10.32   0.50         -       -       -       -       -       -      -       -
NON-PROJECT                         -   0.76   1.35   1.50   1.62   1.62   1.62   1.62   1.62   1.62   1.62   1.62
SUB-TOTAL                           -   4.71  11.73   2.00   1.62   1.62   1.62   1.62   1.62   1.62   1.62   1.62
REPAYMENT OF LTD
PROJECT
WORLD BANK                          -      -       -       -       -   0.89   0.89    o.89  0o88   0.99   0.o8    0.99
SUB-TOTAL                           -      -       -       -       -   0.99   0.B8    0.99   0,89   0.99   0.99  0o.a
NONPROJECT
LTD                              -   4.54   1.85   3.23   7.19   6.22   4.75   5.23   5.73   6.30   6.99   9.32
REPAY. OF OTHER DUES                  -   9.45   3.09   3.21   0.32          -       -       -       -       -       -       -
CONY. OF STD INTO LTD                 -  37.99        -      -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
TOTAL REPAY. OF LTD A
CONY. OF STD INTO LTD               -  51.98   4.94   6.44   7.50   7.10   5.63   6.11   6.61   7.19   7.77   9.20
INTEREST PAYMENTS
NET INTEREST                   13.73   4.09   6.22   6.15   6.00   4.73   4.33   3.96   3.46   3.00   2.49   1.99
TAXES                               -       -      -       -       -       -   7.09   7.24   7.52   7.70   7.91   8.10
INCREASE IN WORK. CAP. REOUIRED
PROJECT                             -      -       -   0.18   2.17   2.90   1.58           -       -       -      -       -
NON-PROJECT                     1.47   7.61  (5.66)  3.76  (1.70)  2.72            -       -       -       -      -       -
SUB-TOTAL                      1.47   7.61  (5.66)  3.94   0.47   5.62   1.59             -       -      -               -
OTHER APPLICATIONS             10.62       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -
TOTAL APPLICATIONS              25.92  68.39  17.23  18.53  15.59  19.07  20.25  19.93  19.21  19.50  19.79  20.91
, ..~~....  .. .,...  su .....  ......    ms_soc,......    s=   a= ....   . ....  .....  ......  .....
REPAYMENT OF STD/
CASH SURPLUS                      -       -   a.79   1.43   8.79   9.94   5.B4   5.96   5.51   5.09   4.66   3.16
.A/ IN CURRENT TERMS TILL 1984. CONSTANT THEREAFTER.
INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
MAY 1990



- 83 -                                                            ANNEX 7-6
Page 3
PORTUGAL
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
_ _  -- -  -- ----_                    _            -_     - _--   _
SOREFAMEI PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS WITH PROJECT
-----------___-_----------------------__--------
(CURRENT US$ MILLION l/)
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    i989    1999    1990
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS
MINIMUM CASH                             4.23    4.73    5.91    6.73    7.52    9.32    9.72    8.72    8.72    B.72    8.72    8.72
SURPLUS CASH                                -        -    2.46    2.85   11.62   20.45   26.29   32.25   38.10   43.19   47.85   51.01
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                     26.99   36.86   27.51   38.49   38.35   43.26   44.44   44.44   44.44   44.44   44.44   44.44
OTHER RECEIVABLES                           -        -        -       -        -        -                -        -        -        -       -
INVENTORIES
FINISHED GooDs                         0.29    0.35    0.38    0.48    0.59    0.65    0.85    0.65    0.65    0.65    0.65    0.85
WORK IN PROCESS                       S1.51   51.51   69.40   68.35   75.89   90.80   90.60   80.60   90.60   80.60   90.60   80.60
MATERIALS                             12.46   14.88   15.04   19.24   23.31   25.98   25.99   25.89   2s5.8    25.99   25.88   25.99
TOTAL INVENTORIES                     64.25   66.74   94.92  89.07   99.78  107.13  107.13  107.13  107.13  107.13  107.13  107.13
PREPAID EXPENSES                         0.21    0.21    0.21    0.21    0.21    0.21    0.21    0.21    0.21    0.21    0.21    0.21
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                    95.69  109.54  120.91  136.35  157.4, 179.37  186.79  192.75  198.60  203.69  208.35  211.51
INVESTMENTS AND
MEDIUM-TERM RECEIVABLES                 11.91   11.91   11.91   10.02    7.92    7.92    7.92    7.92    7.92    7.92    7.92    7.92
FIXED ASSETS
GROSS FIXED ASSFTS
PR;OJECT                                  -    3.95   14.33   14.93   14.83   14.83   14.83   14.83   14.83   14.83   14.83   14.53
NON-PROJECT                           89.70   88.70   89.46   90.91   92.31   93.93   95.55   97.17   9e.79  100.41  102.03  103.65
SUB-TOTAL                             88.70   92.65  103.79  105.64  107.14  108.76  110.38  112.00  113,62  115.24  116.96  118.49
LESS: ACC. DEPR.                            -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -
PROJECT                                   -        -       -    1.00    2.00    3.00    4.00    5.00    5.80    6.60    7.40    8.20
NON--PROJECT                          33.52   36.78   40.14   43.61   47.18   50.88   54.64   58.42   62.20   65.98   69.76   73.54
SUB-TOTAL                             33.52   36.78   40.14   44.61   49.18   53.86   58.64   63.42   68.00   72.58   77.16   81.74
NET FIXED ASSETS                        55.18   55.97   63.65   61.03   57.96   54.90   51.74   49.58   45.62   42.66   39.70   36.74
INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS                  0.82    0.82    0.82    0.82    0.82    0.82    0.92    0.82    0.82    0.82    0.82    0.02
ASSETS-IN-PROGRESS                          -    0.76    1.35    1.50    1.62    1.62    1.62    1.62    1.62    1.62    1.62    1.62
TOTAL ASSETS                           163.59  177.90  199.54  209.72  225.80  244.63  249.89  251.69  254.59  256.71  258.41  258.61
..F_u........  ......  ........ ......  ........ ......  ........ ......  ........ ......  ........ ...... .... . .. .. ........ _..... ...
LIABILITIES I EQUITY
.....................
CURRENT LIABILITIES
ADVANCES FROM CUSTOMERS                 41.06   43.38   59.37   66.06   74.83   80.35   80.35   90.35   80.35   80.35   90.35   90.35
PATABLES I SHORT-TERM DEBT              52.43   20.88   14.04   17.52   20.62   22.53   22.53   22.53   22.53   22.53   22.53   22.53
CURRENT PORTION OF LTD DEBT              4.54    1.85    3.23    9.38    9.32    7.43    8.05    8.68    9.42   10.16   11.96    9.20
OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES               17.41    7.96    4.87    1.66    1.34    1.34    1.34    1.34    1.34    1.34    1.34    1.34
______   ------  ------   ------   ------  ----- -  ------   ------   ----- -  ------  ------   ------
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES              115.44   74.07   91.51   94.62  106.11  111.65  112.27  112.90  113.64  114.39  116.18  113.42
LONG-TERM DEBT
LTD FROM WORLD BANK                         -    1.90   10.16   10.57   10.57    9.69    9.81    7.93    7.05    6.17    5.29    4.41
LTD FROM OTHERS                         47.45   73.05   71.20   67.97   60.79   54.57   49.82   44.59   39.86   32.56   25.67   17.35
LESS: CURR. PORT. OF LTD                 4.54    1.85    3.23    9.38    9.32    7.43    8.05    8.68    9.42   10.16   11.96    9.20
NET LONG TERM DEBT                      42.91   73.10   78.13   69.16   62.04   56.83   50.58   43.84   36.49   28.57   19.00   12.56
EQUITY
SHARE CAPITAL I SUBORD. DEBT            19.95   49.51   60.41   63.06   63.11   64.19   63.45   61.51   59.44   57.20   54.81   52.05
REVAL. I OTHER RESERVES                 28.20   28.20   28.20   29.20   20.20   28.20   29.20   29.20   28.20   29.20   28.20   29.20
ACCUM. RET. EARN. FROM PREV. YEARS  (25.46) (42.911 (48.991 (49.71) (45.32) (33.66) (16.24)  (5.61)   5.24   18.81   28.38   40.22
RETAINED EARN. FOR CURR. PERIOD        (17.45)  (4.07)  (2.731   4.39   11.66   17.42   10.63   10.85   11.57   11.55   11.96   12.16
TOTAL EQUITY                             5.24   30.73   39.90   45.94   57.65   76.15   96.04   94.95  104.45  113.76  123.23  132.63
TOTAL LIABILITIES I EQUITY             163.59  177.90  199.54  209.72  225.80  244.63  248.89  251.69  254.58  256.71  25S.4t  258.61
, .... ........ ........ ........ ........ ...........  ...... ........  ...... ........  ...... ........  ...... ........  ...... ........  ......
RATIOS
DEBT/EOUITY RATIO                       H9:11   70:30   67133   60:40   52:48   43:57   37t63   32:68   26:74   20:90   14:06   9191
CURRENT RATIO                             0.8      1.5      1.5     1.4      1.5      1.6     1.7      1.7      1.7      1.8     1.U      1.9
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE                       -      0.4     o.8      1.6      1.4      1.9      1.7     1.6      1.6      1.5     1.5      1.3
-A/ IN CURRENT TERMS TILL 1984. CONSTANT THEREAFTER.
INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
MAY 1980



- 84 -
ANNEX 8-1
Page 1
PORTUGAL
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
ECONOMIC RETURN AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
1.        The cost and benefit streams (in current US$ through the achievement
of full production) used for the economic analysis are shown below along with
the factors used to convert these into real terms.
Other                  Real
Capital  Working   Labor   Operating               Conversion
Period    Costs   Capital   Costs    Costs        Benefits    Factor
----------------Current US$ 000s--------------
Steel            1       9,470        0          0         0           0       1.00
Foundry          2      20,060        0          0         0           0       1.10
3      14,450        0         0          0           0      1.19
4           0   1,250      2,310      6,180      11,460       1.28
5           0   1,440      3,180      9,980      21,460      1.37
6           0   1,040      3,780    13,520       29,510      1.47
7           0   1,170      4,020    14,380      34,910       1.56
8-19        0        0     4,020    14,380       34,910      1.56
20          0  (5,900)    4,020    14,380       34,910       1.56
Valve Plant      1       1,120        0          0         0           0       1.00
2       4,060        0         0          0           0      1.10
3           0      750       370      2,060       3,320      1.19
4           0      150       530      2,660       4,240       1.28
5           0      200       710      3,510       6,550      1.37
6           0      170       760      4,300       6,830      1.47
7           0      100       810      4,590       7,280      1.56
8-16        0        0       810      4,590       7,280      1.56
17          0  (1,370)       810      4,590       7,280      1.56
Hydro-Power      1       3,850        0          0         0           0       1.00
Equipment        2       9,590        0          0         0           0       1.10
Component        3           0      180        590     2,220       5,460       1.19
4           0      380     2,430      5,740      13,960       1.28
5           0   3,210      2,600      7,990      19,660      1.37
6           0   2,640      2,600      7,990      19,660      1.37
7-14        0        0     2,600      7,990      19,660      1.37
15          0  (6,410)    2,600       7,990      19,660      1.37



- 85 -
ANNEX 8-1
Page 2
2.        These streams differ from those used in the financial analysis in
that prices for castings and valves have been increased by 15% to reflect
economic price levels. Further, to take into account adjustments in prices
of scrap, ferro-alloys, castings, other intermediates, and power to economic
levels, direct production costs (excluding labor) have been increased by 20%
for the foundry and 10% in the valve-plant and hydro-power equipment component.
This results in the "other operating costs" above being higher by 15%, 9%, and
10% than comparable financial values for the foundry, valve plant, and hydro-
power equipment component respectively.
3.        The results of the sensitivity analysis are shown below:
Economic Rate of Return (in %)
Steel      Valve    Hydro-Power
Foundry    Plant      Equipment
Base Case                                       16.3       16.6        31.9
Capital Cost up 20%                             13.7       13.6        27.5
Capital Cost up 10%                             14.9       15.0        29.5
Start-up Lag 1 yr                               14.0       14.4        26.3
Start-up Lag 2 yrs                              12.3       12.8        22.5
Output Prices down 10%                          12.6        8.4        25.9
Output Prices up 10%                            19.5       23.6        38.0
Output Prices up 20%                            22.4       29.9        43.7
Operating Costs up 20%                          12.2        3.7        24.6
Operating Costs up 10%                          14.3       10.7        28.4
Operating Costs down 10%                        18.1       21.8        35.3
Labor Costs up 20%                              15.4       14.8        30.1
Labor Costs up 10%                              15.8       15.7         31.0
Labor Costs down 10%                            16.7       17.4        32.8
Production down 20%                             12.8       12.5        26.5
Production down 10%                             14.6       14.6        29.3
Production up 5%                                17.2       17.6        33.2
Production up 10%                               17.8       18.4        34.4
Industrial Projects Department
May 1980



- 86 -
ANNEX 8-2
PORTUGAL
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
DOMESTIC RESOURCE COST MEASURE CALCULATIONS
Methodology
1.        The calculations are based on the cost and benefit streams used in
the economic analysis of the Project. The benefit stream is regarded as a
foreign exchange stream as it reflects exports and/or import substitution,
but for a small proportion attributed to local currency benefits to reflect
savings in domestic transportation costs in the case of import substitution.
All cost-streams have individually been separated into foreign exchange and
domestic resource costs based on the particularly characteristics of each
Project component and the individual cost stream. The streams thus obtained
are aggregated and discounted, at the estimated opportunity cost of capital
of 16%, to yield net present values (NPV) of the domestic resource costs
and of the foreign exchange earnings (savings). The Domestic Resource Cost
(DRC) measure is defined as ratio of the two NPVs. Stream data is available
in the Project files.
Results
2.        The results of the calculations are shown below:
DRC Measure
NPV of             NPV of              DRC
Domestic Costs FX Earnings (Savings)
(Esc. million)     (US$ million)         Measure
A                 B                  A/B
Steel Foundry                   2,026.7              43.2              46.9
Valve Plant                       628.7              13.4              46.9
Hydro-Power Component              793.9             27.5               28.9
Project (all components)        3,451.3              84.1               41.0
The measures, as shown above, demonstrate the efficiency of the Project in
converting domestic resources into foreign exchange.  For example, for the
Project as a whole, domestic resources equivalent to 41 Escudos are expected
to yield 1 US$ in foreign exchange. This compares most favorably with the
estimated shadow exchange rate of Esc. 58: 1 US$.
Industrial Projects Department
May 1980



IBRD 14812R
j                9;0d                    11~~~~~~~~~ Y 1980
Coda                r                             fyEWN-
AI,   ~          Ch~c        AIPR 
Ai-COCHETE/~ 
POR  TUGAL                1                                                        >            Polmelr:~~~~~~~~~~MOTU
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT                             \                 \                   /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AN9WC
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lo
location of existing  and  new  facilties of                                 >  \ Aloe- -e PI
MECHANICAL INDUTSTRIES PROJECT
COMETNA and SOREFAME                                       I                          /                                                 d
Fopanson   New   Ef stngI  
*        *      CJ)METN4A                                                                                  -               -SEUA 
A                    *   SC REFAMr Ai   X                                                                                                            /
Ma n Roads                                        (i/3B40' ;                                          N t o6
Ralways                                                 ~/   ^..  E
Cifles axnd Towns/                                                                           
MOITA  Council Seats                                                    /        |                             X    ~    r'
IF-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-  CounciI Bousaaires                                           /i                            
-   - R<uvers                                          \e de P.,
A     A  N  T                             ,         /
C E A N'    - (  SPAN
CO EN        an    SOREFA<ILMETS                                                                             omp 
Expanso-)~~~ Ne  _x -s-tingQ                                                                                            X
C_____NA__SETUB_ ALo-,o   F
A    SOREFAME~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"44
M~~~~~~~~~i n Roads                   N arn.,004000 0 oOS,O tOooooOo,0..04'          0         11
Rclilwclys~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fh 0.w 10 404S 404NI 0004Te4I00OSO, 46 0 0 
Cifies cind Towns~~~~~~~~~O00r., 04.440,tSod 44ml 0 04p 0 0 OOR, '44
AAOITA  Council Seats~~~~~~~~~~~.0.0,aodo.oo 40SgS 440 (004040I00o 040.,,s0
Council Boundcjries~~~~~~~~~~O.t.o.0500000*00
~~~i~~~~~ers ~ ~     0500



