Document of    FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2835-PO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
PROPOSED LOANS
TO
CONPANHIA METALURGICA NACIONAL S.A.R.L.
AND
SOCIEDADES REUNIDAS DE FABRICACOES METALICAS S.A.R.L.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FOR A
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
May 30, 1980
This document bas a restricted distrIbutlon and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authoratlon.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
CalendaF 1979                     March 1980
Currency Unit = Portuguese Escudo (Esc.)
$1 - Esc. 48.9                       Esc. 49.8
Esc. 1 = US$0.020                         US$0.020
Exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report $1   Esc. 47.5
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
COMETNA     Companhia Metalurgica Nacional S.A.R.L.
EC          European Communities
EFTA        European Free Trade Association
EIB         European Investment Bank
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IMF         International Monetary Fund
IPE         Instituto das Participacoes do Estado
SOREFAME    Sociedades Reunidas de Fabricacoes Metalicas S.A.R.L.
tpy         Tons per year
WHO         World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrowers:       Companhia Metalurgica Nacional S.A.R.L. (COMETNA), and
Sociedades Reunidas de Fabricacoes Metalicas S.A.R.L.
(SOREFAME)
Guarantor:       Republic of Portugal
Amount:          US$44 million equivalent (COMETNA US$33.4 million, SOREFAME
US$10.6 million).
Terms:           15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at 8.25
per annum. A guarantee and administration fee of 1.75 percent
payable to the Republic of Portugal.
Project
Description:  The objectives of the proposed project are to increase the
productivity and the export performance of two state-
controlled companies in the mechanical and engineering indus-
tries subsector; to consolidate their financial recovery and
to rationalize their operations; and to assist Portugal in
developing the mechanical and engineering industries sub-
sector. The project involves: (i) relocation and expansion
of COMETNA's steel casting foundrv; (ii) relocation and
expansion of COMETNA's industrial valve plant, including
diversification of products; (iii) expansion of SOREFAME's
hydro-power equipment manufacturing facilities; and (iv)
strengthening management systems in the two companies. In
addition, the project includes environmental control equipment
to improve working conditions in COMETNA's existing iron
foundry, and a study of the mechanical and engineering indus-
tries subsector. The risks associated with the project are
mainly related to demand for some products of SOREFAME from
the consumer industries, mainly the power and the railway
companies. It is expected, however, that power investments
will maintain their high priority, and the railway company
will be assisted by the Government and possibly the Bank in
implementing its investment plan. It is considered that the
company would offset partial shortfalls through higher sales
in other markets. COMETNA and SOREFAME's progress with
ongoing structural improvements will be monitored through
periodic reviews (para. 48).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost: 1/                                ----------$ Millions----------
Local      Foreign       Total
Foundry                                           14.5         20.7         35.2
Valve Plant                                        1.8          2.2          4.0
Hydro-power Equipment Component                    2.6          8.2         10.8
Base Cost                                         18.9         31.1         50.0
Physical Contingencies                             1.8          3.0          4.8
Price Contingencies                                3.9          6.9         10.8
Installed Cost                                    24.6         41.0         65.6
Study of the Engineering Industry                  1.0          1.2          2.2
Environmental Control System                       0.3          1.2          1.5
Working Capital (incremental)                      9.3          3.6         12.9
Interest during Construction                       1.8          5.0          6.8
Total Financing Required                          37.0         52.0         89.0
Financing Plan:                                   ----------$ Millions----------
Local      Foreign       Total
Equity:
IPE (Government holding company)                 32.9           1.2         34.1
Government Contribution                            1.0            -           1.0
Debt:
World Bank                                          -          44.0         44.0
Commercial Loans                                  3.1           6.8          9.9
Total Financing                                   37.0          52.0         89.0
Estimated Disbursement:                   Bank FY    1981      1982      1983
Annual                 10.8      20.0      13.2
Cumulative             10.8      30.8     44.0
Rate of Return:      The composite economic rate of return is estimated at about
20 percent for the foundry, valve plant and hydro-power
equipment component.
Appraisal Report:   No. 2846-PO
Dated: May 30, 1980
1/   The project would be exempt from import duties and taxes; costs
do not include these items.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON PROPOSED
LOANS TO COMPANHIA METALURGICA NACIONAL S.A.R.L. AND
TO SOCIEDADES REUNIDAS DE FABRICACOES METALICAS S.A.R.L.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FOR A MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Companhia Metalurgica National S.A.R.L. (CONETNA) for the equivalent of
US$33.4 million and on a proposed loan to Sociedades Reunidas de Fabricacoes
Metalicas S.A.R.L. (SOREFAME) for the equivalent of US$10.6 million to help
finance a mechanical industries project. Each loan would have a term of
15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at 8.25 percent per annum,
and would be guaranteed by the Republic of Portugal. The Government of
Portugal would charge COMETNA and SOREFAME guarantee and administration fees
of 1.75 percent per annum on the outstanding amount of the Bank loan, bringing
the cost of the loan to the borrowers to 10 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report entitled "An Updating Report on the Portuguese
Economy" (No. 2214-PO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
September 8, 1978. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Between the revolution of April 1974 and September 1975, Portugal's
economy was radically transformed. The banks, insurance companies, power
companies, major transportation agencies and the large industrial groups were
nationalized. A comprehensive land reform was carried out in the central and
southern parts of the country. Trade union activity was legalized and workers'
rights safeguarded. Minimum wages were established and restraints were put on
the highest salary levels. Prices were controlled. Unemployment and social
security benefits were increased. This was a very different Portugal from two
years earlier. There was a new relationship between management and labor, and
at first there was a lack of discipline, absenteeism and reduced productivity.
Perhaps most important of all for the longer term, the revolution created
expectations of a substantial increase in consumption. Such an increase did
indeed take place initially, financed in large part through the substantial
foreign exchange reserves which had been accumulated before 1974.
4.        Portugal's economy was affected adversely by three major factors
in the post-revolution period, viz. (i) the dramatic oil price increase of
end-1973 which resulted in a sharp deterioration in Portugal's terms of trade;
(ii) the return of more than half a million Portuguese from the overseas
1/   Unchanged from Part I of the President's Report for the Forestry Loan,
which was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 8, 1980.



- 2 -
colonies to the mainland; and (iii) the onset of recession in Europe with
reduced demand for Portuguese emigrant labor, export commodities and tourist
facilities. The deterioration in Portugal's terms of trade in the post-1973
period led to a permanent income loss equivalent to about 5 percent of GDP
(measured in terms of export values). The combination of these external
factors with the structural changes brought about by the revolution resulted
initially in a sharp deterioration in the balance of payments. The current
surplus of $348 million in 1973 turned to a large deficit in 1975, which
increased to $1.5 billion by 1977. Thus, the period 1974-77 saw Portugal
fighting a losing battle with the problems of maintaining private consumption
and meeting the investment needs of the economy in the face of continuing
adverse external conditions. By 1977, real consumption per capita had in-
creased by about 10 percent over the 1973 level, both the external current
account and the domestic budget were substantially in deficit, and the level
of inflation was above 20 percent, while open unemployment was over 300,000
(i.e. about 8 percent of the resident labor force).
5.        Several austerity measures and currency devaluations were imple-
mented in 1976 and 1977 but their impact was reduced by the continued rapid
expansion of credit, mainly to finance the government deficit. In early May
1978, the Government adopted a program to reduce the balance of payments
deficit in the 12 months ending in April 1979. The measures taken to stab-
ilize the economic situation included: (i) a 6.5 percent devaluation of the
escudo and the continuation of the crawling-peg depreciation of the escudo at
a rate of 1.25 percent per month; (ii) a 5 percentage point increase in the
rediscount rate, and similar increases in deposit rates and lending rates;
(iii) restrictions on domestic credit expansion; (iv) an increase in taxes;
and (v) limits on subsidies through substantial price increases for water,
electricity, gas and transportation, and essential food products. The measures
were effective in reducing the balance of payments current account deficit for
1978 to $800 million. Policies pursued in 1979 represented a continuation
of those initiated in 1978. This resulted in a further improvement in the
external financial situation. During 1979, commodity exports are estimated to
have grown by about 21 percent in real terms while imports grew by about 8
percent. Workers' remittances also increased substantially (from about $1.6
billion in 1978 to about $2.5 billion in 1979). As a result, the external
current account position in 1979 is estimated to have attained a deficit of
only about $120 million, despite the substantial oil price increase during the
year, which caused the country's terms of trade to deteriorate slightly from
1978 to 1979. However, the country was in a much better competitive position
than two years before because relative unit labor costs adjusted for changes
in the effective exchange rate declined by almost 17 percent between 1977 and
1979. These achievements are noteworthy. Energy consumption has been con-
strained by high domestic prices for gasoline and other products. Imports
of energy (oil and coal) have been rising only slightly faster than GDP in
real terms; between 1977 and 1979, they grew at a rate of 7.4 percent while
GDP rose by 6 percent. The sharp upward trend in oil prices since 1973 is
largely responsible for the increased burden on the balance of payments. The
oil import bill accounted for around 20 percent of total imports in 1979,
compared with only 3 percent in 1972.



- 3 -
6.        However, Portugal had to pay a high price for its remarkable
performance in the external sector: a decline in the growth rate of GDP, the
continuation of inflation, a substantial decline in real wages, and a high
unemployment rate. The growth rate of GDP declined from 5.6 percent in 1977
to 3.2 percent in 1978 and 2.8 percent in 1979. Inflation remained very high
at 22 percent in 1978 and 24 percent in 1979. Real wages declined both in
1978 (by 2.4 percent) and in 1979 (by 9.5 percent). The rate of unemployment
remained above 8 percent both in 1978 and in 1979. To discourage speculative
stock building and to slow down inflation, the government which took office
in December 1979 revalued the Escudo by 6 percent in February 1980, while
maintaining the monthly devaluation rate at 0.75 percent. There is another
important cost to the stabilization program: it delays implementation of the
industrial modernization effort. Since the revolution, capital formation,
especially in the private sector, has slowed down, and modernization of indus-
try has been deferred. Capital markets were disrupted and many enterprises
experienced financial difficulties, accumulating large debts. Much of the
investment which has taken place since 1976 was in the public sector. There
is a possibility that some of the new capacity which is being created may
be in sectors and industries where Portugal might not have a comparative
advantage in the longer term. The task now is to create the climate for new
investment of the kind which Portugal will need to ensure adequate growth of
exports and employment in the next decade.
A Growth Strategy for the Eighties
7.        In spite of the improvements in the balance of payments position
over the last two years, notably the increase in exports, Portugal expects to
have a deficit of some $800 million in 1980, due mainly to the doubling of its
oil import bill from $1,200 million in 1979 to $2,400 million in 1980. None-
theless, the success of short-term stabilization policies in 1978 and 1979
should lay the basis for increased growth of the Portuguese economy in the
next decade. While no actions should be taken which would jeopardize the
recent economic gains, a gradual policy of economic expansion now appears
feasible. A doubling of per capita income by the year 2000 would seem to be
an attainable goal, which implies an annual average GDP growth rate of 4.5
percent over the period (assuming a 0.9 percent population growth). The
achievement of this rate of growth, without running into the constraints which
limited foreign exchange resources and inadequate domestic savings might
impose, will require the exploitation of Portugal's comparative advantages and
of the potentials of EEC membership (expected to be accomplished in the mid-
eighties) (para. 11).  Previous analyses by Bank missions suggest that the
highest returns will attach to the export of light industrial products and to
efficient import substitution in agriculture (both specifically geared towards
potential entry into the EEC).  In general terms, a strategy for development
in the eighties must center on the expansion of investment in light industry,
agriculture, tourism and housing construction. The priority of these sectors
relates first to the export potential of light industry, the foreign exchange
savings which would result from increased agricultural output, and the low
import elasticity of housing construction which enables it to be expanded
without too much use of foreign exchange resources. Secondly, the encourage-
ment of investment in these sectors should stimulate private voluntary savings,



since these are sectors which are predominantly (though not by any means exclu-
sively) in private or cooperative hands. Third, these are labor-intensive
activities which should enable significant progress to be made in reducing the
level of unemployment. To this list should be added those basic industrial
projects which yield adequate rates of return on the basis of an evaluation of
the price and marketability of their output. These are mainly, though again
not exclusively, in the public sector. Infrastructure should be geared to
supporting these projects.
8.        The last major planning exercise in Portugal was conducted in 1976,
in the form of a proposed plan for 1977-80 which, however, was not implemented.
Work is now underway to launch the preparation of a medium-term development
plan.  The challenge for Portuguese planners and policymakers is to increase
domestic savings, promote exports, and boost employment within the limits of
prudent balance of payments management. It is estimated that an investment
program of about Esc. 1,000 billion (in constant 1978 prices) for the period
1980-84 in industry (27 percent); housing and construction (18 percent);
agriculture, transport and communications and power (8 to 9 percent each); and
health, education and other services (29 percent) would produce an aggregate
GDP growth rate of 4.5 percent per annum over the same period. However,
to implement investments of this magnitude in a timely fashion, new institu-
tional arrangements would be required to streamline decision making, as well
as project preparation, implementation and supervision. Another area where
improvements would be needed is the autonomy of public enterprises and the
economic relations between public sector entities.
9.        The industrial sector will obviously remain the leading sector in
Portugal's future growth. Here, the problem is that the export of manufac-
tures is mainly done by the private sector which has been reluctant to invest
for reasons quite unrelated to the profitability of exports. These include
the general uncertainty and the difficulties of dismissing labor once it has
been hired on a permanent basis. The Government has made a substantial effort
to restore the confidence of the private sector. Thus, provision has been
made for compensation for nationalized assets, the law on dismissal has been
eased, and profitability has been improved through lowering real wages in 1977,
1978 and 1979, depreciating the exchange rate and providing special incentives.
The private sector is likely to be the major contributor to the economic
growth rate foreseen for the 1980s. Restoring private sector confidence may
require further incentives and evidence of a government commitment to encour-
age private initiative. The Government could perhaps do more to try to orient
the manufacturing units in the public sector in the direction of exporting
from their present capacity, and of investing in new capacity for export
production. The substantial increases in industrial exports in 1978 and
particularly in 1979 indicate that improvements are underway. The Government
is also working to improve and adjust the education and training efforts in
relevant disciplines in line with the longer term manpower requirements of the
economy.
10.       Agricultural growth in the past has been sluggish and this has
necessitated increasing imports of agricultural products. It is a matter of
correcting deficiencies inherited from the period prior to the revolution, of



reorganizing the ministry and strengthening its inadequate field services.
Extension is weak in terms of personnel and of the links with the research
effort on the one hand, and with small farmers and cooperatives on the other.
The training and education of agricultural manpower and of farmers has been
very insufficient in the past and recent efforts in this area need to be
further intensified. Credit to the rural sector has neither been adequate nor
production-oriented. Fertilizer application rates are low. The situation has
been exacerbated since 1974 by the problems consequent to the agrarian reform
and changes in land tenure. Investment alone will achieve little without
substantial advances in these other areas as well. Measures to improve the
conditions in the agricultural sector are underway.
11.       Portugal is well advanced in its negotiations on accession to the
EEC, and membership is scheduled to take place within the next few years. The
efficiency of the industrial sector is particularly important in the context
of EEC membership, which will permit increased access to the European market,
but will also provide to producers in those countries the possibility of
competing more easily in the Portuguese market. If the transition to a less
protected trading system is not to be traumatic, steps will need to be taken
to strengthen some of the smaller, less efficient firms, whose contribution
to total output, and especially employment, is quite substantial at present.
Given that very little has been done in agriculture and that the institutions
are weak, the bulk of the development in agriculture will probably take place
after entry into the EEC and under the conditions which the common agricul-
tural policy will impose on the sector.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
12.      Multilateral and bilateral agencies have responded well to Portugal's
need for external assistance, both for balance of payments support and for
long-term project loans.  With gold as collateral, the Bank of Portugal  has
obtained short-term loans for balance of payments support from the Bank for
International Settlements and European central banks. In addition, as of
mid-1979, total disbursed and outstanding IMF assistance to Portugal amounted
to $253 million.  The EC, EIB, EFTA, as well as bilateral agencies have
committed significant funds to Portugal in emergency concessionary aid and for
long-term projects. The Bank's contribution is summarized in Part II below.
Starting in 1977, Portugal received $750 million in medium- and long-term aid
commitments as balance of payments support from 14 countries, with the US,
Germany and Japan being the main contributors. In addition, Banco de Portugal
converted about half of its $1.9 billion short-term liabilities into medium-
and long-term debt. The Government and major banks and companies are able
to attract medium-term loans from consortia of commercial banks in the Euro-
currency market. Recent terms have been reasonable with ten years repayment
at an average interest rate of about 0.7 percent over LIBOR. The new Govern-
ment's efforts to stimulate inflows of direct foreign investment may help to
attract some capital. Portugal will however continue to require sizeable
external inflows for the investment necessary to restructure its economy. The
multilateral lenders, and in particular the EC/EIB, EFTA and the World Bank,
will have to continue to play a vital role in helping Portugal meet its
capital requirements.



- 6 -
13.       Portugal's public and publicly guaranteed medium- and long-term debt
(disbursed and outstanding) was about $1,458 million at end 1977 and $2,642
million at end 1978, with a debt service ratio (debt service/earnings from
exports, non-factor services and workers' remittances) of 3.7 percent and 5.1
percent respectively. These figures include the portion of Banco de Portugal
debt which was converted into MLT debt. The total debt of Banco de Portugal,
including the converted amounts, came to $1,680 million in 1977 and $1,924
million in 1978, disbursed and outstanding. Total 1/ (public and private)
medium- and long-term external debt reached about $3,990 million at end 1978,
with a debt service ratio of about 13.6 percent. Portugal's total debt
outstanding, including borrowings in 1979, still remained at manageable
levels, and presented an improved maturity profile. Portugal's total medium-
and long-term debt service ratio is expected to rise to about 17 percent
towards the middle of this decade. Portugal maintains a gold stock of about
22.13 million fine troy ounces (December 1979), which serves as a safety net.
In the light of these facts, of the stabilization efforts made by the Govern-
ment, and of the prospects for growth, Portugal can be considered creditworthy
for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL 2/
14.       The first phase of Bank lending to Portugal was during the period
1963-66 and lending was concentrated in the power sector, in line with Govern-
ment priorities which reflected the power needs of a rapidly developing indus-
trial sector. Five loans totaling $57.5 million helped finance three thermal
and two hydro-power projects, which were successfully completed to meet the
country's increasing power requirements.
15.       The events of the more recent past and the ensuing dislocation of
human resources have created special problems and the transition to an open
political system has revealed social and economic weaknesses which are unusual
for a high-income developing country, The Bank has responded to Portugal's
needs through identification, preparation and financing of projects and
through economic and sector work,
16.       The proposed loan would finance the Bank's seventeenth project in
that country, the twelfth since the resumption of lending in 1976. Bank
operations since 1976 involved a power project, two highway projects, two
industrial finance projects, two education projects, water supply, agricul-
tural and fisheries credit, forestry and fertilizer modernization projects.
Total Bank loans since the resumption of lending amount to $474 million.
Disbursements under the 1976 and 1977 loans are behind schedule due mainly to
1/   Excluding Banco de Portugal.
2/   Substantially unchanged from Part II of the President's Report for the
Forestry Loan, which was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 8, 1980.



- 7 -
the Portuguese agencies' initial lack of experience with Bank procedures and
slow action on procurement. These difficulties are now being overcome. The
1976 and 1977 loans are substantially committed, and procurement action (such
as hiring engineering consultants, awarding of major civil works contracts)
has started comparatively early under some 1978 and 1979 loans although under
two loans delays in effectiveness have created problems. Nevertheless, total
Bank exposure in Portugal is still small. Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of Bank loans as of April 30, 1980 and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
17.       In an intensive parallel effort at the macroeconomic and sectoral
levels, the Bank assisted the Government in reviewing policy and management
issues. Economic missions and the discussion of their reports have pro-
vided a basis for a review of policy at the macroeconomic level. Reviews of
the water supply (together with WHO) and the education sectors were carried
out and were discussed with the Government in March 1977. Agriculture and
manufacturing export industries were also studied, and were reviewed with the
Government in November 1977. The report entitled "Manufacturing Export
Industries in Portugal" (No. 1695a-PO) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on January 13, 1978, and the report entitled "Portugal - Agricultural
Survey" (No. 1689b-PO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 24,
1978. As a major problem unemployment has received particular attention; a
report which sums up the results of a Bank survey, entitled "Unemployment in
Portugal: Causes, Prospects and Policy Options" (No. 2285-PO), was distributed
to the Executive Directors on May 10, 1979. A survey of the public medium-term
investments was carried out in June 1979 and a report is under preparation
which should help the Government to decide on investment priorities.
18.       In the light of the economic and sector discussions mentioned above,
agriculture and industry have been identified as the areas of concentration
for Bank lending. In the industrial sector there is need for major structural
improvements such as merging firms, eliminating uneconomic enterprises and
modernizing equipment. Improvements in these areas are being introduced in
the fertilizer subsector and are being studied for the pulp and paper,
textile and steel subsectors with Bank support and advice. The proposed loan
would support restructuring and modernization of two major state-controlled
enterprises in the mechanical industries subsector. Another important con-
straint to industrial development is insufficient financial and technical
support to small-and medium-size enterprises; the FY79 Small- and Medium-Scale
Industry Development Loan (SMI) will address this need. The importance of
developing the industrial sector cannot be overemphasized, since this sector
will be the main force in the Portuguese economy, primarily to continue with
the export expansion which started in 1978 and to maintain competitiveness in
the European common market. The main objectives of Bank lending to industry
are structural reform, export promotion and employment creation (or preserva-
tion). In agriculture, a sector beset with major problems, there is consider-
able scope for stepping up growth. The major constraints are the still
unsettled land tenure conditions, institutional weaknesses and a shortage of
trained technicians for promoting improved technologies. The Bank has assisted
the Government in creating a sound agricultural credit institution and has
recently approved a loan for forestry. Future operations in this sector are
likely to foster agroindustries, fisheries, rural development and extension.
The trained manpower requirements of the industrial and agricultural sectors,



which constitute a serious bottleneck particularly in agriculture, would
be addressed through the FY78 First Education Loan and the recent Second
Education Loan. The improvements in transportation required to sustain
the increased output of the agricultural and industrial sectors are being
addressed by the FY76 First Highway Loan and, the FY79 Second Highway Loan,
and a railways project is being prepared.
19.       The deflationary policies of 1977-1979 (paras. 5-6), while contribut-
ing to the improvement of the balance of payments, have not permitted imple-
mentation of development programs now urgently needed in many sectors. If
the restructuring needs of the economy are to be tackled seriously and the
pressing deficiencies in the social sectors corrected, long-term external
assistance would be needed to assist Portugal. It is the World Bank's objec-
tive to contribute to these efforts and to provide advice on institutional
reforms which are crucial for Portugal's long-term economic objectives.
PART III - MANUFACTURING INDUSTRY AND THE MECHANICAL AND ENGINEERING
INDUSTRIES SUBSECTOR
Background
20.       Manufacturing is the leading sector in the Portuguese economy, and
in 1978 it accounted for about 36 percent of GDP, 24 percent of employment,
37 percent of the total investment, and 70 to 80 percent of exports. Manufac-
turing output grew at an average annual rate of about 11 percent, compared
with an average GDP rate of growth of 7 percent, between 1963-1973 and spear-
headed the growth of the economy in this period. After 1973, the industry was
adversely affected by a number of factors: preferential markets in former
colonies were lost, sweeping nationalizations dislocated management, labor
relations deteriorated and production was interrupted in many enterprises.
These events coincided with a worldwide economic slowdown, domestic price
controls combined with large increases in wage costs and, since the end of
1977, with strict domestic demand control (paras. 3 and 5) aimed at reducing
the large balance of payments current account deficit. As a consequence,
production suffered and profitability of enterprises fell; in 1978 manufac-
turing output was only 10 percent higher than in 1973. Since 1974, operations
were sustained through heavy short term borrowing; there was little investment
in plant and equipment--especially in the financially weak nationalized
enterprises, where maintenance and modernization needs were also deferred. In
view of the improved balance of payment current account position of Portugal,
the present economic outlook is for a controlled expansion of investment and
domestic demand in the coming years; this should stimulate the restructuring
and growth of the industry which remains the leading sector in Portugal's
growth. The expansion of manufacturing output and exports would help to
create the proper environment for the remaining restructuring efforts. The
mechanical and engineering industries subsector, with its large contribution
to output and exports, has a key role to play in this respect. The Bank's
review of manufacturing export industries in Portugal (para. 17) has confirmed
this potential.



-9-
'he Mechanical and Engineering Industries Subsector
21.       The mechanical and engineering industries (hereinafter called the
engineering industries) subsector, defined to include (i) metal products, (ii)
non-electric machinery, (iii) electrical equipment, and (iv) transport equip-
ment, in 1977 accounted for 20 percent of employment, 18 percent of produc-
tion, and 28 percent of exports in manufacturing. In 1978, volume of exports
from this subsector was about 8 percent higher than 1977 levels. While the
subsector is an important part of manufacturing, its share therein is less
significant than in other countries in the EEC, thus implying a lower level of
engineering development. The subsector is characterized by a large number of
small enterprises. Following the revolution, the Government nationalized the
shipbuilding industry, and acquired a controlling interest in four of the
other large enterprises. Within the subsector, transport equipment--primarily
shipbuilding and automotive industries--accounts for the largest share of
production (41 percent), followed by electrical equipment (24 percent), metal
products (23 percent) and non-electric machinery (12 percent). Real growth of
the subsector, which was at the rate of about 25 percent during 1971 to 1973,
has been markedly lower after the 1974 revolution, in line with the perform-
ance of the economy. Provisional data indicate strong growth rates in 1979.
Exports of the subsector (about 25-30 percent of output), with higher growth
rates in 1963-73, were interrupted between 1973-76, and have since begun to
recover. An analysis of exports and imports shows the subsector's dependence
on other- countries at the upper end of technology. Based on the available
pool of experienced manpower and engineering skills at still relatively low
cost, the potential for increased exports exists both in areas where exports
have been strong traditionally, and with additional support, in heavy goods,
where the labor and engineering content is high. For example, in steel
castings, valves and hydropower equipment, Portugal could double its exports
by mid 1980s (paras. 41-43). As in other industries, the financial position
of most subsector enterprises was adversely affected by events which followed
the revolution (para. 20); for example, in the 10 largest companies in the
subsector, return on equity declined from 11 percent to minus 33 percent
between 1973-76, and heavy reliance on debt reduced a healthy capital struc-
ture (65 percent equity in 1973) to marginal levels (29 percent in 1976). In
1978, financial charges for four of the largest companies reached an average
of 18 percent of the value of production, well in excess of the norm for
industrial companies. Government efforts to improve these conditions are
discussed below (para. 23).
Prospects and Issues
22.       Portugal is well situated to utilize its comparative advantage in
relatively sophisticated manufacturing, particularly with respect to avail-
ability of labor and engineering skills at relatively low costs, a well
developed infrastructure, and a geographical location affording easy access
to markets in Western Europe, North Africa and the Middle East. However,
continued increases in the efficiency of the Portuguese industry, vital for
success within the EEC, will depend crucially on continued Government efforts
to: (i) enable financial and organizational restructuring of troubled enter-
prises, (ii) improve the investment climate and encourage modernization and
expansion, (iii) encourage exports and promote export-oriented investment,



- 10 -
(iv) stabilize labor relations, and (v) provide better technological support
to enterprises. Financial restructuring of troubled enterprises is among the
most pressing issues in the subsector because, in the aftermath of the revolu-
tion, many viable enterprises were decapitalized and became heavily indebted.
For over half a decade, they have continued operations under very difficult
financial conditions; if these conditions were to prevail much longer, the
damage to the industry would be irreparable.
23.       Along with other industries, the engineering industries subsector
has begun to benefit from measures undertaken by the Government to improve the
future prospects of the manufacturing sector (para. 9); financially, the most
significant of these is the viability contract legislation enacted in 1977 and
replaced by a more extensive scheme in 1979. Under such contracts, economic-
ally viable but financially troubled enterprises agree to strict production,
financial and organization targets, and the Government and commercial banks
provide financial assistance designed to restore the enterprises to a sound
financial position, and monitor progress. As further implementation takes
place, the financial situation of companies in the subsector and in manufac-
turing as a whole can be expected to improve significantly. The borrowers of
the proposed loan would benefit from financial rehabilitation under viability
contracts; they would receive new equity of about $30 million from the
government holding company (IPE) (paras. 31 and 32) and obtain massive debt
rescheduling from their creditors. Execution of these contracts, approved by
the Government recently, would be a special condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loans (Loan Agreements, Section 7.01). In addition to financial
support, the Government provides technical assistance, management training,
and technological support to small- and medium-size industries through special-
ized units in its Ministry of Industry and Technology, and export-promotion
assistance by a specialized unit in the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism. The
central bank coordinates credit policy and provides credit incentives for
foreign exchange saving and earning projects; all commercial banks and the
national development bank (BFN) provide term financing for industrial invest-
ments and participate in the financial restructuring of enterprises. Thus,
an adequate institutional framework is available for Government support of
the industry; however, some institutions are new, not sufficiently known to
companies in need of assistance, and relatively inexperienced. In most of the
above areas, especially export-promotion, institutions need to be strengthened
and their procedures streamlined, new approaches must be adopted to reach more
enterprises, and efficiency needs to be reviewed in the light of the results.
Sectoral Planning
24.       While some studies involving the subsector have been undertaken
by the Ministry of Industry and Technology or other institutions, a compre-
hensive review and planning exercise has not been conducted. There is
no single entity within the Government responsible for formulating policy,
development strategy and plans for the subsector; other than the Government's
efforts towards product specialization by enterprises, comprehensive policies
and plans, except planning efforts at the enterprise level, are virtually
non-existent. As a first step in coordinating the future development of the
subsector and formulating a coherent set of policies, a clear delineation of
responsibility and a detailed subsector study are vital. A start has been



- 11 -
made with a study for rationalizing the operations of four state-controlled
heavy mechanical industries, including COMETNA and SOREFAME, as part of the
preparation of the proposed project. The medium-term public sector investment
review (para. 17) would also help with investment decisions. In addition,
under the proposed loan, the Government has agreed to complete a comprehensive
subsector study by the end of 1981 and to implement the agreed recommendations
of the study thereafter (COMETNA Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.03).
Bank Assistance to Industry
25.       With the 1977 manufacturing export industries review (para. 17),
a fruitful policy dialogue was established between the Government and the
Bank. The review recommended, among other things, measures for raising produc-
tivity, such as management training, technical assistance and plant moderniza-
tion combined with restructuring weak industrial units. It also recommended
making the banking system more responsive to investment needs, including
provision of equity and improving project selection methods. The Government
is implementing recommended measures with Bank assistance.
26.       The Bank has provided financial and institutional support to private
industry through two development finance operations which involve the commer-
cial and development banks, as well as government organizations specialized in
technical assistance to industry. These development finance operations have
been directed to industrial expansion, restructuring and modernization;
improvement of project selection methods; institutional improvements to
provide better technical assistance, export-promotion and technology support.
Another major problem is the modernization needs and the poor financial
position of many state-controlled enterprises. Subsidies and equity contribu-
tions to viable, but troubled, state enterprises place a heavy demand on the
over-extended state budget which the Government is trying to control as a step
towards curbing inflation. The arrears and deficit financing needs of these
enterprises also place extraordinary demands on the banking system. Conse-
quently, an important objective in dealing with such enterprises is to bring
them to a sound financial and operational footing. Our first operation in
this direction, a loan to the fertilizer industry (FY79), has been successful
in bringing about a financial restructuring of one of the largest public
industrial enterprises. Implementation of the project is proceeding satisfac-
torily. The proposed project is designed to supplement a similar rehabilita-
tion effort in the mechanical sector by modernizing and expanding productive
facilities of two major public sector companies, thus enhancing competitive-
ness, increasing productivity and improving export potential.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
27.       The project was identified partially in August 1977 and the project
concept was finalized in March 1979; appraisal took place in November 1979.
Negotiations were held in Washington from April 14 to 22, 1980. The Portuguese
delegation was led by Dr. Antonio Labisa, advisor to the Ministry of Finance



- 12 -
and Planning, and included representatives of thst Ministry, Instituto das
Participacoes do Estado (IPE), Companhia Metalurgica Nacional (COMETNA) and
Sociedades Reunidas de Fabricacoes Metalicas (SOREFAME). A staff appraisal
report entitled "Mechanical Industries Project" (No. 2846-PO) dated May 30,
1980, is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. The main
features of the loan and project are listed in the Loan and Project Summary
and in Annex III. A map showing the location of existing and proposed facili-
ties of COMETNA and of SOREFAME is attached.
Project Objectives
28.       The principal objectives of the proposed project are to: (i) increase
productivity, enhance competitiveness and improve export potential in two large
state-controlled companies in the engineering industries subsector through
modernizing and expanding their productive facilities and improving working
conditions; (ii) consolidate their financial recovery and the rationalization
of operations initiated as part of project preparation; and (iii) assist
Portugal with a comprehensive engineering industries subsector review leading
to the identification of development opportunities and the formulation of
supporting plans and policies.
Project Description
29.       The proposed project involves: (i) relocation, modernization and
expansion of COMETNA's existing steel foundry (5,000 tpy capacity) to an
initial capacity of 10,000 tpy with provision for further expansion; (ii)
relocation, modernization and expansion of COMETNA's present facilities
for the production of industrial valves (3,000 units per year) to a capac-
ity of 15,000 units per year including diversification of products; (iii)
rationalization and expansion of SOREFAME's hydro-power equipment manufactur-
ing facilities to produce equipment for hydro-power plants of up to 250 MW
capacity (as against 150 MW presently); (iv) establishment of improved manage-
ment systems; and (v) a study of the engineering industry. The project also
provides for environmental control facilities in COMETNA's existing foundry,
which will continue to produce iron castings.
Project Implementation
30.       The foundry and valve subprojects would be implemented by COMETNA
and the hydro-power subproject by SOREFAME. The holding company, IPE, would
establish a project-monitoring unit to coordinate project management in the
two companies and to ensure liaison with the Government and the financial
institutions involved with the project. Experienced and capable project
managers and staff have been assigned to handle the project. In COMETNA they
will be assisted by qualified consultants acceptable to the Bank, for detailed
engineering, selection of equipment, supervision of erection, and training of
personnel. The SOREFAME component is simple in its implementation, and will
be handled by SOREFAME's own civil construction and engineering departments.
These departments have sufficient project implementation experience. The
subsector study would be carried out by qualified consultants under the
supervision of a government committee comprised of representatives of the
ministries concerned and of the industry. A similar committee is currently



- 13 -
supervising the implementation of the fertilizer study financed under the FY79
Fertilizer Modernization Loan. The above project implementation arrangements
are considered adequate. Completion, including start-up and reaching certain
production levels, of the hydropower equipment subproject is expected by the
end of 1983, the valve plant by the end of 1984, and the steel foundry by the
end of 1985. The subsector study is expected to be completed by the end of
1981.
Project Institutions
31.       The Instituto das Participacoes do Estado (IPE) was established
as an autonomous public company in 1976 to manage the State's shareholdings
in nationalized companies. The Government and IPE determined in July 1979
that only about 65 to 70 of the over 300 companies initially assigned to IPE
should form the core group under IPE. The rest would be transferred to
new sectoral agencies envisaged, or would be sold to the private sector.
Apart from supervising and providing technical assistance to its companies,
IPE is responsible for establishing and pursuing development policies in
the areas of activity of its companies and coordinating relations between
its companies and other public enterprises. IPE encourages private capital
participation in the companies under its control. COMETNA and SOREFAME, the
borrowers of the proposed Bank loan, along with about 8 or 9 other companies
in the engineering industries subsector, form part of the core group. IPE has
majority ownership in about two-thirds of these companies, including COMETNA
(92 percent) and SOREFAME (74 percent). IPE has agreed to evaluate its
investment portfolio in the core companies by December 31, 1981 with the help
of independent auditors (Shareholder Agreements, Section 8).
32.       IPE is governed by a General Council comprised of the represen-
tatives of the principal economic ministries, along with representatives of
trade unions and of IPE companies. It is managed by a Board of Directors
appointed by the Council of Ministers on the recommendation of the Min-
ister of Finance and Planning, who has the responsibility for overseeing IPE.
Despite increases in the past, the Institute's staffing is not adequate
for the range of its activities; it has, however, agreed to strengthen project
development, liaison and monitoring functions by establishing an adequately-
staffed project implementation unit (Shareholder Agreements, Section 3).
IPE is entirely owned by the Government. Sources of funds available to IPE
include income from its investments in various companies, and fees that IPE
charges for various management services. In addition, IPE can raise funds by
issuing fixed or variable income bonds and can also negotiate loans in national
or foreign currency. In 1978 IPE's current ratio was eight and its debt/equity
ratio was 33:67. Following a net loss in 1977, its first year of operation,
it achieved a small net profit in 1978. Provisional results show a further
improvement in 1979. IPE would support COMETNA and SOREFAME with financial
assistance under the viability contracts as well as with assistance additional
to the contracts. (Shareholder Agreements, Section 4).
33.       Companhia Metalurgica Nacional (COMETNA) was founded in 1898; the
State acquired majority ownership (92 percent) in 1975.  It operates foundries,
a valve plant, machine, forge and fabrication shops, and produces equipment
and components for the railways, and the cement, steel, mining and power



- 14 -
generation industries, with American and European licenses. COMETNA has a
well-established reputation for the technical quality of its castings and
valves and has been successful in exporting a substantial part of its produc-
tion of castings (para. 41).
34.       Following the revolution and the nationalizations, COMETNA lost a
large number of its top and middle managers. The situation further deterior-
ated with the subsequent rapid turnover of board members and key personnel,
resulting in a lack of management direction. The company suffered large
losses between 1976-1978, management and worker morale declined progressively
due to the increasing uncertainty about the company's future prospects. In
May 1979, IPE replaced COMETNA's top management. The new team, which has
substantial experience in relevant management functions, has initiated several
improvements in organization and operations. These changes, along with
progress towards new investments and financial support through the recent
viability contract, have revitalized management morale. Earlier difficulties
in attracting qualified personnel have been resolved following improvements
in COMETNA's compensation package and the company's prospects. The middle
management is improving with the recent appointment of qualified persons to
the finance, accounting, production and other departments. However, further
efforts are required and steps, including a special study on pricing to be
completed by end 1980, are underway to establish appropriate production
planning, cost and divisional accounting, pricing and management reporting
systems, and a well-staffed and active marketing organization, especially with
regard to exports. COMETNA and the Bank would review progress in these areas
annually (COMETNA Loan Agreement, Sections 4.02 and 5.02(b)). COMETNA would
receive technical assistance under the proposed loan for installing and
operating management systems. The company currently employs 1,700 workers,
165 administrative staff and 40 technicians. Despite good labor and engineer-
ing skills, productivity is low by European standards, principally due to old
and worn-out equipment, discontinuity in management in the recent past, and
also to worker absenteeism related partially to poor working conditions. As
indicated above, COMETNA's management is implementing measures to improve the
situation.
35.       Sociedades Reunidas de Fabricacoes Metalicas (SOREFAME) was estab-
lished in 1943; the State acquired majority ownership (74 percent) of the
company in 1975. It is one of the largest enterprises in the engineering
industry subsector. SOREFAME's principal products are: hydromechanical
equipment, such as gates, penstocks and related equipment; electromechanical
equipment, such as turbines and generators for hydroelectric power stations;
equipment for the chemical and petrochemical industries like pressure vessels,
spherical tanks and heat exchangers; railway passenger coaches and locomotives;
and steel structures. SOREFAME has been exporting a substantial proportion
of its production since 1949, especially hydromechanical equipment where it
has an established reputation. The company also has two subsidiaries overseas
which it has licensed to produce hydromechanical equipment. A foreign firm
(ALSTHOM--a prominent French manufacturer of electromechanical equipment and
the company's licensor for turbine-generator sets) owns 20 percent of the
share capital, and local private interests own 6 percent. The Board of
Directors consists of 6 members, of whom 5 are nominated by IPE and one by
ALSTHOM. The present Chairman of the Board of Directors has an established
reputation as an industrial manager in Portugal. SOREFAME's management has



- 15 -
made organizational changes during the preparation of this project on the
basis of Bank recommendations. The current structure includes functional
integration of responsibilites with each board member operationally in charge
of specific tasks, and a separate department for export marketing. Thus,
earlier weaknesses in SOREFAME's organization, mainly diffusion of responsi-
bilities along vague lines, have been largely eliminated. Both operational
and support departments run well. The recently installed computer-based cost
accounting and management information reporting systems are improving effi-
ciency. SOREFAME would receive technical assistance to further strengthen
its management systems under the proposed loan. The company employs about
2,440 workers, 1,240 administrative and 560 supervisory personnel. In the
past, absenteeism has been a problem; with improving morale and better labor
relations, absenteeism is now declining.  The company has established an incen-
tive system and is further improving labor relations to reduce absenteeism to
normal levels.
Project Cost and Financing
36.       Total project financing required, including physical and price con-
tingencies, working capital and interest during construction, is estimated at
$89 million, of which about $52 million would be in foreign exchange. The
working capital requirement is $12.9 million and interest during construction
about $6.8 million. Cost figures do not include import duties and taxes from
which the project would be exempt. The price contingencies represent about
20 percent of the base cost estimates increased by a 10 percent physical con-
tingency. Including the contingencies, working capital and interest during
construction, the foundry is expected to require financing of $56.8 million
(64 percent of total), the valve plant $7.2 million (8 percent of total), the
hydro-power component $21.3 million (24 percent of total); the subsector study
would cost $2.2 million and the environmental control component $1.5 million.
In line with recent experience, consultancy cost estimates are based on aver-
age man-month costs of about $10,000, including fees, overhead, and other
expenses. Consultancy services would amount to about 33 man-years.
37.       The financing plan envisages that $34.1 million (40 percent of the
financing required for the three principal components) will be provided by
IPE as equity (Shareholder Agreements, Section 4(a)). The Government would
provide $1 million equivalent to cover the local currency costs for the
subsector study. The balance would be financed by the Bank ($44 million or
49 percent of total financing needs) and commercial loans ($9.9 million or 11
percent), of which $3.5 million would be contracted by June 30, 1981 (COMETNA
Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(b)(iii)). The Bank would make the proposed loans
to COMETNA ($33.4 million) and to SOREFAME ($10.6 million) with the Govern-
ment's guarantee. The loans would be for 15 years, including 3 years' grace,
at an annual interest rate of 8.25 percent per annum. The two borrowers would
pay the Government a guarantee and administration fee of 1.75 percent. This
would raise the cost of the loans to the borrowers to 10 percent per annum.
The borrowers would also bear the foreign exchange risk. Total cost of the
proposed loan to the borrowers, including the effects of the monthly devalua-
tion of the Escudo (para. 6), would be at least 19.4 percent per annum and in
line with domestic market rates for this type of project. COMETNA would make
available $1.2 million of the loan proceeds to the Government to help finance
a study of the engineering subsector.



- 16 -
Financial Position of the Borrowers
38.       COMETNA's financial position deteriorated after the revolution and
the company had net losses on the order of 20 percent of its sales since
1977. This deterioration resulted from four basic causes. First, the loss of
Portugal's colonies deprived COMETNA of some of its major traditional markets,
in conjunction with a standstill in domestic investment. Second, labor costs
increased substantially due to the social pressures in Portugal following the
revolution. Third, in view of cash losses from operations, COMETNA was
increasingly forced to resort to short-term borrowings to meet its funding
needs; the steep rise in interest rates since 1977, applied retroactively to
existing debt, led to substantially higher interest charges than could have
been foreseen by the company.  Fourth, COMETNA's pricing of its products did
not adequately cover the rapidly increasing costs of operation, particularly
the high interest charges. The above problems are now being managed. In
recent years real wages have declined as part of the national austerity policy.
COMETNA has been able to enter new markets. Debt rescheduling from short to
long term and interest subsidies until 1986 under the viability contract will
bring the company's debt servicing obligations to manageable levels. COMETNA
has agreed to complete a pricing study by December 31, 1980 and to review
pricing policy with the Bank annually (para. 34). It is expected that in
1980, sales will increase and the losses (after interest subsidy) will be
reduced to about 2 percent of sales. In 1981, the company is expected to make
a small net profit (after interest subsidy) which will increase to about $1
million (without subsidy) in 1984 and continue increasing thereafter; however,
a small loss is expected in 1983 due to the entry into operation of the new
foundry. Following the initiation of financial rehabilitation under the
viability contract, the company's debt/equity ratio would be 58:42 as of end
1980, and would improve thereafter. Debt service coverage, unsatisfactory in
1979, is expected to be about 1.2 in 1980 as a result of the viability con-
tract, and would improve further in the following years. The current ratio is
expected to reach 1.6 in 1980 and remain at that level.
39.       SOREFAME's sales were also affected by the above mentioned general
problems, stagnation and the squeeze on public spending.  Nevertheless, follow-
ing years of declining sales, orders began to improve in 1978 and the company
registered a large sales increase in current terms during 1979.  However, in
the absence of a viability contract, losses were still high primarily due to
massive financial charges.  With the initiation of the viability measures in
1980 the situation is expected to improve and in 1983 the company is expected
to make a net profit before interest subsidies.  During 1980 and 1981, the
first two years of project implementation, SOREFAME's financial ratios will
not be at satisfactory levels. However, this is considered acceptable as the
Government and IPE have agreed to provide adequate funds to the company to
meet its operational needs and debt service (SOREFAME Shareholder Agreement,
Section 4(b) and (d); SOREFAME Guarantee Agreement, Sections 2.02(b) and
3.03). By end 1982, the debt equity ratio is expected to reach 60:40, and the
debt service coverage, 1.6. The current ratio is expected to reach 1.5 by end
1980 and remain at satisfactory levels. The borrowers have agreed to maintain
a debt/equity ratio of 60:40 (COMETNA as of end 1980 and SOREFAME as of end
1982) and not to borrow if as a consequence they would exceed this ratio or if



- 17 -
the projected debt service coverage would fall below 1.5. They have also
agreed to maintain a current ratio of at least 1.3, and to limit their capital
expenditures (Loan Agreements, Sections 5.05, 5.06 and 5.08).
Financial Rate of Return
40.       The pre-tax financial returns for the three subprojects are as
follows:  foundry over 13 percent, valve plant over 10 percent, and hydro-power
component over 34 percent. The after-tax returns are over 10 percent, over 7
percent and about 28 percent respectively. The pre-tax financial returns on
the foundry and valve plant are lower than the economic returns (para. 46)
because product prices, as used in the financial analysis, are well below the
international levels (para. 42) and for the purpose of calculating the economic
returns, they were increased by 15 percent to correspond to the lowest compe-
titive international price. Conversely, the financial return on the hydro-
power equipment component is higher than the economic return because some
input prices, below international levels, were increased to correspond to such
levels for calculating the economic return. The rate of return is sensitive
to changes in output prices; but, a real decline in the current prices is not
expected. The sensitivity of the project is discussed in paragraph 46 below.
An agreement has been reached with the companies that they would pursue price
policies which provide adequate returns on invested capital (COMETNA Loan
Agreement, Section 4.03; SOREFAME Loan Agreement, Section 4.02), and with
the Government that it would avoid policies which may adversely affect the
companies' ability to pursue an appropriate price policy (COMETNA Guarantee
Agreement, Section 3.04; SOREFAME Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.03).
Markets
41.       The per capita consumption of steel castings in Portugal is rela-
tively low; in 1977 Portugal's 0.8 kilogram per capita consumption compared
with Italy's 1.7, Yugoslavia's 2.6 and Spain's 3 kilograms. Based on a review
of the future investment plans and individual consumer sectors, the demand for
steel castings is expected to grow at an annual rate of about 6 percent until
1985, and 5 percent thereafter. Portugal is a net exporter of steel castings.
Against imports of 400 tpy, Portugal exported about 2,000 tpy of steel castings
during the period of 1974-78, gaining in the process a reputation as a supplier
of good quality castings among customers in the United States, Canada, Great
Britain, Sweden and Federal Republic of Germany. A recent market study
suggests that, on the basis of present prices, Portugal could export 10,000-
15,000 tpy in the period of 1980-1985. However, for project purposes, conser-
vative figures of 5,000 tons in 1985 and 7,000 tons in 1990 have been assumed.
COMETNA now supplies about one-third of domestic consumption and 80 percent of
exports. In 1985, it is expected to supply over half the domestic consumption
and to maintain its position in exports. Given the modest investment plans of
the few other foundries which produce steel castings in Portugal and the
expected increase in demand, attaining the above domestic market position
should not pose any problems for COMETNA.
42.       A recent market study indicates that the demand for industrial
valves is increasing and yearly consumption will be about ten percent higher
by 1985 compared to the levels in recent years. Local production capacity (7



- 18 -
enterprises) meets only about 20 percent of the domestic needs; this percentage
is expected to double by 1985. The principal reasons for current high imports
are the non-availability of specific types of valves in Portugal and the long
delivery times arising from capacity constraints in domestic castings and
forgings which are inputs for valves. With the implementation of the new
foundry under the proposed project and with other forge investments, the bottle-
necks would be eliminated and the market share of imports reduced. Exports of
industrial valves have not been taken into account in determining COMETNA's
market prospects. Portugal exported about 800 tpy of valve bodies in the form
of castings in the past three years, and it plans to double exports in the
1980s which, given the planned association with foreign engineering firms, is
feasible. COMETNA, the largest manufacturer of valves in Portugal, accounted
for about 22 percent of Portugal's total production in 1978 (72 percent in
terms of tonnage). When the new plant comes into operation, COMETNA would
increase its share in domestic production to about 50 percent in number of
valves and about 75 percent in tonnage. The major increase in COMETNA's
production would be in smaller valves, which have so far been imported. Both
for castings and valves, COMETNA's prices are below European prices by 25
percent on average. COMETNA intends to increase real prices for steel castings
by an average 10 percent at project start-up. In addition, based on a price
study it will conduct, COMETNA will review price policy for all its products
annually with the Bank until project completion.
43.       The production of hydro-power equipment is governed, since March
1979, by an agreement under the authority of the Ministry of Industry and
Technology, under which SOREFAME will specialize in equipment for hydro-power
stations, while another major engineering company would be responsible for
thermal-power equipment. Portugal's surveyed hydro-power resources corres-
pond to some 10,000 megawatts installed capacity, of which about 2,400 megawatts
are under exploitation. An additional 1,950 megawatts are under construction
or at the bidding stage, representing the planned investments up to 1987. For
the period 1987 to 2000, most of the remaining surveyed resources are expected
to be developed. SOREFAME would be the sole supplier for these projects,
provided that it can attain the required production capacity as planned. In
1977, SOREFAME sold about $8 million worth of power equipment; about half of
this was exported. By the middle of this decade, it is expected to produce
$41 million (in 1979 prices) worth of equipment per year and to export about a
quarter of it. Portugal has a good record of achievement in exports of hydro-
power equipment; future prospects are considered equally good in view of the
projected worldwide resurgence of hydro-power investments. SOREFAME should
therefore be able to double its exports to about $10-11 million by 1985.
However, it will be facing strong competition in export markets. The expected
improvements in productivity resulting from the proposed project, coupled with
increased export marketing efforts, should enable the company to increase its
export sales. The company would also have the possibility of niodifying its
product mix according to market requirements.
Procurement and Disbursement
44.       The proceeds of the proposed Bank loan, to be disbursed over the
1980-83 period, would finance: (a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures, and



- 19 -
100 percent of local expenditures ex-factory, for machinery, equipment and
spare parts ($32.6 million) procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB), except for packages costing less than $100,000 and up to a
maximum total of $4 million, which would be procured through limited inter-
national tendering; (b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for foreign
consultancy services and 90 percent of local expenditures for local consul-
tancy services procured internationally for engineering services, supervision,
management assistance, and training on new equipment ($5.2 million), and for
subsector studies ($1.2 million); and (c) interest and other charges on the
proposed loan during construction ($5 million). Local equipment suppliers
(direct or clearly identifiable and separable major components of an approxi-
mate value of $3 million as part of a few specific packages under foreign
contracts) would be entitled to a margin of preference of 15 percent or
relevant import duties, whichever is lower. It is expected that equipment
awards amounting to about $4 million will be won by Portuguese suppliers under
ICB. Expenditures up to $600,000 incurred after May 1, 1980, as part payment
for engineering services (COMETNA; $150,000) and for a long-delivery machine
tool item (SOREFAME; $450,000), would be financed retroactively. This would
enable project implementation to proceed rapidly, and supply commitments of
SOREFAME to be fulfilled on schedule. COMETNA has awarded the detailed engi-
neering contract with the Bank's approval following international selection.
On the basis of previous experience, civil engineering, civil works and
erection contracts are expected to be awarded to local contractors who are
competitive. These services would be procured under local competitive
bidding which is considered satisfactory. The total cost of these services
and equipment would be financed locally.
Benefits and Risks
45.       While Portuguese industry is generally going through a difficult
adjustment and restructuring process, public manufacturing enterprises are in
a particularly poor situation. Their unhealthy financial state does not
permit modernization (in some cases, even proper maintenance and replace-
ment). Managerial and worker morale has been low, with adverse consequences
for operations and market performance. Not only do these enterprises fail
to contribute to exports, employment creation and sectoral development as
warranted by their potential, but due to their losses, they are a serious
burden on the budget and on the banking system; they compete for funds which
would otherwise be available for development purposes. The proposed loan
would help rehabilitate two major state-controlled companies (COMETNA and
SOREFAME) in the mechanical industries subsector, improve working conditions
and productivity, enhance export performance, consolidate about 560 jobs in
COMETNA, and create 350 new posts in both companies. In addition, the expan-
sion of steel castings production is expected to provide the foundation for
the development of a number of related engineering industries based on domestic
availability of quality castings. The valve plant is expected to upgrade the
technology of valve production in Portugal and permit the country to penetrate
the market for small sophisticated valves which have traditionally been
imported; it would also promote the development of small-and medium-size valve
component industries. The hydro-power equipment component would substantially
increase productive capacity with a relatively small investment and enable
SOREFAME to double the megawatt capacity of the power plants it produces to



- 20 -
meet the expected demand. At full production in 1986, the project's net
foreign exchange benefit, after servicing foreign loans, would be $20 million
annually in constant 1980 dollars, in comparison to a foreign exchange invest-
ment cost of $45 million. Portugal's competitive position stems from the
large labor input, in particular as regards steel castings and hydro-power
equipment, combined with the low Portuguese wages. At full production, labor
costs would account for 13-22 percent of the average price of products from
the project facilities compared with 25-40 percent in other European countries.
Labor and engineering skills are high and the companies have a good reputation
for product quality in export markets.  Existing technological capability,
industrial organization and management minimize the costs for know-how,
training and start-up, thus enhancing cost advantages.
46.       The composite economic rate of return on all three components
(96 percent of total financing) is about 20 percent. The return on the
foundry (64 percent of total financing) is estimated at over 16 percent and
on the valve plant (8 percent of total financing), about 17 percent, and the
return on the hydro-power equipment component (24 percent of total financing)
is estimated at about 32 percent. Further, the steel foundry design incor-
porates the potential for expansion to 15,000 tons with minimal additional
investment. If the costs and benefits of such an expansion are included in
the analysis, the economic return for the foundry increases to over 18 percent.
While the return is highly sensitive to changes in output prices, particularly
for the valve plant and the foundry, a decrease in these prices is not con-
sidered probable in view of the conservative assumption that the economic
price equals the lowest price now prevailing for these products in the inter-
national markets. The return for these components is also reasonably sensitive
to changes in operating costs. However, for most operating cost components,
such as material inputs, increases are likely to be accompanied by offsetting
output price increases. Sensitivity is low with regard to the labor cost
component, which could increase without such offsetting changes. Based on
these considerations, the risk of a decrease in the economic return to below
12 percent is considered negligible for the hydro-power component, very low
for the foundry component, and low for the valve plant.
47.       The public power company and the public railway company are respec-
tively the sole domestic client for SOREFAME's hydro-power equipment and for
railway equipment and rolling stock. As SOREFAME's investments are based
on the investment plans of these public clients, significant reductions in
investments would affect the revenues and profitability of SOREFAME. On the
other hand, because of the worldwide energy problems, hydro-power investments
are expected to remain priority items in Portugal and elsewhere in the world.
As for the railway investments, a railway rehabilitation plan financed under
the FY77 First Highway Loan is now available. A first railway project based
on the above plan is under preparation which, with possible Bank assistance,
would support recommended investments and help improve, among other things,
the financial position of the railways. This is in line with overall Govern-
ment policy and would lead to more stability in railway investments. Moreover,
SOREFAME has prospects for replacing domestic sales with additional exports in
areas where it is competing successfully. For these reasons, the risks to
SOREFAME associated with reliance on a single domestic client are limited, and
are considered acceptable.



- 21 -
48.       An internal risk associated with the companies is the challenge of
turning around their performance. Recent management actions, coupled with
financial support under viability contracts, are well on the way to bringing
about such a turnaround. Further, significant safeguards in terms of improved
management systems have been built into the proposed project to further
enhance the companies' prospects. Nevertheless, the Bank will periodically
review progress in these areas with IPE and the companies to ensure that
appropriate measures are implemented to promote further improvements.
49.       Plant design, construction and operation would comply with environ-
mental and safety standards acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreements, Sections
3.01 and 4.01(f)).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
50.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and COMETNA, the draft
Loan Agreement between the Bank and SOREFAME, the draft Shareholder Agree-
ments between the Bank and IPE, the draft Guarantee Agreements between the
Republic of Portugal and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement, are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
51.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Execution of COMETNA and SOREFAME viability contracts would be a
condition of effectiveness of the respective loans (Loan Agreements, Section
7.01).
52.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
53.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loans.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 30, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -                                             Annex I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
PORTUCAL - SOCtAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PORTUGAL                   REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED Ay,ERAGES
LAND AEA (THOUSAND SK. 1M.)                          L- MOST RECENT ESTIMA-E) -
TOTAL             92.I                                                    SAME        SAME      NEXT HICHER
AGRIcUiLTUL4UL    41.3                                 MOST RECENT      GtOGRAPHIC    tNCOME       INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /4    GROUP /a
CNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  350.0       930.0    2020.0           2906.3      1942.6      3075.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAP ITA
(TILOGRANS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      382.0       754.0    1050.0           2033.2     1646.7       2518.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION  _ID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       9.0         9.0       9.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.5         26.2      28.2             56.3       51.2         72.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       11.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         14.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2095
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Km.                       98.0         98.0     104.0             81.5       28.2         33.5
PER SQ. EM. ACRICULTURAL LASD    218.0        218.0     232.0            138.8      100.5        91.3
POPULATION ACE STRUCTLRE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          29.2        28.5      26.0             25.6       35.4         33.3
15-64 YRS.                         62.8         61.8      63.0             62.9       56.3        57.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    8.0         9.7      11.0             10.2        5.1          5.7
POPULATION GROWTSt RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               0.7/f       0.0/f     0.8              0.9        1.7          2.1
URBAN                               1.4         1.5       2.3              2.6        3.0
CRUDE 81RTH RATe (PER THOUSAND)     24.0         21.0      19.0             18.5       27.5        31.4
CRUDE 3EATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      11.0        11.0      11.0              9.2        9.1         8.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.6         1.5       1.2              1.2        1.8          1.9
FAlILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..          ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMN)    ..            ..         ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           80.8       106.0      87.0            115.7      102.0        98.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
REQUIREMENTS)                  107.0        118.0     141.0            134.2      120.8       112.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           77.0        35.0      94.3             95.4       80.9        70.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        33.0        40.0         ..            45.4       31.3
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY LATE       7.0         4.0       2.2              1.3        5.1          2.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    62.3         68.2      68.7             70.0       65.6        68.7
iNmAnrT MORTALZY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            77.5        58.0      39.0             31.5       45.5        20.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATtON)
TOTAL                                ..          ..      65.0               ..       69.4        73.9
URBAN                                ..          ..      90.0               ..       85.1        94.6
RURAL                                           5..       6.0               ..       43.0        64.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..        ..               ..       70.1
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..               ..       8-.3
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..               ..       33.2
POPI'ATION PER PHYSICIAN           1200.07k    1100.0     800.0            661.6     1343.2        981.8
POPULATI7N PER NURSING PERSON      1430.0/k    1000.0     520.0            677.1      765.0       397.8
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             190.0       170.0     170.0            180.1      197.6       240.6
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..               ..      260.2
RULRAL                               ..          ..        .                .      1055.0
ADM'ISSONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        10.0      12.0             15.3       17.3        19.2
ROUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TCTAL                             33.9          3.7        *                 *        4 7
UF SAN                              4.0          ..        ..               ..        4.4
RKRAL                              3.9           ..        ..               .         5.1
AVERACE WM3ER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
-OTAL                               1.1         0.8        ..                          1.1
LR 3AN                              1.0          ..        ..               ..        1.2
RURAL                               1.1          ..        ..               ..        1.2
ACCESS TO ElECTRICIlTY (PERCENT
OF D WELLINGS)
'O-AL                             40.5         64.2        ..                .       66.0
URBAS                              88.5          ..        ..               ..       85.1
RCAL                               27.4          ..         ..



- 23 -                                              Annex I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
PORTUGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PORTUGAL                     REFERENCE GRoUPS (ADJUSTED AyERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SME       NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS*
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 131.0         98.0      132.0           105.7       101.7        107.6
MALE                 132.0         99.0      137.0            107.1       110.0
FEMALE               129.0         96.0      129.0            104.5       92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  20.0         57.0       31.0            65.9        51.2         39.7
MALE                  24.0         63.0       S8.0             70.3        56.4
FEMALE                16.0         51.0       51.0             62.2       43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (7 OF SECONDARY)  46.0           32.0      40.0              20.4        18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             34.0         34.0      27.0             26.7        27.1
SECONDARY                           19.0         17.0      14.0               ..        25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         62.0         71.0      70.0               ..        86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          17.0         54.0     107.6            105.5        53.4         68.1
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          95.0        142.0     173.0            233.7       225.9        210.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           5.0         40.0      65.0            148.0       102.6        117.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
TIOUSAND POPULATION                   63.0         84.0      70.0               ..        78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0            3.0       4.1              6.4         3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       3398.0       3388.0    4100.OAg
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    17.9         24.8      25.5             32.3        24.5         27.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               44.1         33.3      27.0             25.8        28.9         23.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  29.0         33.2      36.0             33.         30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 38.5         39.3      44.6              37.6       33.8         40.1
MALE                                  66.0         62.3       56.4             57.0       51.3         55.7
FEMALE                                13.2         18.5      32.3             28.0        16.3         24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          1.0        0.9              1.0         1.3         1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..        ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           56.1/h,  56.3/h,           47.9        57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          6.27      7.3hj            5.0         3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         20.6/,1i  21.4/h,)         15.4        i1.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (UDS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     480.0               ..       550.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     480.0            436.1       403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric .eans, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    Fur,pe;  /d   Upper Middle Income (S1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /e  High Income  (over $2500 per capita,
- ^976);   If  Due to emigration, population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase;   /   Estimates
based on inquiry of employment conducted by Institute of National Statistics;   /h  Highest 25% and lowest
257 and 50  of households;  /L  1968;   L- 1973-74;   /k  1962.
August, 1979
*NOTE:  Most recent estimate.  Primary school years 1-4, age group 7-10.
Secondary school yearm 7-11, age group 13-17. Preparatory
school years 5-6, age group 11-12 are not included. Enrollment
data not comparable over time due to different basis in age
groups.



- 24 -                                                            Annex I
PUFINCTICN AF BOCTAL IIPICATORO                                             Page   3   of   5
No.te.:  Although the data aredran  fro  soure   eer,4 jugdth                   .at  .thoritativ-  sd reliable, it should alec be noted that they asp not be interns-
t ..Ily comparble heause of the lak ofeade,dised definitions and o-sopta used by dif ferst coittriee  in collecting the data. The data are  none...thelee,
use ful to descibe order   f magnitude, indicate trends, and obh-aterise certain major differences. betnen coutrie..
The adjuted grop averges f- eacb indi-at-r ar  pp tics-neightd gen..etric mean, exclding tbe extreme values cf the indicator sod the mot populated
onatry  inechgop.          -o tc lack cf dats, group avrages of all idicatra fcr Capital Surplus Oil Eoportrs nod of indicatcrs of Acoesa to Aster and Ecreta
HipslAoning, income  itrIhutio  nod Povery foe otl~hercut-y               uaaepcplation-segbted geomtric me-n   ithout e-Iu-ion of the ectre     values and
tbehm=    Populated conty   lic   h   neaeo   nnrs   mn theindicator- eed   oaalblt  ddasad  snt  nfrm    stio  must be execisd
isrelating average  of one indicator to another.  Thes                                             ..rgeaemsl   seu   saoolain oMI fp'oete'vluseeev nin  the  ale  of one
indiato  at a time   mon  the coun.try and  reeecea n..
[Lfl dARA (thnnsad sq;km.)                                                                   Acces  toEIce ta.DisposaI (percent  f p satios.) -  totl ubn   n   ua
____   Ttalsuraceare  copriinglad are  and inland cater.-                         Nubro   eol   ttl,ubn n                       rua)  evd _brta disoala
gIcutual- tat  ecet estimate of agicultural ara Isd teprarily                              percentages of their respective popsltjoome, E-oreta disposal may include
orpermnently for crps, pastures  maket and kitchengardens orto                           the coi1etico  and disposal, nith or cith-ut tretmet, of huma  eo-rtc
iefalio.                                                                                and cate-eter by cate-born  systems or the use of pit privies and -aula
7NP PERCAPITA  (US) - GEPF per caPita estimates at curret msrht prices,                      iy4ppg,-cip-Population divided by cober of pRac-ticing phyaivian
odiciitid by saecnerinmthod as World Ban  kiln. (1976-7   ai)                                quaflid fr             .idkl~  school at univerity level
196, 1970,-ad 19,78 data.                                                                  Pulation per Nursing Person -.Pnpsctioa divided by cuter of pratvivig male
SH YallC:dSUoOAT10N PEP CAPITA - duA-I --soption of co-orial enery                             and female graduateuss  pratical nuss,ad ...istantnu-e.
(coa  andligite,petoleu,ntural gas and hydr-, nuclear and ge-                     Pouato   ertosia  Be  -total  ur'ban  and rural -, Populaion  (ton,t                urino
termal electricity) int ilgran   of col equivalent Pe  capita; i960,anrul)dvedbthireptceumrofcptabdsaiabei
i975, and 1976 data..                                                                        public and private general and specili-ed hostpita1 and r-hatLitain roet
Hospitals are establishments permnetly staffed by at 1enot on  physica.i
POPULATION ADIl VOCAL STATISTICS                                                               cstablishmeto providing priocipally  -utodil1 care arc cot include1d. oura
TctaljqP.sitioo. Mid-Year (.illin) ..       ho of July 1; 1960, 1970, and                    hospitals, honevor, include health and nedicalI Iceo   o   eraetly otfiod
197dta.                                                                                by a physician  (but by a medi-1ni. ausictr, vre   ief,ec)oc                     fe
Urban Pplton (percet of total)   R.Ptio of urban to ntni population;                         On-_patient  -ccodntin and procide a hoitnd rage cfI edca  failitie.
dfeetdefiniti-ons curban  -rs   my affect comparability of date                    Admsiona II1per Hosdpital Bed - Tonal nuber of addsicoi..  to or ditch,argen  fr-
snon,g countries; i96c, 1970, and 1975 dnta.                                                hosptals divdd  by the coalr of bed-.
PouaIos Projecotions
dp4Ml   "ain ypl            I- Cret populntico pr-Jeotioo are based cc
1975ti cta pcpuatico  by  In nod  ee and choir motality and fertility                 hoegoSo   of .  houstldpeso  per h-ucho1d) - total, -bso, and r-ri1
r-t-s  rujeItcico parameter  for  -orolity rate  comIprliseIf thre                      0 houcehold c-ticto~ of a grov  of lodiVi dunic etc ohao Iicio  qurt-r  and
le_l  nsa iglife Iopeot-oy at birch h-.reasing sith c-utryn.                            their maIn -.al..  A bnrdrr or lodger cayo  su          bott  i-li.,od in tho
per capito icco_1-eve, ad feenl  life  -opo-t-gy otabilislng at                         house hold for statiotical purpooco.
775yeses.  The paranteo  for fertili1ty rate al-c have tihre  le-ei                Aveag  calr  f  eaoerrom-toa    rban, and  rurl  - Aoeruo cantor
ssanog deline Icfrnilivy  acrig to booms lee  an d past                            of Po. e  per ro_   ic  l  ura,an         Ioa  --cpird  -nV-ctic-idl         iivc
faily planing  promac.tch cutry is then nan ignd one of thes                            respectively.  Deolliogo  ocld    -po--net  t-otu-e  and .o.. pe  ooo
cite combinations of motality and fertility veenco for projection                     Accs t~o lEot         y (percect cf d-11li-g) - total, irino, aod ri-i-   i
purposso.                                                                                 entIocol  dclog   cith  eletricity in' licig qunrtrro  - pIr-rtaco 
9fl74q~~ppp494op  - Is a   tnicr  Ppopultico ther  in .c grooth                   -total, urin, and trura  d-pllivgorr-p-tiocl.I
iIAiEWl9 9te  is e'qualto the deth rate, and alan the  g 
strtare rains   -omtant. This is achievd onl  afte  frtility rates                  RiAATION
daclias to the replaneat leve  of omit set rp-eductiom  rate,  h..                    Adjusted hEni1mst Ratios
each ga_ertina of  -a    replaces itself esatly.  iTs  tatiemar  pop.-                  Primay-   coo   ttml male and female -ross ttal, male and female e-rl-
lat i_ siescas esimated os the basis of the projected eh_steristies                        _eto llaet    the primay leve  asporatages of es-petire priasy
of hepopuatiom  in the year 200, and the rate of decin o.f frtility                      sohom-lage populatIons; nomlly isciudes childre  aged 6-il years but
rate torpbaneet level                                                                     adjuted for differet leagths of primary aduatic; for coutrIes eth
fea  statiomar  soalatios is reahed - The yeur she  statiomar  poPulation                    universal eductic  enrollmen  may.soced 100 percet since acm  pupils
sise has taos reahed,                                                                     ar  hl    r  bve the official school age.
dP99.topoDgnsitylcadcyshol-toa,  ae  n  fl                                                                                                    I-Coputed ana-c;scodr
Per sq tm.- Kid-year population Pr square kil te-  (100 hectar-) of                          euaissqrsatlstfryasof  gproced -piaY incutic-;
total araProvides genera  voctional , or teacher training in-tr-cticc  foe pupils
Pee sq.km  agiutrllad - Computed as above for agricultua-lanId                               asually of 12 to 17 years of age; c-rrepndenocouse   r  go-e-aly
only.                                                                                      etc uded. 
PoPulation A.e itrcture Coeront) - Childee-  (0-lu years)  coking-age                        Pctixa eaolmet (perosot of ..e..nday) - Vuradin..al institutions  inclde
(15 -6. Years),an  retlird (t5 years and over) as percetages of mid-year                    techoica, industrial, or otheprgr9as ehich operate Independentlyora
population  lpht, 1970, and 1977 data,                                                       departmets of secondary institutos.
Po Gato    ro.th Rate (peroet) - total - Ansual er-th estee of total1mId-              Poi-ecerrto-prima, and secodary - Total studobomart                        e   i
year po-puA-Itiom   fr- 1950-hp,  0p-702  and 1970-77.                                       -piayndscdaylvsdIvddby nubers of teachers ho thecr-
Poua.tion irct  Rate  peet -rbn - Anua  ge-th rates of urbansedn-ees
popullt.n for 1950-60, 1960-70, -an  1970-75%                                              Adult litercrt  (ecn)-Liberate ndu1tu  (able to rend and -ite)a
cr.d. Bi,tb * "   P-Rd      Annul, live births per thouand of mid-                    apercetage of total adult populatic aged 15 pear  and over.
C-                                     Anmoal d      po.R   thousand of aid-year        COls0mpfIll
pop.          q0,IO,- l"a9r7                                                             Patssen-iger Car  (per tho"msadpouain   -aseger car  compise  motorcars
a".   pd-t.       .- ArgI sum           of .ghte-sosa    ill hear                      seating less than eIght  erss   o ldnabuacs  hearses and military
in tee normal reproductive period if she cope-iete  present ag-vhicle..
sPecific fertility rates; usualy fire-pear avergesedn I c 19b0,                         Radic Prev         per thuad cslatic-) -All types of receiver  for radio
1    190an   195.                                                                         trao         t  gnrlpbic per thousand of P.~oain   xldsulcse
_aily Planing - Acce ptors, Annal (thousands) - Ac..uI number of                            receIiver  in countries and in year ahen  -egiotraic  of radii set   one1
accetors of birth-control device  and-e aupice  of catic..sl femily                       effect; data for reetyasny not be  -on...nble since a-t coutries
plning program                                                                          abolished lieslg
Famil  Planin  - leer  (percent of maried  Poe) - Percetag  of maried                      TV Acceivers (pethuad cp            taiot) - CVreivs foe brodcattI               eea
some  of chId-beringag   1-Iyrsetue birt-cn trol device                                    publi  per  thosndppuaio;ccldrtunicensd TV recivesIoonre
toalmrid .sni, ae  g  group,                                                       and in yea-  thee regiebr-tiot ofvsta   it effect.
Reesparoirculation (per thousand                         .-p. tia.ito)
FOiD AND NUTRPITION                                                                            ofa  itrstdape                                deined  Obp-sthe aerag cbircltion
Indes of Food Prduction per Capita (1969-71-i00) - Index of Per capita                       devoted primaily to recrding general tees.  It is coesidered to be "d.ily'
pau l poductive of all food  -odities. Pr-d-tivo excludes sed and                      if it nppere at least four times. acer.
feed and is on calendar year boie.    Comedities. cover primdy good                     Ci-ee   oA-I Attend-nc  per Capibo  er Yra-   Bayed on the number o ikt
(eg I_grvn  intead ofsgr   tibterileadcno    urctold ~durin  the -year, it-l.dicgan,                                         cco  to driv--Ic ci-assd nbile
(.g. coffe  an rb.ar  ecluded).  Aggregate prdcinof eah country                          unt-
is basedI on natinl  average prducer price  eights.
FeP aia  upyofrlrr  (percet of reci-eets) -Computed from                              I   Rnol P0CE
energy equivalent of ot foud supplies  -rilnblr in coun.try per ca pita               Total Labr Forc  (thousands) - Et....icaliy novice person, including armd
erday.  Available supplies copi-e dometbo p-odu-tlo, imports less                     fooe  anduneployed_ tub  o-odio  hoooicro, studeete, rIr. DefinitlI,_
expots, and change  in couch.  Net cuple  roc_lude an-iml fend, seeds,                  _naroooutrivoaeI t o,prble
quatities usd in food p-occiog,_ad losc  It dictibotion. Aequir-                      Fppe1,je Ie ) -Feaeinbo  forco111  an Pereronge of tonal labor force.
met onre rstxi'mted -by PA0 based In physiological  -edn fr- co.,-l                                 Ir_45rjp $nt  - L.bor forceit fs_rmltg, fore_bty, hunting and
utVivty and health  otI..ceid-m   e-ir; esett1 temperature,body  -ighto,               fitbing  -n peroertag  of hovel labor forc.
ng   od t-o diotritution..of populotiot, and alociog 10 p_cet for                   lodustry I c--rt) - Labrefoc   itnot,coercic   mnfcuigan
sasteat hou..ehold level.                                                               rir"trivity,I ester and g,  -c  eectage of totl  labor force
Pero pitsuply  f.pr-teit (gra   Per dey) - votejo  -t-bet if  re_atic pat_.  Pat  (perc_t) - tota,  male, nod female - P_etic iption or
"Icapita oc    iy.Pt     t supply of food Per day.  et npply of food inIrfi-rdI as       ativity rtet ar  v-poted cc tota,ml,odfaelbrfrcnop-
abv.w  Pqieot   o   l   corr  etalnebyVOAP-,ido for a                                     -etg-c of total, cole ano femal  pPoai-ofllgnrePeciey
s,icia  allonan-   of ho grant of totol protein per dp nod 20 gran  of                  i76o  1970 , nd i975 dntc.  Thr-  are IL- owtioxpatio  rates reflecting
animal and P""n  proteic, of oich 10 gRas  hlould beanimal protein.                     ag-o    trot-re o_fth  popultioc, and 1cg tine tretd.  A feo c-timatoc
mete tndardo are Ioc   ha         o   of5 grnaoftoaprtiantr  from  notioa ..                               ooeI
27 gesm  of animal protein ac anavrag  fo  te    ldt'proposd byCb                     tooi;eedeo    ni                  oi   f Ppopuitioc  uder 15 and 65 and over to
in ice Third gorld Food Iorce.                                                          tiyao  foc  In aegoP of 1-5  yearn
Poe capita proteic _oppy fro   animal adpuu            P-Prtein  -upply of food
Chil(ae   1-)   LotalIity Ante. (porihE toon  (- Icoo  detin poe thooxecd                   ecntg   f  rvteIcon(on   xcahad hond) - AR-eire  by richest
it  ge group  t-.esc   ichildren  in thin e           - gvP; fr mont dvl-_prec,rhbs   P0pretpoes20eco,sdpoet  Opevn
opicig vutie-  lin derived fro  li fe tobIlet,  9of h-usholda.
HEFALTH                                                                                    PoOVERT  TAP=n  GOcoS
life Eopootanry ottbrt.'t (y .or.), -_A ..eng  tolebr of y-sr  of life                     tutinubed Abo-lte Pocerty 'Loos Leve  (0$Pr oapitim   -uban and rurl1
reenilog  a  birt; 176, 197   nod  977. dit..                                    Att-hut  povety ioone levei dotnt incom   1rv1 hbol  hioh a minimal
Icfant Mortality Rte (per ihiiuoud   - honol denth.ocf infants under coo                     -tuitio..aidy adequate diet Iuo  ecoetini coo-food r-qui-emt    i  ncot
Avoeco to dS.Ose  (prrif            toonico  - totalurtan, nod rua.ttimatod RenlePvrty lva Lee                                         P1    o  capita) - urban and rurl1
ubrof Frpi tcti.uba,no  rrl)cireunal  noorsf  topcoral retlaive'' poorb  ivI ae ivon 2ic                                            _ thriid of nc-rg  per  -pit
-fe cater  -opply  iI icldes tr-nted  -uf-vonetc rV  antreted c0t                          Pe-rnota  in-ot of thccoutry. Ubcc  eo    i_dOriod fro. tich iol .. e.I        i-
It  mteofrc     oue  a ... heoth cnidreed xxtbel0 cibinirIaI Ibb
ita  th  iuor ;e o  eber  of the toon..bold do not hav  to oPod                                                              Eroo..cic and S-~risi PainIt i
td'ioprtporiov        to  tIe dsp ic fethiog thie f-Acly,  w.cter ceedo                                                      Po-neio  b      oc   cd Prjoio        Pp-rt-et
August 1979



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Pose 4 of 5
ECONOnClE DEVEWP8MENT DATA
(Anooets io Millions of US Dolle-s)
Sheen of 01I at
A.t-Al                A-eto. Growth Rts. (2)                 Estiotsed        market onions (foorest -ri...
NATIONAL ACCODNT0                                   1978        1974      1975      1976      1977      1978       1979         1960    1970    1975    1970
(1-4 .9  s.)                                                                                                   (Prsj.tnti
Gross D-omstic Prodoce-                             17,810        0.7      -3.7        9         5.6       3.2       2.8   .  1I0        100.0   100.0   100.0        106.0
Ag  tIltarn                                          2,062       -1.8      -2.7       1.5    -10.0        4.0        3.0         22.7    16.1    14.1    11.6          11.3
Industry                                            5 945         4.0      -9.3       4.3      10.4       3.3       4 4         34.5    37.3    38.9    33.4           42.0
Service9 8,299                                                    0.8       1.6      15.8       6.6       2.5       1.9         33.4    36.2    37.9    46 6           37.4
Cotnsuptit                                         15.799        10.3      1.2        3.1       3.3      -1.7      -0.1         82.8    83.3    96.1    88.7            87.0
Gross - nvosemen-:                                  4.117        -6.1    -45.7       30.5      28.8      -6.4       0.7         16.5    23.5    16.3    23.1            22.8
Export: of GNFS                                     3,552       -15.7    -13.2        4.8       6.8      13.5       19.0        16.6    23.4    19.6    19.9            21.3
I.ports of GN0S                                     5,658         4.8      26.7      17.5      13.1      -2.0       8.0         22.9    30.2    32.2    31.8           31.2
Gross Notionai Savings                               3,317      -35.4    -39.2       -8.0      40.2      51.9        6.8         12.2    16.7       3.8    18.6        18.6
Prites
Cots of Infl.tipn                                             27.4       20.4      18.3      27.0      22.1      24.2
Exchango Rats 0                                               25.4       23.6      30.2      38.2      43.9      50.0
IEmCHorISE TRADE                                                             Anual Daet  at Corrct Poison                            As Portnt of Total
Top-ots                                                                                                                         1973    195       197      178
Capitol goodt                                                   761       565       607       693       800       _           20.5    14.5    14.0    16.9
Ioerm,ediate goods                                           2,635      2,185    2,431      3,043    2,807        -           58.4    56.1    61.3    56.6
Foal aod relotod natoriols                                     575        621       696       743       73                     6.5    16.0    15.0    15.4
Coonaooiloo 00000                              ~~~~      ~~~~     ~~677  522  395  485  4315                  15.1    13.4    91.7        9.1
otal Mrtch. Isponts (.o.f.)                                  4,640      3,893    4,329      4,964    4,790      6,027        100.0   100    100.0    100.0
Coports
AhRitolt..al Produtts                                          369        324       312       334       576      -            18.8    16.6    16.5    15.6
Wotd  and Cook Pooducts                                        366        306       351       364       376      -            14.8    15.0    17.9    13.6
Tostilot~, oloehiog otd toooo-                                 604        377       533       602       7863     -            30.4    23.6    29.6    3'2.5
Moohi nty            end r-po     qaip-n                       290        254       230       301       325                   13.2    13.1    14.8    13.5
othr                                                           5639       474       390       426       549                   22.8    24.5    21.2    22.6
Total nooth. Exports (f.a.b.)                                2,270      1,935    1,622      2,027    2,409      3,301        100.5   100.0   100.0   100.0
nEOC DIOSE A    INDICES                                                           1975=100
toport Price Itdoo                                            103         100        90        94        102   117
Impot PnioIdo6                                                                       95        97        106   123
Torms of Tredo   loden                                        118         100        95        97         96    95
Etpoet Vol.Im  Indeo                                          104        I00        105       111        120   142                    An Percent of Totol
1975       1977    1978       1979/
tALE ADDED IY SECTOR                                      (Annu3l aDte oLAt     Pnie  ar   d  e-h-no  Rotr of 25.55)
o IoLt_e                                                    2,09         7,I       2,163    1,947      2,025  2.086            13.9       12.4      12.8    12.6
Iodostry                                                    6,322        5,731    5,978    6,601       6,819  7,119            42.1       42.9      43.0    43.7
6,819~~~~~~~~~~
sIaice                                                      5.462        5.548     6.423    6,846      7,017  7,150            41.4       44.5      44.2    43.5
T.t.1                                                      13,973       13,410   14,564   15,394    15,864  16,355            100.0      100.0 D    00 17JD.   0
Carrn=t PnCoe- (illio- Ee.o..ds1                  A. Pert--t of CDP at Moknt Prico9
P1101I1 110AN180                                                                                                                 1974-   095          196       077       17-17
Current retipt"                                                77.8      93.1    127.1      173.6-21    210.6rl265.1-/         23.0       24.8      27.2      27.9      27.0      26.8
Ctrrent e-p-o,ditotes                                         76.5    102.6    153.3    162.1           239.5  301.0           22.6       27.3      32.8      29.3      31.0      30.5
Currnt surpo,/deficit f-) of
tho Stese                                                     1.3     -9.,1    -26.2      -8.5       -28.5  -35.9             0.4      -2.5      -5.6      -1.3       -3.6     -3.6
Capital eIooDditatos (not)                                     7.1       12.4      19.3      34.5        50.8   46.4.           3.4        4.4       3.0       6.4       6.5       4.7
Not Finantin . oquiroes.ts                                      5.6      21.8     45.5       43.0        79.3   82.3             1.7       5.8       9.7       8.0      10.1       8.3
Fi=ancinE -oda                                                 8.3       17.4     48.9       44.7        89.7    96.8           2.4       4.6      10.4        7.2      11.1      10.0
Debt a-orti-atio-                                             -2.5        4.4     -3.4       -1.7       -10.4  -16.5            0.7        1.2       0.7       0.3       1.3       1.7
LAOR ~FORCE AvD ~OTP T PERVkE                         nTLuad               DA   AORWOK1  FDC            rthk  eVA.LUE ADDED_PER   1                        1        1UAXEA EAl   1-  s                         )
1.0000 1100C 0111 QOTOOT PER 06000      01112. 18001 FORCE                                    04100 ADDD PE  IORKEE f1975 ~PRICES AND 0FCHlAW01 ORATh 1   io.  25.559
Is Thoosands           Pretoat of Total..1            .                     tI  lle.               Ornrs An-nIon                Antr... 4A-1 Co-noh Rtoe
1974         1977          1974         1977        Ceoneh Rato                 1974    1977               1974    1977                        1974-77
Agriculture                                    1,300        1,219          34.5         32.2            -2.1                   1,684   1,597                 45       39                         -1.9
Industry                                       1,307        1,276          34.7         33.7            -0.8                   4,837   5,173                130      127                          2.3
Serioes                                        1M16         1,291          30.6         34.1             3.06                  4.o709   5,303               127      130                          4.1
Totl                                           3,7467       3,786         150.0        100.0             0.2                   3,709   4,066                100      100                          3.1
o!  At e.arkt poiacs coaponoots 000 oxpre-sed ot fot-or oosts and will sot add dae to otclusion of sot isdirot taxes and soboidios.
Il S,totititol1 disorepasoy in incladed in tho tonsuptioe data.
0/ Eanh.sgo trto riots FPb--sry 1980 1DS = 47.7 E.nudas.
7T/   Yroviibna'l attuol.                                                                                                     5
el Esrioated.
fl  _ot_l nmsloy_d 1 ,6-r Osrre oo'dls2.aorhost  shrood  end ,rnee,l.erd



26 ~    ~              ~              ~             ~             -
7! 5 of 5
8l414  Of UV7II9TS 25Z fTnD8L QS2S22rAYC  A280 0fT
1973          1974          19175         1976          1977          797           2979
8980990 (07.8)312, 843                                                       2.278         2,935         1,823         2, 27         2,417          3.351
2) 749        4277          3Af           3 j           4 333         4 797         6 727
rr t   hLUsM (i.Y)                                               902        -I29Z9        -167          -2,79-2       ,2,906        -2,381        -2.67
888 800 ^9106r 50002788                                           67           -74          .18              29            3 12         279           I0.
S9su,LM281824.1a (922                                        -S)23          ( 513)       A36D)          (332          f403)         (479)          (9  )
8.o.o. -.00                                                -820        -2,063        -,639         -2,08         -244          -2,0          -2. 77
9.9 2t t..9,,S^       91                                          885         72 ,219        -24          -233            79         -329 -2 412
889 908909809.-                                                10997         1,112         1,037           972          1,134         1,675         2,465
r.12-70    C7r8t 020029                                       3.!            -823           -817        -1 244        -1499            -- O           I22
020909 Por.28t Iro...,9                                          222           109            122            75            57            82
Oi2bgTh0r.0                                                    158           153           231           249            987          59             .
Art biat                               r76                                     7      5'                  9 *8          o93     _
Itb  hLT   - LOU.9
9.8 04Oo88088                                                  . t..                         -                          219           278
Short-T.n  C0.9t22 sod Error. - . d    .09- 9.)                  135           '82           -89           276             - -          9
Oth.           (8.-.2.7 ' '                                      332           196           -58            641        1,0
094980. lo 0tf2o2.2 Liqoid
tot2       90693 88.%*
(7 --9t090002)                                             -247         I90              688           111          -12l         -970             80
Ito.. End W7 YSot-                                           2,913         2,292 )          3   1,339  2,399                        1,882           0
Of  I3h: Cold                                                2 249         1 I1          1,137         1,229          i22           1,077
fo-oig   940.                                    21933         1.079           391           290           361            971           939
918L9     0T AJ 3         1C72                                     flfl         196          2997
729202.1 798990 6 Oroot-lIk.                                      -             -              3            -              -             -            .9.2 5 more Oot.o    g 077
rublLc YsLT Isssx                                                                                                                                d oiabsos , 7d3                                                135          1,7905      2,34i         3,299
I730                                                            -             -             -             36            74           717           3o5.r 3t 00 P 6720 0.40                                 20           39           38           70          201
802                                                                           _ -- -le -7 -                                                                      r8p9.o0   9  460  Oe6o                    68           78           67           82           88
Cohn r   o1n77.9.o.l                                            -             -1- 226                                    98          148          Dotol PbOll2  0.99 S.-..o*                               90          113         705           152          203
SoppIto.                                                        -             27            35            40       ~      '33)   f    Os          7o2 8        6480TIo-oit.                              2fLT  2 30     328         262         412           990
907.Dtcl.  0604.9.                                              -           413             83           752           101)
Tot^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~92220le fL .69h So2'.                                                                                                            0,2;         7  L            1S        ^ _F         C 2.9  2.sz9   3.7  5.1
Ltf 4.   Df0b                       41. fd33 Z   Q ^7                         Ttl'LOb             i 8.                                             .             .         ls          1 
369k.!                                 00.4,280.2. 0930                  9000.02~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                      ~                                     21             .
080D8Disbqta d 031s                                                                                             0.9 9_0.g  To     of 9                                          bk12  0.o               73.3          9.4         75.3         28.4          4.5
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                            Ill .4: _                       .
007rY esl.0a 0912-1 .0t.o.                                                       89                              6,9                               2t.o.....t  .5  90  900ODkD                                         2.     5    7.8          4.0           4.4
Of s.r-nto                                                                       722                            78.0                                4 o7. .29  roo Soon 09463r                                        5.           *. 44                      4.2
098972.9.                                                                      2.857                           74.7                               1800 0840 7i 0. b4;990900.02                         40.42        39.0         0596         30.2          3"
_ o blic   b .I -                                                                                                 -                                &    b1.b t d                                         3.1          2.9           2.0          2.3          0.8
To-oI Pohl1.  Dd 240.68.                                                       3,997 177                                                          trt8    S.-.   I
YfaT 0I,b,                                                                                                                                   r3bilc orbt Servi e oo9 o6                                         5.           59.          4.7          3.
31                   . ._    
o/  L,087  1098820  9879.0090
71  Cr72 8820on82  Ooleloooo    9p091o    nr0.o  nigho.. 39 rr09  tion900  o,.0..0
ronoortod  8009 dolloto        rrintdst- .  Io....  .. T 1979 .t-k of 22.13
nollroe or   s 0910008.0.0020.069  822 42772..,, oolood oO 9     p roe
d/  3.79 8.rosco osoerato    of i092g 7bssroo .op2090  oo-Otor ottolo. 002
09k4.r  r.oiOoooor0
b oer 000190702d. Cbf900  Son4 hQ orto..99
hoe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00. 9101 t.702Nothrt. og.
986, Y-e   yr22, 2980 f rev201



- 27 -                             ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of April 30, 1980)
Amount (less cancellation)
Loan No.   Year         Borrower        Purpose         Bank            Undisbursed
Five loans for power development fully disbursed    57.5                      -
1301       1976    Electricidade de
Portugal            Power          36.0                  9.3
1334       1976    Republic of
Portugal            Highways       24.0                 19.4
1432       1977    Banco de Fomento   Development
Nacional            Finance        50.0                 29.2
1541       1978    Republic of          Water
Portugal            Supply         40.0                40.0
1559       1978    Republic of
Portugal            Education      21.0                21.0
1603       1978    Republic of          Agricultural
Portugal            Credit         70.0                70.0
1649       1979    Quimica de           Fertilizer
Portugal, E.P.      Moderniza-
tion           58.0                52.9
1700       1979    Republic of
Portugal            Highways II   40.0                 40.0
1701       1979    Republic of          Small and
Portugal            Medium
Industry      45.0                 45.0 /a
1793       1980    Republic of          Second
Portugal            Education      40.0                40.0 /a
TOTAL                                     481.5                366.8
of which has been repaid                   37.3
TOTAL now outstanding                     444.2
Amount sold                         2.6
of which has been repaid           2.1       .5
TOTAL now held by Bank lb                  443.7
TOTAL undisbursed                                              366.8
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of April 30, 1980)
None.
/a   Not yet effective.
7b   Prior to exchange adjustment.  In addition a $50 million loan for a
forestry project was approved on May 27, 1980.



- 28 -                         ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 1301 - Sixth Power Project; $36.0 Million Loan of September 24, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: December 23, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
While the loan is now fully committed, project completion is
expected to be delayed more than one year because of organizational changes in
the Power Authority (EDP), revisions in the Project scope and in the list of
goods. These factors delayed procurement under the loan, and the start of
significant disbursements. EDP is being reorganized with emphasis on decen-
tralizing management and merging municipal and small private electricity
undertakings within EDP. Mergers are expected to be completed by 1981. After
a poor year in 1976, owing to bad hydrological conditions, EDP's earnings in
1977 improved. In 1978, EDP generated only 4 percent internal cash, in
spite of a 50 percent increase in tariffs, owing to large increases in
interest rates. EDP estimates that it has generated 18 percent cash in 1979
and will reach a self-financing level of 30 percent in 1980. The closing date
has been postponed from the original date of June 30, 1979 to December 31,
1980.
Loan No. 1334 - Highways I; $24.0 Million Loan of March 3, 1977; Effective-
ness Date: July 8, 1977; Closing Date: July 31, 1980.
Road rehabilitation is on schedule, but other project items are
behind schedule. The Government's decision to postpone bidding until the
effectiveness of the loan resulted in a 12-month delay in purchasing highway
maintenance and workshop equipment. Delays in land acquisition (which is now
completed) caused an 18-month delay in the construction of the Covilha
bypass road; the contract for this road has now been awarded. The railways
study and the transport master plan are also 18 months behind schedule due
to delays in the selection of consultants; however, work on the study and
master plan is now approaching completion.
Loan No. 1432 - Development Finance Company Project; $50.0 Million Loan of
December 19, 1977; Effectiveness Date: March 21, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
While loan signing was delayed due to legal questions raised by the
Attorney General's office, it is expected that project implementation will
catch up with appraisal estimates.  Nearly all of the loan proceeds are
committed and disbursement is satisfactory.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -                         ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Loan 1541 - Lisbon Region Water Supply Project; $40.0 Million Loan of June 6,
1978; Effectiveness Date: January 19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The contract for the Castelo do Bode pipeline (about $33 million)
has been awarded. Works on the pipe plant are proceeding. A solution is
being sought for municipal arrears, which remain a problem. Studies are
behind schedule due to delays in hiring consultants.
Loan 1559 - Education Project; $21.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effectiveness Date:  September 6, 1978, Closing Date:  December 31, 1981.
Architectural designs for all project institutions, including man-
agement training centers, are underway. Equipment lists are ready and procure-
ment of equipment is proceeding. All sites for project institutions (except
Lisbon Management Training Center) have been acquired. Technical assistance
is being recruited on schedule, the study on the teaching of science and
engineering is completed, the manpower study is underway. A general public
service moratorium on hiring personnel and consultants (to contain the growing
budget deficit) has delayed design work. This, combined with site acquisition
problems, has caused a slippage of about one year. Recent remedial actions and
understandings however should improve implementation of civil works.
Loan 1603 - Agricultural and Fisheries Credit Project; $70 Million Loan of
September 28, 1978; Effectiveness Date:  April 30, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The staffing of the Agricultural and Fisheries Credit Fund (IFADAP)
and of project area offices of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
is practically completed. Consultants have been selected for the groundwater
survey and for the fish stock assessment survey, for which contract negotia-
tions are underway. Project implementation is about a year behind the original
schedule.
Loan 1649 - Fertilizer Modernization Project; $58 Million Loan of March 14,
1979; Effectiveness Date: June 1, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The selection of engineering consultants is completed; detailed
engineering work is underway. Procurement of equipment has started.
Loan 1700 - Second Highway Project; $40 Million Loan of July 27, 1979;
Effectiveness Date:  November 13, 1979; Closing Date:  June 30, 1984.
Engineering for highway rehabilitation is underway.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan 1701 - Small- and Medium-Scale Industry Development Project; $45 Million
Loan of June 27, 1979; Effectiveness Date: (not yet effective); Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Progress has been made towards meeting effectiveness and disburse-
ment conditions. Staff for the special unit in Banco de Portugal have been
identified. A revision in the Public Enterprise for Industrial Estates'
(EPPI) rental policy has been made to ensure better returns on investment.
However, the discussions on the proposal to change IAPMEI's statute have
delayed the effectiveness of the loan.
Loan 1793 - Second Education Project; $40 Million Loan of April 16, 1980;
Effectiveness Date:  (Not yet effective); Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The Project Coordination Group has been established.



- 31 -                           ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PORTUGAL
MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by Government to prepare project:   19 months
(August 1977-March 1979)
(b)  Agencies preparing project:                        Instituto das Participacoes
do Estado (IPE), Companhia
Metalurgica Nacional
(COMETNA), Sociedades
Reunidas de Fabricacoes
Metalicas (SOREFAME)
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank and         Partially August 1977
date of first Bank mission to consider          and completed in March 1979
the project:
(d)  Date of appraisal mission:                         November 1979
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:                April 22, 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                     September, 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   Effectiveness Conditions:
Execution of viability contracts (para. 23) is a condition of effec-
tiveness for each loan.
2.   Other Conditions:
(i) The Government is to carry out a study of the engineering industries
subsector (para. 24), support the companies financially (para. 39)
and to avoid policies which may adversely affect COMETNA's and
SOREFAME's ability to pursue appropriate price policies (para. 40).
(ii) IPE is to set up an adequately staffed project unit, to evaluate its
portfolio with the help of external auditors, to assist with the
financial rehabilitation of the companies (paras. 32 and 39) and to
make equity contributions to project financing (para. 37).



- 32 -                            ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(iii) COMETNA is to carry out a pricing study by end 1980, to review
with the Bank the yearly progress on production planning, cost
and divisional accounting, pricing and management reporting
systems and marketing (para. 34), and to contract $3.5 million
of the commercial loans in its financing plan by June 30, 1981
(para. 37).
(iv) COMETNA and SOREFAME are to observe specific debt/equity ratio,
debt service coverage and current ratio (para. 39), and appropriate
price policies (para. 40).
(v)  Plant design, construction and operation are to comply with
environmental and safety standards acceptable to the Bank
(para. 49).



IBRD 14812R
2                                                                                                     Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1980
Mcir           w       '         ~K                 o'           '~~ co  WsaNRCT"
~ nC  1               q;tS/A    0  Ce de
z                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALCOCHETE
POOO   0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~OOC                                                      OTJ
384S V > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BARREO  ~   MO-A'. 
o  C  E  A  N   \\         \                                     9> \\      -                                        \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Aho
Cosra\  .Qr,  --                                                                 g-
POR  TUGAL                 t                                                                            oImelc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TU
SXA L
* ~ ~ ~~~~                                                   ArOAEN  eco                                            5BTuA 
Re    dioePooe
'Ka n RosSs                                      u /                3S
A TT CAu IT  C
PORTUGOAL                                                                                                                           Pirl
M ECHAN ICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Location of existing  and  new  fac Ities of
CLOMETNA and SOREFAME
Excanson   \ex        Existing
COMETNA   S3TJBA,
A                     A  SRFM
Mai n Roaids                                                                                    3-d
Raii ways 
MO TA  Cities ado Towns                                                                                         '     '_''L
MO TA  Council Seats
Council BoLjndaries
Rivers
C r 22       4   5 KLOMETERS                                                       -L0 
6   .1 -k  0. p- ~fffi. WWd 4'"p    5
qp'd                                                          S-~~o



