OCUME1     LOAN NUMBER 1875 PO
SOREFAME
Shareholder Agreement
(Mechanical Industries Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INSTITUTO DAS PARTICIPAgOES DO ESTADO, E.P.
Dated     V C.L, 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1875 PO
SOREFAME SHAREHOLDER AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    OC      2     , 1980 between INTERNA-
TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called
the Bank) and INSTITUTO DAS PARTICIPAgOES DO ESTADO, E.P.
(hereinafter called IPE).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and Sociedades Reunidas de Fabricacoes Metalicas
S.A.R.L. (hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to
make to the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to
ten million six hundred thousand dollars ($10,600,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that IPE agree to undertake certain obligations to the
Bank as hereinafter provided;
(B) IPE owns the majority of the shares in the capital
of the Borrower.
(C) IPE, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Section 1. Whenever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions, as defined in the SOREFAME Loan Agreement,
and in Section 1.02 of the SOREFAME Loan Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
Section 2. IPE shall exercise every power, right, and re-
course available to it to cause the Borrower to perform all its
obligations under the SOREFAME Loan Agreement, and shall not take,
and shall use its best efforts to prevent others from taking,
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
Section 3. For purposes inter alia of communication with the
Bank, expediting of governmental actions and coordination of
Project management, IPE shall establish in its organization not
later than October 31, 1980, and maintain thereafter until the
completion of the Project a Project Monitoring Unit with suffi-
cient staff whose qualifications and experience shall be satis-
factory to the Bank.


﻿-2-
Section 4. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, IPE
shall:
(a) contribute to the Borrower's paid-in capital cash
equity funds including those to be provided under the SOREFAME
Viability Contract, of not less than the equivalent of $16,750,000
in 1980, $11,550,000 in 1981, $3,100,000 in 1982, and an aggregate
amount of $7,900,000 equivalent in 1983 through 1986;
(b) contribute to the Borrower's paid-in capital cash
funds sufficient to service not less than Esc. 610,200,000
of the Borrower's long-term debt unless the Borrower is able,
after meeting all its other obligations, to service such debt and
maintain debt/equity ratio, current ratio and debt service re-
quirements as specified in Sections 5.05 and 5.06 of the SOREFAME
Loan Agreement;
(c) during the year 1982, the Shareholder, the Guarantor,
the Bank and the Borrower shall discuss with each other the
financial position and prospective cash requirements of the
Borrower with a view to determining whether the level of capital
contributions for 1983 and the following years set out in the
foregoing paragraphs (a) and (b) above are adequate;
(d) without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) hereof, provide sufficient funds to the Borrower
either in the form of loans or as payment for shares in the
Borrower's capital, as required to enable the Borrower: (i) to
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the
Loan Agreement; (ii) to obtain and maintaXn debt/equity ratio,
current ratio and debt service requirements as specified in
Section 5.05 and 5.06 of the SOREFAME Loan Agreement,
respectively; and
(e) without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) hereof, assist the Borower in obtaining the
loans referred to in paragraph (B) of the Preamble of the SOREFAME
Loan Agreement.
Section 5. The Bank and IPE shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end,
the Bank and IPE shall:
(a) from time to time, at the request of either of them,,
furnish to the other party all such information as such party
shall reasonably request; and


﻿-3-
(b) inform each other of any condition which interferes
with, or threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project,
the accomplishment of the purpose of the Loan or the performance
of the obligations referred to in Section 4.
Section 6. IPE shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 7. IPE shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accord-
ance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of IPE and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 8. IPE shall appoint independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank to complete and furnish to the Bank, not later than
December 31, 1981, a thorough financial study on IPE's portfolio
of investments.
Section 9. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, IPE
shall, of its own accord, not take any action which would relin-
quish its majority ownership of the capital or effective control
of the Borrower, or interfere with its exercising its rights as
majority shareholder of the Borrower.
Section 10. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the Effective Date, and shall terminate (i) on the date the
SOREFAME Loan Agreement shall terminate; or (ii) on a date agreed
upon between the Guarantor and the Bank with respect to a transfer
under Section 3.04 of the SOREFAME Guarantee Agreement.
Section 11. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of any notice reqired or permitted to be given pursuant
to this Agreement:


﻿-4-
For IPE:
Instituto das Participa,oes
do Estado, E.P.
Avenida Julio Dinis, 11
1000 Lisbon
Portugal
Cable address:
IPELIS P                             14176 IPELIS P
Lisbon
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INTBAFRAD                                440098 (ITT)
Washington                               248423 (RCA) or
6 145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By          .
Regional Vice ?resident
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
INSTITUTO DAS PARTICIPAgOES DO ESTADO, E.P.
By 1
-Mo


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this         Fday of           R198  E
FOR SECRETARY


