0 ICIAL LOAN NUMBER 1874 PO
DOCUMENTS
COMETNA
Guarantee Agreement
(Mechanical Industries Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                     L          , 1980


﻿LOAN NUKBER 1874 PO
COMETNA GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated. dc >4e-C       , 1980, between REPUBLIC OF
PORTUGAL (hereinafter called the Guarant-or) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Companhia Metalurgica Nacional S.A.R.L. (hereinafter
called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a
loan in various currencies equivalent to thirty-three million four
hundred thousand dollars ($33,400,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that
the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower
in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions, the COMETNA Loan Agreement and the COMETNA
Shareholder Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the COMETNA Guarantee Agreement,
the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary
obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of


﻿-2-
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the
punctual performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower,
all as set forth in the COMETNA Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement:
(a) the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the
Borrower will be inadequate, to meet the estimated expenditures
required for the timely carrying out and completing of the Project
promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be
provided through the Shareholder with such fuads as are needed to
meet such expenditures; and
(b) the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as
primary obligor and not as surety merely, the provision of cash
funds in accordance with Section 4 of the COMETNA Shareholder
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) The Guarantor shall timely provide the
funds required for carrying out the study under Part D of the
Project.
(b) The Guarantor shall fully and timely compensate the
Shareholder for all payments made by the Shareholder pursuant
to Section 11 of the COMETNA Shareholder Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, specific security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost


﻿-3-
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivi'Sion, including assets held by any institution
performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabili-
zation fund, or similar functions, for the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor and the Bank shall from time
to time on the request of either of them consult with each other
regarding the Guarantor's long-term strategy for Portugal's
mechanical industries sub-sector and any substantial investments
in it.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall with the assistance of
consultants whose qualifications and experience and terms of
reference shall be satisfactory to the Bank, carry out or cause to
be carried out a comprehensive study to evaluate the engineering
industry sub-sector, its policies and incentives, institutional
mechanisms, technological support and management development,
capacity and growth prospects of the sub-sector and to recommend
action for improvements, in particular with respect to a strategy
for developing the sub-sector. The Guarantor shall furnish the
Bank this study by December 31, 1981 and review its findings with
the Bank and thereafter implement agreed recommendtaions.


﻿-4-
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under
Article II of this Agreement, the Guarantor shall: (a) take or
cause to be taken through the Shareholder all reasonable action
including provision of funds to assist the Borrower in meeting
operational losses and debt service until completion of the
Project and its obligations under Sections 5.05 and 5.06 of the
COMETNA Loan Agreement and the COMETNA Viability Contract; and (b)
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, refrain from any action
which might materially restrict or affect the Borrower's ability
to meet its obligations under Section 4.03 of the COMETNA Loan
Agreement.
Section 3.05. (a) Should the Guarantor decide to transfer the
ownership of the Borrower from the Shareholder to another public
entity, it shall inform the Bank of the arrangements intended for
such proposed successor of the Shareholder to assume all of the
Shareholder's obligations under the COMETNA Shareholder Agree-
ment.
(b) Should thq Guarantor wish to transfer the majority
ownership or effective control of the Borrower from the Share-
holder to a private entity acceptable to the Bank, it will ex-
change views with the Bank on arrangements for the successor of
the Shareholder to assume all of the Shareholder's obligations
under the COMETNA Shareholder Agreement.
(c) Prior to an agreement with the Bank.on the arrangements
referred to in (a) or (b), as the case may be, the Guarantor shall
not carry out such transfer and shall not affect the Shareholder's
control of the Borrower.
(d) Unless the Bank and the Guarantor otherwise agree, the
Guarantor shall not take any action which would relinquish or
affect its ownership or effective control of the Borrower or
interfere with exercising its rights and obligations as owner
of the Shareholder.
Section 3.06. The Guarantor shall take or cause to be taken
all reasonable action within its power with respect to the prompt
issuance of permits and licences as shall be necessary for the
acquisition of the land for the site under Part A and B of the
Project and the provision of infrastructural services required for
the carrying out of the Project and for its efficient operation at
full capacity.


﻿-5-
Section 3.07. The Guarantor shall take all action required to
collect the administration and guarantee fee described in Section
5.10 of the COMETNA Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of the Guarantor for the time
being responsible for finance is designated as representative of
the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Minist6rio das Finangas e do Plano
Rua da Alfandega
1100 Lisbon
Portugal
Cable address:                      Telex:
Ministerio das Financas             12143 MINFIN P
Lisbon
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duiy authorized, have caused this


﻿Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
By III/ IV- A?.MVdLCA>                 I\rq
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By ) ) U, -emLQ-
* I                Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and Forth Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Dcvelop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          dayof 6   '1 , 1980
FOR SECRETARY


