Document of               FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2993-MLI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR AN
ODIPAC TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
July 9, 1981
I This dcumnt bas a restricte distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed witbout World Bank autherlzatle.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =  Malian Franc (MF)
MF 1 million    =  US$2,000
US$1            =  MF 500
FISCAL YEAR
January 1    -   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AV      -  Association Villageoise (mutual guarantee group)
CMDT    -  Compagnie Malienne pour le Developpement des Textiles
DNAFLA  -  Direction Nationale de l'Alphabetisation Fonctionelle
et la Linguistique Appliquee
FAC     -  Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
IER     -  Institut d-Economie Rurale
OACV    -  Operation Arachide et Cultures Vivrieres
ODIPAC  -  Office de Developpement Integre des Productions
Arachidieres et Cerealieres
PPF     -  Project Preparation Facility
SCAER   -  Societe de Credit Agricole et d'Equipement Rural
ODIPAC ACCOUNTING YEAR
October 1      -       September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALI
ODIPAC Technical Assistance Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower         Republic of Mali
Beneficiary :   Office de Developpement Integre des Productions Arachidieres
et Cerealieres (ODIPAC)
Amount       :   SDR 5.5 million (US$6.5 million)
Terms       :   Standard.  Borrower to beneficiary:  grant.
Beneficiary to participating farmers for input loans:
11 to 14% p.a.
Project
Description      The project would support a recently created rural develop-
ment institution (ODIPAC) in defining a new approach to
agricultural development in the groundnut belt and in inves-
tigating the scope for further investments. It would com-
prise a three-year program aimed at (i) increasing the
efficiency of agricultural production by retraining extension
staff, improving seed production, distribution and storage,
and strengthening the credit and marketing system; (ii)
promoting selfmanaged farmer organizations able to take
over village development activities; and (iii) testing
diversification programs to reduce the area-s dependence on
groundnuts as an export crop. Six internationally recruited
experts would be engaged to strengthen key services of
ODIPAC (finance, marketing and credit, seed multiplication,
agricultural research, extension and cooperatives, workshops).
The project would also include: a functional literacy
program, replacement of essential vehicles; purchase of
incremental fertilizer and equipment; a monitoring and
evaluation unit;. applied research and studies; and audits.
The main project risk concerns the financial arrangements
for ensuring adequate capitalization and recurrent cost
funding of ODIPAC. Although availability of Government
counterpart funding is limited by continuing public finance
constraints, the Government attaches high priority to agri-
cultural diversification to tap the considerable potential of
the project area.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- li -
ODIPAC Technical Assistance Project
Estimated Project Cost: Project costs net of duties and taxes (which are not
applicable to ODIPAC) are detailed below:
Local   Foreign   Total
-----US$ million-
Extension & Cooperative Development  0.9          0.8       1.7
Applied Research & Seed Programs        0.7        0.5      1.2
Functional Literacy Program             0.4        0.3      0.7
Incremental Farm Inputs                 0.9       1.3       2.2
Monitoring, Studies and Audits          0.1        0.7      0.8
Institutional Support                   0.8       1.6       2.4
Base Cost                         3.8        5.2       9.0
Physical Contingencies       0.2        0.3      0.5
Price Contingencies          0.8        1.1      1.9
TOTAL COST                        4.8        6.6      11.4 a/
Financing Plan:                                                       _
IDA                               2.0        4.5       6.5     57
FAC                               0.4        2.1       2.5     22
Government                        2.4          -       2.4     21
Total                             4.8        6.6      11.4    100
Percentage                       42         58       100
Estimated Disbursements:             FY82      FY83      FY84      FY85
-    …-------US$ million--- ---
Annual               1.0 a/   1.5        2.0      2.0
Cumulative           1.0       2.5       4.5      6.5
a/   Includes US$0.9 million PPF advance.
Rate of Return: N.A.
Staff Appraisal
Report:         N.A. (Project File items listed as Annex IV).
Maps:             IBRD 13676 and 13678



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPiMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR AN ODIPAC TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDR 5.5 million (US$6.5 million equivalent) on standard
IDA terms to the Republic of Mali to help finance a proposed ODIPAC Technical
Assistance Project. The Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) will contribute
a grant of US$2.5 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Economic Memorandum on Mali" (1134a-MLI) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on January 5, 1978. The following
paragraphs are based on that report and the findings of economic missions
during 1980 and 1981, the results of which will be distributed later this
year. Country data are contained in Annex I.
3.        With a population of about 6.75 million and a per capita GDP of about
US$180 in 1979, Mali is one of the poorest countries of Africa and among the
29 least developed countries identified by the United Nations. It is handi-
capped by serious obstacles to development. The extreme variability of rain-
fall causes sharp fluctuations in crop and livestock production, and access to
foreign markets is made difficult by its landlocked position and the long
distances--more than 1000 km--to the nearest seaports, Abidjan and Dakar.
Development is also constrained by the substantial internal distances (the
country covers an area of 1.24 million km2), the shortage of skilled man-
power and the narrow domestic market for industrial products. About 90
percent of the population is rural and depends for a livelihood on crop
farming, animal husbandry, forestry and fishing. Exports consist almost
entirely of agricultural commodities and livestock.
4.        Over the twenty years following independence, economic growth has
outpaced growth of population. Between 1960-1978, per capita GDP in real
terms increased at an average annual rate of 1.5 percent, even though the
impact of droughts caused declines in real income in 1969, 1973-74 and 1978.
The decade of the seventies brought severe inflationary pressures, and the
understandable desire of the Government to protect internal consumption
standards in the face of such inflation resulted in a marked deterioration of
many of the country's economic institutions--particularly its parastatals--and
its public finances, balance of payments and agricultural terms of trade. The
Government has taken action since 1977 to redress major financial imbalances
through credit restraint, through some reductions of the subsidy element in
the prices of essential consumer goods, fertilizers and agricultural equip-
ment, and through improved tax collection and efforts to reduce the deficits
of public enterprises. Initial steps have been take to reform official
cereals marketing and to improve the agricultural terms of trade in official



prices, and to slow the growth of public expenditures--for example, by limiting
scholarships and the use of public vehicles. Although much remains to be done
to improve the Government's financial situation, the trend since 1977 has been
one of increasing Government awareness of the severity of the problem and of
progressively stronger efforts to grapple with it.
The Drought Years: 1972-1973
5.        All economic sectors were affected in varying degrees by the drought
of 1972-1973; recovery in these sectors has followed different patterns. The
loss of human life resulting from the drought is not fully known, but it was
particularly severe among nomadic groups and especially the young and elderly.
The cattle herd, estimated at almost 5.5 million head in the late 60s, was
reduced to about 3.5 million head by 1974; the herd is still 15 percent below
its peak size. In 1979-80, cereals harvests were still below those recorded
during the 60s, and food production per capita remains below pre-drought
levels. Simultaneously with the decline in agricultural production, and
coincident loss of export revenue and the cost of increased food imports,
petroleum prices--as well as consumption--began to increase. Between 1972 and
1978, consumption increased by three-fourths, while the unit price rose by
over 130 percent. The share of petroleum in total imports grew from only 10
percent at the time of the drought to 17 percent in 1978. The burden of oil
imports is likely to increase in the future, perhaps to as much as 25 percent
of the total cost of imports.
6.        In an effort to assure access by consumers to essential commodities,
the Government resorted to large imports of cereals when domestic output fell
and to consumer subsidies in the face of rising costs of imported and locally
manufactured goods. To finance losses incurred by state enterprises in charge
of imports and sales of subsidized goods, growing amounts of bank credit were
used, ultimately adding to external indebtedness. Efforts to suppress domestic
price rises, particularly of foodstuffs, probably depressed domestic food
production and exacerbated the need for further cereal imports. Thus, these
years not only imposed great human suffering on much of the Malian population,
but they also left a heavy legacy of debt for Mali's internal and external
finances.
Uneven Recovery
7.        Rainfall improved in 1974, and real GDP recovered sharply, increas-
ing by over 30 percent between 1974 and 1978. The resource gap was reduced
from one-third of GDP in 1974 to 19 percent of GDP in 1978-80, although,
between 1974 and 1978, net foreign assets declined from minus MF 61.9 billion
to minus MF 101.1 billion (US$242 million), remaining unchanged in 1979. This
increase in foreign liabilities, to the French Treasury on the operations
account, largely reflected a 20 percent annual growth in credit to the econ-
omy.  The Government's wage bill increased sharply over the same period
because of cost of living adjustments and the policy of Government to serve as
employer of last resort for nationals who complete secondary or higher educa-
tion. On the other hand, current revenues did increase significantly as a
result of improved tax collection, particularly in 1977, and the consolidated
budget deficit decreased from MF 10.2 billion (US$23.8 million) in 1975 to



- 3 -
MF 6.6 billion (US$13.4 million) in 1977, or about 14 percent of total Govern-
ment revenues.  In 1978, however, expenditures grew twice as fast as revenues,
and the deficit for the consolidated budget amounted to MF 8.8 billion (US$19.5
million), or 17 percent of revenues. In 1979, expenditures spiraled, with
personnel costs alone accounting for 92 percent of total revenues. Revenues
grew by only MF 2.6 billion (5 percent), and the budget deficit rose further
to MF17.6 billion (US$41.4 million), about one-third of total revenues. In
1980, the budget deficit is estimated at MF 24 billion (US$56.7 million), or
one-third greater than the year before.
8.         The "recovery years" brought other problems.  Large increases in
credit to the economy between 1974 and 1979 were used essentially to finance
operating losses of public enterprises. These losses, often attributable to
deliberate subsidies or price freezes, ultimately resulted in a substantial
increase in Mali's external indebtedness on the operations account. During
1978, credit to the economy grew by nearly 25 percent, mainly because of a
sharp increase in seasonal credit to finance the larger 1978-79 crop, but also
because of the substantial rise in non-seasonal credit to the commercial and
industrial sectors. The former was largely for increased import financing,
and the latter to the state enterprise sector, where operating losses in 1978
were over MF 14 billion. In 1979, credit to the state enterprise sector
absorbed MF 14 billion of the MN 21 billion total increase in credit to the
economy. Operating losses of the sector in that year were MF 23.3 billion.
Since then, however, the Central Bank has ceased to provide credit to finance
structural operating deficits of state enterprises.
9.         In mid-1977, a new monetary agreement was signed with France which
aimed at bringing about the conditions requisite for Mali's membership in the
West African Monetary Union by 1981. It imposed a very restrictive credit
policy on the operations of the Central Bank, notably in establishing more
stringent conditions on rediscount facilities (which involved penalty rates
as high as 15 percent) in order to limit the financing of deficits of state
enterprises. The agreement, however, does not appear to have been too suc-
cessful in this respect during 1978 and 1979, but it began to be more strin-
gently applied in 1980. Although certain obligations under the agreement have
not been met (e.g., elimination of budgetary deficits), it appears likely that
Mali will rejoin the Union before the end of 1981.
10.       The 1978 current account balance -- excluding private investment
and Government grants--registered a substantial decline compared to 1977,
moving from a deficit of US$56 million to one of US$167 million. (The over-
all balance enjoyed a US$31 million surplus in 1977.) In large part, this
huge deficit resulted from spurts in imports of cereals, non-food consumer
goods, petroleum and capital goods, from a substantial drop in the value
of cotton exports--due mainly to a temporary fall in world cotton prices, as
well as from a statistical adjustment in 1978 to include unrecorded trade
(which increased the trade deficit by US$21 million). On the capital account,
net capital flows, including Government transfers, increased by US$63 million
in 1978, to a level of US$159 million. In 1979 the current account balance
deteriorated by US$41 million, about a fourth of which resulted from the fall
in the dollar. Capital flows rose by about US$24 million, or about 15 percent.



- 4 -
In 1980, however, Mali's current account position appears to have deteriorated
slightly. However, capital flows increased, lowering the overall deficit to
only US$11 million, less than half the level of 1979. With respect to the
operations account position with the French Treasury, the negative balance,
after improving in 1977 by almost MF 8.3 billion, deteriorated steadily,
reaching MF 98.6 billion (US$218 million) by 1980.
11.       Despite the legacy of the drought, international inflation and the
lack of resiliency of economic institutions to respond, Mali's economic
growth performance has been reasonable. As noted above, growth between 1974
and 1978 was good, averaging 7.6 percent per annum. In 1979, real growth is
estimated at 11 percent; in 1980, however, it is estimated to have fallen by
about one percent. Clearly these fluctuations, in large part due to changes
in rainfall, put a sharp strain on the country-s institutions. Indeed, growth
has been achieved at the cost of heavy and growing foreign indebtedness
reflecting Mali's negative domestic savings over much of the decade, and on
balance Mali's substantial absorption of external resources has not yet
produced commensurate gains in national production.
Foreign Capital and Debt
12.       Public investment is practically entirely financed by foreign aid.
During most of the 1960s the USSR and the People's Republic of China (PRC)
were the most important aid donors. At the end of 1975, they held in roughly
equal proportions nearly 57 percent of Mali's external public debt disbursed
and outstanding. Gross disbursements (grants and loans) from Development
Assistance Committee sources increased from US$24 million in 1969 to US$172
million in 1979.  Roughly 60 percent came from bilateral sources (mainly
France, the United States, Germany and Canada). Since the early 1970s the
amount of public aid received by Mali has increased very rapidly, rising from
about US$3 per capita in 1970 to roughly US$30 per capita in 1980.
13.       Mali's external public debt outstanding at the end of 1980 (exclud-
ing drawings on the operations account with the French Treasury) was US$852
million, including an undisbursed amount of US$231 million. IDA's share in
the total amount disbursed was 19 percent. Repayments of principal and
interest due in 1979 would have claimed about 15 percent of foreign exchange
earnings on exports and non-factor services, but actual debt service payments
have been small (about 4 percent in 1980) owing to the rescheduling or de
facto suspension since 1970 of PRC, USSR and some other debts. While occa-
sional payments have been made since then, Mali has recently been able to
negotiate a more formal suspension of debt service payments with the USSR and
the PRC which is scheduled to last through 1983. However, projections indi-
cate that the actual debt service ratio may go up to over 12 percent by 1985
unless some further rescheduling of debt takes place, which is probable. (In
late 1978, the Federal Republic of Germany and Canada converted US$92.9
million of outstanding loans into grants.) In transactions with the IMF, Mali
drew SDR 35.5 million between 1974 and 1980 from the various Fund resources
available to it.



-5-
Development Prospects
14.       The Five-Year Social and Economic Development Plan (1974-1978) gave
priority to agriculture, water and power development, industries processing
agricultural materials, and road transport. The overall size of the invest-
ment program was estimated at MF 543 billion (about US$1,165 million). Al-
together MF 427 billion (US$916 million) of this total was expected to be
realized during the plan period; at end-1978, total investments realized
amounted to about MF 250 billion (US$560 million) compared with the ME 401
billion planned for the period. By 1980, cumulative investments amounted to
MF 416.9 billion (US$938 million). The problem is more one of implementation
than financing, with continuing delays being encountered in project prepara-
tion and execution, particularly at startup. Following revisions to the plan
in 1976 and 1977, the period for implementation was extended and priority is
currently being given to food crops, animal husbandry, minor irrigation works
and more efficient manufacturing activities. Despite the number of severe
structural problems which Mali faces, it has a number of prospects for real
long-term growth. Agriculture, primarily maize and cotton has considerable
potential for expansion in the south where rainfall is highest. Rice output
could be expanded in the vast inland delta of the Niger River through irri-
gation. The river also offers additional potential for power development.
Planned investment in new capacity for extracting cottonseed oil, manufactur-
ing cement, producing methanol and perhaps producing sugar, together with
increasing cereals, cotton and livestock production, may eventually strengthen
the balance of payments. Mineral resources largely remain unexploited except
for gold and phosphates, but may offer longer-term development possibilities.
Exploration for petroleum is currently underway, aided by an IDA-financed
project (Cr. 1134-MLI).
15.       Sustained and viable growth of Mali's economy in the longer run
depends crucially on investments and policy measures that will strengthen the
economys export base, particularly in agriculture. Mali's capacity to
finance new investment, however, is severely constrained among other reasons
by the limited savings potential resulting from the extremely low per capita
income level.
16.       Perhaps more important, however, is the fact that Mali's institu-
tional and structural imbalances have affected the project implementation
effort; growth, when achieved is achieved at great cost. A particular example
of Mali-s institutional problems is the country's postal checking system, an
important adjunct to the limited, urban-based banking system for transactions
and savings.  Under the Malian system, deposits (including remittances) into
the postal system must be redeposited with the Treasury. However, because of
its extremely strained liquidity situation, the Treasury has used these
deposits to finance current expenditures, not leaving sufficient liquidity in
the system to cover withdrawals. As a result, postal checks have become
increasingly difficult to cash and suppliers are reluctant to accept them in
payment. Thus these instruments are used increasingly to pay taxes in this
otherwise relatively illiquid, unusable, form. Particularly when these tax
payments are received by semi-autonomous Government organizations like the
Road Fund, they tend to block that organization's activities: their receipts



- 6 -
are utilizable only to a limited degree. Thus, the Government must address
itself to several interrelated objectives. The first is to correct the severe
financial imbalances that have developed over the years (worsening in 1979-80
to the point where net Government dissaving has been nearly 3.5 percent of
GDP); the second is to promote fundamental changes in the agricultural sector
(including price structure and resource allocation); and the third is to
reform the badly ailing state enterprise sector.
17.       Over the past several months the IMF and the Bank have been coop-
erating very closely in responding to a Government request for technical and
financial assistance for structural adjustment. In particular, the Govern-
ment is receiving IDA-financed technical assistance in the agricultural
sector, with emphasis upon the liberalization and restructuring of cereals
marketing--hitherto a major problem area--and upon the use of the Operations
de Developpement Rural (para. 24) as the instrument for promoting agricul-
tural development. The Government has also requested technical assistance
aiming at restructuring the state enterprise sector, with the understanding
that underlying structural problems will be addressed directly and that many
of the public enterprises will be transformed into joint undertakings with the
private sector, sold entirely to private interests, or even liquidated.
18.       The IMF and the Government have recently worked out a draft program
for economic and financial reform in Mali during 1981-82 that may be financed
through Fund facilities. The program recognizes that the large and growing
budgetary deficits and resource gaps cannot be sustained in the future.
The broad goals of this transition program are to increase the efficiency of
resource use and to improve the structure of the balance of payments in order
to reduce persistent disequilibria in the economy and to increase growth.
Many of the elements in the program have already commenced, often with IDA
assistance (para. 17). In addition, the Government is to examine in what
measure it can raise consumer prices of agricultural products and improve the
functioning of the electric utility, the national railroad, and Air Mali.
With respect to public finances, the Government is expected to keep its
recruitment and wage bill within budgetary limits, including continuation of
recent decisions to reduce scholarships for students. It is also expected to
take measures to improve the management of the Treasury - including better
recovery of taxes, to consolidate its diverse budgetary operations, and
to reestablish liquidity in the postal check system. Finally, domestic credit
and foreign indebtedness are to be limited to acceptable levels. This transi-
tional period is expected to be the first stage of a five-year program of
reform, which the Fund would continue to support if initial progress proves
satisfactory.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALI
19.       The proposed credit would be the Association's twenty-fourth credit
extended to Mali (including two supplementary credits), which would bring
total commitments of IDA funds to US$200.4 million equivalent. Of the twenty-
one operations already approved, eight have been for agriculture, seven for



-7-
transport, two for education, one each for telecommunications, small scale
industries, urban development and petroleum exploration promotion. Transpor-
tation represents the largest share (42 percent) of past commitments followed
by agriculture (38 percent). The experience with ongoing operations has been
mixed, the cotton project doing reasonably well, while the other agricultural
projects have experienced considerable difficulty. Highway reconstruction and
improvement has been successful while highway maintenance has lagged. The
railway and education projects are being implemented, though somewhat behind
schedule. Implementation is beginning on forestry, urban and small-scale
enterprise projects. In general, project implementation and subsequent cost
recovery has been hampered by Mali's difficult public finance situation.
Notes on the execution of ongoing projects are set out in Annex II.
20.       The Bank Group's strategy in Mali is governed by (i) the extreme
poverty, poor health and low level of basic skills of a largely rural
population; (ii) a harsh natural environment with large fluctuations in the
availability of basic food supplies; (iii) a landlocked position with long
distances and difficult access to foreign markets; and (iv) an extremely
difficult macro-economic situation, in particular in the public sector.
The principal objectives of Bank Group assistance are (a) to support the
adoption of policies designed to encourage balanced economic growth, and to
redress the financial imbalances of the public sector and correct the biases
of expenditures now disfavoring rural areas; (b) to help finance investments
that will increase agricultural production; (c) to help meet the needs of the
rural population in terms of health, literacy and rural infrastructure; and
(d) to help provide an adequate transport and communications network. Given
the close linkages between macro-economic policy performance and project
implementation, the Government-s ability to address policy issues will be an
important determinant of the scope and timing of future Bank Group lending.
21.       Future Bank Group lending for Mali will reflect a close liaison
between project objectives and related policy and institutional reform. In
the agricultural sector, follow-up operations to the sucessful Mali-Sud cotton
project (Cr. 669-MLI) and the Office du Niger technical assistance project
(Cr. 854-MLI) are scheduled. In both cases a major focus will be on pricing
and institutional issues. The recently approved Road Maintenance Project
(Cr. 1104-MLI) addresses the problem of generating and allocating adequate
recurrent cost financing in the road transport sector. Proposed projects for
telecommunications and power distribution will aim at improved financial and
technical management. Interventions are also envisaged for rural health,
rural water supply, and for the production of gasohol.
III. THE RURAL SECTOR
General
22.       Close to 85 percent of Mali's population lives in rural areas, most
of them in regions having a rainfall of more than 500-600 mm annually or as



- 8 -
cattle-rearing nomads. Although less than a quarter of the country receives
more than 500 mm of rain annually, the per capita endowment of land suitable
for crop production or pasture is more favorable than for other Sahelian
countries. In addition, Mali has considerable irrigation potential along
the Niger River. Altogether, some 2 million ha are estimated to be under
cultivation, of which 90 percent is in rainfed agriculture and 10 percent
under irrigation or flooding. Of some half million farms, about 70 percent
are 5 ha or less. Food crops occupy close to 90 percent of the land under
rainfed cultivation while the remainder is devoted to cotton (120,000 ha) and
groundnuts (120,000 ha). Crop production in a recent average-to-good rainfall
year (1978/79) was 1.2 million tons of cereals, 120,000 tons of cotton, and
100,000 tons of groundnuts, this being the only major crop to experience a
marked decline from the record post-drought harvests of 1975/76. In most
areas, land reserves are still sufficient to enable fields to lie fallow, thus
ensuring restitution of soil fertility. Animal traction is more widespread in
Mali than in any other Sahelian country. Except for ploughs and oxen, farm
equipment in rainfed farming is elementary, in particular among traditional
farmers who are not reached by agricultural development projects; fertilizer
use is increasing, mainly through the efforts of cotton and groundnut develop-
ment projects.
23.       Mali is linked with the port of Dakar by rail (1,200 km), and with
the port of Abidjan by road (1,200 km) as well as by a combined road and
rail route. The internal road network is generally adequate in the center and
the east of the country (although in need of repair) but poor in the west.
Technical and organizational weaknesses of the transportation system cause
delays in the supply of agricultural inputs and hamper the timely evacuation
of exports to the ports.
Institutions
24.       Rural development (excluding livestock) is the responsibility of
the Ministry of Agriculture. Since 1969, important functions have been
vested in the Operations de Developpement Rural, semiautonomous area or
product development authorities under the overall supervision of the Minis-
tries of Agriculture and Livestock. They distribute inputs to farmers and
provide extension services, inputs and credit as well as marketing services
for industrial crops and some food crops. Most of these entities depend on
marketing revenues (at official prices) as their main or only source of
operating funds, although some, as is the case for the groundnut sector, do
not control processing facilities and serve only as extension services and
produce collection agents. In most rural areas, the "extension" network of
the relevant Operation is the major or the only contact point between farmers
and Government services of any kind, and the most important source of income
and employment.
25.       Price policy.  The cumulative impact of inflation and Government's
concern with keeping urban commodity prices low throughout the 1970s had led
to a growing gap between the depressed official buying prices for most crops
and the offers from private traders, who supply both the export market and the
majority of domestic consumers who do not have access to rationed official
stocks. With the exception of cotton marketing, dominated by the state-owned



- 9 -
ginneries, this administered price circuit was relatively easy to by-pass. It
also proved an unreliable source of income for the minority of farmers who
looked to it for support at harvest-time. Since unit costs allowed in the
official price schedules are fixed on the basis of expected turnover, usually
optimistically forecast, these "leakages" to the parallel market created
serious cash flow difficulties for some State marketing agencies. This was
the case for Operation Arachide et Cultures Vivrieres (OACV), the groundnut
zone agency, which is now under liquidation and is to be partially replaced by
the new rural development institution created in early 1981 (para. 37). In
February 1981, government decided to remove all controls on private trade in
coarse grains and sharply reduce and redefine the activities of the grain
marketing board. The Bank is providing technical assistance to implement
these changes and parallel changes in the rice subsector are under review.
Some cash crops (cotton, sugar) will remain subject to official procurement
prices, but these are to be revised more frequently in line with developments
in the private foodcrop markets. The complex market prospects for groundnuts,
which are both a foodcrop and an industrial input, will be examined as part of
the proposed project, as described below.
26.       The supply of farm inputs and farm equipment (whether domestically
produced or imported) was until 1979/80 the monopoly of SCAER (Societe de
Credit Agricole et d'Equipement Rural). SCAER delivered supplies to individual
Operations who would sell on credit to farmers in their area on behalf of, and
under the financial responsibility of, SCAER. SCAER had therefore to bear the
burden not only of farmer overdues, but of the lax financial discipline of the
Operations themselves and delays in reimbursement of the 20-40% input price
subsidies it was asked to prefinance by Government. It incurred massive
losses and is now under liquidation. Government has decided to allow the
country's two largest Operations - the cotton area authority, Compagnie
Malienne pour le Developpement des Textiles (CMDT) and Office du Niger - which
accounted for over 80% of SCAER input and equipment sales - to procure their
requirements directly ou domestic and world markets and also buy in bulk on
account of smaller agencies. The Government plans to establish in the near
future a central bulk procurement unit within the Ministry of Agriculture to
handle the needs of the minor Operations. Also, for a transitional period,
the Operations will advance loans to farmers rediscountable with banks under
Central Bank guidelines (para. 51), and assume full responsibility for over-
dues. The Government has recently created a new Agricultural Development
Bank, being developed with French financial and technical assistance, which
could at a later stage replace the Operations in the direct supervision of
rural credit disbursed through village mutual groups; however, at least two
years will be needed for this Bank to establish an adequate network of field
offices.
27.       Agricultural research in Mali is coordinated by the Institut d'Eco-
nomie Rurale (IER) of the Ministry of Agriculture, supported by the French
research institutes which form the Groupement d'Etudes de Recherches pour le
Developpement de l'Agronomie Tropicale, and are in close contact with the
International Crop Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics and the
International Institute of Tropical Agriculture, which have programs in Mali.
While the objectives and approach of the central research effort are sound,



- 10 -
adaptive research in several regions is critically under-financed. The
proposed project would support the reestablishment of a systematic applied
research program at the four experimentation centers in the traditional
groundnut zone (para. 52).
Agricultural Strategy
28.       The last Five-Year Plan (1974-1978) reflected the Government's
determination to prevent a recurrence of the food shortages experienced in the
1972-1974 drought period. This preoccupation led to an excessive bias towards
irrigated rice production (85% of Plan expenditures on foodcrops) and inade-
quate attention to the development of rainfed crops (expansion of maize, and
intensification of traditional millet and sorghum), particularly in the rela-
tively abundant lands between the 700 and 1,100 mm isohyets, which include
most of the traditional groundnut and cotton zones. Another feature of the
first Plan and the subsequent 1979-81 investment periods was the heavy empha-
sis on expanding domestic processing capacity for industrial cash crops, par-
ticularly the oilseeds sector, with French and German venture capital and
official development assistance. This development, largely based on opti-
mistic world market prospects which have since deteriorated, can now be seen
as complicating the transitional problems of the groundnut belt (para. 30) and
the state enterprise sector in general.
29.       A new Five-Year Plan (1981-1985) is expected to be finalized in the
next few months, and some of its broad guidelines for the agricultural sector
are already known. Two new points of emphasis emerge alongside the food
security objective, which remains paramount:
(a) the need to improve and maintain producer price incentives -
in line with recent decisions on foodgrain marketing libera-
lization; and
(b) the importance of promoting multipurpose cooperative societies -
Associations Villageoises (AV), or more generally "tons villageois" -
as the main link between the administration and individuals, for
a more cost-effective organization of primary marketing, input
supply, extension contact, and delivery of basic social services.
Such AV have been successfully launched in the favorable environment of the
IDA-financed Mali-Sud cotton project area (Cr.669-MLI): they would now become
a major focus for pilot rural development efforts in the groundnut belt under
the proposed project (para. 50).
The Groundnut Belt
30.       Between the southern areas where rainfall ranges from 800 mm and
1,200 mm and where cotton is the major cash crop, the Interior Delta where
rice is grown under partial flooding and full water control and the semi-
desertic areas in the north, there is a wide zone stretching over 700 km
from west to east, in which rainfall is typically between 700 mm and 1,000 mm
and where mainly millet, sorghum and groundnuts are grown. The area sown to



- 11 -
groundnuts peaked at 160-170,000 ha in 1976 and now covers about 110-120,000
ha. Over the same period the area under cereals in the "groundnut" belt is
reported to have increased from some 220,000 to over 300,000 ha. Much of this
shift occurred to the east of Bamako, whereas the traditional groundnut
production area lies in the enclave west of Bamako (Kayes, Kita, Bafoulabe,
Kenieba), around the Bamako-Dakar railroad and close to the main crushing
plant at Kita.
31.       The agricultural potential of this area is excellent by Sahelian
standards, that is to say, within the limitations of sparse and erratic
rainfall which tend to dictate risk-averse cultivation practices. Sustained
groundnut yields of up to 1,200 kg/ha have been obtained in the past, in the
intensive western subzone although average yields are now well below 800 kg/ha,
partly as a result of the collapse of Government seed production and other
input delivery programs. Much of the belt is suitable for the introduction of
maize, for which yields of 2 tons/ha are being recorded in the adjacent cotton
area where 24,000 ha were planted in 1979/80, up 250% in three years. Rapid
intensification of millet and sorghum, the regional staple, has been shown to
be feasible in this climatic zone, based on the introduction of animal-drawn
equipment produced locally and effective dosage of fertilizers: yields of up
to 1,200 kg/ha are being registered in trials in the cotton zone as compared
to 600-700 kg/ha in the groundnut belt, which could be raised to 900-1,000
kg/ha with known technology and under present price incentives. Development
of cowpea and other pulses has been rapid in the more marginal conditions of
southern Niger, and could also be promoted in the groundnut belt.
32.       The high-density groundnut areas northwest of Bamako, the focus of
the proposed project, have an agricultural population of about 560,000, half
that of the full "groundnut belt" and about 10% of the country total. With an
extremely low per capita Plan expenditure relative to the Bamako district,
this area has been particularly handicapped in terms of public works expendi-
ture, and road and track links between the western border areas and regional
centers are poor. Literacy, health and other social services are also less
well represented than in the Sikasso and Segou regions to the south and east.
About 50,000 farms averaging about 5 ha (of which 1.8 ha to groundnuts, the
sole cash crop) are in this area. The oilseeds processing sector also provides
the largest source of industrial and service employment west of Bamako.
Past Bank Group Assistance
33.       The Integrated Rural Development Project (Cr. 491-MLI), the second
Bank Group operation in Mali's rural sector, was appraised in June 1973
with the participation of co-financier FAC (France). The project's main
objectives were to improve groundnut production in Mali's western and central
provinces, which had been successfully initiated in 1967 by a FAC-financed
project; to extend the scope of the project activities to cereals; to expand
the project area to the east; and to strengthen the groundnut zone agency,
OACV. In consequence, project activities focussed on improvement of extension
services, input and equipment supply, and provision of marketing services.
Ancillary project components were a rural tracks improvement program; improve-
ment of medical facilities; a small livestock component; the supply of



- 12 -
equipment to blacksmiths; the establishment of an evaluation unit; applied
agricultural research; an adult literacy program; and the execution of a study
of cereals marketing and pricing policies. The project also provided techni-
cal assistance in the fields of agriculture and financial management. The
project started in April 1973 and was completed in March 1978.
34.       The Project Performance Audit Report (SecM80-955) was distributed
on December 31, 1980. It concludes that the project had a negative rate of
return. The audit report attributes project failure to a project design which
put too much emphasis on groundnut production, to weaknesses in project
management, and to unfavorable Government policies. The project, intended as
a complex rural development package, was anchored to a conventional single-
crop marketing agency with no control over input supplies or output prices,
deriving all its operating revenues from groundnut sales as a tributary to
exporters in a volatile world market. One consequence was that OACV had
little incentive to curb its operating costs, which tripled during the
project period, since the official price schedule ("bareme") was expected to
pass these costs on to the oil mills or back to farmers. When export unit
values for groundnut oil began to fall in mid-project, however, OACV was
caught in a classic squeeze between domestic inflation, fixed exchange rates,
and derived export demand for groundnuts. Government froze producer prices,
then adjusted them too little and too late, partly in an effort to control raw
material costs to the oil mills. The parallel market often offered more than
double the OACV procurement price, and greater reliability. OACV's estimated
market share fell from over 50% in the mid-70s to less than a third in 1980
(75,000 t in shell to 30,000 t), and unit costs increased fivefold, to the
point where OACV's intervention was nearly doubling the costs of unshelled
groundnuts between farmgate and millgate. Half of these costs were never
funded through the price structure, which continued to be based on optimistic
volume projections, but instead accumulated as arrears owed to the two oil
mills (Government-owned and a joint Malian/German venture) which prefinanced
OACV's marketing operati,ons.
35.       This central issue reflected and magnified the internal weaknesses
of OACV: an overcentralized management structure, a serious lack of budgetary
controls, an overstretched extension service operating on top-down lines in
dozens of production centers scattered over a vast area, poor input distribu-
tion, and poor integration of project-financed technical assistance in day-
to-day operations. Even the fundamental issue of the project's benefits to
farmers and the economy - as against its commercial and financial failure at
the OACV level - cannot be addressed conclusively since no preproject baseline
data was collected to help isolate the various causes (relative price shifts,
rainfall, inputs, and cultivation practices) which contributed to the observed
increase in cereal production. A plausible conclusion is that groundnut pro-
duction and marketing targets were overtaken by events outside OACV's control,
and that the increase in cereals area was largely a spontaneous response to
market price signals, rather than reflecting a deliberate effort by OACV to
extend intensive cereals cultivation techniques. The latter was never a major
preoccupation of that institution, which moreover had no material incentive to
devote scarce resources to such activities.



- 13 -
36.       A second OACV project was appraised by the Association in early
1978, but as the extent of the structural, financial and organizational
problems besetting OACV became fully visible, processing was suspended. The
results of the 1979/80 and 1980/81 marketing seasons confirmed that the poor
performance of the preceding year had not been accidental but reflected a
genuine structural crisis in the groundnut belt and that new cropping pat-
terns, new trade orientations, and new ways to finance, or reduce, extension
and marketing overheads would have to be found.
37.       Government has already taken significant steps in this direction.
SCAER's intermediary role in input supply has been abolished (para. 26). OACV
senior management has been replaced with personnel experienced in rural
development projects, open to experimentation and willing and able to enforce
financial discipline. OACV itself is being dissolved, and all of its services
east of Bamako will be discontinued. A new institution, ODIPAC (Office de
Developpement Integre des Productions Arachidieres et de Cerealieres) was
established in February 1981 to take over from OACV in the more compact and
viable western zone, with approximately half the staff and reduced oyerheads,
free of responsibility for OACV accumulated debts, with direct access to
commercial banking facilities, and its own equity base. 1/ Another favorable
development is that ODIPAC will sell its output primarily to the efficient
45,000 ton-capacity crushing plant at Kita, under joint Malian-German owner-
ship, which has lowered costs significantly since coming on stream in 1976,
and is now approaching a break-even point at current world market prices for
oil and cake. These are expected to improve slightly in real terms through
the 1980s, but not to the record levels of the early 70s on which the OACV
project was based. ODIPAC's planning is based on maintaining regular supplies
of 27,000 to 30,000 tons in shell to the mill: enough to reach the break-even
point, but scarcely more than the minimum levels achieved by OACV.
38.       These changes are necessary improvements, but are not sufficient to
address the underlying problems and test possible solutions. Ways must be
found, for example, to reduce the costs of Government support services by
eliminating unnecessary subsidies and devolving many activities - such as
credit administration, input supply, and primary collection - increasingly to
commercial institutions, private contractors, and, above all, groups of
producers bulking services and pooling risks for their members. In the case
of groundnuts, a key issue is whether and how soon the oil mills can take full
responsibility for procuring their own raw materials, while maintaining some
credible support arrangements for producer incomes, or conversely, whether
groundnut crushing operations should be phased out altogether. Then, assuming
such changes are feasible and desirable, the Government needs to secure a
permanent source of funds for those essentially developmental activities -
primarily adaptive research, functional literacy and extension - which cannot
1/   Although technically an Operation (para. 24), OACV had the financial
structure of a Government department and depended on interest-free
advances from the oil mills for its working capital requirements.
Surplus staff are being transferred to other agencies operating in
the former OACV eastern zone.



- 14 -
be delegated entirely to the private sector, so that the maximum benef its of a
switch to intensive rainfed cereals farming can be realized by producers.
Since marketing of cereals, where most financial benefits will accrue, is now
officially outside Government's control, this means that the transitional
period for public finances will be slow and painful.
39.       It was therefore agreed with the Malian authorities that instead of
a follow up to the Integrated Rural Development Project there would first be a
Technical Assistance Project centered on the new ODIPAC, to explore the scope
for a new development approach in the most viable areas of the groundnut belt.
The project would concentrate on institutional support to ODIPAC and coopera-
tives, a reevaluation of the oilseeds market and the introduction of technical
packages successfully tested elsewhere.
IV. THE PROJECT
40.       The project's objectives and content were discussed by Government,
the Association and co-financier FAC between early 1978 and April 1980.
The project was appraised jointly with FAC in June 1980. Negotiations were
held on May 27-June 1, 1981 in Bamako. The Malian delegation was led by the
Minister of Agriculture. Given the pilot and technical assistance nature of
the activities to be undertaken under the proposed project, a separate staff
appraisal report has not been prepared. Annex III contains supplementary
project data. Annex IV lists additional information available in the Project
File.
Objectives
41.       The project would support the new agency which takes over from OACV
in defining a new approach to agricultural development in the ODIPAC area
and investigating the scope for further investments. To achieve these goals,
the project aims to:
(i) organize the newly created ODIPAC, and establish a comprehensive
financial control system for efficient and cost-effective opera-
tions;
(ii) develop mutual guarantee group cooperatives (AV) and reduce insti-
tutional overheads through a gradual transfer of tasks to these
institutions;
(iii)  test diversification programs adapted to each sub-area's potential
and to farmers' identified preferences in order to reduce the area's
dependence on groundnuts as an export crop;
(iv) help stabilize groundnut production by rehabilitating the seed
production program and extending known improvements; and
(v) identify and define the main elements of a possible agricultural
development project in the ODIPAC area.



- 15 -
42.       Diversification efforts in the project area would comprise:
-    introducing improved maize in the southern zone of higher rainfall;
-    supporting the spontaneous trend toward more intensive cereals
cultivation (millet and sorghum) through multiplication of selected
local seed varieties, supply of fertilizer and animal drawn machinery
(partly on credit), and extension advice;
-    promoting cowpeas as a legume with uses both for human consump-
tion and as cattle feed; and
-    following-up on earlier pilot efforts to promote high quality
groundnuts in the Bafoulabe area as an export crop.
The proposed project would begin in October 1981 and extend over three years.
Farmers' response to each of the pilot programs would be closely monitored
(para. 53) and provide guidance for the identification of a full-scale rural
development project, the preparation of which would start immediately after
the second full growing season is underway (mid-1983).
Project Components
43.       The project would require the services, for the full three year
period, of six technical advisors to help ODIPAC achieve the objectives of
paragraph 41:
-    a Financial and Commercial Manager to head ODIPAC's financial,
commercial and credit services (para. 55);
-    a Chief Accountant and Credit Supervisor;
-    a Technical Advisor to advise the Manager of ODIPAC's agricultural
services;
-    a seed production specialist;
-    an extension training and cooperative development specialist;
and
-    a head of the mechanical workshops.
In addition, French aid has already provided an agricultural statistician for
the Institut d'Economie Rurale (IER) monitoring and evaluation unit (para.
53). The additional personnel would be hired through reputable consulting
firms that would also provide any backstopping services that may be needed.
Terms of reference for the above positions, which have been agreed with the
Malian authorities, involve in each case line management duties and specific
responsibilities for training Malian staff. Estimated cost per man-month of
technical assistance including housing and other allowances and travel costs
varies between US$8,500 and US$10,300 with an average of US$9,400 per month.



- 16 -
44.       In addition to the above technical assistance, the project would
provide for a number of short-term consultancies on special problems such as
functional literacy programs for cooperative officers and training procedures
for extension staff. All studies and consultancies would be carried out by
experienced consulting firms under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association (Development Credit Agreement (DCA) Section 3.02).
45.       A reorganized seed production program would be implemented under the
guidance of the seed production specialist to produce all seeds required to
renew the present stock and extend the use of improved varieties throughout
the project area. About 8,000 tons of groundnut seed, 180 tons of maize, 260
tons of millet and 170 tons of sorghum would be produced during the life of
the project. The reorganization of seed production would include staff
training, improvement of storage and distribution facilities and relocation of
multiplication centers to ensure easier access and reduce transportation
costs. Special attention would be paid to seed purity control, treatment and
storage. Seed would be sold for cash or credit, increasingly through village
centers run where possible by AV (para. 50).
46.       A key element of the project is the organization and the retrain-
ing of essential extension staff. At the village level, the extension
staff would be redistributed more evenly to meet the following requirements:
one extension worker for about 100 farmers (contacted by group of ten); and
one sub-sector chief for 8 to 10 extension workers. The Training Division,
in collaboration with the heads of extension sectors (each supervising 3-4
sub-sectors), will prepare visit programs at all staff levels and organize
periodic meetings for briefing and debriefing. Training programs would be
established to improve staff efficiency; three-week training courses would be
held during the dry season and two-day refresher courses would precede all
crucial phases of the growing season. Training of extension staff would
include special courses on AV development and organization to promote the
establishment of new AVs, and improve the existing ones. The training and
cooperative development specialist would plan and coordinate this component
under the overall responsibility of the Technical Advisor.
47.       The vehicle stock of OACV, the predecessor to ODIPAC, has not
been renewed since 1976 because of the agency's financial difficulties.
The project would provide two-wheel and four-wheel vehicles for the extension
service, the monitoring and evaluation unit, the technical assistants and
for the ODIPAC head office, i.e. 200 bicycles, 65 mopeds, 20 four-wheel drive
vehicles, 1 supply truck and 16 passenger vehicles. Bicycles and mopeds would
be sold to staff on credit. In addition, the project would provide 6 trucks
with trailers to permit ODIPAC to experiment with low-cost bulk buying and
transport of groundnuts.
48.       The project would finance the incremental costs of fertilizers,
seeds and pesticides sold to farmers under improved groundnut and cereal
cultivation packages. Government has recently taken the policy decision
that farmers should bear the full cost of such inputs, and has applied this
austerity concept in raising all cotton zone input prices by between 40 and
60% as of April 1981. This policy was confirmed during negotiations with



- 17 -
respect to the ODIPAC area, including assurances that ODIPAC's costs, includ-
ing distribution, would be taken into account when establishing the prices of
agricultural inputs. Moreover, to protect ODIPAC against sudden increases in
import costs, assurances were obtained that Government would reimburse ODIPAC
any difference between declared prices to producers and ODIPAC's costs,
including accrued interest if reimbursement is effected through the official
price schedule for the succeeding season (DCA Section 3.06). Moreover, in
view of OACV's poor recovery record, the need to reduce ODIPAC working capital
requirements and the high administrative costs of seasonal input loans,
assurances were obtained that at least 50% of the value of fertilizers and
chemicals supplied would be sold to farmers for cash, 1/ and the balance
would be sold on credit against a minimum seasonal surcharge of 7.5% to AV
(for onlending to members) and 10% for direct loans to individuals, equivalent
to an annual percentage interest rate of about 14% (DCA Schedule 4). This
compares favorably with interest rates elsewhere in the country (the present
maximum commission is 7.5%) and the average annual rate of inflation 1977-1979
(9.2% p.a.) and provides some incentive for mobilizing farmer savings.
49.       Functional Literacy Program.  An important objective of the project
will be to introduce into the project area a number of AV which would be
designed to stimulate beneficiary participation in project activities such as
extension, credit distribution and collection, and marketing (paras 50-51).
Functional literacy has been shown to be an essential element in the success
of the development and operation of peasant organizations in Mali. A core
of functionally literate farmers in a village becomes the focal point for
participatory development and a contact point for external assistance to the
village, particularly agricultural extension activities. This approach
strengthens the Government's new policy of encouraging more local participa-
tion in decision-making and development activities. Under the proposed
project, the functional literacy program would be introduced into new villages
and to new participants not previously covered by earlier projects (para. 50)
operating in the ODIPAC zone. The project would finance incremental staff
salaries and training costs and small materials, supplies and mopeds/bicycles
for carrying out the program. The component would be implemented by the
Direction Nationale de l'Alphabetisation Fonctionnelle et la Linguistique
Appliquee (DNAFLA), an agency in the Ministry of Education responsible for
functional literacy programs. To ensure effective coordination between the
program and other ODIPAC activities encouraging the formation and development
of cooperatives, assurances were obtained at negotiations that the annual
proposed work program and budget would be forwarded by DNAFLA through ODIPAC
management for IDA review (DCA Section 3.10).
50.       Pilot cooperative development program.  Some 130 villages in
the ODIPAC zone (about 15% of the total villages) are completing a first
cycle of functional literacy programs (para. 49) under the IDA-financed
Education Project (Cr. 733-MLI), and initial efforts at promoting AV
on the successful Mali-Sud pattern will be targeted on them. The immediate
1/   This would be achieved through a minimum downpayment requirement of
50%, monitored at the end of each delivery season, but relaxed in case
of crop failure or excessively late off-season deliveries.



- 18 -
focus of the program will be on organizing the primary collection of ground-
nuts, for sale initially through ODIPAC, but ultimately direct to the oil
mills or private wholesalers. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
(a) that the 1981/82 and subsequent groundnut procurement price schedule
("bareme") will incorporate compensation to AV for their collection and
marketing activities at the same rate otherwise charged by ODIPAC (b) that
the official ODIPAC seed, fertilizer, and chemical sale prices will allow
discounts of at least 3 percent for AV and (c) that the groundnut procurement
price will be announced by the end of May of each year (DCA Section 3.07
and Schedule 4). During negotiations, the Government also confirmed that
the annual revision of the bareme would specifically take into account (a)
increases in input prices faced by producers since the previous adjustment in
output prices and (b) the prices offered on Malian markets (official and
private) for groundnuts and substitute crops.
51.       Medium-term loans.  The project would reinforce cooperative develop-
ment activities with a pilot program of mutual-responsibility group loans, for
which it would finance incremental equipment requirements. AV would be
eligible for loans (disbursed in kind) from ODIPAC for onlending to their
members for the purchase of animal-drawn equipment (amortized over four
years), and small communal investments such as village maize mills. Agreement
was obtained during negotiations on the following terms and conditions (DCA
Schedule 4). Only AV with a repayment record to ODIPAC within a given year of
75% of current interest and principal due plus cumulative overdues may receive
equipment from ODIPAC the following year. No loans will be granted to indi-
viduals with overdues to ODIPAC on either short- or medium-term loans. Within
the project period, it is expected that Mali will join the West African
Monetary Union (para. 9), and that the newly-created National Agricultural
Development Bank will be in a position to lend to project area AV directly or
(on an agency basis) through ODIPAC. As a pilot program, individuals would be
charged by ODIPAC the maximum rate allowed by the BCEAO (Banque Centrale de
lAfrique de l'Ouest) 1/ for rediscountable loans to farmers, currently 11%
p.a., and the margin between this rate and banks' rediscount rate to ODIPAC
(now 3%) would be shared between ODIPAC and the AV in an approximately 1:2
ratio. All loan documentation would be retained by AV, and ODIPAC would
recognize only each AV account as a whole and rely on the AV to sanction
individual members within the 75% cutoff limit.
52.       The project would support a small applied research program to be
carried out by the Sotuba research station under the supervision of IER,
which has overall responsibility for agricultural research. One research
substation (PAR - Point d'Appui de la Recherche) would be reactivated at Kita
to carry out long-term trials such as crop rotation and fertilizer tests and
three trial plots (PEP - Points d-Experimentation Permanents) would be re-
opened at Masantola, Gonfan and Sadiola to carry out annual trials for
1/   The Banque Centrale du Mali (now outside the CFA zone) does not specify a
maximum rate, but currently has a rediscount rate for agricultural loans
2 points below the BCEAO-s. OACV was charging 7.5% p.a. on term loans,
but had no access to rediscounting facilities.



- 19 -
varieties, pest control, etc. Research work would cover responses of tradi-
tional cereals and groundnuts to economic input packages, varietal trials on
maize and other relatively new crops such as cowpea, sesame, etc. and applica-
tions of Malian rock phosphate. The trials will focus on productivity, pest
resistance, cycle length, an dpotimum dosages of fertilizers and pesticides.
Since adequate numbers of research staff are available at the Sotuba central
research station, the Project would only cover the travel and per diem expenses
of researchers and the operating costs for the four existing trial stations in
the ODIPAC area. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the annual
research program and budget (for ODIPAC - related activities) would be sub-
mitted for IDA review through ODIPAC management (DCA Section 3.08).
53.       The project would continue to support a monitoring and evaluation
unit which was set up within IER under Cr. 491-MLI and which worked well under
that project but has since suffered from a severe shortage of operating funds.
The Unit will continue to collect basic data on acreage, farmers and crops in
the project area, using established sampling, questionnaire design, and farm
budget methodology to analyse the seasonal and trend impact of project exten-
sion and input supply activities. In addition it would participate in de-
signing monitoring surveys to be carried out by ODIPAC and cooperate in
analysing the results to provide timely information to project management.
Topical studies would also be carried out at the request of project manage-
ment, such as on the development of new crops, the rate of adoption of
specific cultural practices, studies of AV membership and operation, etc.
The unit is managed by experienced Malian personnel and assisted by an expa-
triate statistician. Apart from vehicles and associated operating costs, the
project would support the cost of 25 field staff and office costs. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the annual work program and budget of the
unit would be submitted through ODIPAC management to IDA for review (DCA
Section 3.09). Guidelines for the formats of quarterly and annual reports to
be submitted to IDA were discussed during negotiations.
54.       The project would further finance two studies to be carried out by
internationally recruited consultants under terms of reference satisfactory to
IDA:
a detailed economic study of the domestic and regional oilseed and
vegetable oil markets to determine under what conditions, if any,
the marketing of groundnuts could be profitably diverted from the
volatile export market, which Mali with its high transport and
processing costs has difficulties in penetrating, toward the
domestic market for vegetable oils. This study would involve an
analysis of consumer preferences and price responses, the present
and potential role of competitive products such as shea-oil ("huile
de karite", the traditional sector's predaminant source of oil
supply), cotton-seed oil from domestic production, and imports of
soybean and palm oil. The study would also investigate prospects
for economizing on transport and handling costs by giving greater
responsibility to cooperatives, private traders and the processing
industry. The study would focus on opportunity costs of each
solution, taking into account the costs of existing and under-



- 20 -
utilized processing plants, linkages with oil-cake and its use
as cattle feed, the energy value of groundnut shells, etc. Terms
of reference for this study were agreed during negotiations.
-    a feasibility study for a full-scale rural development project
would also be financed under the technical assistance project; this
study would be based on the project's pilot activities (as evaluated
by IER) and the outcome of the above-mentioned economic study and
would be carried out in the the project-s second and third years
(para 42).
55.       Audits and Organization of Accounts.  The project would finance
three annual audits by an independent firm of auditors acceptable to the
Association. Since ODIPAC's accounts first need to be established after the
dissolution of OACV, the project would also finance the preparation (by
independent consultants) of the financial exercise leading to the opening of
the ODIPAC books from the existing OACV closing balance sheets, and proposals
for a new general and management accounting system. During negotiations,
agreement was obtained that (a) all OACV assets related to the ODIPAC zone
would be transferred to ODIPAC as equity, and ODIPAC would assume no respon-
sibility for OACV debts, (b) ODIPAC's opening balance-sheet would be approved
by its Board and submitted to IDA no later than March 31, 1982, and (c)
proposals for implementing the recommended accounting system would be dis-
cussed with IDA upon completion of the study (DCA Sections 4.05-6).
56.       Project Organization and Management.  ODIPAC, a state enterprise
created in February 1981 and supervised by the Ministry of Agriculture, will
carry out all project components except monitoring and evaluation, applied
research and the functional literacy program. These will be implemented by
IER, an agency of the Ministry of Agriculture, and DNAFLA in the Ministry of
Education, under work programs and budgets satisfactory to IDA (paras 49, 52
and 53). ODIPAC is currently being organized in two departments under its
recently appointed General Manager, an experienced extension services manager.
A Finance and Commercial Department, initially the responsibility of the
internationally recruited expert financed under the project, will cover
all commercial functions of ODIPAC (sales to and purchases from farmers) in
addition to accounting and administrative services. ODIPAC's Agricultural
Department, headed by a Malian agronomist assisted by the project-financed
Technical Advisor, will cover all activities related to extension, cooperative
development, and seed multiplication. By separately managing and costing
ODIPAC's distinct "commercial" and "development" functions, the new organiza-
tional structure paves the way for a devolution of most of the former to
banks, cooperatives and the private sector after the project period. In order
to provide an opportunity to review ODIPAC operational activities, assurances
were obtained during negotiations that views would be exchanged on any
proposal requiring an investment by ODIPAC of a value exceeding US$150,000
equivalent in one year (DCA Section 4.08).
Project Cost and Financing
57.       Total project cost is estimated at US$11.4 million, of which 58
percent is expected to be foreign exchange. Costs are expressed in net terms



- 21 -
since Government has given ODIPAC a statutory exemption from import duties
and taxes. The IDA Credit of SDR5.5 million (US$6.5 million equivalent) would
finance 57 percent of total project costs. FAC would contribute a grant of
US$2.5 million equivalent or 22 percent of total project costs. Government's
participation to project costs would be MF 1.2 billion (US$2.4 million) in
operating costs through the groundnut bareme over the life of the project,
representing 21 percent of total project costs and 55 percent of ODIPAC's
project-related local operating costs. Since ODIPAC's only source of operat-
ing revenue is the groundnut bareme and the agency is expected to incur
substantial marketing costs not included in the project, assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Government would provide ODIPAC promptly
with adequate resources, notably to bridge any gap between ODIPAC's reasonable
expenses and provisions and its remuneration through the bareme (DCA Section
4.07).
58.       The proceeds of the IDA Credit would be passed on to ODIPAC as a
grant from Government. The FAC grant will provide parallel financing, for
three of the six technical advisors, vehicles, the applied research program,
project monitoring and evaluation, and the feasibility study for a future
project. Fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the initial disbursement
of the FAC grant would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA
Credit (DCA Section 6.01). In addition to transferring all relevant OACV
assets to ODIPAC as equity, assurances were obtained during negotiations that
Government would provide MF300 million (US$0.6 million) of start-up capital
for ODIPAC (about four months of ODIPAC operating costs), payable in three
equal tranches. The first MF100 million is a condition of Credit effective-
ness, the second would be paid in six months after effectiveness or by
June 30, 1982 (whichever earlier), and the third would be paid in 12 months
after effectiveness or by December 31, 1982 (whichever earlier) (DCA Sections
3.01 and 6.01). A working fund equivalent to five months of IDA-financed
project operating expenditures or MF150 million (US$0.3 million) would be
opened by IDA upon Credit effectiveness, according to procedures agreed at
negotiations (DCA Section 2.02(b-g)). Detailed project costs and proposed
financing plan are given in the Credit and Project Summary.
Procurement
59.       Agricultural equipment for a total value of US$0.7 million equiva-
lent would be procured under local competitive bidding procedures acceptable
to IDA; this category involves delivery over three years of several different
types of small implements and no single lot over US$100,000 is expected.
Suppliers of these goods are well represented in Mali. Fertilizers and
pesticides, for a total of US$1.5 million, would be procured as part of CMDT
bulk tenders on world markets (para 26), 90% of which would not be financed by
IDA: experience has shown that CMDT consistently obtains competitive prices
as a result of its large share of the Malian import market and its interna-
tional procurement procedures are acceptable to IDA. Consultants for studies,
Its, and technical assistance to ODIPAC (US$1.6 million) will be selected
in accordance with IDA guidelines. Of the remaining US$2.7 million financed
under the Credit, involving seed purchases, local salaries, training materials
for the functional literacy program and operating costs, no single item is
likely to exceed US$50,000.



- 22 -
Disbursement
60.       The Credit of US$6.5 million would be disbursed against the tollow-
ing items:
(a) incremental fertilizers and chemicals: 100% of total
expenditures (US$1.0 million);
(b) incremental seeds and agricultural equipment: 100% of foreign
expenditures, or if purchased locally, 90% of local costs (US$1.0
million);
(c) operating costs, including local staff salaries and training for
extension and cooperative development services, seed production,
and supply services, but excluding vehicle operating costs for
internationally recruited experts: 55% of total costs (US$0.9
million);
(d) consultant fees and expenses for three internationally recruited
experts and short-term consultants, including studies and audits:
100% of total expenditures (US$1.0 million); and
(e) functional literacy program: (i) materials and equipment, 90%
of local costs (US$0.4 million) and (ii) staff salaries and
training, 75% of local costs (US$0.2 million);
(f) initial deposit to working fund (para. 58) (US$0.3 million); and
(g) unallocated (US$0.8 million).
In addition, two advances totalling US$0.9 million from the Project Prepara-
tion Facility made in 1977 and 1981 would be refinanced upon effectiveness of
the Credit. Disbursements will be fully documented for fertilizers, chemicals
and equipment, technical assistance, studies, audits and short-term consul-
tancies, and against certified statements of expenditure for the project s
local operating costs and purchases of seeds. Documentation is to be kept by
the Borrower and would be made available for inspection by the Association in
the course of supervision missions. The terms of reference of the annual
audits would specifically include examination of certificates of expenditure
submitted to IDA, and ODIPAC would implement a new accounting system with
external assistance at the start of the project (para. 55).
Benefits and Risks
61.       The proposed project would support ODIPAC in defining a new approach
to agricultural development in an area of considerable potential for Mali.
The experience gained under the earlier Integrated Rural Development Project
exposed the problems inherent in attempting a complex and large-scale rural
development scheme with basically rigid policies and inflexible institutional
support. The Government has taken several initiatives to launch a fresh effort,



- 23 -
at the base of which is testing a strategy of agricultural diversification
linked to community development at the village level. This effort, to be sup-
ported with the proposed project, would seek to:
-    proceed with diversification programs (millet, maize, sorghum, cowpeas,
high quality groundnuts) while maintaining production of industrial
groundnuts to protect producer incomes and utilise idle plant capacity;
-    in the meantime, explore the scope for maintaining (or expanding) ground-
nut marketing on the basis of a primary orientation towards the domestic
and regional fats and oils markets rather than towards the fragile oils
export market, and a greater share by the oilseeds industry in primary
marketing responsibilities; and
-    establish ODIPAC as a cost-effective organization tailored to its new
functions and area of operation; this would comprise rationalization of
staff requirements, strict control over expenditure, and devolution of
tasks to village mutual guarantee groups, and other institutions.
62.       Sufficient evidence exists that available varietal and input
packages suitable for the 700 to 1,100 mm rainfall belt could technically
achieve or facilitate modest improvements in groundnut yields, significant
increases in traditional cereals production and the rapid spread of new crops
such as maize. The incremental costs of simple adaptive research, seed
multiplication and extension efforts, if successfully managed in tune with
smallholder requirements and facilitated by adequate and timely input supply,
would be warranted by even modest yield increases over areas as large as the
ODIPAC zone.
63.       The cooperative development approach proposed for testing in the
project area has been successful elsewhere in Mali, but may not be easily
transferable given the relatively weak social infrastructure. A more funda-
mental risk in attempting to adjust services to farmers in the groundnut belt
to new realities is a financial one. A growing share of ODIPAC costs will not
bear any direct relation to groundnut marketing and cannot reasonably be met
out of the bareme for groundnuts which is already finely balanced on export
revenues. Since cereals marketing will generate no direct revenue for ODIPAC,
it can become a successful multipurpose rural development agency only if the
Government earmarks sufficient budgetary resources to sustain the groundnut
belt through a difficult and lengthy transition process. Although avail-
ability of Government counterpart funding is limited by continuing public
finance constraints, the Government attaches high priority to agricultural
diversification to tap the considerable potential of the project area.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Mali
and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 24 -
65.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Conditions of effectiveness would be that all conditions precedent to
the initial disbursement of the FAC grant are fulfilled, and that MF 100
million in ODIPAC start-up capital has been paid in by Government.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington D. C.
July 9, 1981



-25 -                                             ANEX I
Pag 
TABLE 3A
MALI -1SOC INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALI                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEMACES
LAND AREA (7HOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                          - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE
TOTAL           1240.0                                    MOST RECENT            LOW INCOE            MIDDLE INCOEE
AGRICULTURAL     320.5                 1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA 50UTH OF SAMARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     50.0        70.0    140.0                  238.3                  794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         14.9        21.2      29.7                  70.5                  707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    4224.0       5362.0   6750.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)   11.0         14.9      19.3                  17.5                   27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         12.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           35.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                           3.4         4.3       5.4                  27.7                   55.0
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        13.3        16.9      20.5                 73.7                   130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            43.7        44.7      45.3                  44.8                   46.0
15-64 YRS.                            53.7        52.6      52.0                 52.4                    51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      2.6         2.7       2.7                  2.9                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 2.1         2.4       2.6                   2.6                    2.8
URRAN                                 5.2         5.4       5.5                   6.5                    5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        49.8        49.1      49.4                 46.9                    46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        26.5        23.6      21.5                  19.3                   15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.3         3.2       3.3                   3.1                    3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)       ..          ..
HOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            103.0       100.0      85.0                 89.5                    89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                      86.0        94.0      90.0                 90.2                    92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             56.0        59.0      57.0                 52.7                    52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          15.0        16.0      15.0                  17.8                   16.1
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MDRTALITY RATE        41.0        34.7      31.3                 27.3                    20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)       37.2        40.4      43.0                 45.8                    50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                ..          ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..       9.0                 23.9                    27.4
URBAN                                  *-        29.0      42.0                 55.0                    74.3
RURAL                                  ..          ..       3.0                  18.5                   12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         8.0        ..                 26.2
URBAN                                  ..        63.0        ..                 63.5
RURAL                                  ..          ..        ..                 20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            67047.6    44314.0  25145.7                31911.8                 13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        4982.0/cad  4124.6   3232.4                3674.9                  2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              1472.0/c e  1480.0/e  1818.6               1238.8                  1028.4
URBAN                               302.0re  1310.8    617.1                   272.8                   423.0
RURAL                              2849. 0iS  1604.7         *                1745.2                  3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..        27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..          ..       4.B
URBAN                                  ..          ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                  ..          ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                  ..          ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..



-26-                                    ANNEX I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
MALI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALI                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOHE
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 10.0        24.0      28.0                  56.4                   73.7
MALE                 14.0        31.0      36.0                 70.7                    96.8
FEHALE                6.0        17.0      20.0                 50.1                    79.0
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  1.0         5.0       9.0                  10.0                   16.2
MALE                  1.0         8.0      13.0                 13.6                    25.3
FEMALg                0.3         2.0       5.0                  6.6                    14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY) 15.0/f       10.0       9.0/g                8.0                     5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           45.0        40.0      43.0                 46.5                    36.2
SECONDARY                         14.0        15.0        ..                 25.5                    23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        3.0/c        ..      IO.O/S               25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         2.0         1.6       2.1                  2.9                    32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.9        11.2      13.2                 32.8                    69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          ..        ..                  1.9                     8.0
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  0.2         0.5       0.5                  2.8                    20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0          ..        ..                   1.2                    0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    2431.3       2964.8   3604.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  47.6        47.4      47.2                 34.1                   36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             94.0        91.0      88.4                 80.0                   56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 2.7         4.1       4.9                  8.6                    17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               57.6        55.3      53.4                 41.7                    37.2
MALE                                60.6        58.6      56.9                 54.3                    47.1
FEMALE                              54.5        52.0      50.0                 29.2                   27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.8         0.9       0.9                  1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCaCE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      98.0                136.0                  381.2
RURAL                               ..          ..      60.0                 84.5                   156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      61.0                 99.1                  334.3
RURAL                               ..          ..      37.0                 61.2                  137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      27.0                 39.7
RURAL                               ..          ..      48.0                 68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic meaos. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962;  /d Goverment Personnel;  /e Government hospital establishments;  /f Not including private
vocational schools; /g 1975.
May, 1981



2                                                                          ANNEX I
Se.e:  Aithutoo  thu dots era da.tto          ooa f-  acoolly joAtL, o-. notntartttnsd  ol2 ,it -b-ald  ls  be o-td that they my -tr bentr
nationaly ooeeoahbla be-sa. of tba Io3 of atadani.der  4atfia,ttIo- no! cocopto nod by dOtff-an  roc.trta Lo coll-ottg ohs data.  The dota are.nne
thm.,  sful to doe...th, orders 01coulob, i.tlot  taactda,   A) ri-tunsrtse nen                sjor daffsc...o-- b_nro   oott
TV.oferoro  0000  ar  (II Otho c5  tonetry slow of 01  -bot)r-  conary c-b 02))  toprry. rsy viol socaht bigter a-.rot  tort   tban th. oetr-y trooP
of, ot cbjoo  -ear   aopt for "Crta,'l lerpleor  i 011  -ay       -O"' iaoo, stre "fldcilo  aco-  Odoth .folco  -.rC ;ldl  tot  to             Z.es  beoono  srne
sof-etrlofonitoto).  On oth. r,aoer. soP luo Ott. .s-so-wior ropltneasI -Oc!rtOl-nl  a-eon for s-h Indicato   od shoe,olyIbf
ajortty of Otto -ootrtnis a. Troso ttc dn_  too that  E-o.. Liar  t!,.cs ooea.l.   of oo,olnna    b  otooadopsods 00 Ott o_ilebiltny of dot.
onetaootorata ios'n-  Or, t roso..try cr4 rafas-or  F-e-
OAND AREA (nbyads   s                                                                              orls .!oralTr                                    o   ua   Pupelatton  (tota...I
T-to  - Tote  ear .tur    .ra  onaln   .o 1     r.  'lab ielnan  ctra.                             rte    frn)deddb   tlrraeoc   st                           f hoeptl  bed
barostunl   2ntotuatr~roarsal rfc-dOno  oiy                     ; -arosoy                  rv.ls.rl  ia ysblir cod prlo-ra   on-ro  ted  Prrreltod h-Vptoa1 and ...
for crapa, p-e-ro, aar'aat rod !itatta     oatd, oor to  1 la    1. ,;lla   107  data.          batliosloc      Hscr.toptzalroos.tutbli.hn,e-  pemnotlyFanaffsd
ttyatlaO r. p4ltrca.-   lutobltah-eot  proidteg prtnolpelIly n..sno-
tlP!COIc(Uit)    0        - errpin. 'rt .ct r  -orrrot rwa5r  prlr-e  ..I-                  ditrt or'se    nlodad P. Crlbatas   uro,lnabao
r      _utd  _ u    rooc i.to  nobrb as yorld tank boles (1977-79) butte); 1960,            end ratdla  c on  u  par=nenly uraftfd tty a phtyeJriu  (bet by
1970,. ed 1079 date.                                                                               sdlJralneta... J      ra, adIf a,Inr.) oiob offor Lnptieots                  -
dontan cad pro-ido a liaised rnyS. of nadiloa   utils             a   tts
ENER0Y COmtotePTION P'.a CAPITA - luo-l ron-uapsin of  -r.rrct-lroy(ca                              oru.l Fra         ro  boepotele iuceds flOe priocopul/ganral buopitloas
and 15005., patroleon,  _osc   a.edtydo.sroc o  zrohaan  elor-                                    co -cry  bonpielr local  or r-ro  h.pitloal  sad astral no  sansilny
trtoity) to kilugoa-  of rodrqt-so  pFr capita; 1960, 1970, rod 1979                              Cat_rri.Spoo~.laoted hOepltelo 000 Otldsd naly andar tonal.
dota.                                                                                           Adarti-ooi ea O_ nOtl lob -Tota oI-tte  of adiante.. to or disobrg.s
frooh . biytlt1 dieidrd by rha o-b-o of bodo.
POPULA&TION AND VIMA) STATISIOCI
Total  oolcooed-rr(earb)-!of July 1; 1160, 1970, rod 1979                                    0101091G
dar.                                                                                       Afrr   iea   uutod(eno   e   anhld)   ...total,uban, and rural -
difforoot dofstoeo  arhe  cone   .yafr   o.atisyo   eaed tth.tr tIo.fscult,Atbnbt:d,~o orloda.o na  oy                                                     oat bs Inoleded 
amscsuos ;,199. 190, ted 199Irs                                                       ot-  barce_     or  aalrolP.roon
Ponslatino Projteoio..                                                                          A-araaot-ho  of  aeue   u  00            an. urban. and runol -   ..arage
Poeain  ora   000 -CrraItc "peplc.ioo_pro-r too- ar- tat rd on 101                   bar opasnpar roe. t  al  cAt  and r-rn  -coPlai                 nennon
totalpoplto.      yoacdt~  a  ticO   oolo              rbtrtlyrna                          ds J.ll s    _espor  _ely.  Ocetliot   ntdongprann   totaa   n
-ot,  n  Onte. bi   aprar  stctd liotalty77.5daea -tilit  pr--_o-aoa   rlls    b    lcrolyl   ligqeor   sprot
Por  frfotltypn  -alcotao  trco  cd   '                                                                dro    crlut  fttl   ra..adrrldnlnonprlo
tIao f counry i       01s rathoa  on.o..  os  sletaieit  ofP  cIorfadtoy                 nUcATIO
and1  .sotdt f rrod lfor -protjacolon         J.7 r'. parpoora.                            ŽA- C--id-celua 4-Osolos               ~!;q
Itattonfr,   f-nolity - to e crtlrry   opaltto  thc1 Osc o-niob aLnr                          orntct.lr orheot -tta.d   nto1 ad.ll ale -Ip-ei tna,-          ae  edtel
E.a h          Jrboto.    qels   b  doot pts,an  sle-bi-lata  soruror         7 On-           Tonrleo    felor   oosptn   lcla   aona.   frsanc
mOo .cnsan.  ThO  to ohtcd only  foto f-rtility runs  dooltot toptoo   chool-al   populeto..s; n-vl   inlodo.tbrhldos  agd 6-11
Otoh.aplaroneon local  f unit sot-rpr-doni   rota. ,h- o-.h In cotnY.!re bot udjaItad for ditffnonot 1agths of primar  sduoatiat; for
ofseoraplucna local0 o.ctoly.  Tha r-ticaoy pepalutto  etonnrsstr   curelapa   doto    nnlnn   a   ors   O    ar
tiotalo  on thta be-o of the proirortd oenorttr f Otto Pownunn Jtne n  paptl  er  bato  or abac- ohaffca  echea  55.
to the 700  2000, ond Otto rtet of dolie  of fartillty 0500 to -,I..oo-                      Osroodero  ch:l -  _oral nub  nd fount  - Couputd na aba-; s-oodar
moo 1-no.                                                                                       Adu-tio-r-vot-C  orJ_ne  f a   or o   pocd  rmr   sorotn
Ysao  -too-nay popsl-sioa ia, coebd - Th. Fy.          .. ars  ti-ltcy populctioo                 p-oodaa go-ra..... onrtin..ul   -,noabr rniitg  _naroooto   fon peptb
star   b.aa    .. hon  nroa.                                                                   aco-117 of 12 to 17 ynerc of ego; oroeanacearesrsgosaly
Pon se. ho. - Old-ysar popalatlos pun equaa kilosoter (100 bortaros) oVatlnlorlno(arnof                                              ea.o.orol - Vcatal   bottnl         t
sote1l_eo; 1960, 1970 tot 1979 data.                                                            itooludo osohetrl, iodustrto,n   ther progra    hitob ops..nts tadpd-
Por ne. k0..o    ielerl ad - Cnapatz.d -r attoc  ton aoclse  lend                                  -1noyar as dcyarrc...sa of secondary I-lioti-ono.
only; 1960. 1970 end 1970 deot-                                                              Porit-roachr rato-                 -din.ad ancodnoc - Total  snodants nrofled it
Pnlte  An. SOtresr   nac.   u   Childrco (0-14 yseoC), rrttas(1)-                             poi,-ry rod narrod Fy ocl  di,d    bynebr  of  nuoh.rs It the
64 tnre.;  an6d orotrold (65 FeCr  ca   0c)a pornr,'  of ,rld-ytan pops-rrsontalal.
lntot  190. 1970. und 1979 d4t se.                                                             Adult .1ln'lesosrr  oroo             .tsrata adlt  (able to otnd d   -itt.)
P.,utlo  Grose  Onto (norco:t) - toto   - .lncsa  Srr-   --or  of total aid-                        aoPrrestts7o  o  totel udo          ; poplnto  agad 15  saO  set osa.
yono popaluooo  for 1950-60. 1910-70,  od1970-79.
Poel _so trnh  et' poCt    brhe  -  onal 3-r's  roots of u-ae  poo-                    ooreeUrraTI
lati.t. for 1950-60. 1910-70. rob 1970-79.                                                   Paso--o Coon fpor thoa...nd tuouletton) - P.a-S.ar crar.opOamo
C""d  Birth On to (nor ohesoo-) -  "nea  lion  tobi     oprth   ooFao-   of asd-y-a              rae        j,alo  loo  obar  Jgtoh  porsons; necludo  an1-aon. h.a.ss.  .nd
POpltin   1990. 1970,. ad 1979 dote.                                                           elIoryohota
Oreds Dmob MIta   (pri  thou-r-c-d) - Annul dcotha par ohee-ode of rid-prot                    RlAdl netisr  (nr  hoesdnnalst     - All type. of  escr  forrai
pplto;19600  1970,. ad 1979 dana                                                         broodraste to gooo  pabIc For thousand of pop.laoon; snrlnds  on-
Cos  -teoodotion Onto - Ac_r'c9o ouor  fda5-         o-.o,a       irll bnr to                  lit-o-needtococrst  cno-rto  andinyaa orgstntnfndt
boo netul raproducoLco pclid it att taolnecpcan .-rill  tr                                       cosot s- fro  bu. frTrro   or  ny nt WbcoprnbLs olta
ttlsypansusnl   foaycr              -eo7o - d ' insJ   190, 1970,. ad 1979.                   netostrteeutssdIasa=o
PaaoPlonue.    acnooo  foi(thost -so     - anale-bao of .o.por..  "rtcrImn  thesno  nontu'-TV osr..eLn  ftr bondatno
eF hithcnoo  d-te   n            opio.. of enrinea  faulty pleatn roson                       gonaral poll  prO tobasaund       . p0lrtoo;  -oolade  ealtosod ITVsnsr
Pasilyplanosa - Urru (90000  of aerrird   te)   -       uPrc.r.o of e'rrold              to c_nitoed On yearn  h..o _ogilatoao   of TV eots -ne  Is sff.ot.
not  of chtld-bsatiog 000 (15-40  -0h. ot sottthrt-ontnnl d-otro  to                         nonaronor Ctroolotiot (eon thb..eo.b  PoPolattin) - lh. the  1 . asog  tin-
P000 bOND otJITIOt                                                                                  to bo "batty" it itapuausetfsrtsnasek
Lndn of Pood Prodtolo  roe Canon (l969-71-100! - lobs of por .npit. nonnt                      Cite  Anna   ctnnr   oCot   o     a       eSo   h   aoo
Proetion of all fodooa:aditc. .Prod-rtot. nclude ..  ..d nod tfod nobI ohta sold duoOn.:oto 2yoa.. mo-lIng  n                                           tesoeon dr o-taona
Le on ralsdbr ynr boes.  Coeaaotsto  cocor pnionoy vods (o.o. ..ra ....                         n  nh     sia
inscaad of ngr   btb ion a.diblo end cn.ntui.onutrseaa (... ..ff- nod
ta- r  nurodd),       Aprgecportnof nob  "noo   ts hoe  un                                 tbl0l F0R0E
ntionlanag   odro   o    etbo  '1901-65. 1970, sod 19799dote.                               Tn-l Labor Po.r. ithes...ndo) - neonalalsy  -i-tc   penen. nI-ldteg
Par uofa oeol  ofonlrtee(roonn  ofrtelnaoons  -  onpat  tre            uendfor-s nod anaployad bnt anrWLntg husonio..s.. sndonte.  t0.,
nospg  oqiotn  ofnt od   sptsnocollal   inr tnry prgutaoenn  pape1ation of ull  Bgo.'.                                               fntoa  ocroornt er
por day.  Ac-ilabto euppli-s moirlr  do-Jti  poodurctoo. inos-onnt ..oupanohl; 1960. 1970 eod 1979 dnta.
onpooo. nd uhunyonto osrt.   eo   --plJs ontdo teibut.fun'd,  oS,               Pnla(orrol-Pe-   tboofroa.art to   oo   no  ot..
qI diiasadi  od  rrcil.adbtn  oSrobuis   oosr' oh-tr   nrun)-OrbrfrotofrtoLfosr                                                                  .huoo   o
.oo .oo   ntiartd by PFIX hib  us. d bcaooclntdto   eanear..-   octi-                  ffirhtor 00 perronano of rosal.tboo forca; 1960. 1970 and 1979 data.
etY no  haslth r..ondrotni atrloooonotlosp.oat...   bod istyhs  r;o1nd-or  -rrnt) - tehen form    omilg  roLreto    anfoutng
no.  ordnd     teto o.op..it edoloco  0p,retfr  utnsod  lrJllt,osooofnoo  prooft0ftte   ohrfoo;  90
hautttld=oca;.1941-65. 1970. and 1977 daa                                                  1 970 an_d 1979 base.
Pr ruir t eol  of ooni  9,5coa   o)- Pooti   --aer  of Par copitr                          Purotcioutteo lata foPrat   total. nab. nod fnnle- Panoooiratlot o
nan npply  f fon  peadey.  Oat oupply offond Lcc boi t    -o o ba chr .  -             e-ticity  -ot-   -5 coapatd as totol. mla. and tfals labor fonoene
qurmte for oll r-notois -er.bliahrd by USDA p ird. for ecr,cs                            purnan   f'o,l  asad fra1l   paeato    f at1 5  Bsrssttep
eloor   f 60oreao   totl protais par day and 20 ac-t  of noloo1 nod                    1960. 1970, rob 1979 d-t.  Too  son..  boss.  oo ILO's parioiraiotro
pslea pootoin, of eb.hlc 10     - goas  rh.ld ho aris-al prt.Loi.  Thoc. enand-              rofleatitt ugo.rae  noonror  of the:poplatlo., and  .nng tim   t-d.  A
node so  l"wo  t tht-   e  of 75 tram  of t-c.1 preoulo rod 23 ar-r ef                       fan nOnteaa    oentIonl  oros
nosmu  protno  t oeeo3   for oh, rcodlbp proposd by PAO in tha Third                       tannat  Isan -sytito - Ratio of popolatiot eadn  15 und 65 and us
Oold Pood leny; 1961-65. 1970 nod 1977 dta.                                                 to  the  .. nol.tboo. on
Pa'Eoo  aroot  acopl  frE       ri-u  aod rulso- Pootnia ripply of food do-
oteod foam otiosit und puleor In Irosa ~~~~~porby   961-65  1970 aod 1977 beta.  tocofd0011t0
Chtld (ar   -)Orrie7a(son  = .aoso)_-Annea druha per those_n  In                               Perr-Rsc.f  leeo!yy               booth L. ..hooh.4 k0Id) - nocoor-d by rloh-
aegop1-4 poara, ro chirldren in thia egc troop; too  eel. dceolopln  rut                  s proo,.us,.rihot   -2toroo  p.0r00   20 pe-cat, nod pFnoe  60 psrmnat
-otn.  dat. d-ricod 0 r., litfa tattler; 1960, 1070 rod 1970 data,                               of ho---bhldn.
fikLTH                                                                                         POUlTrY TMMT0 GneUPS
fifetoo,      osa  OSlotb (pond, - A,araganr -boo af ;aoaf 11f0    -iras sae                    The fo11ln   rol,tn  oro vony approoleto mnrsof poorty I.-I.e,
abtrth; 1960U, 1970 sod 1079 bc-c.enshldhInoprdwihosdotlooton
totano tgOOa.lite neon (000 thea-and) - A-1ea  detbe of itfonnondor onY.. you                  Iciotoul abeno izpocotoy Onnnt Lca  (01  _00onita      rhnad  ua
of rgtn protaar  lr    ita                                                                     catl-Oj yAs-r-y Por'.."o   t Lhov!Onr;b.   loca  heitln   hc   A   -.n.aI-
bar of psopto  (tota.1  uraco, cod rura) slob  -nr-cblo             torrooct00 soto dffordI-a.
otter supply (loaatoaodcrrott                      ruoordba    ..t atooorrr-otc              fanoaod       toI-or  Poconto t.rooetoa  (0  prcol    - urhen ed rurl  -
of thoa  _cprt le   oeal-e oa   ob.  rc    ubI                                       om l Lareo   f h   oounry.  Orhon lane  is donleod fre  the  ura
Monooo   ooPea  Iootdro  ns         - tht  00   Ioo to   ahars, sa-y he                loca   co nthdjea,t for both- orcot of lietng io aobm ro.
roodod  onB,atnoo   sraataacuooihu   aa.inrrlaso                                            clod Populatn  flelo,  !teoat  P0000Ocma'tl onoel-  r
blaoehteorn .neld Ocply uhar Otho bhosarifo o-ecbore of tha he...coald                      00d trerl   P-orte of  ~populoln  '(orhon norra) who.r    hol
do not heo 0  npro    dispooparOionto pant of tho dny to fotrhi2tnaO                            ps"
Acc.oesto terac  Olsoonat irroato  popnlntouoo- otol. urbu,o.ad   -oo  -
N-bor of popl  (tosal  uran  ro -rra) as.-nd by otrt-  dlopoan  no
thu rol11cott  no  dirpooel, oltnh or tth-s  tar-nar, o,f bou-a   ,, sornn                                                           t.nn.   sad Social Wata Dtossn1
a-b  -anta:-nato-by  -r00-boron ayoouo  Or the ens of p         i0vretano  atom                                                tanono   nalsi  ad frntrt-.ion   Dspsrtmot
brisatntn. LEoeJy -   199
PonetLoot   no Phostian..- Popalotion dncldad by oteh- as pr-tirtes phyai-
otno  qeal!fofid_tnn-   naia  aho t -n'carlt  1-91.
Ponlai       ftoa   OonmsPoen-opoto   dcide  by  -oehr  of pra-otoln
mle and fsaat  gradets nucc.r-torL-noa  nod ...lotno'tnoons



ANNEX I
- 28-                                          Page4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
S'K -    4STIC PRODUCT IN 1977- 80           1977         1978             1979          1980         ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (2  constant pricei
us$ Min  x  US$ Min   %    US$Min   7   US$ Min  2           1972-80      1978      1         1980
GDP at Market Prices- a                    806   100    939  100    1,225  100   1,409   100            4.2         -2.5      11.3      -1.6
Gross Domestic Investment4-                125    16    149   16          188   15      211    15        2.6         0.3       7.3      -3.7
Gross Domestic Saving a/                     71     9    -18   -2        -53   -4       -51    -4         b/          b/        b/        b/
Current Account Balance                    -58    -7   -167  -18        -207  -17    -225   -16
Exports of Goods, NFS                       137    17    145   15         193   16      265    19      20.71/       -2 .71/   25.4      36.7
Imports of Goods, NFS                      191    24    340   36         424   35       514    36      21. 91/      63.31/   17.5       20.6
OUTPUT AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978-79
Value Added-SI
US$ Min.           %
Primary sector                             444              41
Secondary sector                           120              11
Tertiary sector                            518              48
1,082            100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government d/
(Billion MI)            % of GDP
1978   1979   1980        1978   1979   1980
Total Receipts                     52.3   54.9   54.2         12.4   10.5    9.1
Current Expenditure                61.2   72.5   75.8        14.5   13.9   12.7
Current Surplus                    -8.9  -17.6  -21.6        -2.1   -3.4   -3.6
Capital Expenditure -l              3.4    3.6    3.8         0.8    0.7    0.6
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES (Billions KFA/
1975     1976      1977       1978     1979      1980
Money and Quasi Money                             68.3       77.5     96.9      118.4    136.1    143.7
Credit to Government                              64.6      72.3      96.4      102.8    109.2    110.0
Credit to Economy                                102.2    122.6    106.9        133.1    152.2    164.0
Credit to State Enterprises                       77 3      94.2      71.7       77.3      91.5      89.9
Money and Quasi Money as I of GDP                 25.0      22.5      24.5       28.C      26.0      24.1
Annual Percentage Changes:
GDP Deflator  il                                  20.9      10.9       7.7        9.2      10.9      15.9
Credit to Government                              10.1      11.9      33.3        6.6       6.2       0.7
Credit to Economy                                 46.6      20.0    -12.8        24.5      14.4       7.8
of which:
Credit to State Enterprises                       65.9      21.9    -23.9          7.8     18.4      -1.7
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered,  1980 data
are still provisional and subject to change.
a/   IMF, Bank staff estimates.  1977 excludes unrecorded trade.
b/   Trend growth rate is not significant; domestic savings were negative in 1973.  1974. 1975 and 1q78-80.
c/ At current prices.
d/ IMP, Bank staff estimates, for 1979, 1980.
e/ Excluding capital expenditures financed out of foreign aid which do not figure in the budget.
/    Growth rates in national currencies.  Rates for trade data are in current prices.
Data from Malian Central Bank except as noted; end of period.
h/ Excludin& F 14 billion credit to OPAM consolidated in 1977.
ifBank eat ates.
I   Trade data for 1978 and later years include estimates for unrecorded trade;  they are therefore not strictly comparable with earlier y"e
Not applicable.



- 29 -                                  ANNE  I
Page 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                        MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1978-89Q
19771/     1978      1979       198o '                          US$ Minm.V     %
(US$ million)
Merchandise Exports FOB         124.6       111.1    147.5       204.7      Cotton and products       79.3     51
Import of Goods FOB             114.4       205.8    251.8      323.6      Live Stock and products 43.5        18
Net Imports NFS                  68.3       100.4    126.1      130.3       Groundnuts and Products   8.1        5
Merchandise Imports c.i.f.      158.7       285.1    348.2      448.0       Fish (dried and smoked)   2.1       1
All other Goods           21.4      L4
Food                             21.0        52-.3     48.0      78.7      Total Recorded Exports 154.4   100
(Cereals)                       (.)         (18.8)   (151.8)    (29.3)
Petroleum Products               28.5        43.7      55.5      882.7
Other Merchandise               109.3       189.1    244.7      286.6
Resource gap                    -54.0      -167.1   -240.1    -262.2
Investment Income Payment
(net)                        -19.8       -10.9    -11.8      -14.4      EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMER 31. 1980
Net Private Transfers 4/         20.3        39.2      34.6       38.5                                            US$ Min.
Net Official Transfers            70.4      104.0    106.8      108.3      Public Debt, Disbursed and
Official Longterm                                                              Outstanding                            621
Capital (net)                 47.7        53.4     64.2       96.2      Public Debt, Undisbursed       51          231
SDR Allocation                    -           -         3.5       3.5      Total Public Debt Outstanding-             853
Errors and Omissions (netj       17.7       -12.0       2.1     -13.2      DEBT SERVICE RATIO%FOR 1980Y                %
Change in Reserves                                                                                                    5.9
(increase -) 2/             -13.0      -20.0    -22.4       -24.6      Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed
Net Negative Reserves
(end of period) 7/         -208.6     -245.1   -262.       -259.4-/   IBRD/IDA LENDING, DECMBER 31, 1980
I8RD     IDA
(Million US$)
Outstanding and Disbursed        -  120.8
Undisbursed                      -   54T8
Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed -  175.6
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Period Avrage           End of Period
1972:  US$Y -         504.42  US$1       513            SDR - MF  547.65
1973:  US$1  -    MF 445.40  US$1   -  471                         530.97
1974:  US$1  -    MF 480.99  US$1   -  444                         578.46
1975:  US$1  -    MF 428.64  US$1   -  449                         520.43
1976:  US$1  -    MF 477.96  US$1   -  497                         561.81
1977:  US$1  -    MP 491.34  Us$1   -  471                         573.65
1978:  US$1  =    MF 451.27  US$1   -  418                         565.17
1979:  US$1        My 425.45  US$1   -  402                        549.07
1980: US$1  -    MF 422.60  US$1   -  452                          550.06
1/   Excluding unrecorded trade.
2/   Excludes SDR allocations
3/ Estimated.
4/   Includes workers' remittances.
5/   Includes US140  million in arrears.
6/   Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
7/   Net foreign assets of the banking system, converted at end of period exchange rates.
81   End of third quarter.
9/   Current dollars.



-30 -                          ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BAN( GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALI
A. Statement of IDA Credits as at May 31, 1981
Credit                                                    Amount
Number     Year       Borrower            Purpose           IDA        Undisbursed
-----US$ million------
Ten  Credits fully disbursed                               61.6
383-1-MLI  1975       Republic of Mali   Second
Highway          8.3 /1         1.06
538-MLI    1975       Republic of Mali   Livestock         13.3            3.41
599-MLI    1976       Republic of Mali   Third
Highway         10.0            1.52
669-MLI    1976       Republic of Mali   Mali-Sud
Agricul-
tural           15.5            6.48
713-MLI    1977       Republic of Mali   Railway III    10.5               4.51
733-MLI    1977       Republic of Mali   Education II   10.0               4.51
753-MLI    1977       Republic of Mali   Mopti Rice II  15.0               4.00
854-MLI    1978       Republic of Mali   Technical
Assistance       4.5            0.89
883-MLI    1979       Republic of Mali   Forestry           4.5            4.00
943-MLI    1979       Republic of Mali   Urban Devel-
opment          12.0           10.23
986-MLI    1980       Republic of Mali   Industrial
Sector
Development      8.0            7.44
173.2           48.05
of which has been repaid          0.5
Total now held by IDA*                                    172.7
Total undisbursed                                                         48.05
Amount SDR   Undisbursed
1104-MLI   1981       Republic of Mali   Road Mainte-
nance           13.4           13.4/2
1134-MLI   1981       Republic of Mali   Petroleum
Exploration
Promotion        3.1            3.1/3
Total           16.5           16.5
*    Prior to exchange adjustment.
/1   Supplementary Credit to Credit 383-MLI.
/2   The Credit was signed March 11, 1981, and is not yet effective.
T7   The Credit was signed April 29, 1981, and is not yet effective.



- 31 -                         ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investment as of May 31) 1981
Loan                                                  Amount
Number     Year       Borrower            Purpose       of Loan     Undisbursed
------US$ million--- --
403-MLI    1978       Sada Diallo         Bleach and
Plastic
Products        0.6             0.0
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Credit 383-MLI       Second Highway Project.  US$9.5 million Credit of May 23,
1973 (as amended on June 12, 1975); Effective Date:
September 12, 1973; Closing Date: July 15, 1977 extended
to December 30, 1981.
The Project consisted of (a) reconstruction of the Faladie-Segou
(222 km) and Bamako-Bougouni (160 km) roads; (b) procurement of highway equip-
ment; (c) technical assistance to DPW; (d) preinvestment studies for the
Bamako-Kolokani road; and (e) a study of the trucking industry. Because of
higher bids than estimated at appraisal, USAID could not finance the recon-
struction of the Bamako-Bougouni road and it was excluded from the project.
However, USAID financed the reconstruction of a bridge and the purchase of
road equipment and spare parts. All project components have been completed.
Credit 538-MLI       Livestock Project.  US$13.3 million Credit of
April 11, 1975; Effective Date: July 24, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project consists of (a) introduction of livestock extension
services and grazing control schemes in three selected areas (b) provision
for animal health services, (c) construction of 50 ponds and 70 wells, (d)
construction of one slaughter house (e) provision for five livestock markets,
(f) development of a pasture trial station (g) implementation of a training
and functional literacy program and (h) preparation of a follow-up project.
Although most components were successfully executed, there was no progress on
the more innovative aspects, i.e. those elements aimed at establishing the
rational use of land and water in the livestock area. Therefore remaining
funds under the Credit have been focussed on financing the necessary research
and pilot schemes, and on strengthening sector institutions, in order to lay a
sound basis for an eventual follow-up intervention.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



32 _
ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit 599-MLI       Third Highway Project.  US$10.0 million Credit of
January 9, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1976;
Closing Date: December 30, 1981.
The project comprises (a) improvement of feeder roads; (b) execution
of backlog maintenance of paved roads; (c) procurement of spare parts, and
road and workshop equipment; (d) equipment and supply for the training center;
and (e) technical assistance and consulting services for (i) the training
center; (ii) a transport plan study, and (iii) the updated engineering for the
Bamako-Bougouni road (160 km). Construction of feeder roads and the backlog
maintenance program is behind schedule due to low output of the force account
brigades. Two major problems which plague the project resulted from poor
management of the Equipment Service and insufficient road maintenance funds.
Credit funds allocated for spare parts were increased and technical assistance
added for the Equipment Service. Improved maintenance funding is being
stressed under the recently approved Road Maintenance Project (Cr. 1104-MLI).
Credit 669-MLI      Mali-Sud Agricultural Project.  US$15.5 million Credit
of December 23, 1976; Effective Date: September 13, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project consists of (a) expansion of agricultural production in
the project area: cotton, kenaf, maize and rice; (b) studies; (c) applied
research; (d) development of livestock; and (e) strengthening of public health
services. Project activities are progressing satisfactorily and have been
extended to millet and sorghum. Except for rice, production is beyond apprai-
sal estimates. Village Mutual Guarantee Groups and a blacksmith network are
being developed beyond expectations. Major financial difficulties for the
implementing agency arose in early 1981 as a result of inadequate adjustments
in the cotton price structure by Government; in April, however, the immediate
financial problem was solved by removal of input subsidies borne by the
agency.
Credit 713-MLI       Third Railway Project.  US$10.5 million Credit of
June 10, 1977; Effective Date: November 22, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Implementation of the bridge rehabilitation and repair program,
the project's main component, was finally set in motion in December 1979.
The remaining small bridges, which had to be excluded from the project as
the bid price exceeded the anticipated cost, will be financed with an
EEC Special Action Credit for US$10 million. Mali Railways (CFM) main
capacity and operational constraint continues to be the low availability of
locomotives. This had thwarted efforts to increase CFM's utilization of
imports from Dakar, where high stocks of Mali-bound products accumulated at
the port awaiting transport to Bamako. The shortage of locomotive power
was worsened by a collision in December 1979, leaving a gap which can only
be filled by augmenting the locomotive fleet. This is envisaged with funds
available under the EEC Special Action Credit.



33-
ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit 733-MLI       Second Education Project.  US$10.0 million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: January 30, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Physical implementation is about 24 months behind schedule. Govern-
ment financial constraints may lead to a need to reconsider the financing and
scope of the project. Construction of junior agricultural technician trainin6
centers is almost completed, and a curriculum development team commenced ope-
ration in the latter part of 1980. The functional literacy program is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. Construction of practical facilities for three experi-
mental rural secondary schools is proceeding, but implementation of new curri-
cula awaits high level policy decisions. Construction of the management
and livestock schools has not started.
Credit 753-MLI       Mopti Rice II Project.  US$15.0 million Credit of
December 8, 1977; Effective Date: May 15, 1978;
Closing Date: November 30, 1983.
The project consists of construction of new polders (8,000 ha) and
consolidation and improvement of existing polders (26,200 ha) for rice culti-
vati-on under controlled flooding. Main components are civil worxs; deep
ploughing; building; farm machinery and civil works maintenance; agricultural
credit; applied agricultural research; technical assistance for ORM and adult
literacy program. The project also provides assistance to the Study Bureau of
the Genie Rural. In general, the physical progress is satisfactory, aespite
some delays in earthmoving works, deep ploughing, buildings, and hydraulic
structure implementation.
Credit 854-MLI       Office du Niger - Technical Assistance/Engineering
Project. US$4.5 million Credit of October 30,
1978; Effective Date: January 31, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
The project was designed to prepare (a) an infrastructure rehabilita-
tion program, (b) a pilot program of on-farm works (1,500 ha), and (c) urgent
spot repairs of the irrigation infrastructure. The technical assistance
project consists of (1) engineering services to prepare plans required for the
appraisal of an infrastructure rehabilitation program, (2) training of irriga-
tion construction personnel, (3) audit, (4) livestock studies, (5) research
and (6) a socio-economic study of the settler population. Except for the
Kogoni rice research station equipment, all project components are underway
and proceeding at a satisfactory pace. Due to initial problems, the project
has fallen about 6 months behind schedule, but some delays can be made up
within the remaining months of the project.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit 883-MLI       Forestry Project.  US$4.5 million Credit of May 25,
1979; Effective Date: May 27, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
A five year program to increase fuelvood and building pole supplies
would establish 3,400 ha of industrial rainfed tree plantations near Bamako
and on a trial basis, 60 ha of rainfed and 70 ha of partially irrigated
plantations near Mopti; apply modern forest management techniques on 1,200 ha
of natural forest; establish three rural forestry nurseries and rehabilitate a
fourth, and carry out studies of more efficient wood use and ways to involve
local population in rural forest activities. Technical experts services
would supplement the staff of the Forestry Department of the Ministry of Rural
Development to assist with the implementation of the forestry program. The
project has started satisfactorily.
Credit 943-MLI       Urban Development Project.  US$12.0 million Credit of
November 7, 1979; Effective Date: June 3, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project will assist Government in providing affordable urban
services to low income urban residents. For the capital city of Bamako, the
project provides shelter, services and related community facilities for about
44,000 low income residents; improves health and sanitary conditions; and
carries out an investment study. In addition, new institutions will be
created and outside expertise utilized to strengthen and develop the urban
setor. Market facilities and financial assistance for the informal sector and
promotion of local building materials would aid local entrepreneurs.   The
secondary centers of Mopti, Kayes and Gao will receive essential water and
sanitation services.
Credit 986-MLI       Industrial Sector Development Project.  US$8.0 Million
Credit of May 23, 1980. Effective Date: September 26,
1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project consists of support to the private industrial and
traditional sector, including a US$3.5 million line of credit and a comprehen-
sive institution building program; and the rehabilitation and expansion of
Union Laitiere de Bamako, Mali's sole producer of pasteurized milk products.
Credit 1104-MLI      Road Maintenance Project.  SDR 13.4 million Credit of
March 11, 1981. Effective Date: August 10, 1981
(anticipated) Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit 1134-MLI    Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project, SDR 3.1 million
Credit of April 29, 1981. Effective Date: July 28, 1981
(anticipated). Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
MALI
ODIPAC TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project Identification Missions: 1978-79
(b) Appraisal Mission: June 1980
(c) Date of completion of negotiations: June 1981
(d) Planned date of effectiveness: October 1981
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Conditions of effectiveness:
(a) all conditions precedent to the initial disbursement of
the FAC grant should be fulfilled (para. 58); and
(b) Government would pay the initial tranche of start-up capi-
tal of MF100 million to ODIPAC (para. 58).
Other Conditions:
(a) Government would pay two additional tranches of MF 100 mil-
lion each to ODIPAC six and twelve months respectively after
effectiveness, or by June 30 and December 31, 1982, respec-
tively (in each case, the earlier date would apply) (para.
58);
(b) no further credit for inputs and equipment would be extended to
a village unless its credit repayment record in the previous
year had reached at least 75 percent (para. 51);
(c)  at least 50% of project fertilizers, seeds and chemicals would
be sold for cash, and the balance on credit at a seasonal
interest rate of at least 10X to individuals; for medium-term
loans for equipment, the project would charge the maximum
interest rate allowed under BCEAO rules; preferential discounts
and downpayment conditions would be offered to members of AVs
(paras. 48 and 50);



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) Government would take into account ODIPAC's costs, including
distribution, when establishing the prices of agricultural
inputs and would reimburse to ODIPAC any difference between
official input prices and ODIPAC costs, and any interest
charges accruing between purchase and compensation through the
bareme (para. 48);
(e) Government would provide incentive marketing margins to the
Associations Villageoises and announce in May of each year the
price of groundnuts (para. 50);
(f) the annual budget and work program of DNAFLA would be submitted
through ODIPAC management for IDA review (para. 49);
(g) the annual work programs and budgets for the applied research
program and the monitoring and evaluation unit would be sub-
mitted through ODIPAC management for IDA review (paras. 52 and
53);
(h) OACV assets related to the ODIPAC zone would be transferred
to ODIPAC as equity: ODIPAC would bear no responsibility
for OACV debts. An opening balance sheet reflecting this
position would be approved by ODIPAC's board and be sent to IDA
by March 31, 1982. Proposals for a new accounting system
would be discussed with IDA (para. 55);
(i) Government would exchange views with IDA on any proposal
requiring an investment by ODIPAC of a value exceeding
US$150,000,equivalent in one year (para. 56); and
(j) Government would provide ODIPAC promptly with adequate
resources required to meet any shortfall between ODIPAC's
reasonable costs and provisions, and transfers to ODIPAC
received through the bareme (para. 57).



- 37 -                        ANNEX IV
MALI
ODIPAC TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Documentation Available in the Project File
A.   IDA Working Papers
1.   Technical assistance - Terms of reference and costs;
2.   Seed multiplication;
3.   Research and recommended input applications;
4.   Extension and training;
5.   Village Mutual Guarantee Groups;
6.   Monitoring and Evaluation;
7.   Project vehicles and operating costs;
8.   ODIPAC provisional budget 1980/81; and
9.   ODIPAC financing plan (project activities only).
B.   Other Documentation
1.   Findings of a descriptive survey in the OACV area in 1975/6
(IER - Bamako .1977);
2.   Agro-economic study of 32 farms in the OACV area
(IER - Bamako 1978);
3.   Mali - Agriculture Sector Memorandum, 1979 (World Bank report
No. 2567-MLI);
4.   Mali - Integrated Rural Development Project (Cr. 491-MLI):  Project
completion report (World Bank, January 17, 1980); and
5.   Consultant reports produced for OACV II appraisal:
-    Groundnuts (M. Gillier);
-    Cereals (R. Chateau).






Z M       A       U      R'°   I        T     A      N      l'    A                                                 j                                                2'
..$ \N. il..                           ..                                                 I             REPUBLIC OF MALI /RAPUB/QUFDUMAZL
0 (   \jr    oYelimone   oNIoro     \X a                                  ODIPAC  TECHNICAL  ASSISTANCE  PROJECT
<                       \">xV                    PROJ1 DASS/STANCEFECHNA/QUFA Z'OD/PAC
'V             >, $!<                                 PROJE CT A R E A  ZONL               E DU PROJET
,T r-~~~~~-;:>  uc NL c dL'V FS TF P4/L 4 1  * H  /  O S    ,           ,    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~            OI MIL//U/LRI
.       E      IVORS       |iHN      R"I  ALEI  ) 1-. eecneke corrhCl' 0t  SETO CENTE ICNR DE; SECTEUjR,>
E   h   \  .  L<Lmd,>,shOC^O ..... h,,m.p . ; s \/ n D V / r n A < T i ~ ~ ^0KVILLAGES/AG/LOMERATIOIS
GUIN_    .        r VOL   .   '  _, ,1  '__                                                           Jcetcosc   sI<(
IA.






12   M      A       U       R      ~ I   AT       A      N      IR     A2
600- dA  '\\<.  \4</\                                                                                                        \.               REPU)BLIC OF MALR OF AI/EPBLI/EDLIMAZI
> g\\\X!\ <\ \\\9 A\\X>\XX\ ODIPAC TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
'PROJETD'AS55TANCE TECHNIQUE A l'OD/PAC
CLIMATIC CONDITIONS /CONDITIONS CLIAATIQUES
700
800~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~  ; _                  i      \\                       /                Noo              ,                                                  i
8 00 <>>).. 
14'   <                                                                                                                                                                                              I lin
z                                                                                                                                                                                        0 °, 
LL)  1000 Ito. 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    11
12                                                                                                                                                                                PROJECT AREA / ZONE DO PROJET
07 \i --5   /  I 0  r   t0ul28@d>}hOOlhepdfl O Ihe      V             | V  O  R Y        / C  O                                                      CAP I TA Z   e    --    =L /  TRAPI TAE I
f,2'  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~jD®PROVINCE CAPITAL,'CAPITALEREGIONALE
.,~~~~~~~~~~~N ,                                                                                                        1Oy dno olIeS91satSo         
IBYA                                                                                           0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ADMINISTRATIVE DISTRICT CENTER
lOllO  t: 9 a tS           4 |       lo anrumborrol wovendonerneen        8                             '                                                          CH FLIEUt  D CERCLE
f    .A                                                                                                                           K _00 I~ mAG   K                      - - - - REO lN ;OUNLARY/LIMITDEREGION
.IN TE RN AT IONAL BOUN DARY
MAUJRITANIA  IREPUBI                                                                                                                                                        ISOHYETS IN MIEEIMETER
-ISOHYETESEN MILLIMEETRRES
ZONE COUWLIITE  OP                                                                                                          e-L                                         RIVERSICOURSD'EAU
.% P4H LA CA-L                 NGE
e                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E CO LOG ICA L ZON ES /ZONES ECOL OGIOUlES
..~~~~~ 1, AREA ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                     -~~~~--  ~~~~~7Nj~~~'-AHELIAN ISAHEAEEIENNE
INEj   A,' O  UP PE                                                                                                                                    IDANIAN ISOUDANIENNE
INA        F    OLA                                                                                                                                                       lTi7]]JGUINEAN IGUINEENNE
N4J     IVORY)              N IG   RI 
COAST IGHANA'CI li IO                                                                                                                                                          0               25007
'I                                         IVUI<Y               COAST                                                        KILOMETERS/KILOMETIIES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K  LM T RSKLOM TE
- /  C ~~~~~~~~~~OE  N                              I 8                                                                                                             7I   CR    0A   



