Report No. PID6673
Project Name                     Indonesia-ID-Provincial Health Project (@)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Targeted Health
Project ID                       IDPE49545
Borrower(s)                      GOI
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Health
Environment Category             C (Not Required)
Date PID Prepared                April 10, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         February 16, 2000
Projected Board Date             June 15, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
The government reorganization now underway in
Indonesia involves opportunities and risks for a
health sector still recovering from a serious economic
crisis. Budget cuts and other crisis impacts disrupted
a sector which had made gradual advances up to 1997.
Infant mortality risks fell significantly between the
mid 1970s and mid 1990s while most nutrition and
family planning indicators increased at varying rates.
However, gains were uneven and in some instances
limited, e.g., for the poor and in specific regions,
and for reproductive health risks and diseases like
tuberculosis (TB). Child survival and reproductive
risks, and moderate malnutrition and micronutrient
disorders remain high in Lampung province especially
among the poor. And in Lampung and Yogyakarta, the
provinces of particular interest in this project,
resurgent TB and other disease threats pose problems,
not only for the poor but the public at large.
Yogyakarta also must deal with rising non-communicable
disease rates.
Meanwhile, MOH had only limited success during the
1990s in overcoming managerial and technical skill
gaps and input shortages in the country's multi-
layered, government-run (and financed) service
provision system. To fulfill national integration
goals, this network of health centers, satellite
sites, and hospitals was set up quickly on a wide
front. But the system, which was managed from
Jakarta, never achieved visit and contact levels,
especially from poor patients and clients,
commensurate with its design, and investment and
running costs. The generally diffident demand for
public services is attributable to interrelated



factors such as perverse provider incentives,
unprioritized health worker assignments and tasks,
ineffective accountability, low responsiveness to
local conditions, weak targeting, steep informal fees,
scarce inputs, and due to the above, poor service
quality. Such performance features are not uncommon,
but Indonesia's version of supply-side "syndrome" has
been especially persistent. Chronically low funding
has been a major causal factor and a consequence in
respect to these problems.    Health spending did make
gains in the 1990s, but then fell during the crisis to
levels reached early in the decade.
The crisis is receding. However, the health sector
faces challenges in the government decentralization
mandated in Laws 22 and 25 which were signed by
President Habibie in June 1999. These measures could
help improve public provider incentives,
accountability and sensitivity to local preferences
and needs. On the other hand, risks to health
service sustainability and continuity evident in
decentralization elsewhere will need to be kept in
view. For example, decentralization in the
Philippines, Colombia and several other Latin American
countries brought complaints about weak technical
oversight in health and potentially risky ambiguity
about public health responsibilities.
Government strategy
MOH responded in different ways to health problems
observed during the 1990s. Prior to the crisis,
policy changed incrementally within the centrally
guided service delivery paradigm. Staff development
and quality assurance were among the priority policy
areas. The crisis required refocusing, initially
during 1998, on price increases and shortages of
drugs and medical supplies.    The drug emergency was
followed by formulation of JPS-BK, the health safety
net, which became GOI's main crisis response in this
sector.
GOI is considering in what form and scale it should
sustain JPS-BK. Meanwhile, a sectoral response to the
decentralization legislation is taking shape. This
response includes continuing discussions between MOH
and the Finance, Home Affairs, and Regional Autonomy
ministries and between MOH and the Provinces on how to
interpret Laws 22 and 25 in the health field. The
sectoral response also includes donor cooperation to
optimize assistance during this transitional period.
Sector issues to be addressed by the project
The proposed project is the third element in the
-2 -



health sector's response to Laws 22 and 25. This
involves taking up various health decentralization
issues within an operational framework. The
overriding sectoral issue addressed by the Provincial
Health Project (PHP) is how to make health sector
decentralization successful. In this regard, PHP has
several distinguishing features :
The scope of activities is broader than that in
ongoing health projects. Funds are expected to be
spent on primary and secondary curative care, and
communicable disease control and other preventive
health services including information provision and
promotion. And attention will be given to priority
setting, resource mobilization, budgeting and funds
channeling, regulatory activities, provider incentives
and accountability, and quality assurance.
Training and other learning experiences for key staff
will be supported early on in the project. Emphasis
will also be given to the improved information flows,
incentive arrangements, and new mechanisms, e.g., for
personnel management, accountability and local
priority setting and planning, needed to enable newly
acquired skills to be applied effectively.
PHP supports functions and roles which are best
handled by provinces, e.g., technical assistance and
quality control for district programs, communicable
disease surveillance and control, health promotion,
large volume procurement, regulatory tasks and
personnel management.
A specialized role for the central MOH is fostered as
well. Law 22 and its emerging regulations assign
leadership and health advocacy, information gathering
and analysis, standard setting and some regulatory
functions to the Center. PHP will help MOH prepare for
this new agenda.
Decentralization is seen as an opportunity to carry
out a health reform agenda. PHP's program in this
regard includes restructuring government health
organizations, rationalizing personnel numbers and
deployment, and building on JPS-BK accountability
mechanisms to make public providers more client
responsive, and all providers more quality conscious.
Other elements in PHP's eclectic agenda, e.g.,
increasing consumer awareness of service availability
and standards, stimulating demand via health
education, and community mobilization, are also
expected to influence providers.
Institutional and other PHP reforms will proceed
within a financing framework which incorporates old
-3 -



and new funding flows including resources generated
locally.
2. Objectives
The project's goals are, first, to bring about
effective health decentralization in the provinces of
Lampung and Yogyakarta. The challenge during this
period of institutional change and economic recovery
will be to protect health services which are essential
for the poor and public at large while initiating key
sector reforms and putting health financing on a firm
footing. The second objective is to help MOH carry
out its new role in a decentralized system. This role
encompasses analysis of key issues, advocacy of best
practices and standards, and support for local
initiative and innovation.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank's major emphasis since 1997 has been on
strategy formulation and policy dialogue centering on
the post-crisis period. This project is grounded in a
Bank health strategy note which has been disseminated
widely, and in related work on health spending. Like
the strategy paper, PHP draws on project level
experiences and a cumulative view of a centrally run
system that was faltering even before the crisis. A
further Bank contribution is its continuing analysis
of decentralization across sectors, including
experience in helping Indonesian municipalities become
financially viable and self-managing.
4. Description
The project's service component will operate through a
district ceiling, grant and proposal review process.
In order to establish this allocation, targeting,
quality control, and accountability mechanism in a
robust way, Phase 1 (FY2000-FY2001) emphasizes
capacity building including work by Task Forces on
institutional development and resource mobilization.
In Phase 2, FY2002-FY2005, districts will develop
proposals within assigned ceilings for grants to
support health improvement.
Managing Decentralization
Under this component, provincial Task Forces will
develop recommendations on critical institutional
issues which will then be implemented. Issues to be
addressed include finalization of the division of
responsibilities between districts and provinces;
merging health units; defining a human resource plan
covering possible downsizing, contract hiring and
-4 -



career development; and developing health promotion
strategy including setting up a health promotion board
in Yogyakarta. During FY2002-FY2005, implementation of
recommendations will be funded. The central MOH unit
will commission complementary studies, while also
carrying out activities aimed at providing useful
guidance on decentralization. Findings will be made
available to all provinces and districts, with
dissemination developing MOH's analytical and advocacy
roles in a decentralized setting. The MOH unit will
also sponsor workshops on health sector
decentralization, conduct social marketing on health,
and pilot accountability mechanisms.
Mobilizing Resources
During FY2000-FY2001, provincial Task Forces will
evaluate pre-paid financing mechanisms, expand use of
autonomous facilities which rely on cost recovery, and
develop tax based cross subsidies. The central Task
Force will provide grants to provinces or districts to
fund proposals supportive of decentralized health
financing systems. Proposals will be solicited from
provinces and districts outside Yogyakarta and
Lampung. Approved proposals will be funded jointly by
the central MOH and the regions.
Improving Health Service Access and Quality
During FY2000-FY2001, this component will supplement
government outlays on essential health services by
financing inputs, improved access to facilities, and
specific services. In addition, funds will be
allocated to quality assurance programs, and
intensified health promotion.
Grants
From FY2002 onwards, districts will be allocated funds
through a grant mechanism. Districts will prepare
annual proposals for review by Joint Health Councils
(JHCs) with the assistance of Technical Review Teams.
Proposals would cover goals, poverty and
epidemiological characteristics, health priorities and
mechanisms, performance indicators, and notional
budgets within ceilings set by the JHCs. Proposals
for years two, three and so forth will be based on
improved health information system findings and
experience gained from implementation during previous
years. This "rolling" planning feature will
encourage districts to take a medium view of
priorities and the prepare to find new resources to
replace Association funding. District ceilings will
be based on the numbers of poor people locally, their
pattern of service use, and overall program goals.
- 5-



Funds will be made available after the proposals are
approved by the JHCs.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government                               41.07
IBRD                                     0
IDA                                      38.00
Total Project Cost                       79.07
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented in the provinces of
Lampung and Yogyakarta and the central MOH over five
and a half years, made up of phase 1, FY2000-FY2001,
and phase II, FY2002-FY2005.
The proposed institutional arrangements include:
District level: District Implementation Units, DIUs,
established by the Bupati (District Project Director)
within planning units of reorganized district health
offices and headed by the chief of the Bappeda Level
II, will be responsible for procurement, disbursement
and accounting for district level activities.
Procurement and financial management will be carried
out in compliance with a Project Management Manual
acceptable to the Association. The DIU, which will be
supervised by the chief of the district health office
operating as Executive Secretary, will draw on
existing government personnel for procurement and
financial matters.
Provincial level: A Joint Health Council, JHC
comprising members of Civil Society and the province's
Bupatis and chaired by the Vice Governor, has been
established in the participating provinces. During
FY2002-FY2005, the JHC, taking note of advice from the
Technical Review Team, TRT, will award annual Grants
for health service improvement, along with grants to
fund Task Force recommendations it has endorsed. The
TRT comprises existing health professionals located in
the provincial health planning unit, reinforced by
health specialists hired for short term assignments.
Each province has set up a Provincial Coordination and
Implementation Unit, PCIU directed by the chief of the
Bappeda I and with the head of the provincial health
office as Deputy Provincial Project Director. The
PCIU will be responsible for procurement, disbursement
and accounting for provincial level activities, in
accordance with the Project Management Manual.
Procurement will be under the supervision of a Pimpro
and finance under a treasurer, Bendahara, both
government employees, while PCIU activities will be
- 6-



coordinated by an Executive Secretary employed by the
project. Within the PCIU, monitoring and evaluation,
procurement, and financial management specialists will
be project supported. The PCIU will focus on
activities for which greater efficiency and lower
units costs can be achieved through implementation at
the provincial rather than district level. A
Provincial Health Promotion Board, PHPB, has been
established by Governor's Decree in Yogyakarta. Made
up of highly respected non-government and government
figures, the PHPB will fund health promotion work by
NGOs and others.
Central level : A Central Project Coordination Unit,
CPCU, has been established in MOH under the Secretary
General who will serve as Project Director. The chief
of the Bureau of Planning is Deputy Project Director.
The CPCU will be supervised by a full-time unit head
with appropriate sector and management experience who
will be funded by the project and act as project
coordinator. CPCU staff will also include existing
government employees; i.e., procurement will be under
the supervision of a Pimpro and finance under a
treasurer, Bendahara.
7. Sustainability
Establishing sustainable financing arrangements is an
important dimension of PHP. The two provinces have
presented anticipated levels of central and local
government support as well as yearly targets for
revenue mobilization. The resource mobilization
component aims at developing the instruments needed to
replace World Bank funding starting in the second half
of the project period. The project's grant mechanism
with its district-level planning, proposal formulation
(against specified ceilings), technical review and
related features also has sustainability objectives.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the
country/sector
The World Bank has invested in 16 health projects in
Indonesia since 1977. Up to the early 1990s, Bank-
assistance helped extend the centrally-guided health
delivery system. Unsatisfactory project performance
then brought recognition of the need for a more
decentralized approach. The Third Health Project,
which closed in 1996, included local resource
mobilization and a larger provincial planning and
budgeting role. The ongoing Third Community Health
and Nutrition Project (Loan 3550-IND) has supported
local level service, training and quality assurance
innovations, while the Safe Motherhood Project (Loan
4207-IND) is helping provinces to develop locally
-7 -



suitable demand and supply side improvements. The
Fourth Health Project (Loan 3905-IND) is developing
local ownership of quality assurance, and the Fifth
Health Project (Loan 4374-IND) focuses on improving
the capacity of provincial and district staff. A
lesson emerging from this cohort of partially
decentralized initiatives is the desirability in terms
of sustaining new approaches and building in
appropriate incentives of getting the Bupati and other
local decision makers fully involved in project design
and implementation. This step will be taken once Law
22 goes into operation in roughly one year.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public
consultation)
Issues        Environmental category     [ ] A
[     B         [XI C
The project will have a positive impact on the
environment, through environmental health components
proposed in district service delivery plans. Health
promotion activities will also contribute to
environmental improvement.
11. Contact Points:
Task Manager
Samuel S. Lieberman
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 62-21-52993000
Fax: 62-21-52993111
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an involving project.
Certain components may not be necessarily included in
the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 12, 2000.
- 8 -



