Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20423-lND
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 28.6 MILLION (US$ 38.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR
PROVINCIAL HEALTH I
May 10, 2000
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 2000)
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
Rp 1 Million = US$ 133.90
US$ 1 = Rp. 7,468
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Indonesia January 1 - December 31
2000: April 1 - December 31
2001 -: January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB        Asian Development Bank                 JPS-BK      Social Safety Net, Health Component
Bappeda    Regional Development Planning Agency   Kanwil      Ministry of Health Provincial Office
Kesehatan
Bappenas   National Development Planning Agency   KPKN        Treasury Office
BPKP       Central Audit Bureau                   MOF         Ministry of Finance
BPS        Central Bureau of Statistics           MOH        Ministry of Health
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy            MOHA       Ministry of Home Affairs
CPCU       Central Project Coordination Unit      NAF        Non-Association Financing
DADPD    Budget Allocation for Regional           NGO         Non Government Organization
Development
Dinas      Local Government Health Department     OECD        Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Kesehatan                                                     Development
DIP        Development Budgets Allocations        PCAR        Procurement Capacity Assessment Report
DIU        District Implementation Units          PCIU        Provincial Central Implementation Unit
Dokabu    Head of District Health Office          PHP         Provincial Health Project
DPRD II   District Assembly                       PHPB        Provincial Health Promotion Board
GOI        Government of Indonesia                PMM         Project Management Minual
GOM        Grants Operational Manual              PMR         Project Management Report
HP-IV      Fourth Health Project                  SK         Decree
HP-V       Fifth Health Project                   SSN         Social Safety Net
IDA        International Development Association  SSNAL       Social Safety Net Adjustment Loan
JHC        Joint Health Council                   TRT         Technical Review Team
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:    Mark Baird, EACIF
Sector Manager/Director:    Alan Ruby, EASHD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Samuel Liebermnan, EACIF



INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH I
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      10
3. Benefits and target population                                                     10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      l1
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         1 5
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           16
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   16
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        17
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           17
2. Financial                                                                          17
3. Technical                                                                          1 8
4. Institutional                                                                      18
5. Environment                                                                        19
6. Social                                                                             20
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 21
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     21
2. Critical risks                                                                     22
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     24



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           24
2. Other                                                                             28
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         28
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        28
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         29
Annex 2: Project Description                                                            36
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        54
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                  55
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              67
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      68
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    80
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  81
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 82
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           86
MAP(S)
IBRD 30905



INDONESIA
Provincial Health I
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EACIF
Date: May 10, 2000                              Team Leader: Samuel S. Lieberman
Country Manager/Director: Mark Baird             Sector Manager/Director: Alan Ruby
Project ID: P049545                              Sector(s): HT - Targeted Health
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
C Loan         Z Credit       0 Grant         L] Guarantee    El Other (Specify)
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): SDR 28.6 (US$ 38.0)
Proposed Terms:
Grace period (years):                                Years to maturity:
Commitment fee:                                      Service charge: %
GOVERNMENT                                                  40.74           0.32         41.07
IDA                                                          36.50           1.50        38.00
Total:                                                       77.24           1.82        79.07
Borrower: GO1
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$M):
GPY                                      20: 2      2(0      - :                    i      =
Annual     3.2          7.5         8.5         7.9        6.1         4.8
Cumulative    3.2          10.7        19.2       27.1       33.2         38.0
Project implementation period: 5 years 6 months
Expected effectiveness date: 08/01/2000  Expected closing date:  06/30/2006
OC.S PAD F- R. M.rd 20



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project's goals are, first, to bring about effective health sector decentralization in the provinces of
Lampung and Yogyakarta. The challenge during this period of institutional change and economic recovery
will be to protect health services which are essential for the poor and public at large while initiating key
sector reforms and putting health financing on a firm footing. The second objective is to help the central
health ministry (MOH) carry out its new role in a decentralized system in Lampung, Yogyakarta and other
provinces. This role encompasses analysis of key issues, advocacy of best practices and standards, and
support for local initiative and innovation.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The benchmarks used to gauge project performance reflect objectives which are largely institutional in
nature. These indicators refer to:
* The introduction and implementation of new organization structures, health financing mechanisms, and
work force policies;
e The establishment and operation of effective, locally specific curative service delivery and financing
arrangements; and
? The establishment and operation of effective, locally specific public health service provision and
financing arrangements.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 18963 IND                Date of latest CAS discussion: 03/09/99
The CAS document currently of record is the Progress Report approved by the Board in March 1999. This
document articulated a crisis-updated, near term assistance strategy. The proposed project addresses two
of this strategy's three priorities--reinforcing social safety nets and strengthening institutions to support
sustainable growth. Moreover, the proposed credit fits closely with the post-election agenda recommended
for the Association in the March 1999 document. In this regard, the Progress Report stressed
decentralizing responsibilities to local governments and communities, safeguarding services for the poor,
and setting up effective accountability and regulatory frameworks. This project proceeds in precisely the
directions laid out in the Progress Report.
-2 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The government reorganization now underway in Indonesia involves opportunities and risks for a health
sector still recovering from the economic crisis of the late 1990s. Budget cuts and other impacts of the
economic downturn disrupted a health sector which had registered gradual advances up to 1997. Infant
mortality risks fell significantly between the mid 1970s and mid 1990s while most nutrition and family
planning indicators increased at varying rates. However, such gains were uneven and in some instances,
e.g., for the poor and in specific regions, and for reproductive health risks and diseases like tuberculosis
(TB), success was limited. For example, child survival and reproductive risks, and prevalence of moderate
malnutrition and micronutrient disorders remain high in Lampung province especially among the poor.
And in Lampung and also Yogyakarta, the provinces of particular interest in this project, resurgent TB and
continuing malaria, dengue and other disease threats pose problems, not only for the poor but the public at
large. This lingering communicable disease agenda is an additional challenge for Yogyakarta which must
also deal with rising non-communicable disease rates.
Meanwhile, MOH had only limited success during the 1990s in overcoming managerial and technical skill
gaps and input shortages in the country's multi-layered government-run (and financed) service provision
system. To fulfill national integration and equity goals, this network of health centers, satellite sites, and
hospitals was set up quickly on a wide front. But the system, which was managed from Jakarta, never
attracted visit and contact levels, especially from poor patients and clients, commensurate with its design
and investment and running costs. This generally diffident demand pattern is attributable to interrelated
factors such as perverse provider incentives, unprioritized and open-ended health worker assignments and
tasks, ineffective accountability arrangements, low responsiveness to local conditions, weak targeting,
informal fees, scarce inputs, and due to the above, poor service quality. Such performance features are not
uncommon, but Indonesia's version of the classic supply-side syndrome has been especially persistent.
Chronically low funding was a major causal factor in respect to these problems and a consequence as well.
Governnent health spending did make gains in the 1990s, but then fell during the crisis back to levels
reached in the early 1990s.
The crisis and related budget constraints are receding. However, the health sector faces challenges in the
government decentralization mandated in Laws 22 and 25 which were signed by President Habibie in June
1999. These measures could help improve public provider incentives, accountability and sensitivity to
local preferences and needs. On the other hand, the risks to health service sustainability and continuity
evident in decentralization elsewhere will need to be kept in view. For example, decentralization in the
Philippines, Colombia and several other Latin American countries brought complaints about technical
oversight in health matters and potentially risky ambiguity about public health responsibilities (see section
F2).
Government strategy
MOH responded in different ways to the health problems which persisted or emerged more visibly during
the 1990s. Prior to the crisis, it pursued selective policy changes in an incremental fashion, within the
established, centrally guided service delivery paradigm. Staff development, quality assurance, targeting,
and facility-level autonomy were among the policy areas which received attention. Unfortunately, the crisis
brought a change in focus, with many of the 1 990s batch of initiatives put on hold. MOHTs concerns
during 1998 centered on the sharp price increases and shortages of drugs and medical supplies faced by
health service consumers and providers. The drug emergency was followed by other initiatives, including
fornulation and implementation of JPS-BK, the social safety net for health which became GOI's main
crisis response in this sector.
-3 -



GOI is now considering whether to sustain JPS-BK, and if so, on what scale, in what form, and how to link
this initiative to sector reform goals and measures. Meanwhile, a sectoral approach to the decentralization
legislation is taking shape. This sectoral response includes the continuing interactions--de facto
negotiations--between MOH and the Finance, Home Affairs, and Regional Autonomy ministries and
between MOH and the provincial governments on how to interpret Laws 22 and 25 in the health field. Of
particular interest and still under discussion are the operational regulations and precedents bearing on the
health responsibilities and roles of government at different levels.
A second sectoral response to Laws 22 and 25 involves coordination of donor assistance to assure
maximum impacts. At the request of MOH, five donor agencies--the World Bank, the Asian Development
Bank (ADB), the World Health Organization (WHO), the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) and
the United States Agency for International Development (USAID)--agreed to coordinate their work in
health, including working together to optimize health assistance during what was expected to be a
challenging period for the sector. The "Partners for Health" coalition benefited from a convergence in their
respective sector analyses and assistance strategies. The donors feel that the government reorganization
now underway provides an unprecedented opportunity to introduce policy changes and system reforms long
needed but put off because of institutional rigidities and then the exigencies of the economic crisis. The
donors recognize as well that decentralization will require their intensive engagement during a 5-7 year
period. This alliance has already yielded tangible results, e.g., establishment of a special team to advise the
Minister on decentralization, health financing and related issues. In addition, the project discussed below
benefited from inputs from WHO, ADB and other Partners. MOH, Bappenas and other central and local
government agencies have responded favorably to the Partners's views on health policy and reform.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
There is a third element in the health sector's response to the organizational, funding, and other changes set
in motion by Laws 22 and 25. This involves taking up various health decentralization issues within an
operational framework. The proposed Provincial Health Project (PHP) is the first such initiative, i.e., the
first project which pursues health improvement goals within the institutional relationships defined by Laws
22 and 25 and accompanying measures and regulations.
The overriding sectoral issue addressed by PHP is how to make health sector decentralization successful.
In this regard, PHP has several distinguishing features (see Table below):
*   The scope of activities is broader than that in ongoing health projects. Funds are expected to be spent
on primary and secondary curative care, and communicable disease control and other preventive health
services including information provision and promotion. Sector wide coverage responds to the need to
preserve basic health services, especially for the poor during the period in which new systems are being
established. The sector-wide reach of PHP also recognizes that when fully implemented, Laws 22 and
25 will affect virtually every dimension of health and health care in Larnpung and Yogyakarta, and
other provinces. And as with the range of services, the new laws will affect policy functions and
practices on a wide front as well. For instance, responsibilities and arrangements for policy priority
setting, resource mobilization, budgeting and funds channeling, regulatory activities, provider
incentives and accountability, and quality assurance and control will all need to be adjusted.
*   The readiness of local government structures to take on expanded policy and implementation roles is an
initial priority. This emphasis responds to concerns, voiced often in Jakarta, that district and
provincial staff and institutions will not be able to cope with responsibilities they are expected to take
-4 -



on beginning in mid 2001. Training and other learning experiences for key staff will be supported
early on in the project. Attention will also be given to the improved information flows, incentive
arrangements, and new mechanisms, e.g., for personnel management, accountability and local priority
setting and planning, needed to enable newly acquired skills to be applied effectively.
*   Division-of-labor between government levels comprises a potential benefit of decentralization which
PHP recognizes. A useful entry point on this issue is the acknowledgment in Law 22 that districts may
not have the scale, depth, and numbers of staff and other resources to carry out all of the health
responsibilities which the central govermnent is mandated to transfer. Law 22 states that provinces can
be invited to assist in such cases. PHP's contribution is to highlight functions and roles which are best
handled by provinces, e.g., technical support and quality control for district programs, communicable
disease surveillance and control, health promotion, medium to large volume procurement, regulatory
tasks and personnel management. The credit then provides a means to prepare provinces and districts
to carry out designated functions.
*  A specialized role for the central MOH is fostered as well. Law 22 and its emerging regulations assign
leadership and health advocacy, information gathering and analysis, standard setting and some
regulatory functions to the Center. However, staff appear to be inexperienced in regard to many of
these tasks. Accordingly, PHP's capacity building activities include helping the central MOH to
prepare for this new agenda. The initiatives developed and implemented by Lampung and Yogyakarta
provinces and districts provide a good opportunity for MOH to fmetune its new role.
*  Decentralization opens the way to more effective health sector improvement initiatives. PHP's program
in this regard includes restructuring government health organizations, rationalizing personnel numbers
and deployment, and building on JPS-BK accountability mechanisms and exploring additional ways of
making public providers more client responsive, and all providers more quality conscious. Other
elements in PHP's eclectic agenda, e.g., increasing consumer awareness of service availability and
standards, stimulating demand via health education, and community mobilization are also expected to
influence providers.
*  Institutional and other PHP reforms will proceed within a financing framework which highlights old
and new funding flows including resources generated locally. This framework will make it easier to
track spending on the health of the public and the information and service needs of the poor.
- 5 -



Policy Dimensions of Provincial Health Project
Responsible E .tities/Concerns
Policy Issue              Centralized Paradigm    Decentralized Paradigm   PHP Initiatives/
Additions
1. Providing cross-district    MOH (C/P), Dinas (I).  Law 22 designates.  Provinces, as advised
public goods.                                Provinces, without     by Joint Health
clarifying            Councils (JHC).
implementation.
2. Exploiting economies of  MOH (C,P), Dinas (I).  Unclear, not mentioned   Provinces, as advised
scale/scope.                                 in Laws 22 and 25.     by JHC.
3. Targeting Public Funds:
a) Between provinces.     MOF, MOH,             Law 25: to be         Central piloting.
Bappenas, MOHA       governed by formula,
not Yet agreed.
b) Between districts within   MOF, MOH, MOHA,  Law 25 : to be         JHC to use agreed
provinces.             Bappenas, Bappeda     governed by formula,    criteria to review
(I)-                 not yet agreed.        proposals and allocate
health funds.
c) Within districts.      MOH (C/P), Bappedas  DPRDs (II),            According to annual
(I, II)              Bappedas (II).         proposals reviewed by
JHC.
4. Health education and   MOH (C) and Dinas    Assigned to provinces   Provincial Health
promotion.             (I, II)--underused,   in draft regulations.  Promotion Boards to
ineffective.                                elicit and fund NGO
and other public
particiDation.
5. Health work force      MOH (C/P), Dinas (I),  Merge province-level    Province and district
management.            BAKN, Bappeda (I,    Dinas.                  pilots.
II). Dinas (I. II).
6. Health work force      MOH (C,P), Dinas (I,  Merged Dinas          Districts and provinces
development.           II)                                          to develop
mechanisms.
7. Technical support.     MOH (C/P), Dinas (I).  Possibly by merged   Roles of technical
province Dinas but    team to be developed
unclear.              along with central
Riloting.
8. Quality control and    MOH (C/P), including  Likely continuation of   D/P/C mechanisms to
assurance.             HP4 pilot, Dinas (II).  some central guidelines  be tested.
via merged Dinas.
9. Accountability of public   MOH (C/P) and     DPRDs, Bupatis.       DPRDs, SSNAL and
providers.             Dinas; agreed SSNAL                          "beyond-SSNAL"
mechanisms for JPS.                         scenarios, e.g., local
oversight, professional
__ __ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ __ __   associations.
10. Funding adequacy and    Bappenas, MOH,      DPRDs (II), Bappedas   DPRDs (I, II),
allocation.            MOF, Bappeda (I, II)--  (II), Bupatis.      Bappedas (I, II), JHC.
fragmented,
suboptimal funding.
11. Private providers--   Licensing and limited   Unclear.            Central, province, and
accountability and     accreditation, MOH                          district pilots.
quality control.       (C/P), Dinas (P),
Professional Groups.
C  = central              P  = provincial       D        district
-6 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The context for this project is mainly Lampung and Yogyakarta, two provinces which combine need with a
readiness to undertake institutional and policy reforms. The primary project objective is to facilitate health
sector decentralization in these provinces. This entails placing health financing on a firm footing, while
carrying out various capacity building and system reform measures. The reform agenda involves
rationalizing government health structures and staff numbers, allocation and use; making services for the
poor more accessible; and upgrading service quality. There is a complementary and timely central level
component whose aim is to develop capacity in MOH to promote health policies and standards, facilitate
innovation, and foster local involvement and ownership.
As discussed above, the approach to reform which defines PHP is eclectic and facilitative. There is no
emphasis on specific diseases or technical approaches. The point of departure is the assessment that the
policy paradigm of the last two decades is no longer appropriate, but that alternative frameworks are not
readily at hand. Nevertheless, decentralization is conducive to developing policy packages which are
effective and sustainable. The project focuses, therefore, on enhancing district capacity, including
resources, skills, incentives, decision making authority, and procedures, to prepare and implement locally
owned health programs. Clearly, this approach involves risks. For instance, locally devised initiatives may
reflect unacceptable priorities and could be weak technically. Accordingly, PHP's design includes elements
aimed at limiting these and other risks.
The Lampung and Yogyakarta components of PEP will proceed in phases. Phase 1 (2000-2001) will be
used to prepare for the district-based health investments which are the central feature of Phase 2. Funding
for urgent health safety net interventions is a feature of Phase 1 as well. Then in Phase 2 (2002-2005),
PH-P will fund district health improvement and reform proposals which have benefited from technical
support and quality assurance mechanisms, and been reviewed against specified funding ceilings and in
terms of technical and other criteria.
Phase 1. Activities during 2000 and 2001 would set the stage for decentralization and health reform
(components Al and A2), while helping to sustain health Social Safety Net (SSN) services introduced
during the economic crisis (component A3). In this preparatory period, task forces would address
institutional and health sector issues and assist in building district implementation capacity, including
upgrading health information systems. For example, the Managing Decentralization task forces will
prepare the ground institutionally for the targeted, quality-controlled grant mechanism which is a key
organizing principle and sectoral reformn mechanism for the project. The Resource Mobilization task force
aims at ensuring that funds are available to sustain the grant making process after Association funds are
fully disbursed.
Phase 2. Starting in 2002, PIP would fund district grants which would then finance expenditures expected
to have a large health payoff in respect to the poor and the public overall. It would be up to local decision
makers, operating through new arrangements, to work out health priorities, reform programs, and action
plans, with district authorities fully accountable for the results. Also beginning in 2002, the
recommendations of the task forces operating during Phase I would be funded and implemented.
-7-



A number of steps would be involved in allocating, spending, and monitoring and evaluating the use of
Phase 2 grants. Districts in Lampung and Yogyakarta will be assigned ceilings determined according to
local poverty and service use characteristics and overall program goals. District teams then prepare four
year health improvement frameworks, updated annually, as well as detailed proposals for the following 12
months. Proposals would cover goals and targets, poverty and epidemiological characteristics, local health
priorities, policy initiatives and reforms, performance indicators and notional budgets, and procurement and
financial management plans. Proposals would be evaluated by a Technical Review Team, and then by a
Joint Health Council made up mainly of district and Civil Society representatives.
Component Al: Managing Decentralization (District and Provincial) - US$ 3.81 million
Project-supported Task Forces will focus on critical institutional issues and develop recommendations for
implementation in Phase 2. Results expected by the end of 2001 include finalization of the division of
responsibilities and institutional arrangements between districts and provinces; completion of the merger of
the Kanwil and Dinas Kesehatan; a human resource development plan which covers possible downsizing,
contract hiring and career development; training for MIS staff, baseline surveys, and mapping of poverty
areas; and a health promotion strategy including setting up a provincial health promotion board in
Yogyakarta.
Component A. 2: Mobilizing Resources (District and Provincial) -US$ $1.73 million
During the first 18 months, Task Forces will assist the provinces in developing integrated health planning
and budgeting systems, reviewing and possibly piloting alternative insurance approaches, developing
autonomous facilities which rely on cost recovery, and examining tax-based and other means of generating
resources for health. The objective is to improve the sustainability of health services through reforms in
budgeting and resource mobilization mechanisms.
Component A.3: Improving Health Service Access and Quality (District and Provincial) -US$ 4.17
million
During 2000 and 2001, this component will supplement current government outlays on essential health
services by financing needed inputs, improved access to facilities, and specific services. In addition, funds
will be allocated to support introduction of quality assurance programs, and intensified health promotion.
Component A.4: Grants - US$ 63.71 million
Starting in 2002, funds will be made available to districts through three different grant mechanisms. Two
of these grants will finance implementation of recommendations developed by the Task Forces (components
Al and A2) operating in Phase 1. For example, the proposed project will further strengthen management
capacity at the provincial, district and health center levels. This will be done mainly through support for
fellowships and in service training. Project funds will be spent on technical assistance, workshops,
training, study tours, research and studies, and monitoring and evaluation.
The third and by far the largest grant mechanism covers reform and improvement of district level health
services. Districts will prepare yearly proposals to be evaluated by the Technical Review Team (TRT) and
Joint Health Council. Proposals will first assess health needs and capacities, and then focus on improving
the coverage and quality of public health services for the entire population, and curative care for the poor.
Proposal preparation will be based on the number of poor people in the district, service use by the poor,
and spending targets set to attain goals articulated in provincial vision statements, i.e., "Healthy
- 8 -



Yogyakarta 2005" and "Healthy Lampung 2010". Funds will be released after proposals are approved by
the Joint Health Council and after being reviewed and approved by the Association. As association support
declines in 2003-2005, district grants will be sustained at 2002 levels using funds drawn from local
sources. These outlays would be treated as a non-Association financed (NAF) component. Finally the
proposals sent to the TRT will include discussion of the size and allocation of development grants (Daftar
Alokasi Dana Pembangunan Daerah, DADPD) typically used to purchase drugs and to finance operational
costs in facilities. These grants would also be treated as a NAF project components.
Component A.5 Project Management (District and Provincial) - US$ 0.78 million
The project will support various consultant services, office equipment and supplies, workshops, and the
training and supervision costs incurred in managing the project at the provincial and district levels.
Component B.1 Managing Decentralization (Central) - US$ 2.87 million
This component will help the central MOH to become an effective analytical, advisory, and advocacy
agency. The initiatives to be supported include cross-ministry task forces on decentralization and
accountability; pilot early retirement and re-deployment measures to facilitate reshaping the health work
force; and social marketing and other mean of highlighting health sector needs. The component will
support policy studies commissioned by the new Policy Analysis Unit within MOH. This unit will solicit
proposals from academic or research institutions, NGOs, and professional organizations. Topics may
include aspects of institutional development; accountability mechanisms; dimensions of human resource
management and development; regulatory policy; and a number of demand side issues. Findings will be
made available to all provinces and districts, with dissemination itself helping to develop facilitative,
analytical and advocacy roles for the central MOH in the decentralization era. Finally, this component will
fund assessments of project impact. These systematic evaluation studies will be carried out under an
independent research program which will be housed outside MOH.
Component B.2 Resource Mobilization (Central) - US$ 0.56 million
The central unit will provide grants to provinces or districts to test resource generation instruments and to
fund proposals pertaining to the development of decentralized health financing systems. Proposals will be
solicited from provinces and districts outside Yogyakarta and Lampung. Grant mechanisms will be piloted,
and approved proposals will be funded jointly by the central MOH and the regions. Aside from improving
local capacity to develop specific programs, matching grants could also become an instrument which the
central MOH can use to encourage local governments to support public health and poverty-oriented
activities.
Component B.3 Project Management (Central) - US$ 1.00 million
The project will support various consultant services, office equipment and supplies, training, workshops
and supervision for project management.
-9-



A Provincial Component             Health               0.00       0.0       0.00       0.0
A. 1 Managing Decentralization   Decentralization     3.81        4.8      3.41       9.0
A.2 Resource Mobilization        Institutional        1.73        2.2      1.51       4.0
Development
A.3 Access and Quality           Health               4.17        5.3      3.57       9.4
A.4 District Grants              Health              63.71       80.6     24.68      65.0
A.5 Project Management           Health               0.78        1.0      0.66        1.7
B Central Component                Health               0.00       0.0       0.00       0.0
B. 1 Managing Decentralization   Decentralization     2.87        3.6      2.42       6.4
B.2 Resource Mobilization        Institutional        0.56        0.7      0.46        1.2
Development
B.3 Project Management           Health               1.00        1.3      0.85       2.2
Unallocated                                             0.43       0.5       0.43       1.1
Total Project Costs                   79.06      100.0     37.99      100.0
Total Financing Required                    79.06      100.0     37.99      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The policy and institutional reforms which feature in the project are summarized in the text and Table in
B:3 (see also section C:4 below). PHP essentially would establish a decentralized institutional and funding
framework for the health sector in two provinces, while helping the central ministry to take on analytical,
advocacy, clearing house and related tasks. This framework would be consistent with Law 22 but would
add elements needed to address special health sector features.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits:
institutional reform, including--
sustainable funding arrangements which provide sufficient funding for public health interventions and
appropriate health safety net instruments;
targeting of beneficiaries based on transparent and credible criteria;
improved, experience-tested accountability mechanisms;
greater local ownership and involvement;
more equitable distribution of health personnel;
effective technical review and quality control mechanisms; and
robust arrangements to involve NGOs in health promotion, accountability, and service delivery
responsibilities.
improved services, reflecting--
- 10-



easier access;
greater relevance in terms of local specificity and priorities;
enhanced service quality from public and private providers;
regular flow of relevant, interesting health information and educational messages; and
health promotion.
Targeted population
The main beneficiaries of the project will be poor households located in Lampung's ten and Yogyakarta's
five districts and municipalities. According to BPS household expenditure data, the percentage of poor
people in the two provinces) in 1996 was just under 11%, with this figure rising to roughly 21% in
Lampung and 18% in Yogyakarta in early 1999 because of the economic crisis. There were roughly
570,000 poor people in Yogyakarta and 1.5 million in Lampung in 1999.
Low income individuals will benefit through this project from improved access to higher quality health
care. This will be accomplished through better use of government subsidies: allocation of credit funds will
be based on the number of poor people in each district and rates of public facility use by the poor. Districts
will be encouraged to develop mechanisms to promote service use by the poor. Some of the options
proposed include the health cards now being tested in JPS-BK, public payment of health insurance
premiums, and subsidizing beds in the public wards in district hospitals.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project will be implemented in phases in the provinces of Lampung and Yogyakarta and centrally in
the Ministry of Health over five and a half years. The activities to be implemented during Phase I
(FYOO-FYO 1) at the district, provincial and central level were discussed during project preparation and
reviewed at Appraisal. Using capacity and institutions established during Phase I, the implementation of
Phase 2 (FY02-05) will be based on plans developed and approved annually but within a "rolling" four year
framework (see Annex 2 and Attachment to Annex 2).
Institutional Arrangements:
District level: District Implementation Units, DIUs, established by the Bupati (District Project Director)
within planning units of reorganized district health offices and headed by the chief of Bappeda Level II, will
be responsible for procurement, disbursement and accounting for district level activities in conformity with
the plan reviewed by the Association at Appraisal. Procurement and financial management will be carried
out in compliance with operations manual acceptable to the Association. The DIU will be supervised by
the chief of the district health office operating as Executive Secretary. The DIU will draw on existing
government personnel, e.g., procurement will be under the supervision of a Pimbagpro, with financial
matters under the supervision of a treasurer, Bendahara. Support staff will be project funded.
Provincial level: A Joint Health Council, JHC comprising members of Civil Society and the province's
Bupatis and chaired by the Vice Governor, will be established by the respective Governors in the
participating provinces. The JHC will meet a minimum of four times a year as a forum for raising health
issues and determining broad health policy for the province. Beginning in Phase 2, the JHC, taking note of
advice from the Technical Review Team, TRT, would award annual District Grants for health service
improvement up to ceilings agreed at Appraisal. The JHC also allocates grants during 2002-2005 to Fund
the Task Force recommendations it has endorsed. The TRT would comprise existing health professionals
located in the provincial health planning unit. In addition to its review function, the TRT would provide
- 11 -



support to district planning units in proposal preparation. The TRT would be reinforced by health
specialists hired for specific, short term assignments.
A Provincial Coordination and Implementation Unit, PCIU headed by the chief of the Bappeda I and with
the head of the provincial health office as Deputy Provincial Project Director, will be established in each of
the target provinces. The PCIU will be responsible for procurement, disbursement and accounting for
provincial level activities in conformity with the plan reviewed by the Association at Appraisal.
Procurement and financial management will be carried out in compliance with an Operations Manual
acceptable to the Association. The PCIU staff will include some government employees. Procurement will
be under the supervision of a Pimpro and finance under the supervision of a treasurer, Bendahara. The
activities of the PCIU will be coordinated by an Executive Secretary employed by the project. Within the
PCIU, monitoring and evaluation, procurement, and financial management specialists will be project
supported. The PCIU would coordinate the implementation of activities where economies of scale and/or
the systemic nature of the activities indicated that greater efficiency would be achieved by implementation
at the provincial rather than district level. A Provincial Health Promotion Board, PHPB, will be
established by Governor's Decree in Yogyakarta. Made up of highly respected non-government and
government figures, the PHPB will fund health promotion work by NGOs and others.
Central level: A Central Project Coordination Unit, CPCU, will be established in the Ministry of Health
under the Secretary General who will serve as Project Director. The chief of the Bureau of Planning will
be Deputy Project Director. The CPCU will be supervised by a full-time unit head with appropriate sector
and management experience who will be funded by the project and act as project coordinator. The CPCU
will be staffed by existing govermment employees; procurement will be under the supervision of a Pimpro
and finance under the supervision of a treasurer, Bendahara.
Implementation Arrangements:
The CPCU, PCIUs and DIUs will provide for Association review, starting not later than August 31, 2001,
quarterly project management reports, in a format specified in the Project Management Manual. This
report would cover the previous quarter of the fiscal year and a forecast of project expenditures for the
following two quarters of the fiscal year for project activities at the district and provincial level. Similarly,
the report will monitor disbursements in the previous three months and provide a basis for determining cash
flow requirements for the coming six months. The Grants Operational Manual will establish a linkage
between tranches of the Grants and receipt of financial report to establish a strong connection between
physical progress and cash flow requirements. Along with the project management report, the CPCU,
PCIUs and DIUs will provide (i) by March 1 and September 1 of each year, starting March 1, 2001, a
report integrating results of monitoring and evaluation activities for the preceding period, and (ii) a
procurement plan due by September I each year, detailing proposed procurement action for each
subsequent year of implementation at the central, district and provincial level, to be updated by March 1
each year.
For activities at the central level, the CPCU will provide financial, implementation and procurement
management reports and planning in the same format and with the same schedule, as detailed in the Project
Management Manual.
The State Audit Authority, BPKP, will conduct an annual financial and implementation audit, the results of
which will be made available to the Association for review within six months of the close of each fiscal
year. In addition by September 30, 2001 and thereafter by September 30 in each year of project
implementation until project close, and coinciding with regular Association mid-year reviews of progress,
- 12 -



the PCIUs will submit for Association review the results of an independent technical audit covering
provincial and district-level activities. The Secretary General, Ministy of Health, will submit for
Association review the results of an annual independent technical audit for central level activities conducted
through the Ministry of Health.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
What is striking about the current health scene in Indonesia is the attention being given to alternative policy
packages, each with plausible prospects and advantages but also significant drawbacks. Before the crisis
began in 1997, policy choice entailed deciding on incremental steps within the existing centralized paradigm
(see section B). The economic downturn, continuing budget constraints, and the timing and content of Law
22 have in effect overtaken the once standard policy framnework and brought additional, not necessarily
incremental options into view.
Wait and see. Before discussing the main alternatives, it is worth mentioning the option of doing nothing
until the economy and government budget recover, and stakeholders reach consensus on operationalizing
Laws 22 and 25. This is favored by those who expect the forthcoming transition to decentralization to be
too disruptive to risk new sectoral initiatives. This "wait it out" approach is too pessimistic even as a worst
case possibility. A more realistic downside scenario is that of a gradual, sometimes contested convergence
on Laws 22 and 25. Even then the option of doing nothing is unpersuasive, as there remain significant
funding and reform needs in the health sector, while it would be desirable for capacity building and related
reasons for the health sector to tackle decentralization in an operational setting.
The traditional approach. Another alternative can also be put aside. This is to return to traditional
investment lending, while waiting for Law 22 to take hold. The advantage would be that health
strengthening efforts could go ahead even if the main impacts of Law 22 were delayed. For example,
projects currently under implementation like the Fourth and Fifth Health Projects (HP4 and LHP5) could be
followed with investments of the same design. Despite some surface plausibility, this approach is flawed,
since it overlooks systemic issues which such follow on projects can not avoid. For example, Bank review
missions have commented on the limited local commitment to HP4, and the absence of a wide enough
sectoral perspective, referring specifically to ways of improving provider incentives, assuring post-project
financing, and extending quality assurance interventions. A lack of involvement of local government
officials has been noted for HP5 as well. In short, traditional investment projects like HP4 and HP5 need
to be anchored in a broader policy paradigm, and none is in place at the moment.
JPS-BK. One of the main alternatives to PIP is JPS-BK, the health component of the Social Safety Net
(SSN) which GOI developed during the economic crisis (see Annex 4). Identifying JPS-BK as a
comparator for PBP may seem surprising considering the difficulties this program has experienced.
JPS-BK took longer to be established than other elements in SSN, and then encountered implementation
hurdles. As detailed in field reports (but not in systematic baseline or user surveys), problems ranged from
weak eligibility and accountability checks over funds transfers from postal accounts and use of the money
to vagueness and rigidity in instructions, low disbursements in some categories, stoppages of funds and
drug shortages, and slow progress in informing the public. Apart from these and other operational issues,
design flaws have surfaced. The monitoring and evaluation component has delivered scant findings on
program impacts; the managed care component (JPKM) has not been well justified; targeting mechanisms
appear to be weak; there have been unwarranted changes in priorities, e.g., away from communicable
- 13 -



disease control; service quality is getting minimal attention; program costs are high and unsustainable,
especially for the nutrition component; and unrealistic entitlement expectations may be developing.
Yet despite these observed problems, JPS-BK has been getting some essential services to high risk groups.
This is seen not just in the large number of poor women, who are pregnant or new mothers, being reached
for ante and post natal care, but in the increase reported in midwife-assisted deliveries. Supplementary
feeding, though expensive, appears to be making a difference in the number of seriously malnourished and
in the proportion of children who reach acceptable weights.
These successes are attributable to two program effects. First, JPS-BK brought an infusion of funds after
perhaps months of informal GOI controls on spending in 1997 and 1998, and may have prevented an even
deeper cut in health financing and specifically for primary services than what occurred. This general
financing effect, though not expected by the designers of JPS-BK who wanted to top up normal health
center activities, invigorated and restored services to normal intensity. In addition, JPS-BK spending had
the intended reallocation effect, leading to increases outreach activities for pregnant and lactating women
and young children.
MOH is considering how to extend JPS-BK within a tightly constrained budget. Some adjustments have
been introduced already including components to revitalize the posyandu, control contagious diseases, and
improve awareness and accountability, and more may be on the way. However, the flexibility of JPS-BK,
i.e., its suitability as a framework for other health improvements, is limited. This is because what has made
the program attractive as an emergency measure limits its value as a platform for medium term reform.
These features, e.g., the centralized management formula, and uniform, detailed instructions on the use of
money, have led in the past in Indonesia and elsewhere to disengagement and excessive caution by
government staff, whereas reform will entail much more worker problem solving.
One possible "exit" mode is to extend JPS-BK but only in those remote and impoverished districts which
opt to put decentralization on hold by "contracting" GOI to provide JPS-BK. However, even this option
would have only short term appeal since program design would remain unaltered, i.e., with all the rigidities
associated with running a complex program via instructions from Jakarta. On the other hand, a PHP type
approach could readily incorporate some features of JPS-BK in order to target vulnerable.
ADB as the main donor agency supporting the SSN program recognizes there are shortcomings in JPS-BK,
and has encouraged GOI to plan for the post-crisis period. In this regard, ADB officials have seized on the
potential in the block grant mechanism used within JPS-BK and have urged greater involvement of local
decision makers, strengthening of local capacity, and quality and efficiency gains to assure sustainability
post-recovery. Thus, ADB seems to be looking beyond JPS-BK, perhaps towards a PHP like format.
Sector loans/APLs. If JPS-BK remains too grounded in the old paradigm, other suggested alternatives to
PUP assume too much too soon of the forthcoming decentralization process. In effect, PHP is an initial,
ground-breaking sector loan at the provincial and district levels which is potentially the first step in a series
of provincial investments. The project could very well lead to an APL mechanism, involving other donors,
in which provinces determine, according to their needs and readiness, when to opt for possibly different
degrees of PHP-like treatment. Such an approach is reminiscent of the phased health decentralization
which occurred in Colombia and several other Latin American countries in the early 1 990s. In the
Indonesian setting, a 3-5 year, capacity building directed at the emerging decentralized set-up may be best
for and chosen by some regions, while others may opt for a faster transition, depending though on the levels
of central transfers which they can rely on. Indeed, discussions with GOI and several provinces are
underway on following up the proposed credit. However, the essentials of an APL framework, i.e., a
- 14 -



phased, medium term program with agreed options, measurable outcomes and other criteria--"triggers"-to
begin disbursing in each new phase or province, are not yet in place. Indeed, the rationale for PIP may be
seen as defining at the provincial and district levels, and to some extent for the Center, the key instruments
and other features of an acceptable institutional and policy framework and useful triggers and entry
mechanisms. In opting for PEP, GOI is responding not only to domestic pressures but also cautionary
signals from the Philippines and elsewhere about the pace of health decentralization.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
. .  .                             Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                        Project                   (PSR) Ratings
._______________________________ ._____.____I_____________        (Bank-financed   projects  only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                       Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
HP3, which closed in 1996,          HP3                                 HS1            HS
demonstrated that provinces could
generate resources locally and also
carry out planning and budgeting tasks
then handled in Jakarta.
Recent disbursement and             HP4                                 U              U
imnplementation concems point to the
risks that "old style," i.e., largely
centrally designed and guided, may
encounter in Indonesia's new
circumstances.
As with HP4, implementation         HP5                                  S              S
experience shows i) the need to bring
local government from the outset, and
ii) the desirability, in retrospect, of
including a service delivery component
to complement the training, quality
assurance, and institution building
tasks
Other development agencies
the costs and risks of running and   the ADB-fnanced health
financing a large scale poverty oriented component of the Social Safety
health program from Jakarta         Net ([PS-BK)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 15 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Since 1977, the World Bank has invested in 16 health projects in Indonesia. Up to the early 1990s,
Bank-assisted health projects helped extend the established, centrally-guided delivery system. However,
unsatisfactory (health manpower, Loan 2542-IND) and disappointing (nutrition and community health,
Loan 2636-IND) project performance led to a greater emphasis on decentralized management, budgeting
and planning, and to innovations in service delivery, financing and training. The Third Health Project,
which closed in 1996, included local resource mobilization and a larger provincial planning and budgeting
role. The ongoing Third Community Health and Nutrition Project has supported local level service,
training and quality assurance innovations, while the Fourth Health Project is developing local ownership
of quality assurance. The Safe Motherhood Project is helping provinces to develop locally suitable
demand and supply side improvements in reproductive health services.
The Fourth Health Project (HP4)
HP4 addresses the problem of low service quality in health centers. It has developed and implemented a
quality assurance (QA) approach which works by establishing care standards, and using peer review to
assess compliance. These facility level interventions have been effective in altering provider behavior, but
have not yet been integrated into a creed, and statement of principles and responsibilities in which QA is a
key promise to the public. HP4 may not be able to sustain its achievements because QA is being addressed
in isolation from other needed changes. An example is the lack of an incentive improvement mechanism.
Districts are said to be using the project's Supplementary Assistance Fund (SAF) for incentive payments,
no steps have been taken to ensure funding from local resources once the project is closed. In short, project
efforts have not been linked to a broader strategy which brings health education, worker and consumer
incentives, performance assessment mechanisms and other elements into play simultaneously to get high
quality services to the clients.
The Fifth Health Project (HP5)
HP5 aims to improve the distribution, utilization and quality of health manpower. It builds on the quality
assurance approach of HP4, linking it to modem training methodologies such as competency-based and
problem oriented learning. HP5 anticipates the Government's initiatives in decentralization with its focus
on improving the capacity of province and district health staff, and introducing methods for workload
assessment and performance review. The project also encourages piloting of innovations in staff
deployment and financial autonomy of health facilities. However, it does not include specific measures for
province and district level health sector resource planning and active involvement of district officials and
local government. HP5 also does not explicitly tackle the issue of service delivery reform. The planning
framework of the new project addresses these gaps and provides a strong foundation for local government
involvement and commitment.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Project preparation occurred over a period of two years, with an interruption of more than a year
occasioned by crisis-period exigencies which forced MOH, provincial governments and the Bank to focus
on emergency issues in the health sector. The long gestation period was helpful though in building
provincial and district commitment. Meanwhile, both the Bureau of Health within Bappenas and the
Bureau of Planning within MOH were actively involved in encouraging provincial interest and exploring
possible project designs. Within Lampung and Yogyakarta, the Governor and Bappeda decision makers,
and the provincial health teams have displayed not only interest but commitment and a sense of ownership.
- 16 -



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank is able to draw on its health strategy work and extensive health and other sector project
experience in Indonesia, along with its knowledge base on health sector decentralization and policy design
in other countries. PHP is grounded in a widely discussed green cover, health strategy note which focuses
on policy choices in the post-crisis period, and in related work on health spending. PUP also reflects
project level experiences, e.g., supervision and lending development missions, and a cumulative view of a
centrally run system that was faltering long before the economic crisis. A further contribution of the Bank
is the i) continuing effort to monitor decentralization initiatives and analyze common issues across sectors,
ii) lessons on improving the JPS-BK accountability framework in the preparation and supervision of
SSNAL, and iii) urban sector experience in helping Indonesian municipalities become financially viable and
self-managing. The Bank's ability to tap cross-country expertise has also contributed to the preparation of
PUP. The design benefited from the views of individuals familiar with health decentralization in the
Philippines, several Latin American countries, Zambia, and Uganda. International experience was also
very helpful in designing PHP's health promotion component. Finally, as a founder member and catalyst
for the donor "Partners for Health", the Bank has been able to draw on advice and preparation support
from its donor partners.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
3 Other (specify)
The analysis covers the project's i) linkages to Association country strategy;
ii) notional economic benefits; iii) province-level fiscal underpinnings and implications; and iv) advantages
and disadvantages relative to what is unquestionably the main alternative approach, i.e,. extending and
improving the health component of the social safety net intervention which Indonesia organized in response
to the economic crisis. Based on conservative assumptions as to which benefits are included and how to
value these, the illustrative economic analysis, including simulation of down-side scenarios, concludes that
discounted project benefits will be at least 50% larger than project costs.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
to be included in fiscal analysis in E. I
Fiscal Impact:
The provincial fiscal contexts differ in important ways. Lampung is poorer than Yogyakarta and has been
more dependent on central government (and donor) funding of the health system. Despite this central
support, per capita public spending has been well below that in most other provinces, and but still fell
- 17 -



further during the economic crisis. Government outlays per person in Yogyakarta have been well above
average in Indonesia with spending reflecting allocations made by the provincial and district assemblies.
Spending in Yogyakarta also fell during the crisis, and it was local government resources which offset
falling central outlays and provided a floor to resource cuts.
What the provinces have in common is a determination to support health spending through locally raised
revenues. Lampung intends to do this by increasing health system-derived revenues by 340% and by
looking to the provincial and district assemblies for much larger allocations. The Yogyakarta
funds-generating scenario relies more on revenues from user fees and payments from insured individuals or
insurance plans. By the project completion date (12/31/05), resources generated locally will account for
half of public spending in Lampung, and 60% in Yogyakarta.
3. Technical:
The project is not focused on specific diseases or technical problems. Nevertheless, technical issues,
mainly the quality of province and district health service planning and implementation, are a key project
feature. This is evident in district-level priorities and in design features of the project. Several districts
have made plans to adopt the quality assurance approach which is to be introduced in the Fifth Health
project and is already being implemented within the Fourth Health project. Moreover, the proposed project
supports a process for reviewing the technical quality of district submissions-the key mechanism will be
assessments by joint technical teams made up of qualified government staff supplemented by ad hoc
arrangements with experts but based elsewhere, including in MOH Jakarta. This locally based review
process, drawing on available expertise and other technical review principles, will replace the often rigidly
presented, nominally compulsory guidelines which have been a source of central authority. Finally,
assuring technical quality provides part of the rationale for basing some programs and activities at the
province rather than the district level. The Joint Health Councils will play a key role in this regard.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The proposed project is above all an institutional intervention whose starting point is the recent
decentralization legislation. Laws 22 and 25 will shift many responsibilities as well as resources to the
districts. This reorientation is timely because the inherited centrally run or guided health institutions have
not handled adequately such key functions as priority setting, health financing and allocation of funds,
health information and education, community participation, and quality assurance and control.
The proposed credit establishes several new institutions and mechanisms, e.g., JHCs, TRTs and the PHPB
in Yogyakarta, with the aim of fostering district-level health advances. However, these and related
institutional innovations are untested and may not work as intended. For example, the JHC may be
bypassed or become a passive bureaucratic layer rather than a vehicle for developing a cross-district health
vision and program. The TRT may not be staffed appropriately and may generate conflict of interest
concerns, and the PHPB may fail to generate interest and participation from local NGOs.
These risks have been addressed by requiring Association approval of the mission statements for the JHCs
and the PBPB, and TORs as well as names and CVs for key staff. Association agreement will need to be
obtained before contracting key staff. These concerns are to be addressed as well by building in extensive
capacity building activities during Phase 1, making robust accountability mechanisms a key design and
implementation principle, developing extensive Handbooks, and through intensive Association review.
-18-



4.2 Project management:
The project will be implemented mainly at the district and provincial levels. Under component Al,
Managing Decentralization, a number of task forces will assess district and province organizational needs
and develop and carry out responsive action programs.
4.3 Procurement issues:
An assessment of procurement capacity rated the project as a "high" risk at the central and provincial levels
because:
* at best, staff experience with procurement under Association guidelines is limited,
* ad hoc approaches by different agencies to developing their procurement units,
* clear delegation of authority for procurement decisions is generally absent,
*  current project managers and procurement staff have generally not been selected in a competitive
process, and
* there are inconsistencies between Kepres 16, GOI's standard approach (which has just been overtaken
by the newly issued Kepres 18), and the Association's guidelines.
Strong qualifications, clear and acceptable TORs, detailed guidelines incorporated into Project
Management Manual which is to be disseminated to all involved, intensive and recurrent training, low prior
review thresholds, and independence of procurement decisions are among the elements built into the project
design to address the above concems.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The assessment of financial management capacity (see Project Files) indicated steps which need to be taken
to improve the financial management capacity of the project. These include:
- generic training on financial management covering internal control, record management, fixed assets
management and reporting system, the Association's financial management requirements, and the PMR
format and its preparation procedures.
* involvement of proposed project management and executive secretary teams in the preparation of a
financial management manual.
These efforts are important because although central MOH staff in the Secretary General office are
experienced with Association financed projects, staff in the two provinces (Lampung and Yogyakarta) and
their districts have no prior experience. Besides, the Project Management Report (PMR) is a new
requirement from the Association and by definition previous experience is limited.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Environmental category [ ] A      [ ] B        [X] C
The project will have a positive impact on environment, through environmental health
components which some districts have proposed as part of their service delivery plans. Health
promotion activities will also contribute to environmental improvement.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
NA
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: NA
- 19 -



5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) enviromnental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
NA
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
NA
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specifyv the projects social
development outcomes.
Survey data and service statistics indicate that the poor make only limited use of public hospitals and health
centers. Within the government system, low income clients mainly visit health centers and subcenters, but
do not make disproportionate use of these facilities. In fact, the lowest two income quintiles account for
just over 40% of health center and sub-center visits in Yogyakarta. Clearly, health centers handle a
considerable volume of non-poor clients. This is even more the case with government hospitals. A key
concern for this project is to develop policies and service delivery instruments to ensure that health care
reaches and is used by the poor. To this end, this project will rely on baseline surveys of the poor,
intensified health education, improved accountability mechanisms, and making service access and quality
for the poor an important criterion while reviewing district grant proposals.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Preparation       Implementation      Operation
Beneficiaries/ community    iS                 IS, COL             IS, COL
groups
Intermediary NGOs            IS, CON, COL      IS, CON, COL        IS, COL
Academic institutions        IS, CON, COL      IS, CON, COL        IS, COL
Local government             IS, CON, COL      IS, CON, COL        IS, COL
Other donors                 IS                IS, COL
IS = Information Sharing; CON = Consultation, COL = Collaboration
Most health stakeholders who took part in preparation will be involved in planning, implementation,
monitoring, and evaluation of activities the project is underway. NGOs will have a significant and diverse
role, and policies and regulations will be formulated to permit use of government funds by NGOs. The
most significant NGO role will be in organizing, developing and implementing health promotion initiatives.
In this regard, a key institution will be Yogyakarta's Provincial Health Promotion Board, which includes
NGO members in its small core group and which will invite, review and possibly fund proposals from non
government organizations.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NA
-20 -



6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
NA
6.5 How will the project monitor perforrnance in terrns of social development outcomes?
NA
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safegard policies apply to the project?
X = 7 G = , - a- ~~~~~~~~~~~App&cblit
Enviromnental Assessment (OP 4.01. BP 4.01. GP 4.01')           E Yes E No
E Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04. GP 4.04)                    2 Yes 3 No
E Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     E Yes 3 No
E Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       E Yes X No
E Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   7 Yes M No
El Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    3 Yes E  No
El Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             M Yes [D No
El Safety of Dams (OP 4.37. BP 4.37)                              El Yes 3 No
E Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.501)     Yes 1 No
El Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60. BP 7.60. GP 7.60)         L Yes 1 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
No resettlement is anticipated by virtue of implementation of this project. Nevertheless, during
negotiations, it was agreed that provisions in the Project Management Manual and Grants Operational
Manual will require that i) payment of compensation, according to principles and guidelines acceptable to
the Association, to project Affected Persons, i.e., those displaced from land or people whose assests
acquired; ii) if appropriate, an environmental impact assessment will be carried out and mitigation
measures designed, on the basis of environmental standards acceptable to the Association; and iii) Isolated
Vulnerable People, if any, will be involved in the design of district health proposals through a participatory
process to ensure that benefits received are in harmony with their economic, social and cultural preferences.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The economic crisis brought steep budget cuts in a health sector which was already underfunded. For that
reason, one of PHP's goals is to contribute to stability and sustainability in province and district-level
health funding. Policy makers in Lampung and Yogyakarta have set out anticipated levels of central and
local government support as well as yearly targets for revenue mobilization, with component A.2 dedicated
to developing the revenue generation instruments needed to replace IDA funding starting in the second half
of the project period. The project's grant mechanism with its district-level planning, proposal formulation
(against specified ceilings), technical review and related features also should enhance sustainability. In
order to sustain the flow of funds through district grants, assurances were provided during negotiations
that the size of the District Grants during 2003-2005 will be maintained at levels set for 2002, using
allocations from local government sources to substitute for declining IDA.
-21 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Rik -RisikRatig:                             RiskMingimization Meure    -
From Outputs to Objective
management and technical capacity too     M         Start-up period and follow up to be used to
limited to perform quality oversight                improve management and technical/quality
functions                                           control
the public is slow to respond to service   M        different instruments will be used to get the
quality gains                                       attract potential clients
district and province level staff are slow  S       different feedback and accountability
to accept decentralized roles and rules             mechanisms to be used to enhance the
responsiveness of public officials
implementation problems for the overall    S        policy dialogue
decentralization program overwhelm the
health sector
From Components to Outputs
national, district and provincial          S        was addressed during Negotiations and in the
assemblies fail to allocate agreed                  Development Credit Agreement; district grants
resources, predicted revenue flows turn             for service improvements linked to availability
out to be too low, and counterpart funds            of funds
not made available
additionality not secured, i.e., project   S        assurances provided during Negotiations
funds in effect substitute for other
resources with no net impact on health
spending
funds are too small to encourage          M         assurances provided during Negotiations that
innovation and high quality district                DADPD grants also to be reviewed by TRTs
proposals                                           and JHC, and that allocations to district grants
from local government sources will begin to
replace Association funds after 2002
limited management capacity especially     S        2000-2001 to be used for training and to work
in procurement and financial matters                out viable management arrangements
limited technical skills lead to poor     M         proposal review by TRT and JHC along with
district proposals and weak                         training, sharing best practice cases, drawing on
implementation                                      improved health information
opposition from province and district level  S      Joint Councils and senior staff need to provide
staff, unions                                       leadership, while component A. 1 is used to
design participatory process of restructuring
design inconsistent with GOI's overall     M        consultations with relevant GOI officials and
approach to decentralization                        assurances in legal agreements
the new institutions--the JHC, TRT, and    M         capacity building activities, Association review
PHPB--may not work as intended                       of TORs, CVs and contracts, preparation of
Handbooks and other instruments to be used
due to some or all of the above,           S         some lags part of interactive project mechanism,
disbursements may lag                               but DIUs and PCIUs to monitor
Overall Risk Rating                        S        attentive Association supervision from WBOJ
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 22 -



Decentralization and Health-Different Risks
This project tackles questions which usually arise in the health sector when countries decentralize their
govermments rapidly. One such question is seen in the instruction in Law 25 that a large share (22.5 %) of
central government revenues be allocated to autonomous district level governments. In the language of
public finance, this assignment of revenues is not obviously compatible with the less precise assignment of
expenditure authority in Law 22 which was passed at the same time. PHP deals with this issue in several
ways--through direct support for the many activities which districts would carry out, and by defining and
supporting functions transferred to the district by Law 22 which can be performed better at the provincial
level (though in PHP, under district scrutiny)); and by building capacity and institutions which districts
and provinces need to carry out their new tasks.
The issue of possible incompatibility between expenditure assignments and revenues has come up in many
countries and been addressed in different ways. Two sets of decentralization-related concerns have been
recognized in the health policy literature and in policy making itself--these risks are present in Indonesia
and have been addressed in this project (see above Table). One group of concerns is specific to the health
sector; the second group relates to how to match funds with appropriate health interventions.
Health sector risks. The literature abounds with surveys and detailed accounts about what can go awry
during decentralization. The list includes: deteriorating morale and active or tacit staff opposition emerges
to reassignment or reinterpretation of functions; loss of clarity as to responsibilities for different
communicable disease functions; functions are delegated without adequate technical and managerial
preparation leading to deterioration in the quality of health planning, service delivery, and supervision;
disruptions in information and reporting systems and in associated accountability and quality control
arrangements; breakdown of staff deployment, transfer, and other personnel mechanisms; lower priority to
and less attention during planning to needs and special circumstances of the poor; less focus in service
provision on needs of the poor or on maintaining service quality;
Many of the solutions adopted are echoed in features of PHP. In other countries, these have included
demarcating functions by government level; briefings, orientations, and advocacy directed at health and
other staff, elected officials, and the public; phasing of the changeover to new system; extensive training of
personnel; introduction of health boards and other coordinating and review bodies; provision by the central
MOH of technical assistance in direct response to district requests; and the development of new quality
control arrangements. Concerning the latter, one response to concerns about the health impacts of
decentralization involves mechanisms to both to earmark funds for health and to bring to bear technical
quality considerations in district health planning. Introducing new means to review at least a share of
district health spending is such a mechanism and is a fey feature of the proposed project. Similar
mechanisms are being tried in other countries. For example, in Peru, Regional Health Boards evaluate and
endorse funding for health activities proposed by operational units. A Association loan is helping to
finance this approach.
Linking funding to health outlays: risks. The second set of risks relates to establishing linkages between
funding and health spending. In this regard, many things can go amiss. There may not be consensus on
which health functions are to be carried out by different government levels, leading to interrupted
channeling of money and low disbursements. Or there may be consensus on functions, but health still has
to compete with other sectors in order to secure funds to carry out its agreed functions. Analogous to the
health sector, management and technical skills gaps in financing agencies may disrupt movement of funds
for health purposes.
-23 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Civil servants may oppose and succeed in blocking or at least delaying downsizing and other efficiency
measures--this underscores the need for broadly inclusive Joint Health Councils.
DPRDs may be unwilling to agree to revenue increasing measures.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
For Credit Appraisal
Prior to Appraisal and as a condition for Appraisal the following six items were provided for Association
review:
(1)   the terms of reference (TORs) and the draft letters of establishment (SK) for the following:
*      the Provincial Central Implementation Unit, (PCIU)
*      the District Implementation Units, (DIU)
*      the Joint Health Council, (JHC)
*      the Technical Review Team (TRT), and,
*      for Yogyakarta, the Provincial Health Promotion Board (PHPB)
TORs for the respective units include individual terms of reference and an explanation of the lines of
command and lines of communication for the positions of District Project Director, (Bupati), District
Executive Secretary, (Dokabu), Provincial Project Director, (Head of Bappeda level I), Deputy Provincial
Project Director (Head of Provincial Health Office), and Provincial Executive Secretary (to be appointed).
(2)    TORs for domestic and international technical assistance to be recruited for consulting services at
the district and provincial level during the first year of project implementation, including TORs for
consultant services required for the establishment of Task Forces.
(3)    a procurement plan detailing budget estimates and the proposed methods of procurement for all
proposed procurement action for the first year of project implementation at the district and provincial level.
(4)    TORs and the draft letter of establishment (SK) for the Central Project Coordination Unit, CPCU,
Ministry of Health. The TOR for this unit included individual terms of reference and an explanation of the
lines of command and lines of communication centrally and in relation to the provinces and districts, for the
positions of the PD, Project Director, (Secretary General Health), CUC, Central Unit Chief (to be
appointed) and the Procurement, Financial and Monitoring and Evaluation consultants to be attached to the
CPCU;
(5)    TORs for domestic and international technical assistance to be recruited for consulting services at
the central level during the first year of project implementation, including TORs for consultant services
required for the establishment of Task Forces; and,
(6)    a procurement plan detailing budget estimates and the proposed method of procurement for all
proposed procurement actions for the first year of project implementation at the central level.
-24 -



At the end of the Appraisal Mission and prior to entering Project Negotiations, The Association
reviewed:
(1)    Staffing decisions and appointments to:
*      the Provincial Coordination and Implementation Unit, (PCIJ)
*      the District Implementation Units, (DIU)
*      the Joint Health Council, (JHC)
*      the Technical Review Team (TRT), and,
*      the Provincial Health Promotion Board, (PHPB),
(2)    draft DIPs (Development Budgets Allocations), and POs (Operational Guidelines), for district, and
provincial project activities for the first fiscal year of project effectiveness,
(3)    a forecast of project expenditure (cash flow requirements) for the first two quarters of project
implementation for activities at the district and provincial level, and
(4)    a training plan by which procurement and financial staff within the DIUs, and PIU would acquire,
and update on a regular basis, the necessary skills, knowledge and experience to carry out their respective
duties in financial and procurement management as required by Association finance and procurement
guidelines.
(5)    Staffing decisions and appointments to the Central Project Coordination Unit, CPCU, Ministry of
Health,
(6)   the DIP (Development Budget), and PO (Operational Guidelines), for centrally implemented
project activities proposed for the first fiscal year of project effectiveness,
(7)    a forecast of project expenditure (cash flow requirements) for the first two quarters of project
implementation for activities at the central level,
(8)    a training plan by which procurement and financial staff within the CPCU would acquire, and
update on a regular basis, the necessary skills, knowledge and experience to carry out their respective
duties in financial and procurement management as required by Association finance and procurement
guidelines, and
(9)    a draft Project Management Manual, covering in detail the procedures to be adopted by all
implementing agencies, DIUs, PCIUs and CPCU during phase 1 of the project, (to December 2001).
For Negotiations
Assurances Provided During Negotiations:
During negotiations, the Association will received assurances from the Borrower that:
* The Project structure and implementation arrangements, as set out in the DCA, the Project
Implementation Plan and the PAD, conform to and are consistent with the policy objectives and the
requirements of Law on Regional Government 22/1999.
-25 -



*  The Project is intended to provide additionality of governmental funding to the health sector. To this
end, the availability of the Credit will not be factored into account in determining the annual GOI
rupiah budgets for Lampung and D.I.Yogyakarta during the term of the Project. The GOI Delegation
representatives representing the provinces of Lampung and D.I.Yogyakarta and the districts of such
provinces confirmed, in this regard, that the availability of the Credit will not be factored into account
in setting the annual provincial and district development budgets.
*  District Grants during fiscal years 2003 to 2005 will be maintained at a level at least equal to those
obtained in fiscal year 2002.
*  District Grants would finance 80% of each eligible district health sector program (as determined in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 7 and 8 of Schedule 4 to the DCA) in the fiscal year
2002 and on a declining basis each fiscal year thereafter. These percentages would be established in
both the Project Management Manual and the Grants Operational Manual. The balance of the required
funding for such district programs will be the responsibility of GOI.
*  Funds for District Grants will be allocated by the JHCs and provided to the Districts in accordance
with the procedures described in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), which procedures are to be
set out in detailed form in the Grants Operational Manual. The GOI Delegation further confirmed that
for FY2002 a provincial level funding channel will be utilized. For subsequent years, a district level
funding channel will be used for the District Grants, in accordance with the mechanisms to be
developed in the context of, and described in, the Grants Operational Manual. The NM  and RM
Grants will be provided through province level channels for the terms of the Project. The GOI
Delegation also confirmed that the Grants Operational Manual will require that at the time detailed
health services programs prepared by Districts (as described in paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to the DCA)
are reviewed by TRTs and JHCs for funding out of District Grants, the proposed activity allocation of
Daftar Alokasi Dana Pembangunan Daerah (development grants) will be taken into account to ensure
coherence and consistency in use of both sources of funds.
For Credit Effectiveness
The following is to be received prior to Credit Effectiveness:
During negotiations, it was agreed that a Project Management Manual covering job descriptions,
procurement methods, financial management, and reporting management would be approved by the
Association prior to credit effectiveness. Training on the manual for all involved in the project will
begin after effectiveness and regularly followed by refresher training during project implementation.
During Credit Implementation
During negotiations, it was agreed that
For Organization and Management:
The Borrower shall -
(a)    maintain, for the life of the project the staffing and facilities for the CPCU, PCIU, PIUs,
DIUs, Joint Health Councils, Technical Review Teams and Provincial Health Promotion Board as agreed
during project Negotiation and in compliance with the terms of reference agreed at Appraisal.
-26 -



For Monitoring, Review and Reporting:
The Borrower shall -
(a)    starting not later than August 31, 2001 until project close, submit for Association review,
in a format specified in the Project Management Manual, a project management report, covering the
previous quarter of the fiscal year and a forecast of project expenditure for the following two quarters of
the fiscal year for project activities at the district, provincial and central level,
(b)    in conjunction with the project management report, provide in a format acceptable to the
Association, (i) by March 1 and September 1 of each year, starting March 1, 2001, a report integrating
results of monitoring and evaluation activities for the preceding period, and (ii) a procurement plan due by
September 1 each year, detailing proposed procurement action for implementation in the following fiscal
year at the district, provincial and central level, to be updated by March 1 each year and (iii) incorporate
Association recommendations for the greater efficiency and effectiveness of the project, based on the review
of the above documents,
(c)    maintain or cause to be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
procurement practices (including related supervision, review and auditing) the procurement activities of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof;
(d)    ensure that all such records (including public notices of bidding opportunities, bidding
documents and addenda, bid opening information, bid evaluation reports, formal appeals by bidders and
outcomes, signed contracts, addenda and amendments, records on claims and dispute resolution, and
records of time taken to complete key steps in the process) evidencing such procurement activities are
retained until at least two (2) years after the Closing Date.
(e)    by March 31, 2001 and thereafter by March 31 in each year of project implementation
until project close, recruit a firm to conduct an independent technical audit of project implementation of the
preceding fiscal year employing terms of reference acceptable to the Association covering financial and
disbursement data, procurement actions and implementation progress at the district, provincial and central
level,
(f)    by October 30, 2001 and thereafter by October 30 in each year of project implementation
until project close, submit for Association review the results of the annual independent technical audit and
incorporate the Association comments and recommendations into procurement and implementation planning
for the following fiscal year,
(g)    by June 30, 2003 submit for Association review (which is to take place by July 31, 2003),
employing terms of reference acceptable to the Association, a comprehensive mid-term assessment of
project implementation and impact and promptly thereafter take all measures required to ensure efficient
completion of the project, and in particular detail how the grant mechanism which allows districts to
identify and develop programs to address health priorities specific to the individual districts will be
sustained after the Closing Date,
(h)    within six months after the Closing Date submit for Association incorporation into the
Implementation Completion Report, ICR, comments and lessons learned from the Borrower's perspective
throughout implementation of the project.
- 27 -



2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
During negotiations, it was agreed that the Borrower shall -
(a)    ensure that all studies conducted by Task Forces are carried out in accordance with terms
of reference and timing acceptable to the Association and that the results are fumished to the Association
no later than two months after each task/study is completed and promptly thereafter the Borrower will
prepare an action plan, which incorporates the comments of the Association, to implement the
recommendations of the Task Force.
(b)    by not later than April 30, 2001 issue an Operational Grants Manual setting out
procedures for obtaining and using Grants which is acceptable to the Association.
H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
ER 1. b) Not applicable.
D2 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
Z 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
It was agreed that a finalized Project Management Manual would be reviewed and, if appropriate,
approved by the Association prior to Credit Effectiveness.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
I 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Samuel S. Lieberman              Alan Ruby                          Mark Baird
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
-28 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
INDONESIA: Provincial Health I
key formance
____________                     Indicors            Ig & _   v   uaton   - -tical Assumdtilo
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Reinforcing social safety nets                       Public expenditure and     The project is fully consistent
and strengthening institutions                      institutional reviews      with the CAS goals and fits
to support sustainable growth                                                  closely with the Associations
(CAS Progress Report,                                                          post-election country strategy.
3/9/99).
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Bring about effective health   The benchmarks used to  Updated Situation Analyses,  The Government is committed
decentralization in the   gauge project performance    background sections in district to addressing the following:
provinces of Lampung and   reflect objectives which are   proposals, HPMIS baseline and   *  Use of health services by
Yogyakarta. This will involve largely institutional in nature. follow-up survey reports,  the poor is extremely
protecting health services  These indicators refer to:  technical audits, facility  low and may reflect low
essential for the poor and                           service statistics.            quality and limited local
public at large, initiating key    * The introduction and                           relevance.
sector reforms, and putting    implementation of new                             *  Vector control,
health financing on a firm     organization structures,                             immunization, health
footing.                       health financing                                     promotion are
mechanisms, and work                                 suboptimal in scope and
Help the central health        force policies;                                       effectiveness.
ministry (MOH) carry out its                                                     *  The new
new role to provide analysis of  * The establishment and                             decentralization laws do
key issues, advocacy of best   operation of effective,                              not spell out alternative
practices and standards, and   locally specific curative                             arrangements in detail
support for local initiative and  service delivery and                              and may be disruptive.
innovation.                    financing arrangements;                           * Many health facilities
and                                                  are over staffed; drugs
are "leaked," and
*  The establishment and                                providers devote public
operation of effective,                              time to recruiting
locally specific public                              private patients.
health service provision                          * The sector has long been
and financing                                        underfunded and lacks
arrangements.                                        dependable revenue
sources.
- 29 -



Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
DISTRICTIPROVINCE
Simplified organization    - Merging of Kanwil & Dinas - project quarterly report  1. Adequate management and
structure.                 - Kandep is abolished at the  - project supervision report  technical capacity to perform
district level.                                        quality oversight functions.
Availability of provincial level - Establishment of    - project quarterly report  2. Adequate public response
i.e. cross-district mechanism. cross-district Joint Health  - project supervision report  to service quality gains.
Council and the Technical
Review Team.                                           3. Prompt acceptance of
decentralization roles and
Intensified health education   - Establishment of the Health - project quarterly report    rules by district and province
and promotion approach.    Promotion Board.            - project supervision report  level staff.
- Number of health promotion - health promotion board
proposals from community    annual report
groups funded by the Board.
Number of health staff     - Local manpower policies to  - project quarterly report
consistent with organization   guide staff recruitment/  - project supervision report
functions and workload.    downsizing or redeployment.
- Number and category of
staff recruited, redeployed,
retrained or offered early
retirement packages per year.
Staff career development and  - Availability of a manpower - project quarterly report
quality improvement plan.   information system.        - project supervision report
- Establishment of a
performance based incentive
system.
- Identified management and
technical training packages.
- Number of staff
participating in management
and technical training;
- Number of overseas and in
country. Fellowships.
Locally specific health    - Establishment of a        - project quarterly report
information system         recording and reporting     - project supervision report
system for public and private
facilities.
- Number of staff trained in
the new system.
- Identified type and
frequency of community based
surveys/rapid surveys.
- 30-



Strengthened regulatory     - Establishment of councils   - project quarterly report
framework                   for health professions.      - project supervision report
- Establishment of licencing
system for health
professionals.
- Establishment of an
independent accreditation
agency.
- Establishment of an
accreditation system for health
facilities.
Public accountability       Implementation of one or     - project quarterly report
arrangements in place and    more of the following:      - project supervision report
working                     - district health boards
- hospital/health center health
boards
- subcontracts with NGOs
- disciplinary actions
- community oversight or
hiring of staff
- malpractice suits
- complaint resolution
- surveys on patient
satisfaction
- consumer feedback
mechanisms
New financing mechanisms   - Annual district health      - project quarterly report
aimed at self sufficiency and   spending plans           - project supervision report
increased cost recovery.    - Availability of data on    - district annual budget
revenue amount by source     proposals
- Percentage of self financing
units
- Number of service delivery
contracts to the private sector
- Coverage of health
insurance participants
Improved access of poor     - Availability of yearly data   - project quarterly report
people to health centers and   and maps showing location of - project supervision report
hospitals                   poor families                - province/district MIS
- % poor families with health
cards (if applicable)
- Contact rate of poor people
at health centers
- Hospital bed occupancy
rates by the poor
- Number of upgraded or
rehabilitated health centers in
poor areas
- Frequency of mobile health
center visit to poor areas
- 31 -



Intensified delivery of basic   - Coverage of ante natal care  - project quarterly report
health services among the  among the poor              - project supervision report
poor                       - Coverage of midwife       - special surveys
assisted birth delivery among
poor women
- Coverage of tuberculosis
case finding among the poor
Intensified provision of public - Coverage of immunization  - project quarterly report
health goods               - Coverage of vector control  - project supervision report
(fogging, spraying,        - special surveys
larvaciding, and so forth)
- Coverage of Vitamin A,
Iron tablets, Iodine capsules
distribution
- Coverage of food
supplementation
- Coverage of HIV/AIDS or
STDs case finding
- Coverage of deworming in
schools
- And so forth (depending on
programs implemented by the
districts)
Improved quality of services   - Number of facilities with    - project quarterly report
QA in place                - project supervision report
- Number of staff trained in   - special surveys
QA
- Number of upgraded
facilities
- Increased use of public
facilities.
- 32 -



CENTRAL
Managing Decentralization:
Availability of guidelines to   - Number of workshops on   - project quarterly report
support the decentralization   decentralization with   - project supervision report
process                    stakeholders (province/district
governments, DPRD, related
ministries, NGOs) across
levels
- Availability of Ministerial
Decrees to support
decentralization
- Availability of guidelines/
manuals/papers on
decentralization
- Number of policy studies to
support decentralization
- Number of countries visited
for comparative studies and
number of comparative study
participants from central/
province/district, from MOH
and local government.
Leaner, more focused central  - Number of new central  - project quarterly report
MOH organization           manpower policies (on       - project supervision report
redeployment, retraining and
early retirement)
- Number of staff at the
central level after phase I of
the project
- Reduce percentage of non
professional staff
Improved participation by the  - Number of public      - project quarterly report
public in health           accountability schemes piloted - project supervision report
and implemented
- Number of public debates on
health issues
- Number ofjoumalist
competition on health issues
Resource Mobilization:
Availability of approach for   - Number of studies/pilots on - project quarterly report
resource mobilization      resource mobilization       - project supervision report
- Number of district/province
proposals approved and
funded through matching
grants
- 33 -



Project Monitoring and
Evaluation:
Availability of information on - Establishment of an  - project procurement plan
project status and        independent PHP research    - survey reports
achievements              unit at the central level
- Results of the baseline
survey
- Results of tracking studies
- Results of final evaluation!
survey
-34 -



3 ket~jctys              i - gin4C,,  '          MQtodng $ Eval4t,           GItoaJ a ssuntois--i
Project Components /     Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:          component)                                          Outputs)
A. Provincial:                                      Supervision mission,      *National, district and
A. I Managing                  US$ 3.81 million     semi-annual and quarterly  provincial assemblies
Decentralization:                                   unit reports, financial and  allocate agreed resources
* Restructuring health                           technical audits.          *Accurate prediction of
organization.                                                             resource mobilization
* Human Resource                                                            *Counterpart funds are
Management and                                                            available
Development                                                              *Project funds are not used to
* Developing Health                                                          substitute funds from other
Information Systems.                                                      sources
* Upgrading Regulatory                                                      o
Framework.
* Strengthening Public
Accountability
A.2 Resource Mobilization:     US$ 1.73 million     .                         *Funds are large enough to
* Develop new funding                                                        encourage innovation and
mechanisms.                                                               high quality district
* Converting to self                                                         proposals
funded facilities.
A.3 Access and Equity:         US$ 4.17 million                               *ufficient testing of
* Improve service access.                                                    management capability,
* Improve service quality.                                                   including procurement and
* Intensify health                                                           financial management
promotion.
* Provide specific
services.
A.4 Grants                     US$ 63.71 million                              *Adequate technical skills in
planning, preparing district
proposals and
implementation
A.5 Project Management.        US$ 0.78 million                               *Adequate support from
province and district level
staff and unions
B. Central:                    US$ 2.87 million                               *Design is consistent with
B. 1. Managing                                                                 Law 22
Decentralization.          US$ 0.56 million                              *The new institutions -- JHC,
B.2 Resource Mobilization.     US$ 1.00 million                                TRT and PHPB are working
B.3 Project Management.                                                        as intended
- 35 -



Annex 2: Project Description
INDONESIA: Provincial Health I
Background
Indonesia is decentralizing its system of government. This process promises major benefits, but is not risk
free for a health system whose public sector component has long been closely guided from Jakarta. What
makes the present policy scene even more challenging is the weak budgetary setting in which
decentralization is taking place.
Law 22, passed in April 1999, provides the conceptual and legislative framework for decentralization in
Indonesia. Law 25, also passed in April 1999, complements Law 22 by augmenting and increasing the
predictability of fnancing for local governments. Other laws and decrees including operational regulations
still not yet finalized will be important in determining the pace and direction of the process. Law 22
transfers planning, budgeting and implementation responsibilities in health, like other sectors, to the
country's more than 300 districts. This is an important step since a strong, locally grounded district role is
crucial for sustained health advance in Indonesia with its large and diverse population and archipelagic
configuration.
The authors of Law 22 recognized that districts may not have the capacity, scale and resources to handle
all of the functions being assigned to them. The legislation allows districts to look to the province level for
assistance in canrying out more difficult and costly tasks. Though none are mentioned specifically, these
could include organizing communicable disease control, health education and promotion, procurement of
drugs and training services, and managing the health work force. Draft operational regulations now being
reviewed ahready assign health education functions and some aspects of workforce management to the
province level..
Scope
PHP focuses on Lampung and Yogyakarta, which were part of a group of provinces, along with Bali and
North Sulawesi, designated by MOH and Bappenas because they were thought to combine need with a
readiness to undertake institutional and policy reforms. Of the four, Lampung and Yogyakarta completed
the preparatory steps, including presenting high quality Situation Analyses leading to persuasive reform
directions and priorities. Apart from deriving lessons from project implementation in Lampung and
Yogyakarta, the central MOH component is not directed at pre-selected provinces.
Project Objectives
The primary goal is to facilitate health sector decentralization in Lampung and Yogyakarta provinces. This
entails placing health financing on a firm footing, while carrying out capacity building measures and
initiating health reforms. Apart from the financing dimensions, the reform agenda involves instituting
sector-wide planning and budgeting; rationalizing current government health structures and personnel
numbers, deployment, and use; and taking steps to make services for the poor more accessible and upgrade
service quality and relevance for the general public. At the central level, the aim is to develop capacity to
promote health policies and standards, facilitate innovation, and foster local involvement and ownership.
To this end, MOH will develop instruments to disseminate PHP and other lessons to the other provinces.
- 36 -



Approach to Reform
The reform vision which informs PBP is eclectic and facilitative. No agenda is included in the project in
respect of particular diseases or health problems, nor is the advocacy of particular practices as regards
health planning, priority setting and service delivery. The project's point of departure is the assessment
that the policy paradigm of the 1980s and 1990s had outlived its usefulness, but that alternative policy
packages were not available "off the shelf." However, decentralization is creating circumstances conducive
to developing new policies approaches, which are promising and sustainable at the regional level.
Accordingly, PHP's activities center on getting adequate decision making authority and financing in place,
along with the incentives, procedures, and skills required for locally grounded initiatives and strategies to
emerge. The goal is to prepare the preconditions for health decentralization--PUP aims to encourage
districts to review current settings and recent experience, think through options, develop and test
approaches, knowing that some might not work.
Clearly, this facilitative, pro-innovation approach involves risks. For example, local initiatives may
respond to inappropriate priorities, rest on weak technical content, fail to benefit from relevant Indonesian
and international experience, and provide too little resources to attract high quality proposals or encourage
districts to look broadly at their health spending and use decentralization to step-back and review
alternatives based on new information and experiences. And decentralized approaches may involve
excessive risks, including under emphasizing not only the poor but to public health concerns. On the other
hand, there is a risk that decentralized strategies may be too cautious and not lead to creative and viable
alternative approaches.
Project Mechanisms and Phasing
PUP's design includes elements and procedures aimed at limiting and channeling the risks associated with
allowing and enabling districts to define health priorities and modalities. These design features are
discussed below in relation to the project vehicle and mechanisms through which PUP will operate. The
key to PUP is an annual program grant to districts, with various preparatory, support, oversight, evaluative
and follow up activities keyed to the formulation and implementation of these grants. However, the
grant-based process is scheduled to start after preliminary capacity building activities have been undertaken
during Phase 1 (2000-2001). Then in Phase 2 (2002-2005), PHP will finance grants to fund district health
improvement and reform proposals which have benefited from technical support and quality assurance
mechanisms, and been reviewed against specified funding ceilings and in terms of technical and other
criteria.
Phase 1. The first 18 months will set the stage for decentralization and health reforrm (components Al and
A2), while helping to sustain current health services including some targeted activities introduced during
the economic crisis (component A3). One important task in this period will be to orient all participants to
new roles and rules, to underscore the focus on poverty and public health functions, and for the TRT and
JHC to conduct "trial runs" of the grant process. Also, districts will prepare Situation Analyses and four
year frameworks. In this preparatory phase, Task Forces will address institutional and health issues and
assist in building district implementation capacity, including upgrading health information systems. For
example, the Managing Decentralization task forces will prepare the ground institutionally for the targeted,
quality-controlled grant mechanism which is a key organizing principle and sectoral reform mechanism for
the project. The Resource Mobilization Task Force aims at ensuring that funds are available to sustain the
grant making process after Association funds are fully disbursed.
- 37 -



Phase 2. PHP will fund district grants (component A.4.3) which will then finance expenditures expected to
have a large health payoff in respect to the poor and the public overall. It will be up to local decision
makers, operating through new arrangements, to work out health priorities and action plans, with district
authorities fully accountable for the results.
The Grant Process
A number of steps will be involved in preparing, allocating, reviewing, deciding on, spending, and
monitoring and evaluating the use of Phase 2 grants. Districts in Lampung and Yogyakarta will be
assigned ceilings determined according to local poverty and service use characteristics and overall spending
goals set by the provinces as what is needed to attain their vision statements--Healthy Yogyakarta 2005 and
Healthy Lampung 2010 (see Attachment 2 below). In light such ceilings, and drawing on completed
Situation Analyses and newly strengthened information flows, district teams then will prepare four year
health improvement frameworks, updated annually, as well as detailed proposals for the next 12 months.
The proposals will cover goals and targets, poverty and epidemiological characteristics, key local health
priorities and mechanisms, performance indicators and notional budgets. The latter will need to include
procurement and financial management plans which must conform to what is agreed with the Association.
Interventions for years two, three and four of the plans will be revised annually based on district health
information system fndings and experience gained from implementation during the initial and subsequent
years in the cycle.
Process as well as output indicators have been selected to monitor PHP. For the institution development
components (Al and A2), the indicators relate to improvement of organizational structure and functions,
staffing, and resource mobilization. These may include: merging of Dinas and Kanwil at the provincial
level, the number of swadana (self sufficient) facilities, and the number of facilities with quality assurance
mechanisms. For the service delivery components (A3 and A4), process indicators include the annual
proposals for district block grants, and periodic JHC reports on the performance of district grants. Output
indicators include facility use by the poor, coverage of promotive and preventive services, and case finding
and treatmnent of particular diseases (TB, STDs).
Preparation and Review Responsibilities
Grant proposals will be submitted by District Implementation Units, DIUs, which will be established in
district health planning units. These proposals, once endorsed by the Bupati, will be sent for evaluation by
a Technical Review Team (TRT) established in the provincial health planning bureau. The TRT will
review proposals based on procedures acceptable to the Association and specified in a Grants Operational
Manual. The TRT will then forward their evaluation to a new entity, the Joint Health Council (JHC)
which will have review functions for the health sector. If and when the district proposals were endorsed by
the JHC, they will be consolidated and forwarded for Association review of procurement arrangements, and
then funded.
Further description of the PHP process and main actors appears in Attachment 1 below. What remains to
be discussed here is to whether the roles and procedures--the rules of the game--built into the grant
mechanism appear robust against risks and concems such as those cited earlier. For example, will the
grant proposals attain an adequate technical standard, and is there enough funding involved to inspire
i-maginative proposals and to engender rethinking of district health programs in their entirety? Will
proposals overlook the poor and/or underemphasize public goods? How will the balance come out between
excessive risk taking and overly cautious approaches?
- 38 -



Of course, it will be several years before empirically based responses can be developed for these questions.
But it is possible to point to safeguards and other PHP design features introduced to counter concerns like
those just cited.
Assuring that district proposals are of good qualitv technically. A number of instruments will be used in a
coordinated fashion to ensure that those who prepare and review proposals have the needed background and
that the technical integrity of the process is maintained:
*      setting appropriate qualifications for TRT members, and close scrutiny of the background of
candidates;
*     fnmetuning the TORs for the TRT and JHC;
*     prompt hiring of consultants when specific technical needs arise to augment TRT capacity;
*      assistance from central MOH;
*     upgrading the technical content of appropriate sections in district Situation Analyses;
*     assistance to districts in proposal preparation by TRT;
*     discussion of the wording and interpretation of proposal review criteria used by the TRT during
trial runs in Phase 1;
*     dissemination of best practice cases and other material as part of training during Phase 1, language
in the Grants Operational Manual for Phase 2 to be drafted and reviewed by the Association
during Phase 1;
-     meetings with JHC members and the group as a whole to discuss technical standards;
-     increased availability of accurate and timely health information by 2002; and
*      intensified health promotion work and stronger, better enforced accountability measures together
leading to increased public awareness of technical standards and the importance of quality and
stronger demand for good service.
Assuring that grant funds are large enough to trigger program wide review and to encourage creative
thinking. Grant ceilings are linked to poverty and other district characteristics, and also to desired
expenditure levels. The latter in turn derive from spending benchmarks agreed during project design.
These targets set the ceilings at levels which, in light of expected central government transfers and locally
generated revenues, put each province's public spending on health at a level considered necessary to reach
goals set out in their vision statements. Moreover, it was agreed that grant ceilings will be maintained at
2002 levels by drawing on local government sources to offset decliiiing Association support during
2003-2005. In short, the grants are not insubstantial. But equally important is the understanding, agreed
during Negotiations, that the proposal review by the TRT and JHC will cover the planned level and
allocation of development grants, the Daftar Alokasi Daftar Pembangunan Daerah (DADPD) which
replaced the previous Inpres grants as a means of channeling central resources to health, and which is used
to purchase drugs and other key operational items. The TRT and JHC will also look at other elements in
district spending programs as well as at actual and projected revenues and inflows from new resource
mobilization activities. Thus, the review process is expected to encompass a significant share of each
district's spending program, and to assess the realism of planned outlays in terms of projected revenue
inflows. Thus, funding volume is unlikely to be an issue in regard to instituting rethinking of overall
programs by district. Nor should grant size be an inhibiting factor with respect to developing innovative
policies. Instead, what will matter as a stimulus to imaginative thinking are the instructions and proposal
formats, in the Grants Operational Manual, as well as the informal advice given to proposal drafters.
Assuring that poverty needs and objectives and the health concerns of the wider public are kept in view.
The main instruments and safeguards consist of the linkage between grant ceilings and the number and
- 39 -



other characteristics of the poor in each district; the criteria and instructions to be included in the TORs for
the TRT and JHC, and in the Grants Operational Manual; various training activities during Phase 1
including introductions to QA practices; findings on service impacts from the health infornation system
and from different accountability mechanisms; and the likelihood that proposals or at least major
components may be rejected if they are not poverty or public-health linked.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$3.81 million
Component A.1: Managing Decentralization (District and Provincial) - US$ 3.81 million
Project-supported Task Forces will focus on critical institutional issues and develop recommendations
for implementation immediately in Phase 1 and in Phase 2 (grants in subcomponents A.4. 1 and A.4.2).
Results expected after the first 18 months include finalization of the division of responsibilities and
institutional arrangements between districts and provinces; completion of the merger of the Kanwil and
Dinas Kesehatan; a human resource development plan which covers possible downsizing, contract
hiring and career development; training for MIS staff, baseline surveys, and mapping of poverty areas;
and a health promotion strategy including setting up a provincial health promotion board in
Yogyakarta.
Project funds will be spent on technical assistance, workshops, training, study tours, research and
study, and monitoring and evaluation.
Subcomponent A.1.1: Restructuring Health Organization in the Provinces and Districts
During the first 1 8 months, the provinces will establish a new institutional structure by merging the
Kanwil and Dinas Kesehatan. The new organization will have fewer structural and more functional
positions. The Kandepkes, the deconcentrated office of MOH at the district level, will be abolished.
A health council will be established to function as an advisory body to the Govemor and to review
service delivery proposals from the districts. In Yogyakarta, a Health Promotion Board will be
established to plan and coordinate health promotion activities. The districts will also change the
way hospitals and other implementing units (health centers, subcenters, laboratories) are managed
to give them more authority and flexibility dealing with services, financial resources and human
resources. Possible options will be to expand the autonomous unit concept (swadana), to privatize
some facilities, to contract facility management, or to develop community owned health centers.
Activities:
Establish a Task Force on organization restructuring.
Identify organization restructuring issues.
Identify implications for human resources.
Develop policies and programs for human resource development.
Implement the new system.
Publicize the new organization structure.
Evaluate and revise as needed.
For management reform of implementing units, activities will include:
Initial studies on autonomous health units.
Planning for facility management changes, diagnosis problems, and development of strategy.
-40 -



Publicizing changes.
Providing technical and management guidance.
Developing and conducting training on financial accounting.
Funds will be allocated for technical assistance, studies, workshops, training and monitoring and
evaluation activities.
Subcomponent A.1.2: Human Resource Management and Development
The Task Force will help the provinces to develop human resource management policy to support
the reformed organization. The new policy will likely include downsizing, redeployment, early
retirement and contractual arrangements.
Activities:
Set up the Task Force.
Develop a plan to support the organization during the transition period.
Develop downsizing methods and compensation packages.
Communicate decisions to staff.
Develop a career development system, and continuing education and or skills enhancement
programs.
Funds will be allocated for technical assistance, training, workshops, pilots, fellowship and studies.
Subcomponent A.1.3: Developing Health Information System
The Task Force will help the provinces and districts to adapt and refine the existing health
information system to support decentralization. The new system will comprise of facility based
information, community based information, and epidemiological surveillance data.
Activities:
Review of existing system.
Develop a master plan for a new health information system.
Develop the blue print.
Identify and develop software applications.
Conduct trials.
Implement the new system.
Conduct monitoring, evaluation and refining of the new system.
Funds will be allocated for technical assistance, pilots, training, workshop, hardware and software
procurement
Subcomponent A.1.4: Upgrading the Regulatory Framework
The Task Force on this topic will assist the provinces and districts in strengthening the licensing
and certification of health professionals, and accreditation of health care organizations currently
carried out by the government in collaboration with professional organizations. The objective of
this subcomponent is to improve the quality of health professionals and health care organizations.
Outputs will likely include a board for licensing health professionals, a board for health care
organizations, and improved licensing and accreditation systems.
-41 -



Activities regarding licensing and certification of health professionals will include:
Establishing a working group on health professional licensure.
Identifying general issues of concern.
Assessing the existing system.
Designing a new system for professional licensure.
Establishing a licensing board for health professionals.
Developing licensing examination for health professionals.
Publicizing and implementing the licensing mechanism.
Evaluating the licensing mechanism.
To strengthen accreditation of health care organizations, activities will include:
Establishing a working group on accreditation of health care organizations.
Identifying general issues of concern.
Assessing existing accreditation system.
Investigating development of accreditation system for other health care organizations.
Designing accreditation for health care organizations.
Establishing an independent agency for accreditation of health care organizations.
Publicizing and implementing accreditation for health care organizations.
Evaluation of accreditation systems.
Funds will be allocated for technical assistance, studies, seminars, workshops, training,
short term fellowships/study tours and some start up costs.
Subcomponent A.1.5: Strengthening Public Accountability
The concerned Task Force will help the provinces to strengthen accountability as well as sensitivity
to customer needs by implementing social campaigns on customer rights. A working group will be
established to develop manuals for service excellence including a patient charter. Complaint
resolution mechanisms such as exit surveys, and a special post office box will be strengthened and
expanded to facilitate complaints from customers. Public participation in developing public health
policies will be encouraged through inforrnation sharing, consultation and partnership.
Activities:
Develop a Task Force on consumer service and accountability.
Develop models to support public involvement (customer service manual, patients' charter,
complaint resolution mechanisms).
Conduct trials and decide appropriate provincial models.
Conduct workshops and training.
Implement the system.
Resources will be allocated for technical assistance, pilots, seminar/workshop and training
Project Component 2 - US$1.73 million
Component A.2: Mobilizing Resources (District and Provincial) - US$ 1.73 million
During the first 18 months, Task Forces will assist the provinces in developing integrated health
planning and budgeting systems, and examining different opportunities for resource mobilization.
-42 -



These may include alternative insurance approaches, developing autonomous facilities which rely on
cost recovery, and examining tax-based and other means of generating resources for health. In addition
resource mobilization might include charitable grants, leverage of private funds, and different ways of
reducing patientlclient loads in the public systems. Implementation activities proposed for Phase 2 will
be eligible for funding under A.4.2 grants.
Subcomponent A.2.1: Developing New Funding Mechanisms
The provinces and districts will develop, through the work of a Task Force, a decentralized
planning and budgeting system that will enable the local government to develop and plan efficient,
effective and equitable programs according to community needs. In addition, options for resource
mobilization will be assessed along with what is entailed, likely costs, and the stream of benefits
expected. Attention will be given to different approaches. For example, insurance based
approaches may be piloted.
Funds will be allocated for technical assistance, workshops, studies/survey, training, pilots,
monitoring and evaluation.
Subcomponent A.2.2: Converting to Self Sufficiency
The Task Force on this topic will advise the provinces and districts on how to convert hospitals,
health centers and other implementing units into autonomous units. The objective will be to
improve the quality, effectiveness, and efficiency of the implementing units by giving the authority
and flexibility to pursue cost recovery and utilize the budget for facility operations. Implementation
of health insurance pilots with project support will likely occur from FY 2002 onwards.
The schedule of activities for developing swadana units and insurance approaches is as
follows:
Developing swadana unit by:
Forming a unit swadana Task Force.
Conducting feasibility studies comprising market surveys, competitor surveys, ability and
willingness to pay surveys, and calculation of new tariffs based on survey results.
Providing assistance in reviewing health center and hospital performance, and deciding on
tariffs on services.
Developing new health center and hospital management by designing new organization
structure, and new administrative management to accommodate swadana.
Pursuing legal and legislative aspects by conducting lobby and coordination meetings with the
DPRD and political parties, and developing the regional regulations (Perda) on swadana.
Disseminating the new swadana policy to the community.
Developing health insurance by:
Conducting feasibility studies and surveys on existing health insurance schemes.
Providing training through long term fellowships and in service training.
Promoting health insurance through community meetings at the subdistrict level, meetings with
community organizations, meetings with health services units and professional organizations,
and periodic meetings with labor unions, company owners and insurance companies.
Developing the legal base for health insurance, through reviews of existing regulations on
health insurance, development of regional regulations (Perda) and coordination meetings with
-43 -



the DPRD and political parties.
Developing a health insurance organization including provision of management, financial and
actuarial guidance.
Piloting health insurance programs.
Resources will be allocated for technical assistance, studies and surveys, pilots, workshops,
training, marketing, initial capital investment (for poor families), and monitoring and evaluation.
Project Component 3 - US$ 4.17 million
Component A.3: Improving Health Service Access and Quality (District and Provincial) - US$
4.17 million
Component A.3 will be implemented during 2000-2001 only, followed by Component A4 (Grants)
from FY 2002 onwards. This component will supplement current government outlays on essential
services by funding inputs, improved access to facilities, and specific services. Under A.3, the
districts will implement quality assurance programs, and the provinces will intensify health
promotion activities.
Subcomponent A.3.1: Improving Service Access
During the first 18 months, the districts will conduct activities to improve access and expand
coverage of services. Activities will include refurbishing health facilities, increasing the number of
mobile health units to bring services to remote areas, and contracting private providers to deliver
basic health services in designated areas.
Subcomponent A.3.2: Improving Service Quality
During the first 18 months, the districts will implement quality assurance activities. The quality
assurance approach developed through Association funded BP4 and HP5 projects will be adapted
to local needs and implemented in the health centers. Some staff from district health offices as well
as the health centers will be sent for D3, SI, and S2 fellowship programs. Selection of fellowship
candidates will follow criteria developed for the human resource development created in Component
A. 1. The fellowship program will continue until FY 2004. Improving quality of service will also
be done by upgrading existing facilities and equipment
Subcomponent A.3.3: Intensifying Health Promotion
During the first 18 months, Yogyakarta will establish a health promotion board. The board will be
a small, joint governmentlNGO unit with the task primarily of eliciting, enabling and funding
proposals from outside the government The Yogyakarta board, working together with the health
education unit at the district health office, will coordinate activities on health promotion with
NGOs, community groups, the private sectors, as well as higher learning institutions through
workshops, and seminars. Advocacy efforts will increase the salience of specific health issues
within the community and the government, including advocacy with litigation to produce local
decrees. Working together with the public accountability working group, a health information
center will be established to create well informed health care consumers. The government health
education unit will also conduct specific health promotion campaigns based on community need
assessments and epidemiological surveillance data. The division of tasks, roles and responsibilities
- 44 -



between the board and the government unit will be detailed during the first year of project
implementation.
Subcomponent A.3.4: Provision of Inputs and Services
The project will fund provision of specific services mainly through procurement of drugs and
supplies such as reagents and insecticides. Some resources will be allocated to workshops and
training related to expansion and improvement of service provision.
Project Component 4 - US$63.71 million
Component A.4 Grants - US$ 63.71 million
Subcomponents A.4.1 and A.4.2: Grantsfor Managing Decentralization and Resource
Mobilization (Task Force recommendations)
Starting in 2002, funds will be made available through three different grant mechanisms. Two of these
grants (subcomponents A.4.1 and A.4.2) will finance implementation of recommendations developed by
the Task Forces which were operating in Phase 1. Typically, grants will be used to monitor budget,
and implement actions recommended by the Task Forces in their reports at the end of Phase 1. The
following are some of activities likely to be recommended for grant funding.
X      fiurther strengthening of management capacity at the provincial, district and health center levels.
This will be done mainly through support for fellowships and in service training. Project funds will
be spent technical assistance, workshops, training, study tours, research studies and monitoring and
evaluation;
*      implementation of the recommended career development system, and conducting continuing
education and skills enhancement programs through fellowship and in service training; and
*      health system maintenance, refresher training.
Findings and recommendations will be reviewed by the JHCs.
SubconponentA.4.3: Grantsfor Improving Health Service Access and Quality
The third and largest grant mechanism covers reform and improvement of district level health services.
Districts will prepare yearly proposals to be evaluated by the Technical Review Team and Joint Health
Council. Proposals will focus on improving the accessibility and quality of public health and curative
services. Budget ceilings, which will reflect the number of poor people in the district, and service use
by the poor will be given to the districts as a range. Funds will be released after proposals are
approved by the JHC.
Non-Association Financing. At negotiations, it was agreed that the JHCs will also review, as part of
each district's annual proposal, expected outlays on drugs and facility operations and maintenance.
Spending on these items is essential to maintain the technical quality of services, to improve the
credibility of program activities in the eyes of the public and also from the point of view of providers,
and to sustain program support and funding. Funds for drugs and facility upkeep currently come in
large part from annual central development grants DADPD for Daftar Alokasi Dana Pembangunan
Daerah tied to the number of people in each province and the number and type of government health
facilities. For FY2000 (9 months), DADPD grants amounted to Rp 24.0 billion ($3.3 million) for
-45 -



Lampung and Rp 13.3 billion ($1.8 million) for Yogyakarta. Of this, 65-70% was spent on drugs and
other items procured in line with Keppres 18, 2000. DADPD grants are expected to continue once
Laws 22 and 25 come into effect, and it is important that districts include these funds as part of their
situation analyses, four year health improvement frameworks and annual proposals, for review by the
TRT and JHC. Accordingly, it was agreed at Negotiations that projected DADPD allocations will be
included in PHP as non-Association finded projects costs for each year in the 2002-2005 interval.
The amounts included were calculated by putting current DADPD provincial and district allocations
on a 12 month basis, removing components (30-35%) which are not procured. It is assumed that the
resulting allocations will continue unchanged during the 2002-2005 period. Also included as
Non-Association Financing are the Funds provided from Local Government sources to sustain districts
grants at 2002 levels, while Association support declines.
Project Component 5 - US$0.78 million
Component A.5: Project Management (District and Provincial) - US$ 0.78 million
The project will support consultant services, office equipment and supplies, workshops and
supervision, for project administration and management at the provincial and district levels.
Project Component 6 - US$2.87 million
Component B.1 Managing Decentralization (Central) - US$ 2.87 million
This component will help the central MOH to become an effective analytical, advisory, and advocacy
agency. The initiatives to be supported include cross-ministry task forces on decentralization and
accountability; pilot early retirement and re-deployment measures to facilitate reshaping the health
work force; and social marketing and other mean of highlighting health sector needs. The component
will support policy studies commissioned by the new Policy Analysis Unit within MOH. This unit will
solicit proposals from academic or research institutions, NGOs and professional organizations, or from
provinces, districts and central MOH units. Topics may include, aspects of institutional development;
accountability mechanisms; dimensions of human resource management and development; regulatory
policy; and a number of demand side issues. Findings will be made available to all provinces and
districts, with dissemination itself helping to develop facilitative, analytical and advocacy roles for the
central MOH in the decentralization era.
As part of its advocacy role for the health sector, the central unit, with PHP support, will sponsor
national seminars and workshops on health sector decentralization, conduct social marketing on
health and hold periodic journalist competitions. To broaden knowledge and understanding on
changing politic roles in decentralization, the central unit will send a team consisting of
representatives from the central MOH as well as local governments to federal countries such as
Australia, Canada and others.
The central team will also develop different public accountability mechanisms to be adjusted to the
needs of different provinces. These will include inviting technical assistance, conducting studies,
designing and piloting public accountability scenarios, and engaging the civil society in developing
healthy public policies through information, consultation and partnership approaches.
-46 -



PHP Research Unit
This component will also fund a research unit to evaluate project achievements. Evaluation will be based
on pre and post project assessment. Project achievements will be assessed according to performance
indicators agreed during project negotiations. These will include process as well as output/outcome
indicators. (The main indicators are outlined in Annex 1 of the PAD and the terms of reference prepared
for the research unit.) However, more specific benchmarks are expected to emerge, and these indicators
should be mentioned in the technical proposals submitted by the institutions expressing interest in the
assignment.
The scope of work of the unit will include conducting: (a) baseline surveys, (b) yearly tracking studies and
(c) final surveys. Results of the baseline surveys will be made available to the implementing units at the
district and province to be used as inputs when preparing proposal for the district grants. The baseline
survey should be finalized during the first 6 months of the project. To accomplish this the terms of
reference, TOR, for the research unit, including an owner's estimate of cost should be agreed by the
Association prior to effectiveness. Once the TOR is agreed, and before effectiveness, the CPCU will call
for expressions of interest and, after evaluation of company profiles, provide the Association with a
proposed shortlist of candidates.
To avoid conflict of interest, the unit will be independent of the central government. Selection will be
conducted by the CPCU (Central Project Coordinating Unit). The method will be Quality and Cost Based
Selection. University-based research units as well as private firms will be invited to submit expressions for
interest. The contract will cover the whole series of surveys (baseline, tracking and final). The owners
estimate of the budget for activity (a) the baseline survey, has been entered into the FY00 DIP by the
CPCU, the agreed estimated budgets for activities (b) the yearly tracking studies and, (c) the final survey
will be inputed to the respective annual DIPs by the CPCU.
Project Component 7 - US$0.56 million
Component B.2 Resource Mobilization (Central) - US$ 0.56 million
The central unit will provide grants to provinces or districts to test resource generation instruments
and to fund proposals pertaining to the development of decentralized, equitable and efficient health
financing systems. Proposals will be solicited from provinces and districts outside Yogyakarta and
Lampung. In a matching grant mechanism to be piloted, approved proposals will be funded jointly
by the central MOH and the regions. Aside from improving local capacity to develop specific
programs, matching grants could also become a funding option for the central level to offset
possible reductions in central budget channels. This component will give central unit staff the
experience needed to use such grants to support public health and poverty oriented activities.
Some technical assistance, workshops and pilots will be carried out in the project to develop the
matching grant mechanism.
Project Component 8 - US$1.00 million
Component B.3 Project Management (Central) - US$ 1.00 million
The project will provide consultant services, office equipment and supplies, workshops and supervision for
project management and administration.
-47 -



Attachment 1 of Annex 2
Indonesia: Provincial Health Project
This Annex presents a summary of the management structure for project activities at the district,
provincial, and central level. In Phase 1 of the project, the first 18 months, the project will support the
reform of existing institutional arrangements to establish the capacity and structures necessary to support
the provision of health services in a decentralized management environment. The mechanism for this will be
District Grants.
Project Management Structure (See Attachment 2.C of Annex 6)
District level
1.    District Implementation Units, DIUs were established prior to Loan Negotiations by the
respective District, Bupati, and headed by the chief of the Bappeda level II. DIUs will be managed by an
Executive Secretary in his/her capacity as head of the district health office. That office is responsible for
implementing district level activities in conformity with the plan reviewed by the Association at Appraisal
for Phase I of the project, (to December 2001), and agreements reached during Negotiations. A draft
Project Management Manual covering job descriptions, procurement methods, financial management, and
reporting management has been prepared and reviewed. The finalized Project Management Manual will
be reviewed and approved by the Association prior to effectiveness. Training on the manual for all
involved in the project will begin after effectiveness and regularly followed by refresher training during
project implementation.
2.     Starting in FY 2001 and for each subsequent fiscal year, a major task of the DIJ will be
developing consolidated annual district health plans within the framework of a 4-year "rolling plan". In
both Phases of the project, the DIU will function as the district level project secretariat and will cover
administration, procurement, financing, disbursement, and the reporting of project activities. The DIU will
include some existing government staff, with procurement under the supervision of a Pimbagpro and
finance under the supervision of a treasurer, Bendahara. An administrative officer/office manager
supported by two clerical staff will be funded by the project to maintain project documentation. Training in
procurement procedures, financial management, disbursement and reporting procedures defined in the
Project Management Manual will be provided just after the project launch and regularly updated during
Phase 1 of project implementation.
3.    In Phase 2 (starting in FY 2002), proposals for District Grants will be based on the annual district
health plans developed by the district planning bureau and submitted by the chief of the district health
office after endorsement by the Bupati. The proposal will be in a format specified in a Grants Operational
Manual, prepared by a management consultant contracted by the CPCU, which was established as a
condition of disbursement for component A4. This manual will detail eligible expenditures under the
District Grants, the proposal procedure and schedule, responsibilities for preparation and the review
process including evaluation criteria, contracting procedures, procurement and fnancial management, and
reporting and monitoring requirements.
4.     The DIUs will be responsible for coordinating contracting for sub-projects for agreed activities
under the District Grants within indicative 4-year budgets. Annual budget ceilings were agreed at project
Appraisal and were calculated based on the level of health spending prior to the economic crisis using
FYI 996/97 as a base year adjusted by current data on the number of poor in each district and inversely
proportional to the current level of use of health facilities by the poor (see Table 1 a & lb below).
-48 -



Table la: Grants to Lampun Province Indicative Budget Ceili gs
FY 02         .  FY 03              FY04             FYOS
Lampu1g Province           weight   Rp mil  USD 000  Rp mil USO 000  Rp mil USD 000  Rp mil USD 000
ProvincialPCIU                  17,032  $2,280.8   16,571  $2,220.0   14,316  $1,916.8   11,691  $1,565.6
Managing Decentalization              7,844  $1,050.4    6,396   $856.8   4,519   $604.8    3,194   $428.0
Resource Mobilization                 8,001  $1,071.2    9,329 $1,249.6    8,900  $1,192.0    7,547 $1,010.4
Project Management           -         1,187   $159.2     846   $113.6      897   $120.0      950   $127.2
South Lampung        15.90%      3,326   $445.5    3,026   $405.1    2,307   $309.0    1,494   $200.0
Improving Quality & Access            3,250   $435.2    2,944   $394.2   2,221   $297.4    1,402   $187.8
ProjectManagement                        77    $10.3       82    $10.9       86    $11.6      91    $12.2
Central Lampung       13.30%     2,793   $374.0    2,542   $340.2    1,941   $259.9    1,261   $168.8
Improving Quality,&Access             2,719   $364.1    2,463   $329.8    1,858   $248.8    1,173   $157.0
Prolect Management                       74     $9.9       78    $10.5       83    $11.1       88    $11.8
NorthLampung          9.50%      2,640   $353.6    2,078   $278.2    1,018   $136.5     662    $88.5
Improving Quality & Access            2,554   $342.0    1,986   $266.0      922   $123.4      558    $74.7
Project Management                       86    $11.6       92    $12.2       97    $13.0      103    $13.8
West Lampung         3.50%        778   $104.2      714    $95.7      560    $74.9      383    $51.3
Improving Quality,&Access               715    $95.8      648    $86.8      490    $65.5      309    $41.4
Project Management                       62     $8.3       66     $8.9       70     $9.4       74     $9.9
BandarLampung         5.60%      1,210   $162.1    1,106   $148.0      855   $114.5     571    $76.4
Improving Quality & Access            1,145   $153.4    1,037   $138.8      782   $104.7     494    $66.1
Project Management           -           65     $8.7       69     $9.2       73     $9.8       78    $10.3
Tulang 8awang        17.80%     3,707   $496.5    3,379   $452.5   2,575   $344.8    1,665   $222.9
Improving Quality & Access            3,638   $487.3    3,295   $441.3   2,486   $332.9    1,570   $210.2
ProjectManagement                        69     $9.2       84    $11.2       89    $11.9       94    $12.6
Tanggamus          12.70%      2,670   $357.4    2,429   $325.3    1,856   $248.6    1,207   $161.6
Improving Quality & Access            2,597   $347.7   2,351   $314.9    1,774   $237.5    1,120   $149.9
Project Management           -           73     $9.8       78    $10.4       82    $11.0       87    $11.7
East Lampung         11.90%     1,930   $258.3    1,758   $235.4    1,349   $180.6     885   $118.4
Improving Quality & Access            1,861   $249.1    1,685   $225.6   1,271   $170.2       802   $107.4
Project Management                       69     $9.2       73     $9.8       78    $10.4       82    $11.0
Way Kanan           9.10%      1,930   $258.3    1,758   $235.4    1,349   $180.6     885   $118.4
Improving Quality &Access             1,861   $249.1    1,685   $225.6    1,271   $170.2      802   $107.4
Project Management                       69     $9.2       73     $9.8       78    $10.4       82    $11.0
Kota Metro          0.70%       202    $27.0      192    $25.8      165    $22.1      132    $17.7
Improving Quality & Access              143    $19.1      130    $17.4       98    $13.2       62     $8.2
Project Management           -           59     $7.9       62     $8.4       66     $8.9       70     $9.4
Lampung FY Totals     100.00%    38,217  $5,117.8  35,552  $4,761.5  28,291  $3,788.2  20,835  $2,789.5
Managing Decentalization              7,844  $1,050.4   6,396    $856.8   4,519    $604.8   3,194    $428.0
Resource Mobilization                 8,001  $1,071.2   9,329  $1,249.6   8,900  $1,192.0   7,547  $1,010.4
Improving Quality & Access           20,482  $2,742.8  18,224  $2,440.3  13,173  $1,763.9   8,293  $1,110.2
Project Management           -        1,890   $253.4   1,603   $214.8   1,699   $227.5   1,802   $240.9
-49 -



Table 1b : Grants to Yogyakarta Province Indicative Budget Celings
Yogyakarta Province      we.            FY 02             FY03               FY04              FYO5
Yogyakarta Province 0    . weiah t   Rp altpfmiu gUSD 000  Ro mi  USD 000  Rp mit iUSD 000  Rp mil  USD O0
Provincial PCIU                   9,091  $1,254.0    9,140  $1,260.7    8,018  $1,106.0    6,671   $920.2
Managing Decentalization                3,923   $420.3    3,199   $428.4    2,261    $302.7    1,598   $213.9
Resource Mobilization                   4,363   $467.4    5,087   $681.2    4,853   $649.8    4,115   $551.1
ProjectManagement             -          805    $86.2      854   $114.2       905   $121.1      958   $128.4
Yogyakarta City       7.90%        723   $121.1       722    $96.8      378    $50.6      264    $35.3
Improving Quality & Access               669   $112.1      651    $87.2       302    $40.5      183    $24.5
Project Management            _           54      $9.0      71      $9.6       76    $10.2       81    $10.8
Bantul            24.10%      2,640   $353.6    2,078   $278.2    1,018   $136.5      662    $88.5
Improving Quality & Access             2,554   $342.0    1,986   $266.0       922   $123.4      558    $74.7
Project Management                        86    $11.6       92    $12.2        97    $13.0      103    $13.8
KulonrProgo         11.90%      1,333   $178.5    1,058   $141.6      536    $71.8       362    $48.4
Improving Quality &Access               1,261   $168.8     981   $131.4       455    $61.0      275    $36.9
Project Management                        72      $9.7      77    $10.2        81    $10.9       86    $11.5
Gunung KiduI         36.40%      3,958   $530.1    3,108   $416.2    1,505   $201.5       963   $129.0
Improving Quality & Access              3,858   $516.6    3,001   $401.8    1,391   $186.3      843   $112.9
Project Management            -          101    $13.5      107    $14.3       114    $15.2      120    $16.1
Sleman            19.70%      2,169   $290.4    1,710   $229.0      845   $113.2       553    $74.1
Improving Quality & Access              2,087   $279.5    1,624   $217.4      754   $101.0      456    $61.1
ProjectManagement                         82    $10.9       86    $11.5        91    $12.2       97    $13.0
Yogyakarta FYTotals     100.00%    19,914  $2,447.6   17,817  $2,385.6   12,301  $1,647.4    9,474  $1,268.6
Managing Decentalization                3,923    $420.3   3,199    $428.4   2,261    $302.7   1,598    $213.9
Resource Mobilization                  4,363    $467.4   5,087    $681.2   4,853    $649.8   4,115    $551.1
Improving Quality &Access              10,429  $1,419.0   8,243  $1,103.8   3,824    $512.2   2,316    $310.1
Project Management            -         1,199    $140.9   1,287    $172.2   1,363    $182.6   1,446    $193.5
Weigh= A(1-C)IB
A = Number of poor per District, B = Number of poor per Province, C: Frequency of use of health facilities
The grant allocation does not include the 20% to be allocated from district resources
5.      The DIUs will be responsible for procuring goods and services under the District Grants by
entering into sub-project contracts with eligible providers. The DIU will carry out the invitation and
evaluation of bids or may sub-contract the process to qualified procurement agents which will be chosen
through a competitive process. Detailed procedures for each case will be specified in the Grants
Operational Manual. Regardless of size, contracting will be undertaken for civil works, goods, services
and consultants, using procurement procedures and standard bidding documents acceptable to the
Association.
Provincial Level
6.      A Joint Health Council, JHC, has been established by the respective Governor in each
participating province. The JHC will be a standing committee, meeting a minimum of four times a year as
a forum for raising health issues and determining broad health policy for the province. The JHC will be
comprised of the province's Bupatis, members of civil society, and local health professionals. Members of
the JHC who were full-time civil servants will be funded by non-Association sources while non-government
members will be contracted on a fee for service basis under terms of reference acceptable to the
Association. The tasks of the JHC will include (i) oversight of system reform in the province including the
work of the Task Forces, (ii) review of proposals for District Grants for service delivery, (iii) allocation of
Grants to fund agreed Task Force recommendations, and (iv) monitor implementation progress.
- 50-



7.    A Technical Review Team, TRT, comprised of existing health professionals located in the
provincial health planning bureau which will have been restructured under the decentralization laws in the
first twelve months of the project, will review District proposals. In addition to the review function, the
TRT in the restructured provincial planning bureau will provide support to district planning bureaus in the
development of proposals. The TRT will be reinforced on an as needed basis by health specialists
determined as necessary by the JHC to supplement the available skill set.
8.    The JHC acting on the advice of the TRT will award annual District Grants up to the agreed
ceiling (see Table 1). To ensure funds are not underutilized and to act as an incentive to good proposal
preparation and implementation, funds can be reallocated to stronger performers when proposals for a
lesser amount than the agreed ceiling are presented, or when the review of a district proposal recommends
not funding all proposed activities, or recommends funding the proposed activities with a reduced budget.
Detailed procedures for reallocation will be contained in the Grants Operational Manual.
9.    A Provincial Coordination Implementation Unit, PCIU has been established in each of the
participating provinces. This unit will be headed by the chairman of the Bappeda level 1, with the
provincial health office chief as deputy chairman. The PCIU will be supervised by a full-time Executive
Secretary with appropriate sector and management experience who will be funded by the project. The
PCIU will employ specialists for procurement, finance management and monitoring and reporting.
Training in procurement, finance and reporting procedures will be provided during the initial Phase of
project implementation. PCIUs will enter into contractual agreements with DIUs for the provision of
grants as approved by the JHCs. Routine monitoring and evaluation of DIU and PCIU activities will be
carried out by staff of the provincial health office, employing instruments and procedures developed by the
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist. Annual Procurement Plans will be prepared under the guidance of
the Procurement Specialist. The PCIU will provide, for Association review, biannual consolidated
implementation, procurement and financial reports as specified in the Grants Operational Manual.
10.   The PCIU will coordinate the implementation of activities where economies of scale and/or the
systemic nature of the activities indicated that greater efficiency and/or effectiveness will be achieved by
implementation at the provincial rather than district level. For example, the PCIU will (i) develop a
contract hiring system for provincial and district health professionals, (ii) develop recommendations to
reform current health promotion and career development structures within the civil service, (iii) rationalize
provincial and district health manpower numbers and allocations, (iv) define and cost a human resource
development plan, and (v) conduct mapping of poverty areas. This will involve procurement of technical
assistance, workshops, training, study tours, research conducted by task forces, and monitoring and
evaluation.
11.   A Provincial Health Promotion Board, PHPB, has been established by Governor's Decree in
Yogyakarta as. The provincial government's own health promotion activities will continue, with support
from the proposed credit, to focus on its innovative Clean and Healthy Living Behavior (PHPB) initiative.
As a joint publiciNGO organization, PHPB will interact closely with NGOs. The PHPB will have a
budget supported by the project to solicit and appraise proposals from NGOs, to encourage their
partnership in the provincial health program. The PHPB will fund selected proposals under conditions and
procedures specified in the Grants Operational ManuaL
Central Level
12.   A Central Project Coordination Unit, CPCU has been established in the Ministry of Health,
-51 -



Jakarta, under the direction of the Secretary General, with the planning bureau chief serving as Deputy.
The CPCU will be managed by a full-time unit head with appropriate sector and management experience
who will be funded by the project. The CPCU will be staffed by hired procurement, finance and
monitoring and evaluation specialists working full time for the projects.
Monitoring and ReDortine
13.   The PCIUs in Lainpung and Yogyakarta will provide for Association review a quarterly Project
Management Report (PMR) in a format specified in the Project Management Manual. The PMR will
consist of a consolidated financial management report of project expenditures covering the previous quarter
of the fiscal year and a forecast of project expenditure for the following two quarters of the fiscal year for
project activities at the district and provincial level. The financial management report will monitor
disbursements in the past quarter and provide a basis for determining cash flow requirements for the
coming six months. DIUs will be required to submit their reports on a timely basis to remain eligible for
grants. In conjunction with the consolidated PMR submitted for Association review in each December, the
JHCs will also provide (i) a consolidated annual report of project implementation for the preceding fiscal
year, and (ii) an annual procurement plan detailing proposed procurement actions for each subsequent year
of implementation at the district and provincial level.
14.   For activities at the central level, the CPCU will provide financial, implementation and
procurement management reports and planning in the same format and with the same schedule, as detailed
in the Project Management ManuaL
15.   The state audit authority, BPKP, will conduct an annual financial and implementation audit, the
results of which will be made available to the Association for review within six months of the close of each
fiscal year. In addition by June 30, 2001 and thereafter by June 30 in each year of project implementation
until project close, the JHCs, for provincial and district level activities in their province will submit for
Association review the results of an independent technical audit. The Secretary General, Ministry of
Health, will submit for Association review the results of independent technical audits for central level
activities conducted through the Ministry of Health.
- 52 -



Attachment 2 of Annex 2
Vision Statements-Healthy Yogya 2005; Healthy Lampung 2010
Each province has developed a vision statement inspired by the national vision called Healthy Indonesia
2010. In line with the national vision, Healthy Yogya 2005 and Healthy Lampung 2010 aim at creating an
environment that supports healthy living, i.e., free from pollution, has adequate clean water supply and
sanitation facilities, has healthy housing establishments, and is developed according to health oriented areal
planning. They also seek to establish and reinforce norms of healthy behavior where community members
are proactive in improving health, preventing and protecting themselves from illness, and participating
actively in community health initiatives. The community should have the ability to access good quality
health services, i.e., services that satisfy the consumers and are according to standards and professional
ethics. By achieving the above, individual, family, and community health status can be optimally
improved.
The vision is to be realized through four health development missions. These are:
1. To lead and initiate health oriented development
2. To promote public self-reliance in achieving good health
3. To maintain and enhance quality, equitable and affordable health services
4. To maintain and enhance individual, family and community health, along with their enviromnent
The strategies to support the vision and missions are:
1. The "Healthy Paradigm" emphasizing Health Promotion
2. Professionalism
3. The Community Managed Health Care Program (JPKM)
4. Decentralization
- 53-



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
INDONESIA: Provincial Health I
A. Provincial Component                                  0.00          0.00         0.00
A. 1 Managing Decentralization                           2.97          0.42         3.39
A.2 Resource Mobilization                                 1.14         0.42         1.56
A.3 Access and Quality                                   3.23          0.51         3.74
A.4 District Block Grants                               48.09          0.00        48.09
A.5 Project Management                                   0.70          0.00         0.70
B. Central Component                                     0.00          0.00         0.00
B. 1 Managing Decentralization                           2.06          0.33         2.39
B.2 Resource Mobilization                                0.44          0.00         0.44
B.3 Project Management                                   0.79          0.00         0.79
Unallocated                                              0.43          0.00         0.43
Total Baseline Cost                                     59.85          1.68        61.53
Physical Contingencies                                  2.97          0.08         3.05
Price Contingencies                                    14.42          0.06        14.48
Total Project Costs             77.24         1.82        79.06
Total Financing Required             77.24         1.82         79.06
Works                                                      0.54          0.00          0.54
Goods                                                      3.07          0.51         3.58
Consultants                                                4.26          0.22         4.48
Training                                                   2.17          0.95          3.12
Miscellaneous including Grants                            31.12          0.00        31.12
Recurrent Costs                                           18.26          0.00         18.26
Contingencies                                             17.39          0.14         17.53
Unallocated                                                0.43          0.00         0.43
Total Project Costs    77.24          1.82        79.06
Total Financing Required    77.24           1.82        79.06
-54 -



Annex 4
INDONESIA: Provincial Health I
The economic analysis of PHP covers several dimensions. Section i) below discusses what the project
might contribute to the post-election strategy articulated in the most recent CAS document. The project's
economic benefits are then characterized in Section ii), followed by a discussion (Section iii) of the
sustainability of project-funded investments and more generally the fiscal implications of province-initiated
health improvements. The last topic covered, in Section iv, assesses JPS-BK, which is the health
component within the broader social safety net initiative set up by Indonesia in response to the economic
crisis. JPS-BK is an interesting comparator and strategy alternative to proceeding along the lines laid out
in PHP, and it is useful to juxtapose the two approaches.
i)     CAS
The CAS Progress Report (3/9/99) anticipated that by the end of 1999, Indonesia would be emerging from
the economic downturn which began in 1997. The country was also seen as returning to normalcy after a
renewed period of political instability which began with the June Constituent Assembly elections, and
which lasted until the new government was formed following the selection of a new President in October.
The Progress Report set out important goals for the post crisis, post-election, decentralizing period, of
which perhaps the most important is building the institutions needed for protection of the poor and
sustainable growth in a changed environment. The Report envisaged a return to World Bank project
lending as a vehicle for pursuing this objective.
PHP does more than embody and support the objectives of the CAS Progress Report. It shows, mainly at
the province and district levels and in a single sector, health, what challenges are intrinsic to the
institutional aims of the Progress Report, and how these would need to be tackled, by whom and at what
cost. For example, preparation of PHP provided lessons on i) setting up viable province-level oversight
and technical review teams, and ii) engendering a common position among Bappeda and health officials on
funding needs and what can be financed. More generally, PHP gives a sense of what Indonesia and its
donor partners must gear up to do in tackling human resources issues--this is crucial for numerous agendas,
e.g., poverty, rapid and sustainable economic growth, consumer well-being and political stability.
ii)    Project Benefits:
The main project benefit will be improved health status in both provinces. This will be achieved through
increased spending, budget allocations based on priority setting exercises, improved targeting of health
services, and better access to quality health services. In Yogyakarta, improved health status will also be
achieved through stepped up dissemination of health education through the establishment of a health
promotion board. Health promotion in Yogyakarta will mainly focus on changing behavior related to
non-communicable diseases.
Benefits are derived, in the first instances, from an increase in the use of public facilities particularly by the
poor who respond to targeted subsidies and improved service quality, and enhanced service quality by
means of due to quality assurance mechanisms for specific diseases.
There will also be benefits from improvements in overall service quality reflecting better coordination and
management, improved incentive systems and regulatory frameworks, and better staff deployment. One
- 55 -



key step in this regard is the planned merger of the Kanwil and Dinas health offices with their often
overlapping activities and responsibilities. Both offices are over staffed (Table 1), and there is a large
percentage of low skilled employees. In Lampung, a third of the staff at Kanwil and Dinas Kesehatan
offices have high school or lower levels of schooling attainments. Around 60% of health staff in these
offices in Yogyakarta are high school, junior high school, or elementary school graduates.
Table 1: The Number of health staff at the provincial level in Yogyakarta and Lampung
Organization               Yogyakarta              Lamnpung
Kanwil Depkes                         223                    171
Dinas Kesehatan Tk. I                 227                    147
Total staff at the province level     450                    318.
Merging the Kanwil and Dinas Kesehatan should reduce the number of provincial level staff. Another
project benefit will be money saved as a result of reduced health center personnel numbers. The national
standard for health center staffng is between 22-28 per health center, according to geographic location and
rural/urban characteristics. The average number of staff per health center in Yogyakarta is around 3 1,
while in Lampung, the average is around 24 per health center. About a quarter of these staff have at best
high school level qualifications. An exercise to calculate the use of staff time to deliver the 18 health center
programs found that 70% and 62% of staff time in Yogyakarta and Lampung respectively (tables 2 and 3)
could not be attributed to specific activities. It is apparent that Yogyakarta will benefit from staff
downsizing. Lampung, on the other hand, will benefit more from redeployment to improve staff efficiency,
and retraining to improve service quality. Budget will be invested in the first two years of the project to
offer early retirement packages or to conduct retraining for new skills. Starting in the third year of the
project, the organization will operate with smaller numbers of more highly skilled staff.
- 56 -



Table 2: Use of staff time to deliver basic services in health centers in Yogyakarta Province
Program         Services           Training           Posyandu             Meetings           Administration          Travel       Between   Total
Support                                                                     Patients
dr      pnnT      dr      prm         dr       prm         dr        prm         dr        prm      dr      pnm        prm
EPI               0      33,163     0      1,384      3,806    43,276       1,464     4,392       732       1,464     0    44,747           0    130,622
Curative      46,197    461,973  1,344         0          0         0          0          0      1,464     27,456     0     28,548    439,200  1,004,838
care
MCH           17,211    172,113  1,008     4,368      3,806     43,277       732      1,770        732     17,700     0    166,802      50,752    476,801
ARI              179      1,794   576      2,072          0         0        732          0        366      4,392     0      14,274         0     24,817
Diarrhea       1,087     10,870  1,960     2,560      3,806     43,277       732          0        366      4,392     0     46,732          0    110,592
TB                85     18,515   480      4,184          0         0        147        147        294      1,764     0       1,764         0     28,860
Malaia           22        848   720       4,104          0         0          0        366        366      4,392     0         88          0     10,666
Dengue            10        99   240       2,200          0         0          0        366        366      4,392     0       1,483         0      9,636
STDs             41        409      0        336          0         0          0          0       366       4,392     0         60          0      5,844
School         8,280      8,280     0          0         0          0        366          0       366       4,392  1,422     2,193          0    25,299
health
PHN                0       660      0          0          0         0          0        366          0      4,392     0         90          0      5,508
Nutrition         0          0      0          0      3,806     43,277       732        732       732       7,320     0     32,458          0     85,251
FP             9,S25    98,254      0          0      3,806     43,277         0          0          0         0      0     32,458     50,752    234,566
Others            0          0      0          0         0          0     17,568    112,728         0          0  5,964          0          0    155,292
Total    _    82,9371  806,978  6,328   21,208       19,032    216,384    22,473    120,867      6,150     86,448  7,386    371,697    540,704  2,308,592
Total staff: 3,660
Woridnghour/staff 2,100
Total time: 7,686,000
Accountable time: 2,308,592 (30%0)
Unaccountabletime: 5,377,408 (70%/6)
Note:
dr: doctor time/yr
pnm: paramnedic time /yr
EPI: Expanded Program on Inmunization
MCH: Matenal and Child Health
ARI: Acute Respiratory Tract Infection
TB: Tuberculosis
STDs: Sexually Transmitted Diseases
PHN: Public Health Nursing
FP: Family Planning
- 57 -



Table 3: Use of staff time to deliver basic services in health centers in Lampung Province
Program           Services              Training              Posyandu                Meetings              Administration               Travel           Between   Total
Support                                                                                    Patients
dr        prm        dr        prn          dr         prm          dr         prn           dr                      d or      pem          prm
EPI                  0    119,634         0       6,136       6,053      64,848       6,984        2,328       1,164        2,328         0     118,210              0    321,632
Curative       48,241    482,413          0           0           0           0           0            0       2,328      96,612          0      45,396        698,400   1,373,390
care
MCH             66,660    666,596   2,318        35,258       6,053      64,848        1,164      12,600       1,164      126,000         0    366,927          80,704   1,424,239
ARI               630        6,299   1,624        3,248           0           0        1,164           0         582        6,984         0      22,698              0      43,229
Dianhbea         1,545      15,448      928       8,864       6,053      64,848        1,164           0         582        6,984         0      87,546              0    187,909
TB                  40       8,738   5,160        9,720           0           0         387         387          774        4,644         0       4,644              0      34,494
Malaria          3,538      25,377     760        7,520           0           0            0        582          582        6,984         0         614              0      45,957
Dengue               7          14    1,160       3,480           0           0           0         582          582        6,984         0         793              0      13,602
STDs                12         118     400          560           0           0           0            0         582        6,984         0          12              0       8,668
School         28,070       28,070        0           0           0           0         582            0         582        6,984     1,797       3,791              0      69,876
health
PHN                  0       5,820        0           0           0           0            0         582           0        6,984         0      17,460              0      30,846
Nutrifion            0           0        0           0       6,053      64,848        1,164       1,164       1,164       11,640         0      64,848              0    144,828
FP             39,300    392,995          0           0       6,053      64,848            0           0           0            0         0      64,848               0    642,695
Others               0           0        0           0           0           0      27,936     179,256            0            0    11,700           0              0    249,156
Total   =     188,043  1,751,522   12,350        74,786      30,264    324,240       40,545     197,481       10,086     290,112    13,497    797,787          859,808  4,590,521
Total staff: 5,820
Working hour/staff: 2,100
Total time: 12,222,000
Accountable time: 4,590,521  (38%)
Unaccountable time: 7,631,479 (62%)
Note:
dr doctor time',r
prm: paramedic time/yr
see table 2 for abbreviations
Benefits and Costs
Reforms introduced through this project will change the way health services are managed and delivered,
leading to higher effectiveness and efficiency. Available methods of valuing the outcomes and costs of
health investments are imperfect, and typically leave out some individual and social benefits and costs.
Because of data limitations, only a modest exercise was possible for this project, focusing on the impact of
policy changes and expenditures on a number of diseases currently causing high morbidity, disability, and
mortality. As mentioned, there will also be significant efforts to deliver health education and promotion in
Yogyakarta. Table 4 provides an estimate of healthy life years lost from all causes per thousand people in
Yogyakarta and Lampung. The table is derived from the 1993 World Development Report. The Other
Asia model is applied to Lampung. Yogyakarta' health status exceed that in most other provinces in
Indonesia, and is comparable to levels in middle income countries. Therefore, the Latin America and
Caribbean model is used as a proxy for Yogyakarta.
- 58 -



Table 4: Distribution of Healthy Life year Lost by Cause and Demographic region
Healthy Life Y ar Lost per 1000 Population
Causes                   Other Asia  Latin America    OECD
and          and         Countries
Islands   the Caribbean
Communicable diseases
Tuberculosis                                 13            6              *
Sexually Transmitted Diseases including HIV   4            15             4
Diarrhea                                     22            13             *
Vaccine preventable childhood infections     12             4             *
Malaria                                       4             1             *
Worm infections                               9             6             *
Respiratory infections                       29            14             3
Maternal causes                               7             4             1
Perinatal causes                             19            21             3
Non Communicable Diseases                    57            55            62
Injuries                                     14            23             9
Other diseases                               70            70            36
Total                                         260          232            118
* less than 1 healthy life year lost per 1000 population
The last element in this approach is the selection of a standard or "desirable" set of outcomes. OECD
countries have the lowest healthy life years lost in the world thanks to higher levels and quality of services,
and better nutrition, water and sanitation, education and so forth. If the healthy life years lost in Lampung
and Yogyakarta are compared to that of OECD countries, the gap is 143 for Lampung and 115 for
Yogyakarta. According to one widely used rule of thumb, health services contribute only 20% of health
status improvement, while the impact of behavior change is 35%. So the maximum impact of health
service is about 29 healthy life years in Lampung and 23 in Yogyakarta. The maximum impact of health
promotion interventions in Yogyakarta and Lampung will be 40 healthy life years per thousand population
and 50 healthy life years per thousand population respectively. The maximum project impact will be 63
healthy life years per thousand population for Yogyakarta and 79 healthy life years per thousand
population for Lampung.
Drawing on the above, project benefits were estimated on the basis of several assumptions. Improved
quality of specific services with high epidemiological impact is expected to reduce the gap between the
project areas and OECD countries by 5%, while improved quality of general services in the facilities will
close the gap by 2.5%. Improved access to services and improved quality of service are predicted to
increase the use of services by 10%, and the impact will be a 2% reduction in the gap. Health promotion
interventions in Yogyakarta will have the largest impact on the incidence of non communicable diseases.
Introduction of the health promotion board and specific health promotion activities will reduce the gap by
8%. Lampung plans only to pilot some health promotion approaches. The impact of such approach is
predicted to reduce the gap by 2%. Under these assumptions the total annual gain in healthy life years will
be 32,102 for Yogyakarta and 64,276 for Lampung. The per capita income in each province (Rp. 3.2
million in Yogyakarta and Rp. 2.8 million in Lampung) is used to obtain the monetary value of these gains.
The value of healthy life years gained in one year from the completed project will be Rp. 102.7 billion in
- 59 -



Yogyakarta, and Rp. 180 billion in Lampung.
For both provinces, it is assumed that project benefits will be negligible in the first year of the project,
rising to 10%, 30%, 50%, and 75% in the second, third, fourth and fifth years respectively, and then
remaining at 100% through a ten year time horizon after project completion. Based on these assumptions,
the monetary value of project benefits for Yogyakarta will be Rp. 493.5 billion. Currently, Yogyakarta has
around 9,200 staff working in the health centers, hospitals, district and provincial health offices and other
technical units, with about 20% of these staff high school graduates or lower. If Yogyakarta cuts back
the number of staff in this category to only around 5%, salary savings in one year will be around Rp. 6.6
billion. Savings until 10 years after the project closes will be around Rp. 38.7 billion. With staff
downsizing, total project benefit for Yogyakarta will be Rp. 548.5 billion. Project costs for Yogyakarta are
Rp. 133 billion, and therefore, the benefit cost ratio will be 4.1. For Lampung, the monetary value of
project benefit until 10 years after project closes will be Rp. 893.1 billion. Project costs for Lampung are
Rp. 240 billion. The benefit cost ratio for Lampung will be 3.7.
Risks and Sensitivity Analysis
The main project risks relate to technical and institutional factors which may reduce and/or delay the flow
of health benefits and cost savings. For instance, improvements in the availability of providers and the
quality of services may be postponed or curtailed due to delays, formal and informal, in completing
necessary institutional changes. Indifferent or hostile staff attitudes or technical absorption limitations may
have the same result, as may unexpected difficulties in conveying health messages persuasively. Similarly,
staff opposition may cause downsizing decisions to be delayed or scaled back.
Three exercises were developed with the aim of analyzing these risks (Table 5). The scenarios which are
presented involve benefit flows amounting to 75%, 50%, and 25% of those assumed in the case presented
in the text. It is only under the last scenario, i.e., very limited health benefits and downsizing, that project
benefits fall below costs, in one province. Moreover, as discussed, estimated benefit flows do not include
elements, i.e., quality of life considerations and consumers' own valuations, which arguably need to be kept
in view by health policy makers.
Table 5: Sensitivity Analysis Using 75%, 50%, and 25% Benefit Flows
LAMPUNG                     YOGYAKARTA
Project Impact   75%      50%       25%       75%        50%       25%
Project Cost     240       240       240       133       133        133
Project Benefit  648.4    446.5    216.1      370.1    246.7       123.4
Benefit/Cost     2.8       1.9       1.0       3.1       2.1        0.9
Ratio
These calculations do not take account of the Non Association Financing coming from DADPD grants, although these resources
would be expected to have comparable benefits and costs
- 60 -



iii)   Institutional Assessment
Weaknesses in Indonesia's government-run health institutions were discussed in Section B, while section F2
notes potentially disruptive effects of decentralization on health structures.
The Joint Health Council. In this regard, a main concern in decentralization is weak management
capacity at the district level. The proposed project overcomes this problem by developing a new provincial
role. This includes functions which because of their cross-district characteristics and economies of scale
considerations, e.g., communicable disease control, procurement of drugs, and training, will be more
effective and efficient if managed by the province. Moreover, districts need a forum in which common
needs and opportunities are explored and facilitated. These functions and needs underlie the establishment
of the Joint Health Councils (JHCs). JHCs will be committees with members coming from the provinces as
well as the districts within each province. Bupatis, for example, will be council members. Other possible
members are representatives from health professional associations and the NGOs. Through their
involvement in the JHC, Bupatis will be able to engage each other and the province to meet the needs of
their districts. They will also become more alert to health problems and hopefully will be more ready to
allocate resource from the equalization fund for health after the project closes. Whether JHCs, a new
institution will work is not to be taken for granted, since they may turn into another bureaucratic layer, or
become a passive body that exists only on paper. To get maximum outcome, detailed TORs with clear
purpose and tasks have been prepared for the JHCs by each province. The role of the JHCs was also
discussed extensively during the appraisal mission and will be reviewed at the project launching workshop.
The Technical Review Team. Currently health programing at the provincial and district levels is
more an administrative than a planning process. The planning unit of the Kanwil office (Bidang Bina
Program) is responsible for assembling project documents based on requests from the various program
units at the provincial level. There is almost no analysis based on epidemiologic data or priority public
health problems. Efforts to focus government subsidy on the poor through targeted budget allocations are
almost non-existent. Programs that are on "trend" will be financed. Central influence in determining
priority programs are very strong. By establishing a Technical Review Team (TRT) attached to the
planning unit in each project province, the project is trying to do two things at once. First, the TRT will
assist the Joint Health Councils in conducting technical reviews of district proposals, and second, by
ensuring that the capacity of its members in carrying out data analysis and data based planning will be
strengthened. Because members of the TRT will be selected from the planning unit and program units, the
planning unit will be stronger when the project is over. However, having a TRT attached to the planning
unit might introduce the risk of conflict of interest. Staff of the planning and program units are obligated
by their job description to provide technical guidance to the districts. If the same people are reviewing the
proposals, there might be bias in judging the proposals. To minimize bias, the TORs for the TRT state that
person/s who is/are involved intensively in the preparation of a district proposal will be exempted from the
task of reviewing that particular proposal.
The Health Promotion Board. As in most provinces, Yogyakarta now implements centrally
designed health education programs which disregard local needs. The method most frequently used is one
way, brief campaigns through mass media, using centrally produced messages with slight or no adaptation
by the provincial team. The use of more effective participatory approaches in sustaining changed behavior
is very limited. Campaigns are not linked to policy creating environments conducive to healthy behavior.
The challenge is to change the approach to health promotion to emphasize changing behavior and
sustaining healthier life styles. The goal of making such behavior easy and attractive requires effective
messages as well as changes in the context in which people live, work, and play. But shaping the context
-61 -



and devising effective messages will not be straightforward, especially in light of public doubts about the
quality of services provided in government facilities. Professional communications and marketing skills
will be needed, along with sponsorship and commitrnent from local government and civil society. Health
promotion can not and should not be run from the central level. Involvement of NGOs, consumer groups,
and those who represent the poor is undispensable. What the project will do is to set up a Health
Promotion Board at the provincial level in Yogyakarta, which will be an independent quasi government
body, responsible for deciding the focus and scale of health promotion work, and the methods to be used.
Its members will comprise government staff, health promotion experts and NGO representatives. The
Health Promotion Board will be sufficiently independent to be credible with NGOs. The Board will
evaluate and fund proposals submitted by non government organizations. One institutional risk concerns,
whether the Board will work out a satisfactory, non-competitive role vis a vis the province's own health
education work. Representation from the provincial government should address that issue. A second issue
is whether NGOs will join in either as proposal sources or as members. This will depend on the quality and
commitment of the NGO representation on the Board.
iv)    Provincial Spending and Funding Overview
Before the onset of the economic crisis in 1997, per capita government health spending (excluding the SDO
component) in Lampung was 60% of that for Indonesia as a whole, while spending per capita in
Yogyakarta was more than twice the Indonesia-wide figure. One reason for this difference in spending at
the provincial level was the contribution made by local governments. In Lampung, provincial and local
government spending per capita on health amounted to only Rp. 486 in 1996/97 or just 6% of the total per
person, while in Yogyakarta local outlays amounted to Rp. 5,507, over a fifth of the total per person figure.
The already very low level of spending per capita in Lampung fell further during the economic crisis (Table
6). In 1998/99, spending per capita in Lampung was Rp. 5,244 in constant prices or 85% of the constant
price figure for 1996/97. The 15% spending drop in Lampung was similar to that for Indonesia overall.
Spending in Yogyakarta fell more sharply, i.e., 28%, bringing that province's per capita figure closer to the
pre-crisis average for Indonesia. What is striking is that the largest part of the fall in health spending in
Yogyakarta was that provided from central government sources, while the share of provincial and district
government spending rose from 24% in 1996/97 to 33% in 1998/99. By contrast the local "effort"
remained virtually unchanged in current prices in Lampung and fell to 3% of spending during the crisis.
Finally, a slow exit from the crisis is anticipated in terms of availability of government resources (Tables
6-8). The year 2001 promises to be particularly difficult in terms of health financing since new allocations
from ADB loans will have ended in 2000. Even with World Bank support, per capita spending will be as
low or lower than in 1998/1999.
-62 -



Table 6: Per capita Health Spending in Lampung and Yogyakarta
YEAR             LAMPUNG             YOGYAKARTA             INDONESIA
current   93 prices   current   93 prices   current   93 prices
(Rp)      (Rp)       (Rp)       (Rp)       (Rp)       (Rp)
96/97                  8,020      6,095     28,938     21,993     13,669     10,389
97/98                 10,491      6,400     32,079     19,568
98/99                 14,836      5,193     44,942     15,730     24,476      8,567
99/00                 18,332      5,500     41,752     12,526
2000 (9 months)       16,441      4,932     49,291     14,787
2000 (12 months)      21,921      6,576     64,078     19,223
2001 w/o project      10,617      3,185     41,456     12,437
2001 w/ project       14,689      4,407     47,163     14.149
2003 w/project        19,478      5,843     60,078     18,023
2005 w/project        22,513      6,754     72,815     21,844
Looking further ahead, health spending is seen as returning to pre-crisis levels only by the end of the
project period. Moreover, each province is anticipating that locally generated revenues will rise
significantly and contribute to replacing credit funding In Lampung, increases are expected in the two key
sources of health spending, i.e., local government-provided funds and resources generated from within the
health system (including health insurance). Provincial authorities expect the former to contribute the larger
share, i.e., 34% in 2005, of overall health spending. On the other hand, it is health system revenues which
are expected to emerge, quite appropriately, as a critical future (42% in 2005) funding source in
Yogyakarta.
Conclusions: the provincial fiscal contexts differ in important ways. Lampung is poorer than Yogyakarta
and has been more dependent on central government (and donor) funding of the health system. Despite this
central support, per capita public spending was well below that in most other provinces, and plunged
further during the economic crisis. Government outlays per person in Yogyakarta were well above average
in Indonesia arguably because spending reflected allocations made by the provincial and district assemblies.
Spending in Yogyakarta also fell during the crisis, and it was local government resources which offset
falling central outlays and provided a floor to resource cuts.
What the provinces have in common is a determination to support health spending through locally raised
revenues. Lampung intends to do this by increasing health system-derived revenues by 340% and by
looking to the provincial and district assemblies for much larger allocations. The Yogyakarta
funds-generating scenario relies more on revenues from user fees and payments from insured individuals or
insurance plans. By the project closing date (12/31/00), resources generated locally will account for half of
public spending in Lampung, and 60% in Yogyakarta.
-63 -



Table 7: Health Budget (1996/1997-199912000) and Estimated Health Budget (2000-2005) for Lampung
(in billion rupiah)
Source    96/97    97/98    98/99    99/00     2000      2001     2002     2003      2004     2005
APBN (R)        12.5     17.1     18,9     24.1     22.4        0         0        0        0        0
APBN (D)        16.3     20.9     29.9     20.8      9.7       1.5      1.8      2.1       2.6      2.6
APBD I          2.5       2.5       3       3.4      3.6       4.7      7.2     11.9       17      21.9
APBD II          .8       .8       .7       3.8      4.3       7.2     12.4     20.4      28.4     36.4
OPRS              0        .7      1.6      1.7       1.7      .5       .5        .5       .5       .5
Inpres          13.7     20.8     17.2       18     24.0      19.8     20.8     21.9       23       23
JPS-BK            0        0      23.1     34.2     34.2       8.3      8.3      8.3       8.3      8.3
EF                0        0        0         0        0      25.2     27.7     30.5      33.5     36.5
Res. Mob.        5.3      5.7      8.1      9.1      10.1     12.6     15.8      19.7     24.6     30.7
Other Proj.     4.3      5,2*     3.5*    18.1*      1.4*
pHP                                                 10.1      30.6     38.8     36.1    28.69    21.08
Total          55.4      73.7     106    133.2    121.5    110.4    133.3    151.4   166.59   180.98
* Other Project
** PHP budget for 2000 and 2001
Table 8: Health Budget (1996/1997-1999/2000) and Estimated Health Budget (2000-2005) for Yogyakarta
(in billion rupiahI
Source    96/97    97/98    98/99    99/00      2000     2001     2002     2003      2004     2005
APBN (R)       27.1      27.8     33.6     25.6     26.8        0         0        0        0         0
APBN (D)          9      11.6     17.7     17.7     23.3        4       4.4      4.8       5.3      5.9
APBD I          11.2     13.8     13.5     13.5      14.2     15.6     17.2     18.9      20.8     22.8
APBD n            5       7.3     20.8     14.7      15.5      17      18.7     20.6      22.7     24.9
Inpres          6.1       5.6      9.9     10.6     13.3        0         0        0        0        0
JPS-BK            0        0       7.2      7.2        7        3         3        3        3         3
EF                0        0        0         0        0       45      49.8     55.1      60.9     67.3
Res. Mob.      27.2      29.4     31.9     36.5       39      41.8     52.3     65.2      77.7     94.0
Other Proj.       0        0        0         0
PHP                                                  10.3     17.4     20.1     17.8      12.3      9.5
Total          85.6      95.5    134.6    125.8    149.4    143.8    165.5    185.4    202.7    227.4
Assumptions;
1. In 2000, the fiscal year is 9 months (April - December)
2. The routine APBN budget increases by 5% from FY 1999/2000 to CY 2000. From CY 2000 to
2005, it becomes zero due to the implementation of Law No. 25, 1999. For the same reason
Development APBN declines from CY 2000 to 2001, but increases by 10% per year from CY
2002 to 2005 as the economy improves.
3. APBD I and APBD II are predicted to increase by 10% per year.
4. The source of budget for JPS-BK, starting from 2001, is the Equalization Fund. Resources will be
used primarily for funding maternal health services and supplementary feeding
5. The Inpres budget becomes zero after Law No. 25 is implemented .
6. The Equalization Fund (EF) starts in CY 2001, and is predicted to increase by 10% per year.
7. Resource mobilization is expected from 3 sources: i) retained revenue from tertiary care (Sardjito
Hospital), ii) retained revenue from primary (health center), and secondary care (district
hospital), iii) Health Insurance
8. Other project is the Provincial Health Project
- 64 -



v)     JPS-BK As A Health Strategy Alternative
Indonesia's Social Safety Net program (SSN) includes a component, JPS-BK, intended to ensure that the
poor have access to health care. Resources were allocated for basic services at health centers and those
provided by village midwives, referral services at the hospital, supplementary feeding to improve
nutritional status of poor children (0-24 months) and pregnant women suffering from chronic energy
deficiency, and revitalization of posyandus. Poor families were identified according to criteria developed
by BKKBN-families belonging to the "pre-welfare" and "welfare I" categories were to get health cards to
be used for free service at public facilities. District Coordinating Committees (DCCs) were tasked with
allocating budgets according to the number of eligible recipients, and instructing the sub-district Post
Office units to transfer funds quarterly into the individual accounts of health centers and midwives.
Monitoring reports and review missions by teams from ADB, the donor most closely involved with
JPS-BK, suggest that the program disbursements and other process indicators are satisfactory, at least for
some components, with coverage most extensive for the reproductive health and nutritional supplement
sub-components. A further benefit of JPS-BK may be seen in its overall funding impact. Total health
spending fell from around Rp. 6.5 trillion in 1996/1997 (1998/99 prices) to around Rp. 5.6 trillion in
1998/1999. In the latter year, the newly introduced JPS-BK accounted for 18% of total health outlays,
sparing the sector from even deeper funding cuts. Moreover, by contributing roughly 25% of the total
health center budget for 1998/1999 and perhaps more in 1999/2000, JPS-BK helped expenditures on
primary level services to rise by around Rp. 67 billion in real terms compared to 1996/1997. Despite a
declining overall health budget, JPS-BK was successful in offsetting a funding gap at the primary care
level. (A somewhat different interpretation centers on the observed fall in salary spending during the
crisis. Because of resource fungibility, it is plausible to see JPS-BK as offsetting what would have been
an even larger drop in real staff remuneration.)
So JPS-BK has brought benefits in terms of service coverage and resources. However, the program has
had other less favorable aspects, including unwarranted changes in health center priorities. For example,
spending for communicable disease control dropped around 30% once the program came on the scene. The
same thing likely happened to other health center programs outside JPS-BK, e.g., curative care. Another
issue is the extent of JPS-BK's impact on service quality. Part of the program's budget is used for
reimbursing staff for service provision, but these payments are not tied to improving service quality to
beneficiaries. Even with the quality enhancement mechanisms to be introduced into JPS-BK via the Social
afety Net Adjustment Loan (SSNAL), there is no guarantee that quality improvement will occur.
And there are other concerns:
* The government subsidy through JPS-BK is not well-targeted. The intention was to focus resources on
the poor, but health centers still allow those without health cards, i.e., the non poor, to get subsidized
services.
* There are inadequate accountability checks on the use of money after it is transferred to the health
center's or midwife's individual accounts. The possibility of misuse of funds is substantial,
particularly with the declining value of civil service salaries.
* JPS-BK gives some latitude to field personnel to manage the money. Still, the design of services is
highly centralized, using a uniform approach for the whole country with detailed instructions on what
items the money should be used for.
* JPS-BK is vulnerable to the availability of donor funding.
* As discussed, JPS-BK did not "top up" the health budget. It filled a gap created by budget cuts.
* The impact of the program on the poor is not known in sufficient detail. Mechanisms to ensure that
services are reaching the poor need to be tightened. Health cards recipients have frequently been
-65 -



village employees or members of well connected families, rather than the poor.
In short, JPS-BK, the health component of SSN, is an important comparator for PHP. This initiative has
achievements to its credit and yet is vulnerable in important respects. JPS-BK seems to have saved the
health sector, and in particular, primary level services from an even greater funding cut than that observed,
while making reproductive health, nutrition and other services available when the crisis threatened to
paralyze MOH. On the other hand, introduction of JPS-BK has brought unhelpful changes in health center
priorities, and questions about impacts on service quality. Part of the budget goes for services rendered,
but these payments are not tied adequately to quality standards and gains. Other concerns include the
continuing subsidies, funded in effect by JPS-BK, to non-poor health center users, and weak monitoring
and accountability checks over the use of money, including actual impacts on the poor, after it is
transferred to the health center's or midwife's accounts.
How does JPS-BK rate as a frame of reference for PHP? As a health strategy vehicle, the main
weaknesses of JPS-BK are also the features that have made and may still make the program attractive to
policy makers as an emergency or even an interim quasi-crisis measure. These are the familiar highly
centralized management formula, and the reliance on a uniform, country-wide approach for with detailed
instruction on what programs the money should be used for. A possible scenario then is to extend JPS-BK,
possibly on a regional basis, while trying to improving accountability procedures and broadening the menu
of services. This option may be appropriate in provinces or even districts which emerge more slowly from
the economic crisis or which delay implementation of decentralization. However, this scenario would have
only short term appeal since its key structures and organizing principles would remain Jakarta-managed,
and would, for reasons discussed earlier, likely cause such an approach to falter. Moreover, there is
nothing to prevent a PHP type approach from incorporating intensification of service delivery targeted at
the poor using some but not all features of JPS-BK.
ADB as the main donor agency supporting the SSN program recognizes there are shortcomings in JPS-BK,
and has encouraged GOI to plan for the post-crisis period. In this regard, ADB officials have seized on the
potential in the block grant mechanism used within JPS-BK and have urged greater involvement of local
decision makers, strengthening of local capacity, and quality and efficiency gains to assure sustainability
post-recovery. Thus, ADB seems to be looking beyond the JPS-BK format.
- 66 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
INDONESIA: Provincial Health I
Years Ending
Year I    Year 2     Year 3     Year 4    Year 5  I Year 6      Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
InvestmentCosts            3.7        8.6       10.7       10.9      10.6       10.4       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.0       0.0        5.5        5.9        6.2        6.6       0.0
Total Project Costs          3.7        8.6       16.2       16.8       16.8      17.0       0.0
Total Financing              3.7        8.6       16.2       16.8      16.8       17.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   3.2        7.5       8.5        7.9        6.1       4.8        0.0
Govemment                  0.5        1.1       7.7        8.9       10.7      12.2        0.0
Central                0.1        0.2        0.1        0.1       0.1       0.1        0.0
Provincial             0.4        0.9        7.6        8.8      10.6      12.1        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     3.7        8.6       16.2       16.8       16.8     17.0        0.0
Year I    Year 2  i Year 3  I Year 4  I Year 5       Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs           0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Financing             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Central               0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing     0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
-67 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
INDONESIA: Provincial Health I
Procurement
Procurement of works and goods will follow the "Association Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits", January 1995 edition, revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January
1999. Standard Bidding Documents (including Standard Prequalification and Bid Evaluation Documents),
which may be updated from time to time, will be used for all Association financed procurement.
Selection of Consultants will follow the "Association Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", January 1997 edition, revised September 1997 and January
1999, and "Standard Request for Proposals for Selection of Consultants", July 1997 edition, revised April
1998 and July 1999.
A Procurement Capacity Assessment Report (PCAR) was conducted for the project and is available on
project file. This covered legal issues, project cycle management, organization and functions, support and
control systems, record keeping, staffing, the general procurement environment, and overall risk
assessment. (The PCAR was carried out in accordance with Mr. Sanchez's memo dated August 11, 1998
re: "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement Procurement; Setting of Prior Review Thresholds,
and Procurement Supervision Plan", which replaces OD 11.01)
The assessment has rated the proposed project's procurement risk as "high " for the following reasons: (i)
there is no experience with the World Bank fnanced projects, (ii) there are inconsistencies between
Keppres 16, and the new Keppres 18 and the World Bank's guidelines, which include restrictive bidding,
inadequate advertising, no post qualification, bracketing, and automatic rebidding if the number of
responsive bidders is less than three, and, (iii) the general procurement environment is considered as weak
and some improvements are necessary.
A Side Letter has been prepared to address deficiencies in the Government's procurement procedures, and
to record agreed revisions which ensure that NCB procedures for both goods and works are acceptable to
the Association. Given the high risk level, the thresholds for prior review have been set at lower than usual
levels and procurement supervision every six months and quarterly during the first year of the project has
been suggested. To address institutional weaknesses and to enhance procurement capacity of the agencies,
an action plan was prepared as part of the PCAR. This action plan includes the following:
* appointment of a qualified procurement specialist at the central level.
* appointment of procurement officers at provincial and districts levels.
* a Project Management Manual will be developed by consultants in collaboration with the
implementing units, and disseminated to all project team members after clearance by the Association as
a condition of the credit effectiveness, covering procurement procedures, procurement methods, and
reporting requirements.
* a Grants Operational Manual covering the grants mechanism under Phase 2 of the project will be
developed, and disseminated to all project team members after clearance by the Association. Grants
under component A4 must be awarded in accordance with the Grants Operational Manual.
* establishment of CPCU, PCIU and DIU organizations including appointment of key staff.
-68 -



1. Procurement Methods
Procurement methods are summarized in Tables A and Al, and the thresholds in Table B.
(a) Civil Works (US$ 0.62 million). Since all contracts values for civil works are expected to be small
(below US$ 200,000), the works are scattered and foreign contractors are unlikely to be interested, no
Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB) is specified for civil works. NCB will be used for all civil works
above US$ 20,000. For contracts below US$ 20,000 up to an aggregate of US$ 150,000 may be awarded
based on quotations obtained from at least three qualified contractors. This aggregate amount does not
include contracts financed by grants provided under Component A.4. Under the grants component, annual
aggregates will be reviewed as part of the Borrower's procurement plans for each project year from FY02
until project completion.
(b) Goods: (US$ 3.91 million). The goods will be packaged at the provincial level for greater efficiency,
where the procurement will be by the respective PCIU on behalf of the DIUs. International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures will be used for all contracts at above US$ 200,000 equivalent. National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will be used for contracts at or above US$ 50,000 equivalent.
International Shopping will be used for contracts less than US$ 50,000 up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed $ 400,000 equivalent. National Shopping will be used for contract less than US$ 50,000
equivalent, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $ 760,000 equivalent. These aggregate amounts do
not include contracts financed by grants provided under Component A.4. Under the grants component
annual aggregates will be reviewed as part of the Borrower's annual procurement plans for each project
year from FY02 until project completion.
(c) Services: (USS 8. 73 million): Services will be procured to support Project Management and will
involve Consultants' services for: Task Forces, Study Tours, Fellowships, Workshop and Promotion.
Consultants contract for firms at or above US$ 100,000 will be selected based on Quality and Cost-Based
Selection (QCBS) procedures, and below US$ 100,000 selection will be based on Consultants'
Qualifications (CQ) up to an aggregate amount of US$ 5.15 million. All contracts above US$ 200,000
must be advertized in a national newspaper and in Development Business. Consultants selected under
QCBS will provide technical assistance to various entities like CPCU and PCIU. Consultant selected
under CQ will be for small assignment such as conducting workshop, promotional activities, training, etc.
Individual consultants will be selected per Section V of the Consultants Guidelines.
(a) Miscellaneous: (USS 65.38 million): (i) A.4.1 Managing Decentralization (USS 5.51million), (ii)
A.4.2 Mobilization Resources (US$ 8.74 million), (iii) (A.4.3) Improving Health Service Access and
Quality (USS 47.40 million), (iv) (A.4.4) Project Management (US$ 2.06) and (v) Macthing Grants
and others (USS 1.67 million) : Grants for the first two of the above sub components will finance the
implementation of recommendations developed by the Task Forces (which were operating in Phase 1).
Grants for A.4.3 will finance proposals received from the Districts and evaluated by the Technical Review
Teams (TRTs) and Joint Health Councils (JHCs). Before the end of Phase 1, selection and procurement
methods for the three sub-components will be agreed in line with methods and thresholds (other than the
aggregate thresholds) as specified in paras I a, lb, and I c; they will be detailed in the Project Management
Manual and are summarized below.
Subcomponent A.4.3 includes Non-Association Financing (NAF) covering (i) centrally allocated grant
funds (DA-DPD) currently used to purchase drugs and other operational items in the two provinces, and
(ii) allocation projected grants to offset declining Association support during 2003-2005, which sustain the
district grants at the 2002 levels.
-69-



For NAF, para 1.5 of the procurement guidelines and para 1.8 of the consultants' guidelines will apply to
ensure that procurement is carried out diligently and efficiently, and that the economic and financial
viability of the project is not adversely affected. The Association's determination of compliance with these
provisions will be based in part on the reviews performed by JHC and TRT.
2. Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)
The thresholds for the Association's review are summarized in Table B.
Contracts for civil works at or above US$ 50,000 equivalent will be subject to prior review.
Despite the above thresholds, however, the first contract for civil works by each implementing unit,
regardless of value, will be subject to prior review.
All contracts for goods at or above US$ 50,000 equivalent will be subject to prior review. Also, the
first contract for International and National Shopping by each implementing unit will be subject to prior
review.
Contracts for consulting firms valued at or above US$ 100,000 equivalent will be subject to prior
review. For contracts below US$ 100,000, the first contract by each implementing unit will be subject to
prior review. The Terms of Reference (TORs) for all assignments regardless of value will be subject to
prior review.
Contracts with individuals valued at or above US$ 50,000 equivalent will be subject to prior
review. Also, the first contract by each implementing unit will be subject to prior review, and all TORs
regardless of value.
3. Procurement Plan
The Procurement Plan for Phase I (FY00 and FY01) of the project, providing a timeline for each
step of the procurement process is available on file and will be finalized as part of the Project
Implementation Plan, PIP, for FY00 and FY0 1 to be agreed at Negotiations. During the life of the project,
annual Implementation and Procurement Plans, acceptable to the Association, will be required starting
November 30, 2001, and thereafter each November 30 until project completion, as a condition for
commencing implementation in each year of the project.
4. Financial Management Assessment
An assessment was carried out of the financial management capability and control environment of the
project implementation structure within the Secretary General of Ministry of Health. These arrangements
provide for a Central Project Coordination Unit (CPCU) at the central level, Provincial Coordination
Implementation Unit (PCIU) at the Province level and District hnplementation Unit (DIU) at the District
level. The assessment (available in the project files) found certain issues and weaknesses and to address
these an action plan to strengthen the financial management capacity was developed (annex 6 b). The
objective of the action plan is to ensure that the Project will have a sound financial management system
when it becomes effective.
The CPCU and PCIU will focus on administrative functions and will be responsible to assist the Project
Director and Deputy Project Director both at the central and province level in the establishment and
- 70 -



maintenance of an appropriate fnancial management system, the administration of contracts and payments
fnanced by the loan, and the preparation of periodic project management reports including the Project
Management Report (PMR) as a basis for disbursements. The team will consist of individual consultants
(executive secretary, procurement officer, finance staff, administration staff and monitoring and evaluation
staff) hired specifically for the project. While at DIU level, the Executive Secretary will be the head of
Health Dinas. Aministrative tasks of the project will be handled by the Health Dinas team. The
coordination between the project managers and subproject managers of each program involved in the
project and the CPCU, PCIUs and DIUs will involve challenges which could carry over to project progress
monitoring mechanism through PMR.
These issues and risks are being addressed by agreeing on: (i) preparation of a Project Management
Manual that will cover in detail the PMR preparation and reporting mechanism to be followed; (ii)
preparation of a Grants Operational Manual that will cover in detail the grant budgeting and reporting
mechanism to be followed; (iii) submission of the Project Management Manual as a condition of
effectiveness; ans (iv) completion of the Grants Operational Manual as a disbursement condition for
Category 4 (v) requiring training on both Manuals (Project Management and Grants Operational Manuals)
for all people involved in the project.
5. Financial Management Arrangements
Accounting system and procedures.: The accounting system and procedures at the CPCU, PCIU and DIU
levels will follow the government accounting procedures. The specific accounting procedures for the
project will be included in the Project Management Manual (PMMIv). CPCU, each PCIU and DIU will
maintain separate accounting records, on a cash basis, for each source of fund.
Project Management Reporting (PMR): On a monthly basis, each DIU will submit its PMR to the PCIU.
The PCIU will consolidate the PMRs from the districts and the province and produce a Provincial PMR
which includes project progress, procurement and financial reports to be submitted to the CPCU on a
quarterly basis. The Provincial PMR prepared by PCIU is due for submission to the CPCU ten days after
the end of each quarter. On a quarterly basis, a consolidated report that compiles the provincial and central
PMRs, shall be prepared by the CPCU for submission to the Project Director, Ministry of Health, and the
Association, no later than one month after the end of each quarter. Formats of the PMR have already been
agreed during negotiations.
Project Management Manual (PMM): A manual documenting the system and procedures to be followed
by CPCU, PCIUs and the DIUs is required to ensure sound project and financial management.. The
Manual shall set out control, procurement, disbursement, accounting, reporting and auditing arrangements.
The content of the manual was agreed during appraisal, and the final version will be issued prior to loan
effectiveness.
Grants Operational Manual (GOA): A manual documenting the system and procedures to be followed by
CPCU, PCIUs and the DIUs is required to foster effective implementation of activities for component A4
during phase II. The Manual shall detail the budgeting, disbursement, accounting, reporting and monitoring
mechanism of the grants. The GOM is to be completed by April 2001 and training is expected to be
completed before January 2002.
6. Auditing Arrangements.
The CPCU, PCIU and DIU annual project accounts will be prepared based on the quarterly PMR. As for
- 71 -



other government projects, audits shall be carried out by BPKP auditors. PCIU and DIUs' project
accounts shall be audited by BPKP's regional offices whereas the consolidated project account, including
Statement of Expenditures and Special Account, prepared by the CPCU shall be audited by the BPKP head
office. The annual audit reports shall be furnished to the Association no later than six months after the end
of the government fiscal year. BPKP will also audit, due process and due diligence, on a sample basis, and
the attainment of objectives according to the agreed performance indicators. A formal letter from MOH to
BPKP requesting annual audit to be carried out in accordance to the TOR was issued prior to negotiations.
7. Disbursement Arrangements
Flow of Funds: The Pimpros and/or Pimbagpros at the central, provincial and district levels will be
responsible for authorizing expenditures in accordance with the agreed budgets under existing government
procedures. They will submit their payment requests to the relevant MOF Treasury Office (KPKN) who
will issue payment remittance orders (SPM) to Bank Indonesia to credit the payee's accounts at the letter's
respective banks and to debit the project Special Account. The DG Budget will provide guidelines and
criteria for eligible project expenditures, in accordance with the Credit Agreement. Attached is the Flow of
Funds within the project.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs): Disbursements will be made against Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs) for goods, works and individual consultant contracts costing less than US$ 50,000 equivalent,
consulting firm contracts of less than US$ 100,000 equivalent, training, workshops, and incremental
operating costs. The documentation for these expenditures will be retained by the project managers and or
subproject managers at the central, province and district level in accordance with their respective budgeted
program. All other disbursements from the credit will require full documentation. All documentation will
be made available to the Association and auditors upon request.
Special Account: GOI will establish a Special Account (SA) at Bank Indonesia denominated in US dollars,
with an authorized ceiling of US$ 3,500,000. The SA will be under the name of the Directorate General of
Budget (DGB), Ministry of Finance, but its management is essentially under the CPCU's responsibility.
The DGB shall provide copies of the weekly bank statements of the SA to the CPCU.
Replenishment of Special Account: Each DIUs and PCIUs shall provide copies of SPMs issued for their
subprojects and other relevant supporting documents to the CPCU. Based on the SA bank statements and
the copies of SPM and other documents received from DIU and PCIU, the CPCU shall prepare
applications for replenishment on a monthly basis, or when 20% of the authorized ceiling has been
disbursed, whichever occurs first. Only when satisfactory Project Management Reports have already been
produced, replenishment of the Special Account may be based on quarterly PMRs.
- 72 -



Annex 6.a
Provincial Health Project
Flow of Funds
IRD
National                         /                                                                                                   Head
/                                                                     ~~ ~          ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~auditslc
countL_           aDd.for replenishment                           a
t                        ~~~~~~~~~~counti 4   
Bank Indonesia                                             copies_______
Headoffice             bank          DG                  bank                 CPCU
S eciaI Acct.           statement                         statement
PMR
Cooies SPM
Debit to
Special Account            Guidelines
District & or
Province
(ind. National Pij npro)                                                                              audits
MOF Treasury              payment                      <
Bank Indonesia               SPM         KPKN                    request
Branch ofrice4-                                                    - -         Pmpo
funds                                   Pimbaqpro
transfer                                             Copies SPM, Copies sup.docs
PM Reports
(from Pimpros/Pimbag   5
at Province level)
Codies SPM
Copies sup.docs                       PM Reports
funds                                                     PM Reports                            Cooies SPM
transfer                                                  (from Pimpros/Pimb igpros
(only for grant)                                          at the district levels
DIU Bank Account                    w de as    >  |       _       DIU
- 73 -



Annex 6.b
Action Plan
Financial Management System
Issues/ Problems                   Remedial Action            Due Date
A. Project Organization and Staffing
1. Establishment and staffng of CPCU and    Decrees of establishment and  Done
PCIUs.                                  staffing of CPCU and PCIUs
2. Establishment and staffing of DIUs   Decrees of establishment and  May 10, 2000
staff of DIUs
B. Project Management Manual
A Manual to document procedures to be  DraftProjectManagement         Done
followed by CPCU, PCIUs and DIUs,      Manual
covering job description, procurement,  Issuance of Project           Effectiveness
fmancial management, record management,   Management Manual (fnal)
fixed assets and inventory management,  acceptable to the Bank.
bookkeeping, reporting, monitoring and
evaluation mechanism for the FM svstem.
C. Grants Operation Manual
A manual to document procedures of     Issuance of Grant Operational    Disbursement
District Grants to be followed by CPCU,  Manual (fnal)                condition for
PCIU and DIU covering organizations, roles                            District Grants
and responsibilities, funding mechanisms,    Grants Operational Manual  and MD and RM
procurement, book-keeping, and reporting    training                  Grants
mechanism of Grants
D. Training
Training by which key staff within the  Project Management and        June/July 2000
CPCU, PCIUs and DrUs will acquire the  Treasury training for project
necessary skills to carry out their respective   manager, subproject manager and
duties as described in the Project     treasurer.
Management ManuaL                      Project Management Manual      Promptly after
training                      effectiveness
E. Auditing
Arrangement of the project audit in     Letter to BPKP confirming the  Done
accordance with a specific TOR for audit  audit arrangements
F. PMR Evaluation
Evaluation on the implementation of FM  Review on FM system and       August 2001
System in CPCU, PCIU and DIU including    quarterly PMR within 30 days
re-evaluation on potential for PMR-based  after the quarter end submitted
disbursements.                         by CPCU to WBOJ
- 74 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
-'--*,,          M      .                      T..a f...
1. Works                           0.00          0.47           0.15          0.00          0.62
(0.00)        (0.37)        (0.12)         (0.00)        (0.49)
2. Goods                           0.55          2.20           1.16          0.00           3.91
(0.50)        (1.96)        (0.97)         (0.00)        (3.43)
3. Services                        0.00          0.00           8.73          0.00           8.73
(0.00)        (0.00)         (7.64)        (0.00)        (7.64)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00           0.00         32.52          32.86         65.38
(0.00)        (0.00)        (26.01)        (0.00)        (26.01)
5. Unallocated                     0.00          0.00           0.43          0.00           0.43
___________________________      (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.43)         (0.00)        (0.43)
Total                           0.55           2.67         42.99          32.86         79.07
____________________ _______      (0.50)         (2.33)       (35.17)        (0.00)        (38.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govermnent
units.
Miscellaneous includes grants described in l(d).
- 75 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
e 0
A. Firms           1.86      0.00     0.00      0.00      5.15      0.00      0.00       7.01
(1.63)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (4.51)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (6.14)
B. Individuals     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      1.72      0.00       1.72
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (1.51)    (0.00)    (1.51)
Total   1.86     0.00      0.00      0.00      5.15      1.72      0.00      8.73
_  (1.63)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (4.51)    (1.51)    (0.00)    (7.65)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 76 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Consbjctto
.,reshold        ,       P ,c,urem.               ,,t ocur,Rem
(U~$$1fr,ssands}        ethod,(~t~~s
1. Works
50 to 200                   NCB                    Yes, (0.26)
20 to 50                   NCB                    No, 1/ (0.21)
under 20                   other                   No, (0.15)
2. Goods
200 and over                  ICB                    Yes, (0.55)
50 to 200                   NCB                    Yes, (2.20)
under 50                     is                   No, 1/ (0.40)
under 50                    NS                    No, 1/ (0.76)
3. Services
Firms                      I00 and over                 QCBS                    Yes, (1.86)
under 100                    CQ                    No, 2/(5.15)
50 and over                 Other                   Yes, (1.42)
Individuals
under 50                   Other                  No,2/ (0.30)
4. Grants                ___                               Other 3/
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$ 6.5 million in
Phase 1
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
1/ Ex-post Review on condition that the first contract of works or goods to each implementing unit
(provincial/district) has been reviewed by the Association.
2/ Ex-post Review except the TOR, on condition that the first contract of services has been reviewed by the Association.
3/ Procurement of Works,Goods and Services under Grants will be subject to the same procurement methods and
thresholds as in the above Table for Phase 1 procurement actions. The annual procurement plans of grantees will be
reviewed by the Association as a condition of disbursement of grants for FY02 to project completion
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 77 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
1. Civil Works                             0.49                         80%
2. Goods                                   3.43           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
80% of other items procured locally
3. Local Training and Workshop             3.95                         80%
4. Studies and Overseas Training           2.00                         100%
5. District, MD and RD Grants             25.51                         100%
6. Matching Grants                         0.41                         100%
7. Incremental Operating Costs             0.09                         80%
8. Consultants' Services                   1.69                         100%
9. Unallocated                             0.43
Total Project Costs                       38.00
Total                                     38.00    _
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
- 78 -



Attachment 1 .b
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
Project Director
Secretary General MOH
Central
CPCU             Deputy Project Director
Head of Planning Bureau
Province 
Province ~ ~      ~      ~      roicilPrjc  ietD             apn                                                        PoidlPrjc  ieco                    aat
JHC                        ~~~~~~~~Heed of Provincial Bappeda                                                        Hedrrorovnianoppd
Ditit Project Director                                                            Dsrc       Project Director
Dis.. trictExcuiv                                                                    Dxcu istitEvctve
secret  ~           DI                                                                        ecetr
Heed of HelhDinstrictPmagr                                                                ea      elh  ie
DIU Adm      I Team.rreary                                                                                 DI
L__  Lne Command
hne Coordinamo



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
INDONESIA: Provincial Health I
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                    24
First Bank mission (identification)                     _                     06/15/98
Appraisal mission departure                     02/16/2000                    02/18/2000
Negotiations                                    04/10/2000                    05/03/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/15/2000
Prepared by:
Bureau of Planning, central MOH; Provincial and District Health Offices, and Provincial Governments,
Lampung and Yogyakarta.
Preparation assistance:
PHRD grant, TF 025116 (Bank executed)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
me4 S77cial ty77 
Samuel Lieberman                  Lead Specialist, Task Team Leader
Anthony Toft                      Legal Adviser
Puti Marzoeki                     Operations Officer
William Hardi                     Procurement Specialist
Yogana Prasta                     Senior Disbursement Officer
Naseer Ahmad Rana                 Senior Procurement Specialist
Novira Asra                       Financial Management Officer
Benedicta Ridati Sembodo          Team Assistant
- 80 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
INDONESIA: Provincial Health I
A. Project Implementation Plan
1.   Project Proposals for the Provincial Health Project from Lampung and Yogyakarta.
2.   PHP Draft Procurement Plan Phase I (July 2000 - December 2001).
3.   Procurement Capacity Assessment Review.
4.   Financial Management System Assessment Report.
5.   Draft Side Letter on NCB Procedures.
6.   TOR for the Audit of Special Purpose Project Financial Statement.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
Gretchen Roedde and Geoff King, Background Situation Analysis in Lampung.
Javier Martinez, Background Situation Analysis in Yogyakarta.
Bhisma Murti, Consultant report on Resource Mobilization in Yogyakarta.
Adi Utarini, Consultant report on Regulatory Framework in Yogyakarta.
Susilowati, Consultant report on Institutional Development in Yogyakarta.
Victor Menayang, Consultant report on Health promotion in Yogyakarta.
Melanie Yuwono, Project Costab.
*Including electronic files
- 81 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
INDONESIA: Provincial Health I
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions         disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                     Purpose                                      IBRD     IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
ID-PE-36049    1999 GOI                     EARLY CHILD DEVELOPM                              21.50      0.00       0.00     20.40       0.00       0.00
ID-PE-3967    1999 GOI                       FIFTH HEALTH PROJECT                             44.70      0.00       0.00      43.35      1.33       0.00
ID-PE-40196    1999 GOVERNMENT OF           SUMATRA BASIC EDUCA.                              54.50     20.10       0.00     73.76       3.07       0.00
ID-PE-41895    1999 INDONESIA               SULAWESI BASIC EDUC.                              47.90     15.90       0.00     63.56       3.34      0.00
ID-PE-55821    1999 GOVERNMENT OF           URBAN POVERTY PROJEC                               0.00    100.00       0.00      98.36      0.00       0.00
ID-PE-56074    1999 INDONESIA               MUNICIPAL INNOVATION                               5.00      0.00       0.00       5.00      1.10       0.00
ID-PE-63732    1999 REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA   CORPORATE RESTRUCTRG                              31.50      0.00       0.00      31.50      7.50       0.00
ID-PE-63939    1999 REPUBLICOFINDONESIA    SOCIALSAFETYNETAL                                 600.00      0.00       0.00     600.00      OO         0.00
ID-PE-64118    1999 GOl                     WATSAL                                           300.00      0.0o       0.00     250.00      0.00       0.00
lD-PE-36048    1998 GOI                     CORAL REEF MGM REHAB                               6.90      0.0o       000        6.40      0.50       0.20
ID-PE-36956    1998 GOI                     SAFE MOTHERHOOD                                   42.50      0.00       6.00      33.93      7.92      -0.24
ID-PE-37095    1998 GOl                     MALUKU REG. DEV                                   16.30      0.00       O.0O      1553       0.93       0.00
ID-PE-39644    1998 GOI                     W.JAVA BASIC EDUC.                               103.50      0.00       0.00     100.16      -1.34      0.00
ID-PE-3993    1998 GOl                      N.SUMATRA REG. ROADS                             234.00      0.0O      50.00     184.00      8.00       0.00
ID-PE-40061    1998 GOI                     BENGKULU REG DEV                                  20.50      0.00       0.00      19683      2.23       0.00
ID-PE-45337    1998 GOI                     KECAMATAN DEV FUND                               225.00      0.00       0.00     209.49      3.24       0.00
iD-PE-48715    1998 REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA   IIDP                                              34.50      0.00       8.50      24,63      9.63      11.63
ID-PE-55755    1998 GOI                     BANKING REFORM ASST.                              20.00      0.00       0.00      10.01     10.01       0.00
ID-PE-35544    1997 GOI                     SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS                                20.00      0.00       2.50      17.50      7.00       0.00
ID-PE-36047    1997 GOI                     BALIURBANINFRAST.                                110.00      00o       15.00      87.36     1316        4.36
ID-PE-36053    1997 GOl                     SULAWESI UDP 11                                  155.00      0.00      42.05      90.79     80.55      4.35
ID-PE-3987    1997 GOIVPERUMKA              C.INDONESIASEC.EDU.                              104.00      000        0.00      95.18     32.47       0.00
ID-PE40195    1997 GOI                      QUAL OF UNDERGRAD ED                              71.20      0.00       9.89     53.39       8.08       8.08
ID-PE-4026    1997 GOI                      RLWY EFFICIENCY                                  105.00      0.00       0.00     103.60     38.60       0.00
ID-PE-40521    1997 GOI                     VILLAGE INFRA II                                 140.10      0.00       0.00     61.54      51.44       5.47
ID-PE-41894    1997 GO]                     SUMATRA SEC EDUC                                  98.00      0.00       0.0O      81.86      9.85       0.00
ID-PE-42540    1997 GOI                     IODINE DEF. CONTROL                               28.50      0.00       2.50      23.08      4.08       3.28
iD-PE-49051    1997 GOa                     BEPEKA AUDIT MODER P                              16.40      0.00       0.90      12.87      3.57       1.65
ID-PE-37097    1996 GOt                     E.JAVA SEC.EDUC.                                  99.00      0.00       0.00      79.19      13.70      0.00
ID-PE-39312    1996 GOI                     SECOND E. JAVA UDP                               142.70      0.0O      25.70      93.11    113.21       3.46
ID-PE-39643    1996 GOI                     STD/AIDS                                          24.80      0.00      19.80       1.58     21.38       0.73
ID-PE-3978    1996 GOI                       INDUL TECHNOLOGY DEV                             47.00      0.00       6.00      22.93     22.49       7.89
ID-PE-4003    1996 GOI                      SECONDARY SCHOOL TEA                              60.40      0.00      30.00      18.49     33.85      -0.05
ID-PE-4004    1996 REPUBLICOFINDONESLA    HIGHEREDUCSUP.(III                                  65.00      0.00       6.85      32.14      -1.03     -1.19
ID-PE-400     1996 GOI                      NUSATENGGARADEV.                                  27.00      0.00       4.90      13.24      4.15      -1.99
ID-PE-4011    1996 GOI                      SULAWESI AGRI AREA                                26.60      0.00       3.70      11.60      -1.31     -4.77
ID-PE4014     1996 GOI                      KERINCI SEBLAT lCDP                               19.10      0.00       0.00      17.44      7.12       0.00
ID-PE-4016    1996 GOI                      STRATEGIC URB. RDS I                              86.90      0.00      10.00      61.13     37.73       0.00
ID-PE-4021    1996 GOI                      POW.TRANS&DISTII                                 373.00      0.00      80.00     159.65     191.94      5.10
ID-PE-41896    1996 GOI                     HR CAPACITY BUILDING                              20.00      0.00       3.60      14.71     12.32       7.32
ID-PE-3951    1995 GOl                      KALIMANTAN UDP                                   136.00      0.0O       0.00     55.99      52.99       0.00
ID-PE-3965    1995 GOI                      HEALTH IV:IMPR HEALT                              88.00      0.00      20.00     46.72      31.71       6.71
ID-PE-3968    1995 GOI                      BOOK&READINGDEV                                  132.50      0.00      31.50      74.21     37.71       2.63
ID-PE-3972    1995 GOI                      AG. RESEARCH II                                   6300       0.00      14.10      35.11     36.20       0.15
ID-PE-39754    1995                         TAFORINFRA. II                                    28.00      0.00       0.00      22.76     19.97       6.31
ID-PE-3979    1995                          RURALELECTDI                                     398.00      0.00      39.90     119.52     159.42    119.52
ID-PE-3984    1995                          LAND ADMINISTRATION                               60.00      0.00      16.50      27.74     31.34       0.00
ID-PE-3988    1995                          PHRD II                                           69.00      0.00       8.50      18.81      12.29      5.69
ID-PE-4001    1995                          TELECOM SECTOR MODER                             325.00      0.00      50.00     184.44     169.45     30.79
ID-PE-4019    1995                          ACCOUNTANCY DEV II                                25.00      0.00       3.30       9.93      12.52      1.91
- 82 -



Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions           and actual
disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                     Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA    Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
ID-PE-3890    1994 GOI                      SEMARANG-SURAKARTA U                             174.00      0.00      18.67     65.12      75.48       3.46
ID-PE-3910    1994 GOI                      SUMATERA & KALIMAN P                             260.50      0.00      20.00     157.40    160.40      39.15
ID-PE-3937    1994 GOI                      INTEGRATED SWAMPS                                 65.00      0.00       8.00      18.75     17.81      -2.49
ID-PE-3945    1994 GOI                       HIGHWAY SECTOR II                               350.00      0.00      40.00     120.78    157.76       6.76
ID-PE-3954    1994 GOI                      JAVAIRRIMP&WRM                                   165.70      0.00      22.00     64.77      62.64      19.55
ID-PE-3985    1994 GOI                      WrRSHED CONSERVATION                              56.50      0.00      40.24       1.35     30.59       0.34
ID-PE-3998    1994 GOI                       SURABAYA URBAN                                  175.00      0.00      30.00      64.89     91.99      19.13
ID-PE-4010    1994 GOI                      DAM SAFETY                                        55.00      0.00       8.00      23.13     24.78       1.66
ID-PE-4017    1994 GOI                      UNtV.RESEARCHFORGR                                5690       0.00      11.23      15.09     20.44       8.11
ID-PE-4020    1994 GOI                      KABUPATEN ROADS V                                101.50      0.00       0.00      13.53     13.52       0.00
ID-PE-3914    1993 GOI                      THIRD COMM HEALTH &                               93.50      0.00      16.00      6.13      22.10       6.10
ID-PE-3990    1993 GOI                      WrR&SANIFORLOWI                                   80.00      0.00      11.00     25.48      36.49      12.39
ID-PE-3999    1993 GOI                      GROUNDWATER DEVT.                                 54.00      0.00      24.94      1.51      21.65       0.35
ID-PE-4006    1993 GOI                      E.INDONESiAKABUPATE                              155.00      0.00       0.00      15.01     14.98       0.00
ID-PE-4009    1993 GOI                       INTEGRATED PEST MGMT                             32.00      0.00       5.50       3.09      8.58       1,28
ID-PE-3860    1992 GOI                      TREECROPS SMALLHOLDE                              87.60      0.00       9.30      10.85     20.17       0.00
ID-PE-3916    1992 GOI                      SURALAYATTHERMAL POW                             423.60      0.00     132.20      17.84    147.42       9.03
ID-PE-3997    1992                          TELECOM IV                                       375.00      0.00      50.08      43.57     93.64      23.56
Total:    7755.50      136.00      958.85    4205.81   2345.85    377.37
- 83 -



INDONESIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1980/87            Semen Andalas                  7.49    0.00    10.02    6.78    7.49    0.00    10.02    6.78
1982/84/93         Saseka Finance                 0.00    0.00    0.38    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.38    0.00
1988               Manulife                       0.00    0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.32    0.00
1989               PT Agro Muko                   1.26    0.00    2.20     1.36    1.26    0.00     2.20    1.36
1989/91/94         PT Astra                       0.00    0.00    12.16    0.00    0.00    0.00    12.16    0.00
1990/91/93/95/99   PT Indo-Rama                  53.64    0.00    12.22   35.39   38.64    0.00    11.81   35.39
1991               LYON-MLF-lbis                  2.01    0.00    0.00    2.01    2.01    0.00      0.00    2.01
1991               PTArgoPantes                   9.38    0.00    13.00   11.36    9.38    0.00    13.00   11.36
1991               PT Indaci                      0.00    1.83    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.44    0.00    0.00
1991               PT RIMBA                       5.55    0.00    0.60     1.67    5.55    0.00     0.60    1.67
1991               SEAVI Indonesia                0.00    0.00     1.43    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.43    0.00
1992/94/96         PT KIA Keramik                17.19    0.00    9.12   57.13   17.19    0.00      8.99   57.13
1992/95            PT Viscose                    30.53    0.00    0.00   37.83   30.53    0.00      0.00   37.83
1993               PT Nusantara                   3.18    0.00    0.00    10.38    3.18    0.00     0.00   10.38
1993               PT Samudera                    0.82    0.00    5.00    2.18    0.82    0.00      5.00    2.18
1993/96            PT BBL Dharmala               15.11    0.00    0.00   28.18   15.11    0.00      0.00   28.18
1994               KDLC Bali                      2.68    0.00     1.14    0.00    2.68    0.00     1.14    0.00
1994               Prudential Asia                0.00    0.00    4.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.24    0.00
1994               PAMA (Indonesia)               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1994               PT PAMA                        0.00    0.00    0.71     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.71    0.00
1994               PT Saripuri                    5.33    0.00    0.00    10.00    5.33    0.00     0.00   10.00
1995               PT ABS Finance                 0.00    0.00     1.31    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.31    0.00
1995               PT Bakrie Pipe                17.14    9.50    0.00    0.00   17.14    9.50      0.00    0.00
1995               PT Bunas Finance               5.54    0.00    0.00     1.45    5.54    0.00     0.00    1.45
1995               PT Grahawita                   0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00      0.00    0.00
1995               PT Hotel Santika               3.78    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.78    0.00      0.00    0.00
1995               PT KIA Serpih                 15.00    0.00    6.35   49.50   15.00    0.00      6.24   49.50
1995               PT Panin Finance               5.14    0.00     1.93    6.00    5.14    0.00     1.93    6.00
1996               PT Dharmala                   20.00    0.00    0.00    10.00   20.00    0.00     0.00   10.00
1996               PT Pramnindo Ikat             25.00   25.00    8.18   70.00   25.00   25.00      3.91   70.00
1997               PT AdeS Alfindo               10.29    0.00    3.53    19.71   10.29    0.00     3.53   19.71
1997               PT Alumindo                   19.03    0.00    0.00   20.00   19.03    0.00      0.00   20.00
1997               PT Astra Dian                  0.00    0.00     1.07    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.07    0.00
1997               PT Astra Graphia               0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      2.00    0.00
1997               PT Bank NISP                  10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1997               PT Berlian                    22.00    0.00   20.00   68.00    4.44    0.00    16.65   13.73
1997               PT Kalimantan                 20.00    0.00    15.00    6.00   15.56    0.00    15.00    4.67
1997               PT Karabha                     0.00    0.00    10.43    0.00    0.00    0.00    10.43    0.00
1997               PT Sayap                      10.00    0.00    0.00    18.00   10.00    0.00     0.00   18.00
1997               PT Wings                       8.68    0.00    0.00    19.19    8.68    0.00     0.00   19.19
Total Portfolio:       345.77    41.33   142.90  492.12  308.77   40.94   132.07  436.52
- 84 -



Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:         0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 85 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
INDONESIA: Provincial Health I
East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Asia&      Lw-
Indonnls0  Pacific   incomn.    Development diamond'
Populati. lmiyar (rnillaons;i                         203.7      1tA-       3                      Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Ats method, USS)                    i   68Q0       99o       520
,GNP (Al4metod U$S bI/ions).;                :         138        1,8021;g 1,844
Averan annual arowth. 1992-9,
Population  (%jy                                         1.3 X  0 007Xl:004 0    4XiX ;t ;;  :   t:   0 i Wl; i 80;000 ...  t  t 'I   1.2  1.7
Labor force t%                                           2.7 . 0        1             GNPI   Gross
per                              primary
"o"trecenateatimat  lrtst vest availabe.I99t-8J                      .        .       capita                         enrollment
Poverty (% df population beio naNfbnal povery lihn.
Urban population (% of total p /n) d328                            35        31
Life expectancy,ftbirth (vear )                          665        69        63
Infant mo :rtaliy(pr1,000 live bI,ths   40  :0  !     tt47          37;        ;t069t 
Childlmalnutitijon j of chidren undd5t: 5                34         2*)         .                Access to safe water
Accesto s*t water (%ofl'o puitifo)                       65         7T        74
Illieracy! (% of population agetj5o                      IS iS                32
Gr6ssprimary enroilment (%o  oscho"epulataon)        li ,t    s1             i17                   Indonesia
:d Mal*f; 2i                                                     dte  11-   i 7 ETef;   f:  x   Rf   l X:: 02))y  t : 9-  11J  | i  i   iSi tX | t 9      t  1 t  3  -:  t Low-income group
F_eiale:                                              11                   13
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONGTIREM TRENDStt
1977     1987        997       1998l
Economic ratios'
GOP (IJSs b/I/lops)               ~~~~~~~48.4    7T.  25,7      !94.2
Gross doni4stlolnvyestment/GDP                23.4      27,4.     31.8       14.0
Exports of goods and services/GDP             24.8      24.8      27.9       539                      Tra
GrossAdomestlicsavinta/GFP                    29.0     29.7       31.5       23.9
Gross niational savings/SOP                      .         .      28.        14'
Currnt asccount balnoeIG                         .        .        -0.8       40      Domestic                      In/este
Interest payments/GOPti; 0 ;i;0  W 0 i  EEl0   13;.3.   3,4        2.4        5.8     Savings    +
Total debt/GDP                                34.0      69.3      831AE1  154.4
Total debt service/exports                      ..        ..      30.&       10.3
Present value of debt/GOP --                     .        .       59.6
XPresntEvajue ofd6ebxPorts i,                             ..     199.5
Indebtedness
19747  1988-98         1997      01998   199943
(averag nnul growth):            f:  ::ff:40:            ;f         
GDPI                                  8 ;.3               47      -1$.2       5.1             - ndonesia
GNP,perCagitsi                        3.8      4.5       2.4      -t8.0       3.6                   Low-income group
Exports f goods atdse rices            A -11    .2       7.8      11.2        5.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Aariculture                                   29.6      23.4      16.1       19.5
Industry                                      34.3     36.3       44.3       45.3     20
Manufacturina                                10.5     17.0       26.8      24.9          o
Services                                      36.2     40.3       39.6       35.2     -       93   94    9
Private consumption                           61.0     60.8       61.7       70.4    .40 
General aovemment consumption                  9.9       9.5       6.8        5.8                 _GDI    se  GDP
Imports of goods and services                 19.2     22.5       28.1       43.8
1977-87  1988-98       1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and imports I%)
(averaoe annual grow,th
Aariculture                                    3.9       2.9        1.0       0.8    20.
Industry                                       6.2       8.7       5.2      -15.1
Manufacturing                                14.0      9.6        5.3     -11.9     10
Services                                       8.0       6.4       5.6      -16.2
Private consumption                            9.3       8.2       7.8       -3.3            93   94   9s   96   97   \
General govemment consumption                  7.4       2.2       0.1      -15.4
Gross domestic investment                      9.1       7.1       6.3      -44.8    10
Imports of goods and services                  6.1      12.5      14.7       -5.3                 Exports    -*mports
Gross national product                         5.9       6.5       4.1      -16.7
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-group average, If data are missing. the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 86 -



Indonesia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                            1977    1987       1997      1998     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                       80
Consumer prices                                ..     9.3       6.7     58.1    so --
Implicit GDP deflator                       13.3    15.4       12.6     73.1    40     2/1
Govemment finance                                                                20
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                              o
Current revenue                                ..    16.4      17.8     16.2            93   94   05            97   93
Current budget balance                        ..    -4.0        5.5      3.4                   GDP deflator     CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..       ..      -0.5     -3.2
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1977    1987       1997     1998      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob) )17,669    56,245   48,314                                     00
Fuel                                        ..   8,818    11,603
Rubber                                      ..   1,055      1,505        ..
Manufactures                                      4,538    18,568
Total imports (cif)                           ..  14,886    47,487   34,842
Food                                        ..    820       3,174        ..
Fuel and energy                             ..   3,123      3,835
Capital goods                               ..   5,675    20,744         .,        o
Export price index (1995=100)                  .      73                                92 ..
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      79         ..       ..               Exports   *    Imports
Terms of trade (1995= 100)                     ..     93
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1977    1987       1997      1998     Current account balance to GOP ratio t%l
Exports of goods and services                 ..       ..   62,997   53,733      5
Imports of goods and services                 ..      ..   50,365   36,690
Resource balance                              ..       ..   12,632   17,043      4
Net income                                    ..      ..  -14,098  -12,679       2
Net current transfers                         ..      ..      -233       -37
Current account balance                        ..     ..   -1,699    4,327
Financing items (net)                                       -11,601    -1,827
Changes in net reserves                       ,.       .,   13,300   -2,500                                             l
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)        ..       ..   17,189   29,169
Conversion rate (DEC, localWUSS)           415.0  1,643.8   2,909.4  10,013.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987      1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                   Compositlon of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      16,471   52,495   136,174  145,346
IBRD                                      402    7,391      9,991    10,692                     A: 10,692
IDA                                       466      866       715      694           G:36,004             B0694
Total debt service                         2,057    6,998    19,736   10,164          G 34 ,                 C: 9,090
IBRD                                       31      875      1,848    1,456                                   D 6,455
IDA                                         3       12        26        26 |
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            73      195       183       200                                   .E 30,322
Official creditors                        752    2,523       535    2,279
Private creditors                         603      303      5,888   -2,130
Foreign direct investment                 235      385     4,677    1,300
Portfolio equity                            0        0       298      250              F: 52,089
World Bank program
Commitments                               406    1,418       810    1,672      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             240    1,374       899    1,212      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                        1      362      1,165     754     IC-IMF                        G -Short-term
Net flows                                 238    1,013       -266     458
Interest payments                          32      525       709      728
Net transfers                             206      488      -975      -270
Development Economics                                                                                              9/8/99
- 87 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 30905
e                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~120
INDONESIA
WYAN"-RCM'OJIA                                                                                                                                                          P-IppNES~   PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
VIETNAM                                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECE PROVINCES
3  $                                                                                                                                                                             KKS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AIN ROADS
~~~~~~~   '7-.. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
u!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ d                                                                                                                                   GE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS
SUI/u                                    U~t .,i%                                            *     NATIONAL CAITAL
('ICFA NJ                                 ~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCE BOLUNDARIESS
THAILAND                                                                                                                                     Sea                                       OC A                                                     INENAINL-ONDRE
PRO VI NCES.
DK I JAKARTA                    OAK KKA TAN TENCAH,
5 JAWA BARAl                   1 6KALRKAKTAN SELATAN
Ba                                                                                                                                                                                                             3~~~~~~~~~*            lAWKA TENTAH                   KALMWJTAN TIKKUK
BROKER ACRIK  *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$K~~~.  A ~~~~~~,                                                                                -.                                                4 1> KOGYAKAKIA                JR 52.4WES TENOAK,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ D YGYKATAg U~ESTEGA
I..          y                      RUNEK I                                                                  /                                                    T JAWA TIMAJR                 JR SUAM/ES AI[AR.A
13                                                                                                                                                                                             6~~~~~~~~~            WAOS,O                     ,jo SUKAWES SE.ATAN
In ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T6                                                                                  EEKKGKUL2                  T SJLAWESI EGAA
Celebes                S~~~~E.    !                                  RAE                          5 NUSA ITENGARA BARAT
.'  &wor                --'                          o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                               IC,0 JAMB                       N2KUSA TENGCARA TIMUR
K                                            (             TOKRERO                                                                                           S.2AATEKA KARAT              N.; MA. A.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IVUMTRAMRT1~   l K
PemotanRIionlor 9                                 7-                                                                               9                                     15 S2RKATKKAJIAK.A              2K IKIAI..KAYA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i12SU PAU VRAIRANAY
Sin,wloe   .                                                                                                                             ,   Moro                            J351 ACER                        .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ TEAR D  C   IMJ
is                                                                               ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  1  KAKINAN AN KARAT
.-    12 ~~~~~~~~Z&;-SINGAPORE                                                --1719
NkR c2ts'EkRbK                                ITTKRp11R GE-                                                                                                 -9OK             TepR10
pekm                                                                                                                                            m.tK'*R.RO,.,  'A'H /mob'mKidc
-0-c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-                                                             14          I IS,                                                                                                                                       ik
~~8                                          ,    '16'                   2O~~~       .'                                        .clEJ                             1'          '                  JRyKKPARRGEjp ',
PRRK k6R                                    15
.11  BRngIKRIR                                           BBRIOR'rnoRh~~~                       -            21    K90R~~.R- l\Kmya  S L&                                  EK 2
-  Aoohn                                   2      IRIANAY
1  A                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pondo6g  0 4-6Band
If  :N    D   0    N    E   S   I A                                                                                                                  ..
ERK2                                     iAR                               :Java    Sea;
BQRKd-Kg 'C 3o       '    JA'WA                                   91                   q.Wetar                                        &IRR        J, ~      q
"CA. ~     o             .          _
OCEAN                                                                      S~~~~~~~~~~~2 m  24'aESTT[O
Supba          27i    im                                              Aafr
A  ISO    290  SMi                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gulf o
IT                                                                                                                                                                                                  C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Orpentenac
KMAT 2000



