Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3381 IND
Development Credit Agreement
(Provincial Health Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 20, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3381 IND
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 20, 2000, between the REPUBLIC OF 
INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the 
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth below (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
Page  2
(a)
A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 3.04 to read:
“If the Association shall at any time receive less than 
the full amount then due and 
payable to it under the Development 
Credit Agreement, the Association shall have the right 
to 
allocate and apply the amount so received in any manner and for such 
purposes under the 
Development Credit Agreement as the Association 
shall in its sole discretion determine.”; 
and
(b)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second 
sentence, the word “radiogram” with the word “facsimile” and adding a 
new sentence at the end of the said Section to read:
“Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be 
confirmed by mail.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Affected Person" means a person who, on account of the 
execution of Part A.4 (b) of the Project, has or would have his or her 
(i) standard of living adversely affected; (ii) right, title or 
interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural land and 
grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or 
possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, 
or place of residence or habitat adversely affected.
(b)
“CPCU” means the Central Project Coordination Unit 
maintained in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, responsible for monitoring the Project.
(c)
“District” means a district or municipality in Lampung or 
Yogyakarta.
(d)
“District Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be 
made by the Borrower under Part A.4 (b) of the Project out of the 
proceeds of the Credit to a District in respect of an Eligible 
Program.
(e)
“DIU” means, for each District in Lampung and Yogyakarta, 
the District Implementation Unit established in the District health 
office of such District and maintained in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, responsible 
for (i) preparing a consolidated annual investment plan for health 
services in such district, (ii) developing and recommending health 
service reforms and innovations in such district, and (iii) 
contracting for health service delivery in such district.
(f)
"Eligible Activities" means activities in furtherance of 
developing capacity for managing decentralization and resource 
mobilization that are eligible for financing out of MD and RM Grants 
in accordance with the terms of the Grants Operational Manual and the 
provisions of paragraph 6 of  Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(g)
"Eligible Part B.2 Activities" means activities that are 
eligible for financing out of Matching Grants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 9 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(h)
“Eligible Program” means an annual District health 
services program eligible for financing out of a District Grant in 
accordance with the terms of the Grants Operational Manual and the 
provisions of paragraphs 7 and 8 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(i)
“Grants Operational Manual” means the operational manual 
referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such 
Page  3
manual may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the 
Association. 
(j)
"Isolated Vulnerable People" means those social groups in 
Indonesia that have a distinct social and cultural identity, and that 
are susceptible to being disadvantaged in the development process 
induced by an Eligible Program.
(k) 
“JHC” means, for each of Lampung and Yogyakarta , the 
Joint Health Council established pursuant to Governor’s Decree No. 
G/108/BAPPEDA/HK/2000 in respect of Lampung and Governor’s Decree No. 
61/SK/2000 in respect of Yogyakarta, and maintained in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, 
responsible for determining broad health policy in such province.
(l)
“Lampung” and “Yogyakarta” means the Borrower’s provinces 
of Lampung and D.I. Yogyakarta respectively.
(m)
"Matching Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be 
made available by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Credit under 
Part B.2 of the Project in accordance with the terms of paragraph 9 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(n)
"MD and RM Grants" means grants made or proposed to be 
made available by the Borrower out the proceeds of the Credit under 
Parts A.4 (a) of the Project for Eligible Activities in accordance 
with the terms of paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(o)  
“MOH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health and any 
successor thereto. 
(p)
“PHPB” means, for Yogyakarta, the Provincial Health 
Promotion Board established pursuant to Governor’s Decree No. 
62/SK/2000, and maintained in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, responsible for 
developing strategies for raising public awareness of health issues.
(q)
“PCIU” means, for each of Lampung and Yogyakarta, the 
Provincial Coordination and Implementation Unit established pursuant 
to Governor’s Decree No. G/107/BAPPEDA/HK/2000 in respect of Lampung 
and Governor’s Decree No. 63/SK/2000 in respect of Yogyakarta, and 
maintained in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, responsible for Project implementation 
activities at the provincial level.
(r)
“Project Management Manual” means the Project Management 
Manual referred to in Section 5.01 of this Agreement, to assist the 
PCIUs and the DIUs in the implementation of the Project through the 
description of, inter alia, procurement procedures and standard 
documentation, financial management requirements and monitoring and 
reporting requirements and procedures, as such Project Management 
Manual may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the 
Association. 
(s)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in 
Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement.
(t)
"TRT" means the technical review team maintained in the 
provincial health planning unit in each of Lampung and Yogyakarta in 
accordance with the provisions  of paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
Page  4
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty 
eight million, six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
28,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (i) for amounts paid (or, if the  Association shall so 
agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of  MD and RM Grants and 
District Grants made under Part A.4 of the Project and Matching Grants 
under Part B.2 of the Project to meet the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for Eligible Part A.4 (a) Activities, Eligible 
Programs and Eligible Part B.2 Activities and in respect of which 
withdrawals from the Credit Account are requested; and (ii) for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open 
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or 
in a state commercial bank acceptable to the Association on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including, in the case of 
a state commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006, or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent 
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date 
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower 
from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of 
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied 
from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places 
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions 
of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and 
(iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) 
per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, 
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semiannual installments payable on each February 1 and August 1, 
commencing August 1, 2010 and ending February 1, 2035. Each 
Page  5
installment to and including the installment payable on February 1, 
2010 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal 
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half 
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever:
 
(i)
the Borrower's per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the 
Association, shall have 
exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determining 
eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; 
and
(ii)
the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy 
for Bank lending, the 
Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of 
the development of the 
Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay 
twice the amount of each such installment 
not yet due until the principal 
amount of the 
Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit 
as of the first 
semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months 
or more after the date on which the Association notifies the 
Borrower that the 
events set out in this paragraph (b) 
have occurred, provided, however, that 
there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may 
revise the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, 
in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with 
the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained 
under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association 
may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objective of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, health and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) 
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
Page  6
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall 
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) 
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan designed 
to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to 
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related 
to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial 
statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section and the records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to 
the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, 
but in any case not later 
than six months after 
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management 
Reports or statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the 
Association has received the audit 
report for the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Page  7
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to 
examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included 
in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph 
(b) of this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support 
the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of 
Section 4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a 
time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association for the 
strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, 
not later than August 31, 2001, or such later date as the Association 
shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period 
following 
the period covered by said report, and (B) 
shows separately expenditures 
financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the 
Credit during the 
six-month period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the 
period covered by said report, and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association and furnish 
to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional 
condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, 
namely that a Project Management Manual for the implementation of the 
Project, acceptable to the Association, has been issued.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
Page  8
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P.O. Box 1139
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
FINMINISTRY
45799 DJMLN-IA
(21) 
381 2859
Jakarta
44319 DEPKEU-IA
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their 
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be 
signed in their respective names in Jakarta, Indonesia, as of the day 
and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ A. Anshari Ritonga
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mark Baird 
Authorized Representative
Page  9
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the 
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
 (1)
Works
 
   370,000
80% 
 (2)
Goods
 2,580,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures 
(ex-factory
cost) and 80% of 
local 
expenditures for other
items procured 
locally
(3)
Local training and
 2,980,000
80%
workshops under Parts A.1, 
A.2, B.1 and B.2
of the Project
(4)
Studies and overseas
  1,500,000
100%
training under 
Parts A.1, A.2, B.1 
and B.2 of the 
Project
(5)
District Grants and
  19,200,000
100%
MD and RM Grants under
Part A. 4 of the Project
(6)
Matching Grants under
     310,000
100%
Part B.2 of the Project
(7)
Incremental operating costs
      70,000
80%
(8)
Consultants’
    1,270,000
100% 
services
(9)
Unallocated
      320,000
TOTAL
   28,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; 
(c) 
the term “local training” means expenditures incurred by 
Page  10
the Borrower in connection with the carrying out of training 
activities in Indonesia under the Project, including the travel costs 
and per diem of trainers and trainees, rental of facilities and 
training materials;
(d)
the term “ studies” means expenditures incurred by the 
Borrower in connection with the carrying of studies under the Project, 
including the travel costs and per diem of the researchers carrying 
out such studies and the costs of research  materials;
(e) 
the term “overseas training” means expenditures incurred 
by the Borrower in connection with the carrying out of training 
activities outside Indonesia under the Project, including the travel 
costs and per diem of trainees, rental of facilities and training 
materials;
(f)
the term “workshops” means expenditures incurred by the 
Borrower in connection with the holding of workshops under the 
Project, including the travel costs and per diem of the organizers and 
participants, the rental of facilities and workshop materials; and
(g)
the term “incremental operating costs” means expenditures 
incurred by the CPCU, the DIUs, the JHCs, the PHPB and the PCIUs for 
administrative costs, including honoraria, consumable materials and 
travel, but excluding salaries.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no 
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and
(b)
District Grants and MD & RM Grants under Category (5) 
until the Borrower has issued a Grants Operational Manual acceptable 
to the Association in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures 
for: local training; overseas training and workshops;  goods and works 
under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; individual 
consultant contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and 
consulting firm contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; 
in each case under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in 
bringing about effective health sector decentralization in Lampung and 
Yogyakarta and at the national level. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree 
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A: 
Strengthening  Health Services in Lampung and Yogyakarta
1.
Undertaking institutional and organizational changes in the 
health sector at the provincial and district/municipal levels 
consequent to the Law on Regional Government, 
No. 22/1999, through:
(a)
restructuring health service organizations;
Page  11
(b)
reorganizing the management structures of entities 
implementing health services;
(c)
developing and implementing new human resource management 
policies;
(d)
at the provincial level, developing and implementing new 
health information systems covering health indicators, and service 
delivery, facility and staffing information;
(e)
strengthening public accountability mechanisms; and
(f)
strengthening the policy and regulatory framework for 
health services, including  the establishment of a health council and 
a health care accreditation agency at the provincial level.
2.
Enhancing resource mobilization capacities for the health 
sector, at the provincial and district/municipal levels, through:
(a)
at the provincial level, developing and implementing 
decentralized health service planning, budgeting and financing systems 
designed to permit Districts to plan and develop efficient, effective 
and equitable programs according to community needs;
(b) 
converting hospitals, health centers and  other health 
service units into autonomous units (swadana) which will possess, 
inter alia, the authority to apply cost recovery measures; and
(c)
at the provincial and district/municipal levels, 
developing, piloting and, if appropriate, implementing a health 
insurance system and/or managed care.
3.
Improving health service access and quality, at the provincial 
and district/municipal levels, through:
(a)
implementing specific health service activities, 
including the refurbishing of health care facilities, upgrading 
medical equipment, increasing the number of mobile health service 
facilities and contracting private health service providers for the 
delivery of basic health services to designated areas;
(b)
implementing quality assurance programs and upgrading the 
quality of health sector personnel through the implementation of 
fellowship programs; 
(c)
establishing a health promotion board in Yogyakarta to 
coordinate health public and private sector promotion activities; and
(d)
providing specific drugs and supplies based on 
district/municipal proposals.
4.
Financing (a) Eligible Activities through the provision of MD 
and RM Grants and (b) Eligible Programs through the provision of 
District Grants.
5.
Establishing, at the provincial and district/municipal levels, a 
management and administration structure appropriate for the 
coordination and carrying out of health service program and Project 
activities.
Part B:
Strengthening Management of Decentralization in the 
Health Sector at the National 
Level
1.
Strengthening (a) the institutional capacity of MOH to provide 
support to provinces and districts in fulfilling their health sector 
responsibilities allocated to them under the Law on Regional 
Government, No. 22/1999 through conducting policy studies, sponsoring 
Page  12
national seminars and workshops, and strengthening its policy and 
technical analytical capabilities and its health service advocacy and 
information dissemination services and (b) national capacity to 
evaluate health policy interventions through the establishment of an 
independent research unit.
2.
Strengthening the institutional capacity of MOH to develop and 
administer a program for the financing of specific health-related 
programs at the provincial and district/municipal levels by providing 
Matching Grants for Eligible Part B.2 Activities.
3.
Strengthening the institutional capacity of MOH to carry out its 
management responsibilities for the Project through the provision of 
technical assistance, training and office equipment and supplies and 
the carrying out of workshops.
*              *             *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and 
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 
1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped 
in bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory 
of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured, and, except as provided in paragraph 4 of 
this Part C, works  shall be procured, under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
Page  13
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent 
for goods to be procured other than under Part A.4 of the Project, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $760,000 equivalent for goods 
to be procured other than under Part A.4 of the Project, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions  of paragraphs  3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts 
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic 
form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor 
who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who 
has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to 
the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement 
of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to (i) each contract for goods to be awarded 
on the basis of international competitive bidding procedures or 
national competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of Part B or paragraph 1 of Part C, as the case may be, of 
this Schedule 3, (ii) each contract for works estimated to cost more 
than $50,000 and to be awarded on the basis of national competitive 
bidding procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Part C of this Schedule 3, and (iii) the first contract to be awarded 
by each of MOH, Lampung and Yogyakarta and by each District for works 
estimated to cost $50,000 or less and to be awarded on the basis of 
national competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Part C of this Schedule 3, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to the first contract for (i) goods to be 
awarded on the basis of each of international shopping procedures and 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 2 and 3, respectively, of Part C of this Schedule 3, and 
(ii) works to be awarded on the basis of quotations in accordance with 
the provisions of Part C.4 of this Schedule 3, by each of MOH, Lampung 
Page  14
and Yogyakarta and by each District, the following procedures shall 
apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or 
contractor, the Borrower shall 
provide to the 
Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract , the 
Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a 
copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of 
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) 
the provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, and (b) the provisions of the following Parts 
of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of the preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for 
services under Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project, estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,150,000 may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
Page  15
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under 
the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 
1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as 
shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to (i) each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
and (ii) the first contract to be awarded by each of MOH, Lampung and 
Yogyakarta and by each District, for consulting firms estimated to 
cost less than $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
(other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to (i) each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, and (ii) the first contract for the employment of individual 
consultants, regardless of the estimated cost thereof, to be awarded 
by each of MOH, Lampung and Yogyakarta and by each District, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment 
of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of 
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, as the 
case may be, until completion of the Project, the following units with 
terms of reference, facilities and staff, acceptable to the 
Association:
(a)
the CPCU;
(b)
the PHPB, the JHCs and the TRTs; and
(c)
the PCIUs and the DIUs.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, satisfactory to the 
Association, and in accordance with the indicators set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement and with the Project Management Manual, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, by March 1 and September 
1 of each year, commencing March 1, 2001, and until completion of the 
Project, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this 
Page  16
paragraph 2, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the preceding six months and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the six months 
following such date, which measures shall include (i) in each report 
due by September 1 in any year, a detailed procurement plan for 
carrying out the Project during the next fiscal year following the 
date of such report, and (ii) in each report due by March 1 in any 
year, an update of the detailed procurement plan for the fiscal year 
in which such month falls;
(c)
review with the Association, on or about April 1 and 
October 1 of each year, commencing January 31, 2001, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph 2, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the twelve months 
following the date of such report, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter;
(d)
by June 30, 2003, prepare under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association and furnish to the Association, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 
2, on the progress achieved in carrying out the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the remainder of the 
Project; and
(e)
review with the Association, on or about July 31, 2003, 
or such later date as the Association shall request, the report 
referred to in sub-paragraph (d) of this paragraph 2, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of such report and the Association’s 
views on the matter.
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
by each of March 31, 2001, March 31, 2002, March 31, 2003 
and 
March 31, 2004, cause a technical audit of Project implementation to 
be carried out, in accordance with terms of reference and in a manner 
acceptable to the Association, and by each of September 30, 2001, 
September 30, 2002, September 30, 2003 and September 30, 2004, cause 
the most recent report of such audit to be provided to the 
Association; and
(b)
review with the Association, on or about October 30 of 
each such year, or such later date as the Association shall request, 
the report referred to in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the twelve months following the date of such report, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of said report and the 
Association’s views on the matter.
4.
The Borrower shall carry out and furnish to the Association for 
its review each study to be carried out under Parts A.1, A.2, B.1 and 
B.2 of the Project in accordance with terms of reference and by such 
dates as are acceptable to the Association, promptly thereafter 
prepare and review with the Association an action plan to implement 
the recommendations of such study, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to carry out such plan.
Page  17
5.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than April 30, 2001, prepare in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association and furnish to the 
Association for its approval a Grants Operational Manual acceptable to 
the Association describing the detailed criteria, conditions and 
procedures to be followed for the award of MD and RM Grants and 
District Grants, which criteria, conditions and procedures shall be 
consistent with the provisions of paragraphs 6 and 7 of this Schedule 
4;
(b)
thereafter, carry out Part A.4 of the Project in 
accordance with such Grants Operational Manual as shall have been 
approved by the Association and with provisions of paragraphs 6, 7 and 
8 of this Schedule 4; and
(c)
not amend, delete, suspend or waive any part of the 
Grants Operational Manual without the prior approval of the 
Association.
6.
MD and RM Grants may only be made after obtaining the prior 
approval of the Association. When presenting proposals for MD and RM 
Grants to the Association for review and approval, which proposals 
must be prepared in accordance with provisions of the Grants 
Operational Manual, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association for 
review and approval a draft grant agreement with the intended 
recipient in a form satisfactory to the Association, together with (a) 
a description of the proposed activities for strengthening capacity 
for managing decentralization and/or resource mobilization capacity 
that the Borrower intends to finance with the proceeds of such grants; 
(b) a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of 
such proceeds; and (c) such other information as the Association may 
reasonably request. Activities described pursuant to the provisions of 
sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph 6 that meet the criteria set out 
in, and are prepared in accordance with the provisions of, the Grants 
Operational Manual and that are approved by the Association shall be 
deemed to be Eligible Activities for the purposes of Part A.4 (a) of 
the Project.
7.
For the purposes of Part A.4 (b) of the Project the Borrower 
shall ensure that:
(a)
by no later than August 31, 2001, and each August 31 
thereafter, each District shall have prepared in accordance with, and 
meeting the requirements of, the Grants Operational Manual and 
paragraph 8 of this Schedule 4, and submitted to the TRT of Lampung or 
Yogyakarta, as the case may be, for its evaluation: (i) a four-year 
health improvement framework plan for such District covering the four 
fiscal years for such District following such date, and (ii) a one 
year detailed health services program proposal for the fiscal year 
following such date, which program shall include, without limitation, 
a procurement implementation plan in respect thereof;
(b)
by no later than October 31, 2001 and each October 31 
thereafter, each JHC shall have:
(i)
determined, pursuant to the procedures and the 
criteria set out in, and the 
requirements of, the 
Grants Operational Manual and of paragraph 8 of this 
Schedule 4, which District health services program proposals 
submitted in 
accordance with the provisions of 
sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 7 and as 
may have 
been revised in accordance with the procedures of the Grants 
Operational Manual, are appropriate for financing 
with the proceeds of a 
District Grant 
("selected programs"); and 
Page  18
(ii)
submitted to the Association for its review and 
approval such selected 
programs; and
(c)
promptly after such review, each JHC takes, in accordance 
with the provisions of the Grants Operational Manual, all appropriate 
steps to award District Grants for those selected programs as have 
been approved by the Association.
8.
Without limitation upon the requirements of the Grants 
Operational Manual or the provisions of paragraph 7 of this Schedule 
4, a District health services program proposal shall only be eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of a District Grant:
(i)
where such program proposal is determined by the 
Borrower, on the basis of 
guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, to be technically feasible and cost 
effective, and to have been designed on the basis of appropriate 
health 
indicators and priorities; 
(ii) 
for which program proposal (A) an analysis of its 
environmental effects has 
been prepared and (B) where 
applicable, an environmental impact assessment, 
satisfactory to the Association, has been undertaken and mitigation 
measures 
designed, on the basis of environmental 
standards acceptable to the 
Association, in 
accordance with the principles set out in the Grants 
Operational Manual;
(iii)
for which program proposal the Borrower has, where 
the acquisition of land or 
assets or the 
displacement of any person is unavoidable, made or caused to 
made available to all Affected Persons under such 
program proposal, before the 
works are carried out 
which would result in such acquisition or displacement, 
compensation in accordance with principles and guidelines 
acceptable to the 
Association and as set out in the 
Grants Operational Manual;
(iv)
for which program proposal, concerned Isolated 
Vulnerable People, if any, have 
been involved, through a 
process of informed participation, in its design so 
as 
to ensure that the benefits to be received under such program proposal 
are 
in harmony with their economic, social and 
cultural preferences; and 
(v)
where such program proposal has been reviewed and 
approved by the Association.
9.
A Matching Grant may only be made after obtaining the prior 
approval of the Association. When presenting a proposed Matching Grant 
to the Association for review and approval, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a draft matching grant agreement with the intended 
recipient in a form satisfactory to the Association, together with (a) 
a description of the activities which the Borrower intends to finance 
with the proceeds of such grant, (b) a description of the expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of such proceeds, and (c) such other 
information as the Association shall reasonably request. Activities 
described pursuant to the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph 9 that are approved by the Association shall be deemed to be 
Eligible Part B.2 Activities for the purposes of Part B.2 of the 
Project.
SCHEDULE 5
Project Performance Indicators
Managing Decentralization and Mobilizing Resources:
Page  19
1·
Merging of Kanwil Kesehatan and Dinas Kesehatan, and 
establishment of a new health organization structure by June 1, 2001.
2·
Implementation of new personnel policies related to recruitment, 
redeployment, retaining, early retirement and career development by 
January 1, 2002.
3·
Reduction of number of non-professional staff at the provincial 
and district health offices by 20% in Yogyakarta by January 1, 2004 
and in Lampung by 
December 31, 2005.
4·
Implementation of a decentralized and province specific health 
information system by January 1, 2002.
5·
Implementation of new licensing and accreditation system by 
January 1, 2002.
6·
Implementation of at least two public accountability 
arrangements by 
January 1, 2002
7·
At least 80% of hospitals and 40% of health centers become 
swadana units by December 31, 2005.
8·
At least 50% of the province populations are covered by health 
insurance mechanisms or managed care by December 31, 2005.
9·
Contact rate of poor people at the health centers becomes at 
least 2 times a year, by January 1, 2003.
Implementation of District Grants:
1·
The operation of effective, locally specific curative service 
delivery and financing arrangements by January 1, 2002.
2·
The operation of effective, locally specific public health 
service provision and financing arrangements by January 1, 2002.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) 
through (8) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equivalent to 
$3,500,000, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of  
$7,000,000.
Page  20
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively 
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this 
Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it 
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the 
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for 
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis 
of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as 
the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents 
and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each 
such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and 
as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under the 
respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special 
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, 
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined 
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V 
of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 
(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to 
the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
Page  21
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated 
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as 
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or 
in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into Special Account shall be made until the Borrower 
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case 
may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in Special Account will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association 
such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund 
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the 
Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit 
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance 
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Conditions.
