                                     Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                      Report No:ICR0000322




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (IBRD-44950)

                                        ON A

                                       LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$155.0 MILLION

                                      TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                                      FOR AN

                      INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT




                                 December 19, 2006




Private and Financial Sector Department and
Turkey Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         ( Exchange Rate Effective 12/01/2006 )

                               Currency Unit = Turkish Lira

                           Turkish Lira 1.00 = US$ 0.78

                                     US$ 1.00 = Turkish Lira 1.32


                                       Fiscal Year

                                  January 1- December 31




                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CAS     Country Assistance Strategy

CPIU    Central Project Implementation Unit

ECU     European Customs Union

EDP     Economic Development Program

FMS     Financial Management System

ICR     Implementation Completion Report

IPR     Industrial Property Rights

KOSGEB Small and Medium Enterprise Development Organization

MAM     Marmara Research Centre

MSTQ    Measurement, Standards, Testing and Quality

NGO     Non-Governmental Organization

OECD    Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development

PAD     Project Appraisal Document

PCT     Patent Cooperation Treaty

PIP     Project Implementation Plan

PIU     Project Implementation Unit

PPF     Project Preparation Facility

R&D     Research & Development

SFA     Subsidiary Finance Agreement

SIS     State Institute of Statistics

SME     Small and Medium Enterprise

TDF     Technology Development Finance

TDP- I  Technology Development Project -I

TP      Technopark

TPE     Turkish Patent Institute

TSC     Technology Services Center

TSE     Turkish Standards Institute

TSS     Technology Support Services

TTGV   Technology Development Foundation of Turkey

TUBITAK Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey

TURKAK Turkish Accreditation Agency

UFT     Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade

UME     National Metrology Institute

VC      Venture Capital

VCF     Venture Capital Fund

WTO     World Trade Organization




                            Vice President: Shigeo Katsu

                         Country Director: Andras Horvai

                          Sector Manager: Gerardo M. Corrochano

                     Project Team Leader: Ahmet Gurhan Ozdora

                                                        Turkey
                                     Industrial Technology Project




                                                   CONTENTS


1. Basic Information........................................................................................................1
2. Key Dates....................................................................................................................1
3. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................1
4. Sector and Theme Codes.............................................................................................2
5. Bank Staff....................................................................................................................2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design...............................................3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes...............................................7
8. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................9
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.........................................................16
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance....................................................16
11. Lessons Learned......................................................................................................21
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners.........23
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis.........................................................................24
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any).....................................................................................28
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing ..........................................................................29
Annex 4. Outputs by Component..................................................................................31
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)..35
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............47
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance..................................50
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)...............................................................51
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)......................................58
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ...................59
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .....................60
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents.....................................................................61
MAP ..............................................................................................................................62

1. Basic Information
                                                                  Industrial Technology
Country:                Turkey              Project Name:
                                                                  Project
Project ID:             P009073             L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-44950
                                                                  Intensive Learning
ICR Date:               12/19/2006          ICR Type:
                                                                  ICR(ILI)
Lending Instrument:     SIL                 Borrower:             GOT
Original Total
                        USD 155.0M          Disbursed Amount:     USD 152.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category:C
Implementing Agencies

Marmara Research Center
National Metrology Institute
Turkish Patent Institute
Turkish Technology Development Foundation
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates
                                                                       Revised / Actual
     Process             Date           Process         Original Date
                                                                             Date(s)
Concept Review: 04/20/1998         Effectiveness:    10/18/1999       10/18/1999
Appraisal:         09/26/1998      Restructuring(s):

Approval:          06/17/1999      Mid-term Review:                   07/15/2001
                                   Closing:          12/31/2003       04/30/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory




                                           1

3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance         Indicators    QAG Assessments (if any)        Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
                                   No           Quality at Entry (QEA):         None
time (Yes/No):
Problem Project at any time
                                   No           Quality of Supervision (QSA):   None
(Yes/No):
DO rating before                   Highly
Closing/Inactive status:           Satisfactory


4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original         Actual

Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Law and justice                                                         11
General industry and trade sector                                       89              100
                                                          Original Priority Actual Priority

Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Personal and property rights                               Primary           Secondary
Small and medium enterprise support                        Primary           Secondary
Other financial and private sector development             Primary           Secondary
Export development and competitiveness                     Primary           Primary
Technology diffusion                                       Secondary         Primary


5. Bank Staff
                        Positions                              At ICR        At Approval
Vice President:                                          Shigeo Katsu      Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:                                        Andras Horvai     Ajay Chhibber
                                                         Gerardo M.
Sector Manager:                                                            Lajos Bokros
                                                         Corrochano
                                                         Ahmet Gurhan
Project Team Leader:                                                       Vinod K. Goel
                                                         Ozdora
ICR Team Leader:                                         Vinod K. Goel
ICR Primary Author:                                      Vinod K. Goel




                                               2

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale
for Bank assistance)


The macroeconomic conditions in Turkey in the 1990s were not conducive for R&D.
The inflation rate remained very high (above 50 percent), and highly variable. The fragile
banking system, whose primary function was to finance public deficit, and volatile
capital flows and exchange rates increased economic risk and uncertainty. The economy
went through boom-and-bust cycles: although the average growth rates were moderate,
manufacturing achieved high growth rates for a few years followed by sharp contractions
(the average annual growth rate of manufacturing output was 5.5 percent for the period
1995-2005) .

Turkey started liberalizing its foreign trade policies in the 1980s and initiated a number
of changes in other policy areas (including export subsidies, intellectual property rights
and competition policy) in the early 1990s, mainly as a result of international agreements
(GATT/WTO) and preparations for the European Customs Union (ECU). In January
1996, a custom union agreement was signed between Turkey and EU, allowing most
industrial goods to pass freely between the partners. While access to ECU offered Turkey
a unique opportunity to accelerate its development through freer and better access to
markets, it also made Turkish firms more vulnerable to international competition. In
order to take advantage of trade opportunities created by the ECU and respond
effectively to greater competition in the domestic market, Turkish industry needed to
upgrade from low-quality, labor-intensive products towards the production of higher
value-added goods and services.

Although the Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey (TUBITAK) was
established in 1963, Turkey did not mount a comprehensive technology policy until the
early 1990s. In 1993, Turkish Government approved a comprehensive policy document,
Turkish Science and Technology Policy: 1993-2003. This document set four targets:
increasing the number of researchers per 10,000 people from 7 to 15; raising the GERD
(gross expenditure on R&D) to GDP ratio from 0.3 percent to 1.0 percent; moving up in
the rank of scientific publications from 40th to 30th position; and increasing the share of
business in total GERD from 18 percent to 30 percent.

The Government recognized its crucial role in providing a conducive environment for
technology development. In the 1990s, various laws regulating industrial property rights
were passed and several institutions were established or reorganized: TUBITAK,
Technology Development Foundation of Turkey (TTGV), the National Metrology
Institute (UME), Small and Medium-sized Industry Development Organization
(KOSGEB), R&D support schemes, Turkish Patent Institute (TPE), Turkish
Accreditation Agency (TURKAK), technology development zones/technoparks, etc. In
order to further encourage innovation among Turkish industry, the Government in 1995
started a scheme known as TIDEB (currently renamed as TEYDEB) to provide grants to


                                              3

private firms for R&D activities. This scheme was administered by TUBITAK in
collaboration with TTGV. The government also granted public research institutions some
degree of autonomy to become more market-oriented and reduce their dependence on
government funding.

The Government's efforts to improve technology infrastructure and services were
supported under the World Bank's Technology Development Project (TDP-I, a US$100
million Bank Loan in 1991-1997) aimed at: (i) bringing the MSTQ system in Turkey to
OECD standards, (ii) supporting private sector investment in industrial technology
development by providing seed capital and subsidized grants/loans, and (iii) developing a
venture capital (VC) industry by establishing a legal and regulatory framework,
rationalizing the tax treatment of venture capital funds (VCFs), and financing through the
IFC a role model VCF and management company.

The Government, to build upon the success of TDP-I, requested the Bank support for a
follow-up project and the Industrial Technology Project (ITP) was designed on the
ground work laid down by the TDP-I. It aimed at both further strengthening successful
components of TDP-I (metrology services and R&D funding), and expanding into new
activities (public R&D institutions and IPRs). Although both the TDP-I and ITP projects
aimed at supporting technological, legal and regulatory framework for technological
activity, promoting private sector R&D, and linking technological activities in the private
and public sectors, there were two significant differences between TDP-I and ITP in
terms of their approach. TDP-I was mainly involved in the establishment of three
organizations (TTGV, National Accreditation Council and the VCF/VCM), and required
legal and regulatory work for their existence. ITP also aimed at the creation of new
organizations (VCF, technoparks, etc.) and laws (on technology parks, IPRs, etc.), but
these were only to form a part of the participating organizations' activities, and the
Project's success was not critically dependent on their realization. As such, the ex ante
risks involved in ITP were lower, and ITP was successful in realizing its developmental
objectives.


6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)


The major objectives of the Project, as identified in the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD) were to:

       Assist in the harmonization of Turkish technology infrastructure with European
        Customs Union standards; and
       Assist firms in upgrading their technological capabilities in order to improve the
        competitiveness of Turkish industry, both in domestic as well as foreign markets.


6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification


The Project Development Objectives were not revised.



                                             4

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the
PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the
project)


The main beneficiaries of the project were:

       Exporters, to have access to technologies that were previously unavailable or
        inadequate, giving them better access to new markets;
       Domestic firms, to be able to increase their competitiveness through greater
        awareness, adoption, and modification of technologies; and
       The Government, to have less strained budget due to the increasing capability of
        some of the institutions to earn a greater portion of their incomes through the sale
        of their services.
Other beneficiaries include:

Implementing Agencies: Technology Development Foundation of Turkey, National
Metrology Institute, Marmara Research Center, and Turkish Patent Institute


6.5 Original Components (as approved)


The Project components were related to achieving the Project Objectives. The objectives
were planned to be achieved through the following four components:

A. Strengthening of Industrial Property Rights Services;
B. Strengthening of Metrology Services;
C. Restructuring of R&D Institutions; and
D. Supporting Technology Upgrading by Firms

The Bank funds were lent to the Treasury to be passed on to Project Agencies in the
form of soft loans and grants, under Subsidiary Finance Agreements (SFA). The Turkish
Patent Institute was responsible for the strengthening of IPR services component; the
National Metrology Institute for the metrology services component; the Marmara
Research Center (MAM), the leading public research organization in Turkey, under
TUBITAK, for the restructuring of R&D institutions component; and the Technology
Development Foundation of Turkey for supporting the technology upgrading activities
of Turkish firms.

Component A: Strengthening of Industrial Property Rights (IPR) Services

Component was aimed at supporting activities necessary to bring Turkish IPR system in
conformance with ECU requirements. It was to be done by: (i) helping the TPE in
improving its operation and procedures in line with international agreements; (ii) helping
to reorganize the workflows of TPE staff (training, upgrading data systems, etc; (iii)



                                              5

increasing the general awareness on the IPR regime; (iv) establishing dedicated
information centers for documentation and dissemination of information, and (v)
supporting TPE in improving the IPR enforcement through improved training for
judicial officials.

Component B: Strengthening of Metrology Services

This component was intended to support the expansion of UME facilities to serve a
larger portion of Turkey's metrology needs, including chemical and medical metrology.
The plan was to cover 90 percent of physical measurement standards and service needs
by the end of the Project. UME was to transfer new metrology technologies to industry
by consultancy services, training, publications, etc. The Project was to provide financing
for laboratories (new buildings), equipment, consultancy and training.

Component C: Restructuring of R&D Institutions

This component was to support the restructuring of MAM research institutes. The tasks
were designed to: (i) restructure the Center and institutes so as to decentralize
management responsibility, and strengthen management by introducing strategic
management, change management, business development, annual business plans and
budgetary procedures, and full cost accounting principles; (ii) establish profit centers for
each institute; (iii) develop human resources; (iv) upgrade its infrastructure and
laboratory facilities, IT network and office equipment; and (v) invest in a Technopark
facility, if possible.

Component D: Supporting Technology Upgrading by Firms

This component was aimed at continuing the TTGV support for technological upgrading
activities (R&D funding). This was intended to be done through: (i) supporting TTGV
institution building efforts for a successful transformation to a greater risk-taking and a
more hands-on approach; (ii) providing funding for new initiatives where TTGV would
have a catalyzing role (technology service centers TSC), VCFs for high-tech industries
and Technopark investment); (iii) offering technical and managerial support to SMEs;
and (iv) assisting in the establishment of a National Accreditation Council (TURKAK).


6.6 Revised Components


The Project Components were not revised.


6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)


No significant changes




                                             6

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)


The Project was intended to respond to the growing realization within the country that
weak technological activity and the absence of a research culture, with heavy and
continuous dependence on imported technologies, would hinder its growth prospects in a
liberalized global economy. The Project was introduced at a very appropriate time. The
Customs Union agreement with the European Union increased the awareness of the need
for stronger local R&D capabilities in Turkey. It became important for enterprises not
only to improve production efficiency and quality but also to invest in technology and
introduce new products. Thus, the Bank's funding and assistance were timely in
supporting and providing impetus for the Government's reforms.

Project objectives were consistent with the objectives of the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS). They clearly reflected government priorities, and complied with applicable Bank
safeguard policies. Project design incorporated valuable experiences and lessons learned
from other Bank-financed projects and it was built on the successes of the TDP-I,
reflecting important lessons learnt from that Project on institutional development
matters. The PAD documented the Project and its background in sufficient detail. During
the process of project preparation, a participatory approach was adopted: numerous
meetings were held with Turkish counterparts and stakeholders to determine the
appropriate interventions for each component as well as to assess the potential of risk
financing. For UME, for example, project objectives and design were based on a
feasibility study performed by the National Physical Laboratory of the United Kingdom,
where conclusions of the study fed into the design of the metrology component of ITP.
Key project stakeholders participated in appraisal and loan negotiations and the proposed
implementation arrangements were considered adequate.

There were several innovations in ITP as compared to TDP-I. First, a Central Project
Implementation Unit (CPIU) was to be established at the TTGV to coordinate common
aspects of the Project. Second, four special accounts would be opened, one for each
Project Agency (there was one joint account for all organizations in TDP-I which did not
work well). Third, ITP envisaged an independent monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
mechanism with three sets of indicators to monitor Project progress and achievements:
input, output, and outcome indicators.


7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)


The macroeconomic crisis of 2001 caused some inevitable delays on some of the Project
activities. Apart from creating problems in budgeting and counterpart funding, the crisis
led to a period of inactivity within the country in various sectors, which slowed down the
progress in some components, such as MAM and TTGV services. After consultation


                                                7

with the Bank, the realization of the initial MAM target self-sufficiency rate (70 percent)
was postponed for two years. Nevertheless, this target encouraged MAM to reorganize
its research institutes, where, textiles and genetic research institutes were separated from
MAM in 2000, thereby improving its focus on applied research and
overall effectiveness.


7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization


The ITP had a strong independent monitoring and evaluation mechanism. The
monitoring and evaluation indicators were chosen in consultation with the participating
organizations on the basis of the respective Project inputs, conceptual relevance to
Project objectives, ease of calculation and parsimony. Three sets of indicators were used
to monitor Project progress and achievements:

       Input indicators to keep track of the extent to which implementation met stated
        expectations and schedule;
       Output indicators to track the immediate results of implementation in accordance
        with project plans;
       Outcome indicators to evaluate the extent to which the Project has achieved its
        objective of improving technology development in Turkish industry.
As a part of the monitoring process, the implementing institutions regularly collected
data on input and output indicators.

The development impact was measured by analysis of survey data collected with the
help of the State Institute of Statistics (SIS). Three surveys were planned: at the
beginning of the Project to benchmark firm performance, mid-term for monitoring and
feedback, and towards the end of the Project for final evaluation. The first survey (and
the evaluation study) was completed in 2000, and the second one in 2003. An interim
review was conducted in 2004, and in 2005, interviews were conducted with firms that
received technology development financing from TTGV to get information about long
term (growth) effects of the R&D support program with the final monitoring and
evaluation report prepared in May 2006.


7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)


The Project complied with all applicable Bank safeguard policies.


7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)


The sustainability of the Project is very likely. Although the Project was relatively
modest in its financial implications, its catalytic effects on industrial competitiveness



                                                8

and innovation are likely to be significant and to extend over the long-term. To the
extent that a strong technology infrastructure and intellectual property rights regime,
combined with an active innovation culture in industry, are vital to the growth and
competitiveness of the productive sector (the impact will spill over into modern
services), such projects can help countries transform their productive structures and cope
with the competitive rigors of globalization. The evidence suggests that ITP raised
technological effort and export competitiveness, both of which are of direct relevance to
all developing countries.

The Project upgraded and strengthened the technology infrastructure institutions which
have led to lower costs for Turkish firms, closer links between firms and public R&D
institutions and greater attention to IPRs. Also, the Project raised the awareness of the
importance of R&D and showed firms how to design and manage R&D projects,
disciplined their R&D teams, and put them in close contact with academics in the
relevant disciplines. It is important to note, that, as evidenced by the TDP-I and the
Industrial Technology Development Project in India (1991-1997), the full outcomes of
the Project are likely to become visible in the medium-term, i.e. in three to five years
after project closing.

The Turkish Government recognizes the importance of innovation infrastructure for
enhancing its competitiveness, generating more and better quality jobs, and fully
aligning with the EU standards. The issue has become particularly important in the
context of the ongoing discussions for EU accession. The 2003 EU Innovation
Communication identified for the first time specific challenges that candidate countries
need to address in the knowledge areas in order to improve the performance of the
enlarged EU, including improving countries' institutional capacity to foster innovation,
embedding innovation in several policy areas and strengthening the role of the private
sector in innovation.


8. Assessment of Outcomes




                                             9

with the ECU and the World Trade Organization (WTO), the Project was well timed.

The Project was responsive to the needs of the Borrower. It was designed to improve the
productivity in the technology area. Specifically, the Project addressed two important
market failures in the area of technology-services. First, there was the demand-side
failure: many Turkish entrepreneurs had underestimated the need for technology
improvements and were reluctant to spend scarce funds on new technologies. Second
there was a supply-side failure: if left to the market, technology services would be
underprovided on account of their public good nature. The Project addressed both these
market failures by supporting the provision of technology services where they did not
exist and involving the private sector in design, delivery and cost sharing of technology
services. The Project also had a positive fiscal impact, since it enabled the public
institutions (TPE, UME, MAM) to generate a much higher level of earnings from their
own services and thereby reduced burden on the public resources. First, the net impact of
the Project on the private provision of technology services was positive, and second, the
self-financing ratio of the participating institutions increased as a result of the Project for
example, in 2005, MAM covered over 55 percent of its expenses from its service
revenues compared to about 10-15 percent before the Project.

The Project enabled the Government to take advantage of the lessons learned from
previous and ongoing Bank-financed projects, the OED evaluation of industrial
technology projects, as well as the current literature on industrial technology
development. The Project was designed on the successes of TDP-I and took into account
an important lesson learnt from that Project. In particular, it recognized the need for
focusing on institutional strengthening from the start through training, study tours,
technical assistance, and greater private sector participation in setting priorities for
participating institutions.

Also, given the nature of technology development efforts and the risk associated with
some of these efforts, the flexibility designed into the Project was adequate to allow for
certain initiatives to be piloted if the environment was right (technoparks, venture
capital), rather than committing large funds up front.

The Project envisioned several benefits to Turkey, including increased economic and
financial returns for entrepreneurs, higher productivity, new product and processes, and
as a result, increased domestic and export sales and profitability. In addition, the Project
had a substantial catalytic effect on other public sector investments in the provision of
technology services. Given its focus on improving the incentives and management
practices of the participating public technology support institutions, the Project
influenced the overall government technology policy and expenditure in the direction of
commercialization, accountability and transparency.


8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)




                                                10

The Project fully met its development objectives, as described below:

1. Assist in the harmonization of Turkish technology infrastructure with European
Customs Union standards.

      Through the reforms at the TPE, Turkey's Industrial Property Rights Regime is
       now mostly in compliance with WTO and ECU Standards. TPE has modernized
       its systems and processes and has improved performance in several key areas:
       patent and trademark applications have increased significantly, average patent
       processing time has been reduced, and the number of patent and trademark
       attorneys and IPR personnel in the country has more than doubled. TPE has also
       made significant progress on its data automation and in reducing its backlog of
       applications processing and paper files.

      The UME is also aligned with ECU standards and covers 90 percent of Turkish
       Industry needs. UME has expanded the number of services offered to industry
       with a reduction in costs and time for these services, and also has significantly
       increased its capacity: a number of calibrations performed have increased almost
       75 percent in four years from 406 in 2001 to 707 in 2005. Large proportion of
       these calibrations (80 percent in 2005) is comparable to international best
       practices.

2. Assist firms in upgrading their technological capabilities in order to improve the
competitiveness of Turkish industry, both in domestic as well as foreign markets.

      The TTGV has become an important agency for R&D financing in Turkey and
       has supported about 1,400 SMEs with matching TA grants and 260 R&D
       projects through matching foreign currency loans with a commercialization rate
       of 90 percent for all R&D projects. The TTGV has attracted about US$150
       million of R&D financing, mostly from the private sector and a majority of its
       R&D projects are being put into commercial production and synergy between the
       industry and academic/research community has increased. The TTGV has
       supported two Technoparks which currently house over 100 technology-based
       companies engaging over 2,000 R&D personnel. In addition, it is a partner in two
       venture capital funds in collaboration with private sector and international
       investors as well as in one Start-Up Fund. The TTGV has facilitated
       collaborative links between industrial companies and universities/R&D institutes
       via the project evaluation and monitoring process. The number of universities
       and RDIs involved in the evaluation process reached 29 in 2005, and the number
       of researchers/scientists who participated in the evaluation process increased to
       545 in 2005. However, most importantly, TTGV has supported the creation of an
       R&D financing culture in Turkey which did not exist before.

      The MAM has been successful in focusing its energies on market and increasing
       contractual research and services and has significantly improved the quality of its
       R&D, gaining international recognition. MAM has made excellent progress in



                                           11

       restructuring and reorganizing its institutions and expanding its industrial
        projects and services. MAM and all its laboratories have obtained ISO 9000
        certification and many of its laboratory analyses are internationally accredited
        and others are in the process of obtaining such accreditation. MAM has increased
        its private sector applied research income and its self-sufficiency ratio has risen
        from 14 percent in 1999 to over 55 percent in 2005. It has significantly expanded
        its client base from 87 in 1999 to 348 in 2005 and established a Technopark to
        increase synergies with the industry and its scientists.
The overall impact of the Project has been significant as evidenced by the:

       Modernized Infrastructure (UME, TPE). UME is now capable of covering
        almost 90 percent of Turkish industry's metrology needs as compared to about 30
        percent before the Project and TPE has improved its service standards by almost
        two times since start of the Project;
       Restructured R&D Institutions (MAM has achieved a self-sufficiency ratio of
        more than 55 percent as compared to 10-15 percent before the Project);
       Increased Productivity (firms supported by the Project are more productive by 11
        percent on average);
       Increased Output of firms supported by the Project (output has increased by 6-10
        percent, and 80 percent of firms have developed new products or processes);
       Increased R&D Expenditures by firms (average growth rate 34 percent, 40
        percent for SMEs that were supported by the Project);
       Increased Exports (annual growth rate 20 percent in manufacturing industries);
       Improved Industry and Academic/Research Community Synergies; and
       Enhanced Skills Base in firms.
Also, through the reforms supported under ITP, there has been an increase in the Turkish
firms developing, adapting, and commercializing new technologies, and the impact is
visible in the improved productivity, output, R&D expenditures and exports of Turkish
firms. The R&D expenditures in Turkey have almost doubled over the past decade to
0.66 percent of GDP in 2002, with private sector share now making up over 40 percent
of these expenditures, compared to from 24 percent in 1999. In addition, as evidenced by
the Growth Competitiveness Index (GCI) and the Business Competitiveness Index
(BCI), Turkey has improved its ranking on several innovation and technology
development indexes (see Table 1 below).

Table 1: Selected Innovation and Technology Development Indicators. Turkey Ranking
                                               Rank in 2003          Rank in 2004
 Innovation                                    68                    56
 Technology Transfer                           39                    30
 Government prioritization of ICT              90                    81
 Government success in ICT promotion           87                    79
 University/industry research collaboration    67                    62
 Laws relating to ICT                          86                    77
 Technological readiness/sophistication        59                    54
 quality    of     the   national    business 55                     53
 company operations and strategy               56                    43


                                             12

 company operations and strategy                             56                  43
Source: World Economic Forum - The Global Competitiveness Report ( 2005-2006)


It should be noted that the above positive improvements/results reflect intermediate
outcomes because, as mentioned earlier, the full impact and complete outcomes of
technology development projects are realized only in three to five years after the project
completion.



8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)


Not applicable.


8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

Rating: Highly Satisfactory


The most tangible success of the Project was upgrading of the technology infrastructure
institutions (MAM and UME) and the strengthening of TPE. This has led, in turn, to
lower costs (and faster service) for Turkish firms (of calibration services), closer links
between firms and public R&D institutions and greater attention to IPR issues.

An equally important long-term achievement, whose results will become fully evident
only in medium-term, was the stimulation of an R&D culture in Turkish industry. While
international competition was probably the more important stimulant here, the Project
helped to raise the awareness of the importance of R&D by the launching of TTGV
programs and the scheme for matching loans for technology development. The Project
taught firms how to manage R&D projects, disciplined their R&D teams, and put them
in close contact with academics/scientists in the relevant disciplines. They acquired great
prestige and the winning of TTGV projects became a symbol of technological
competence. This element of the Project has thus stimulated R&D among other firms
and has led to stronger linkages with academia and research community. It is not easy to
quantify how widespread the effect is (with currently available data), but it is likely to be
one of the factors behind the observed growth in industrial R&D in Turkey. In terms of
restructuring research institutions the Project showed that public institutions can be
reformed and play a valuable role in technology development, if the institutional culture
is changed. Also, the institutions that were assisted in this Project served as excellent
role models, and spillovers to other institutions, not participating in the program, has
brought the industry-oriented culture also with them.

The Project succeeded in all objectives. As a result of the Projects (ITP as well as TDP-
I), the main elements of Turkish National Innovation System (NIS) are in place with key
players including TUBITAK, TTGV, TSE, TPE, UME, TURKAK, KOSGEB,



                                                          13

universities, R&D institutions, incubators, technoparks and other organizations. The
TUBITAK is now playing an increasingly important role in promoting innovation in the
Turkish economy with increased level of resources and responsibilities and introducing a
number of new programs. The TPE has been modernized to bring Turkey's IPR regime
in compliance with WTO and ECU requirements and improve its services to industrial
clients. The TTGV has now become an important institution providing a range of
innovation financing services to Turkish enterprises. The MAM has been restructured
and now provides a wide range of R&D services to the public and private sector earning
more than half of its expenses, and UME is now capable of providing a wide array of
metrology services as well as earning money from industrial clients. It is fully aligned
with EU standards and can cover almost 90 percent of Turkey's metrology needs at
lower costs and faster response time. The TSE (supported under TDP-I) has modern
standards and testing facilities to serve the Turkish industry. Turkish firms are now more
aware of the need for innovation and are starting to develop, adapt, and use new
technologies for improved productivity and exports. In addition, the venture capital
industry is beginning to take root and synergy between universities, R&D institutions
and industry has begun to improve with the establishment of a number of technoparks
and incubators.

The Project is a good example of private-public partnership. It was designed with strong
private sector participation, not only in the demand for these services but also in the
design and cost sharing of their demand. This private sector focus promoted
sustainability of technology support services and resources in Turkey. Individual
institutions that were restructured and assisted become more industry-oriented and
revenue-generating and self-sustainable to a large extent in the long run.

The Project is part of other valuable technology projects that the Bank has undertaken.
The Turkish projects rank with the Indian project in their catalytic impact on industrial
and technological development. They were undertaken at the right time and won the
support of all stakeholders. They provided valuable learning experience for the Bank and
for the host country. They should be repeated in other countries, with appropriate
adaptations to local needs and institutions. The lessons of these projects are of value to
the Bank in its future work on technology development. They are also of great value to
developing countries. Most countries, confronted with an intensely competitive world
economy, are seeking to raise their technological and innovative capabilities. The
Turkish projects show how a country with a large industrial sector and a weak
innovation system can catalyze a technology culture and upgrade its technology
infrastructure effectively.

While the available results on impact are positive, the real economic effects of
technology development projects like these will appear only in the long term (though
they may be difficult to distinguish from all other influences on technological activity).
This does not detract from their significance to Turkish development; on the contrary, it
is the interaction of technology development with the other primary engines of sustained
growth and competitiveness that is important.




                                              14

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development


Not applicable.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)


The Project had a substantial impact on institutional development. The technology
infrastructure institutions were significantly upgraded and strengthened. This, in turn,
has led to lower costs for Turkish firms, closer links between firms and public R&D
institutions and greater attention to IPR issues. In addition, the Project helped raise the
awareness of the importance of R&D in the country, stimulated R&D among other firms
thus having the spill-over effect and led to stronger linkages with academia.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)


Not applicable


8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)


The development impact of the Project was measured by analysis of survey data
collected with the help of the State Institute of Statistics. A large number of interviews
were conducted by independent experts to get "qualitative" information about its impact.
In addition to extensive interviews conducted as a part of Interim Report in 2004 and the
assessment of TDP-I and ITP projects in 2005, a set of structured interviews with TTGV
clients (211 firms) were conducted by an independent company in January 2006 to get
detailed information on client firms. Moreover, 102 firms whose applications for
technology development funding were rejected by TTGV during the 1999-2005 period
were also interviewed to check if these projects were conducted without the TTGV
support. Finally, 11 calibration laboratories were interviewed to get information about
the UME impact on secondary level laboratories.

Overall assessment of ITP services by client firms shows that MAM and UME services
were received favorably. The TPE services were graded lower than the "normal" level
initially, but the degree of satisfaction with TPE services increased in 2005 as TPE's
modernization was completed. Technological aspects of MAM and UME services were
valued favorably, but their costs were considered high.

The evidence suggests that ITP had a positive impact on Turkish industry in terms of:
    Technological effort and R&D spending,




                                                15

    Productivity and profitability,
    Competitiveness (export intensity), and
    Employment generation


The program achieved to a large extent the intended outcomes in the Turkish industry.
Technological activities are expected to have long term impact on firms' performance.
Since the program was just completed, only its short term impact was evaluated, and, in
this sense, its real impact will extend over the long term only. Moreover, ITP clients
have closer links with their suppliers and help them to raise their quality levels. Thus,
ITP's impact is likely to be diffused in the economy through user-supplier linkages and
other forms of spillovers as well.


9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate


The technology upgrading component constituted the largest part of the ITP. This
component relied mainly on strengthening TTGV core business: R&D funding. Since
TUBITAK-TIDEB started to provide R&D grants in 1995, several interviewees
suggested that it would be better for TTGV to extend financing into upstream (start-up
support, "angel capital" etc.) and downstream activities (commercialization of R&D)
that would complement and strengthen its core business of R&D financing.

The issue of self-sufficiency targets set for MAM: it was mentioned in the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP) that the "main measure of MAM's success will be its
performance in increasing its industrial contractual income and its move to self
sufficiency", and the self-sufficiency ratio was expected to increase from 15 percent in
1999 to 70 percent in 2004. Although the MAM managers who participated in project
planning maintained that the 70 percent target was realistic, if not too low, some
interviewees stated that it was ambitious and even detrimental in realizing MAM's
mission that includes basic and strategic research (as mentioned earlier, the timing of
MAM's self-sufficiency ratio target was revised later).

Despite this, the assessment of objectives suggests that the Project was introduced at the
right time, and in the right direction (of providing the missing components and
strengthening the key components of the NIS).


10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)




                                             16

into account the Project's consistency with the government's development priorities and
the Bank's CAS. The Bank team had relevant skill mix (supplemented by external
experts) and brought appropriate expertise into project design, as well as consulted
extensively a wide spectrum of stakeholders, including the clients of TDP-I. During
preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account the adequacy of the project design
and assured consistency with the Bank's safeguard policies. In addition, the Bank had
a good working relationship with the Borrower and Project Agencies during preparation
and appraisal.

The Bank team developed a comprehensive independent monitoring and evaluation
mechanism in which three sets of indicators were used to monitor project progress and
achievements: input indicators, output indicators, and outcome indicators. As a part of
the monitoring process, the implementing institutions were required to regularly collect
and provide data on input and output indicators.


(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Highly Satisfactory


The Bank's performance during the implementation of the Project was highly
satisfactory. Bank supervision of the Project was thorough and professional. Also, the
skill-mix and continuity of the team were satisfactory. The Bank's team had intensive
missions and discussions with each Project Agency and monitored progress through
annual business plans, quarterly project management reports and site visits. In addition,
constant feedback through the comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system and
performance indicators included in the Project allowed each institution to assess its
achievements and impact on a periodic basis.

The Bank's Project team kept close contact with the Project Agencies through frequent
electronic mail communications, video conferences, as well as telephone conversations
which were very effective in resolving urgent issues. The Bank's client relationship was
cordial and productive. The Bank took a firm and dynamic role in the supervision of the
project implementation. Aide Memoires were regularly prepared and transmitted, which
alerted the Government and Project Agencies to problems with project execution and
suggested remedies in a timely manner, in conformity with the Bank procedures and
client needs. The Implementation Supervision Reports (ISRs) realistically rated the
performance of the Project both in terms of achievement of development objectives and
implementation. Whenever delays in implementation occurred, the Bank team was able
to propose concrete steps in consultation with Project Agencies and a timetable for
putting the program on track. During the Project implementation, significant changes in
the management of Project Agencies caused delays (and sometimes confusion) in Project
activities and adversely affected implementation. However, continuity in the Bank team
and its proactive and timely interventions helped alleviate this negative impact to a large
extent.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance



                                                17

Rating: Satisfactory


The overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory, alternating between intensive
supervision and flexibility depending on the needs of the Project under changing realities
on the ground.

10.2 Borrower

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory


The Borrower's performance (represented by Treasury) in the preparation of the Project
was satisfactory. During the preparation stage, the Borrower displayed high level of
commitment to the objectives of the Project and all major aspects such as technical,
financial, economic, institutional, environmental and sociological factors, including
stakeholder commitment. The government officials and staff of the Project Agencies
both worked closely with the Bank's team on a continual basis.

Counterpart funding was an issue at UME and MAM and caused some Project
implementation delays. While the Project design included flexibility in resources
depending on project needs, the actual process of reallocation of these resources from the
"Unallocated" category to UME was delayed by almost a year because of government
procedures. These contributed to delays in procurement processes and a slower
commitment and disbursements.

The Government consistently maintained its strong commitment throughout the
implementation and was able to overcome many issues encountered during project
implementation. Owing to the 2001 macroeconomic crisis, the Government faced
counterpart funding problems which were addressed subsequently although with delays
which had some adverse impact on certain project activities. Further imposition of nation
wide austerity measures including restrictions on external travel and hiring of new staff,
had adverse impact on the project implementation, especially in the case of UME
and MAM.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Implementing
                   Performance
Agency
                   MAM did a good job in restructuring itself from mostly a basic
                   research institution to a customer oriented applied research
                   organization. In the early years of the Project, one of the main issues
                   was its self-sufficiency ratio, used as the main criterion for market-
                   orientation. The self-sufficiency ratio did not reach the levels
                   envisaged in the original project plan as the economic crisis in 2001
                   reduced demand for MAM services. After consultation with the Bank,
                   the realization of the target self-sufficiency ratio (70 percent) was



                                              18

           postponed for two years. Nevertheless, such target forced MAM to
           reorganize its research institutes and focus on market demand as well
           as its internal costs structure- two institutes (textiles and genetic
           research institutes) were separated from MAM in 2000 because their
           income from industrial research and services was too low-- genetic
           research institute was not doing applied research and textile institute
           did not have adequate demand for its services.

           The above achievements notwithstanding, the reorientation of MAM
           towards the market may have gone too far, detracting from its equally
           important function of conducting basic research and stimulating world-
           class publications and patents. There were two changes in MAM's top
           management during the Project. The previous MAM management
           while restructuring focused too much on overall income probably at
           the cost of quality of its income. It had placed higher emphasis on
           income from public sector sources (which was easier in comparison to
           private sector income). Further, a large part of this income was coming
           from testing services rather that high level applied research, patents
           and R&D commercialization. It is important in any project dealing
           with public R&D to preserve and enhance the national science base
           and the ability of institutions to provide the public goods of basic
           research. Not only is this important for the applied research base, it is
           also vital to attract and retain first-class scientists.

           MAM also faced difficulties in installing its MIS and cost accounting
           systems and implementing recommendations of an external study
           focusing on its central organization, business services and cost
           structure. More importantly, it has not been able to implement many of
           the recommendations of its 2005 International Review Study which
           was conducted to enhance the quality of its research and improve
           overall effectiveness and image in the market. The recommendations
           of this Study included a strategy to increase the quantity and quality of
           its research outputs, their protection (patenting) and commercialization,
           increase in private sector contracts, joint projects with international
           R&D organizations, etc.



           UME leadership (at the time of appraisal) was dynamic and
           knowledgeable about metrology aspects but lacked experience in
           handling large construction contracts (and despite Bank team advice
           did not want to hire its in-house civil works experts. UME experienced
           difficulties with the civil works contractor and delays in construction
           of laboratories- this had an adverse impact on other aspects of Project.
           On the operational side, UME did a good job in putting together state
           of the art laboratory facilities and extending international cooperation.
           It expanded calibration (and training) services to industry but was not
National   able to expand that much the primary calibration due to lack of private



                                       19

               sector secondary labs in the country. However, due to changes in
               TUBITAK and its own management in 2004, UME experienced many
               problems in project implementation and procurement was delayed
               significantly. Further, UME experienced staff shortages due to
               restrictions on the hiring of new staff by the Prime Minister's Office.
               Despite the Bank's best efforts with TUBITAK and Treasury, this issue
               could only be partly addressed by TUBITAK, which resulted in under-
               utilization of its modern laboratory infrastructure and lost opportunity.



               TPE implemented the project under difficult circumstances with
               changing management and decreasing autonomy. There were some
               delays in TPE activities mainly due to frequent changes in
               top management and their limited focus on the Project and Bank
               procedures, and their reluctance to delegate to PIU staff enough
               responsibility. Initially, the understanding of the Project among the
               TPE staff was weak which hampered the preparation of Annual
               Operating Plans and their implementation especially the training plans.
               A new TPE President was appointed in mid-1999 (and again in
               2003) who took over the project management responsibility himself
               causing disruptions. A new PIU was assigned and the PIU structure
               was reorganized in June 2000 and again in 2003. Initially, construction
               activities were also delayed due to managerial problems-- the award of
Turkish Patent the construction contract was delayed by almost one year due to top
Institute
               management inaction. The amendment of the TPE Law was
               significantly delayed and it is still not fully in line with international
               standards and EU requirements. Because of restrictions in the TPE
               Law, TPE experienced a severe shortage of permanent staff and had to
               manage its activities by hiring temporary staff.

               The current TPE management took timely steps to address problems
               and improve project implementation. As a result, things improved
               significantly and project implementation moved fairly smoothly.




               TTGV established in 1991 under the Bank's first Technology
               Development Project has done a good job in promoting R&D culture
               among Turkish firms and enhancing synergies between enterprises and
               academic/research community. It has also introduced many innovative
               approaches in its services. However, despite the Bank's two projects
               and considerable institution building efforts, its management and
               organizational culture remained conservative in relation to its mandate
               and role. For example, it was slow to respond to new approaches
               and changing market needs. It preferred a lower risk approach in its
               financing practices- for example, contrary to its agreement with the



                                           20

                    Bank; it asked its TDF clients to provide guarantees when they took
                    R&D loans. It also expected a lower rate of failure from R&D projects
                    and much higher rates of repayments (over 90-95 percent). This in turn
                    resulted in TTGV avoiding support for higher risk but high reward
                    R&D projects, thus lost opportunity for the country. Further it was very
                    slow to promote seed capital fund and innovation center initiatives due
                    to its rigid attitudes. More importantly, after the unsuccessful efforts on
                    the Bank's Knowledge Economy Project (which did not materialize)
                    TTGV has reduced its TDF financing and is taking a more
                    conservative approach partly as a result of the current Budget Law
                    which restricts public support to NGOs. However, the Bank team feels
                    that TTGV which has received over US$100 million in public funding
                    (mostly through Bank projects), TTGV has a responsibility and an
                    obligation to be more proactive (and innovative) and play a larger role
                    in the technology development arena by leveraging its skills and
                    financial strength by liaising with private sector initiatives and
                    institutions.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory


The Agency PIUs were always responsive to suggestions and took remedial actions, the
CPIU in TTGV was less active. Required reports were prepared and submitted to the
Bank mostly on schedule. This led to successful monitoring of the programs as well as
providing assistance to the supervision missions of the Bank in assessing the
implementation progress against the set milestones. However, taking into account the
shortfalls described above in Section C, the overall Borrower performance is rated
Satisfactory.


11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)




                                               21

2. Flexibility in project design: Given the complex nature of technology development
activities, it is critical that flexibility is incorporated into the project design, to enhance
its effectiveness and to reduce the bureaucracy involved in implementation and to permit
adaptation of the project to changes in the institutional and economic environment. This
flexibility in project design significantly contributed to the success of ITP-- through the
incorporation of unallocated funds for use in priority activities that demonstrated high
performance, annual updates and review of business plans to periodically assess
institutional activities and objectives; performance indicators to act as a feedback loop,
etc.

3. Comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system: ITP introduced a rigorous and
independent M&E system that included indicators chosen in consultation with
implementing institutions on the basis of the respective project inputs, conceptual
relevance to project objectives, ease of calculation and practical considerations of
collecting relevant data.

4. Intense implementation supervision by Bank and Borrower: Continuity in the skills
and teams at both the Bank side, Borrower and Project Agencies sides in managing these
projects is critical to ensure the transfer of knowledge as well as benefit from worldwide
experience. Treasury, despite changes in its management, consistently provided its
strong support and guidance to the Project and was proactive in helping to address
problems as much as it could, given its limited mandate. The State Planning
Organization (SPO) also was very supportive of the Project and took appropriate steps to
address the counterpart funding problems.                In ITP, significant changes in the
management of implementing institutions (such as UME, MAM, TPE, TTGV as well as
TUBITAK) caused delays in project activities and affected implementation. However,
continuity in the Bank team (and its proactive approach) helped alleviate this negative
impact to a significant extent. The role of a strong local champion is also crucial for
following through with the tough initial reforms as well as to ensure integrity of the
project design.

5. Sustainability of R&D institutions: In order that research institutions move away from
being wholly government-funded and develop self-financing capacity, the government
should provide strong incentives for external revenue generating activities and allow the
institutions to retain and accumulate their earnings, and determine the use of these
earnings with greater flexibility and freedom. But this should be done in a proper
contest and by ensuring that R&D institutions maintain their excellence in basic research
while expanding applied research. They should not put too much focus on the quantity
of revenues but rather should pay more attention to the quality of revenues, which should
be coming primarily from the private sector and mainly by providing applied research,
patents and commercialization of R&D outputs rather than from public sector contracts
and by providing testing services.

6. Government interventions: The market deficiencies that hold back technological effort
can be overcome by careful market friendly interventions, especially when timed with a
liberalization effort that creates the incentives for undertaking such efforts.



                                                  22

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies


Some Project Agencies raised one key concern regarding Bank's procedures especially
the procurement process. While keeping in mind the Bank's fiduciary responsibilities,
the Bank team was proactive and flexible in responding to client needs and allowed
many changes and modifications as required in procurement and other procedures. For
example, in the case of UME, the Bank allowed a lot of flexibility in packaging its
equipment purchases and even agreed to finance parts for the equipment which UME
wanted to fabricate itself. The TTGV and MAM did not have many difficulties in
following Bank procurement. But UME experienced difficulties after the change in
management in 2004 when it made changes in its virtual PIU and did not want to use the
expertise of staff who had worked earlier on the procurement matters. Similarly, in the
case of TPE, it experienced problems with the procurement when it changed it's PIU
team in 2003 and failed to engage an experienced procurement expert. Overall, the
Project Agencies should have continuity in key staff especially, procurement staff and at
the same time, the Bank should show maximum flexibility in implementing the project,
especially procurement.

Another point raised by some Project Agencies related to the continuity of the Bank
team. However, in the Bank team, the key person (who was Task Manager at appraisal
and    largely  throughout       implementation) remained   with    the   Project   from
preparation/appraisal until Project closing. Even though the Bank team had some small
changes (once in procurement staff and local project coordinator), this did not have any
adverse impact on the Project.

The Bank team also did not agree with the specific changes in one paragraph section
10.2 b suggested by MAM (regarding its International Review Study and private sector
income) and TTGV (regarding its conservative culture) as in Bank team's judgment such
suggestions were not commensurate with reality.


(b) Cofinanciers


Not Applicable


(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)



Not Applicable




                                             23

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The major objectives of the Project, as identified in the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD) were to:

       Assist in the harmonization of Turkish technology infrastructure with European
        Customs Union standards; and
       Assist firms in upgrading their technological capabilities in order to improve the
        competitiveness of Turkish industry, both in domestic as well as foreign markets.


Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

The Project Development Objectives were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                 Original Target         Formally       Actual Value Achieved
                   Baseline
   Indicator                 Values (from approval Revised Target          at Completion or
                    Value
                                    documents)            Values             Target Years
Indicator 1 :    TPE - Reduction in processing time of IPR applications.
Value
(quantitative or 19.8 months 10 months
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/1999 12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                 TPE - Increase in foreign and domestic applicants for IPR protection (patents +
Indicator 2 :
                 trademarks + industrial designs)
Value
(quantitative or 28,000      32,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/1999 12/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :    UME - Increased income from Metrology Services
Value
                 US$0.15
(quantitative or             US$2 million
                 million
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/1999 12/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



                                               24

Indicator 4 :    UME - Increase in Coverage of Metrology needs to Turkish industry
Value
(quantitative or 30%         85%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/1999 12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :    UME - Increase in number of types of calibrations performed
Value
(quantitative or 100         600
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/1999 12/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                 TTGV - Number of Beneficiary Firms of Technology Financing (R&D projects
Indicator 6 :
                 supported by TTGV)
Value
(quantitative or 103         300
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/1999 12/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 :    TTGV - Share of SMEs/Startups in TTGV Portfolio
Value
(quantitative or 70%         80%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/1999 12/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 8 :    TTGV - Repayment Ratio of Technology Financing
Value
(quantitative or 90%         90%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/1999 12/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 9 :    Number of Technoparks established (TTGV + MAM)
Value
(quantitative or 0           3
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/1999 12/30/2005




                                              25

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 10 : TTGV - Number of companies supported through VCFs
Value
(quantitative or 0            10
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/1999 12/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 11 : TTGV - Share of R&D projects supported that are commercialized
Value
(quantitative or 58%          80%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/1999 12/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                 TTGV - Number of projects (firms) benefited from Technical Assistance -
Indicator 12 :
                 matching grants
Value
(quantitative or 0            600
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/1999 12/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                 MAM - Reduced Dependence on Government Budget (Industrial Income
Indicator 13 :
                 Generated)
Value
(quantitative or $4.4 million $13.5 million
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/1999 12/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                 MAM - Increase in Income from Contractual Research (MAM Self-sufficiency
Indicator 14 :
                 ratio)
Value
(quantitative or 14%          55%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/1999 12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 15 : MAM - Number of Industrial Projects



                                             26

Value
(quantitative or 120          200
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/1999 12/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 16 : MAM- Number of Publications
Value
(quantitative or 238          180
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/1999 12/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                            Original Target Values       Formally      Actual Value Achieved
                 Baseline
   Indicator                    (from approval        Revised Target at Completion or Target
                   Value
                                  documents)               Values                Years
                 The project is making excellent progress in meeting project development
Indicator 1 :
                 objectives.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                               27

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)


                                Not Applicable




                                     28

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing


(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                        Appraisal        Actual/Latest     Percentage of
            Components
                                    Estimate (USD M) Estimate (USD M)       Appraisal
STRENGTHENING OF
                                               15.00               14.63          97.53
INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY RIGHTS
STRENGTHENING OF
                                               33.00               44.56         135.03
METROLOGY SERVICES
RESTRUCTURING OF R&D
                                               33.00               32.27          97.79
INSTITUTIONS
SUPPORTING TECHNOLOGY
                                               60.00               58.95          98.25
UPGRADING BY FIRMS
UNALLOCATED                                    12.45                0.00             .00
                 Total Baseline Cost          153.45              150.41
Physical Contingencies                          0.00
Price Contingencies                             0.00
                 Total Project Costs          153.45
Front-end fee PPF                               0.00                0.00           0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                              1.55                1.55           1.55

          Total Financing Required            155.00              151.96




(b) Financing


                                                Appraisal    Actual/Latest
                                    Type of                                Percentage of
         Source of Funds                        Estimate    Estimate (USD
                                  Cofinancing                                Appraisal
                                                (USD M)           M)
 Borrower                                             45.86           42.60       92.89
 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND                                   156.92          151.86       96.78
DEVELOPMENT


(c) Disbursement Profile




                                         29

30

Annex 4. Outputs by Component


Component A: Strengthening of Industrial Property Rights (IPR) Services

The main objective of the IPR component was to strengthen TPE by modernizing the
facilities and infrastructure essential for effective IPR services. As a result of the Project
funding, TPE has now world-class facilities; and its new building also houses specialized
courts on IPR. Also, TPE staff has benefited from training and upgrading its information
infrastructure, and TPE has become a party to all major international IPR agreements.

As a result of changes in the intellectual property rights regime, patent and trademark
applications in Turkey have increased continuously since 1995. The economic crisis of
2001 negatively affected the growth in patent applications but applications for
trademarks and industrial designs continued to increase. However, the number of patent
applications recorded a significant jump again in 2004 and 2005.

TPE has carried out training activities and invested in upgrading its information
infrastructure. The average patent application processing time has fallen significantly
from 19.8 months in 1999 to 4.7 months in 2005. There has been a similar reduction for
applications for utility models (from 19.1 months in 1999 to 10.7 months in 2005) and
trademarks (14.3 months in 1999 and 5.0 months in 2005). Industrial design applications
are processed rapidly (1-2 months).

The new legal framework for IPRs in Turkey has led to a surge in the number of patent
and trademark attorneys. There were only 75 patent attorneys and 100 trademark
attorneys in 1996. Their numbers increased to 267 and 428 in 1999, and 720 and 1020 in
2005, respectively. As a result, the ratio of patent applications to patent attorneys
remained almost constant in 1996-1999, but declined sharply since 1999, from 12.5 to
4.9 in 2005. The number of appeals against rejections has gradually increased over time,
from 76 in 1999 to 606 in 2005 (or, from 0.6 percent of rejected applications to 8.5
percent). This trend is likely to increase the administrative burden for TPE.

TPE's income from IPR services has increased substantially to US$26.5 million in 2005.
Its expenditures have declined to 31 percent in 2005. The number of employees
increased from 234 in 1999 to 391 in 2005 (67 percent), mainly because of employees
on short-term contracts: the share of short-term employees has increased from 36 percent
in 1999 to 47 percent in 2005.

Component B: Strengthening of Metrology Services

At the end of 1990s UME was capable of meeting about 30 percent of the industry's
needs for metrology. By the end of the Project it had reached the 90 percent level. UME
has won international recognition, and has signed mutual recognition agreements with
many national institutes and international organizations so as to satisfy the requirements
for international traceability of its metrology standards.




                                              31

UME emphasized R&D in measurement technologies and developing new standards and
equipment. This emphasis helped UME to improve its metrology capabilities and
provide better services to the industry. UME provided calibration and testing services to
industry and assisted in the establishment of new calibration laboratories. It signed a
protocol for cooperation with the Turkish Accreditation Agency in 2002, and provided
strong support for the development of other components of the MSTQ system in Turkey.

UME has been successful in enhancing the range and quality of calibrations in Turkey.
The number (type) of calibrations UME could perform increased almost 75 percent in
four years (from 406 in 2001 to 707 in 2005), the actual number of calibrations
performed for customers exceeded 4,000 in 2005. A very large proportion of these
calibrations (almost 80) are comparable to those provided by leading metrology
institutes in the world. As a result of R&D activities conducted by UME, the range of
uncertainty of 10 percent of calibrations has been reduced every year. The increase in the
quality of calibration services has been complemented by a reduction in the duration of
providing these services; also the cost of local calibration is considerably lower than in
Europe, to where Turkish firms had to go before.

UME has stimulated the growth of the private sector calibration industry (there are now
18 private calibration laboratories). Existing calibration laboratories have a very
favorable view on UME's activities and its role as a custodian of primary standards in
Turkey. It deliberately sets high fees for calibration services to encourage private
calibration laboratories, and is specialized increasingly in primary calibration and
metrology R&D. It has also raised awareness of the importance of calibration for export
competitiveness in Turkish industry.

UME provides training services to the Turkish industry on a wide range of technical
issues: the types of training provided have increased from 44 in 2001 to 78 in 2005.
Also, UME has been very active in international cooperation. UME staff joined almost
50 international committees and the number of international collaborations has increased
substantially.

Calibration services account for about 90 percent of UME's industrial income that
reached US$3.1 million in 2005 (up from US$1 million in 2000). A self-sufficiency ratio
has increased to 24 percent from 15 percent in 2000. UME has invested almost US$53
million in six years (2000-2005) in its new laboratories, building, consulting services,
and staff training. A customer survey conducted in 2004 revealed that UME enjoys a
high degree of customer satisfaction about the quality of its services.

Component C: Restructuring of R&D Institutions

The objective of restructuring and strengthening MAM was largely achieved. MAM's
infrastructure has benefited from investment in new scientific equipment, its IT network
was established, and new management methods (strategic management, change
management, business development, annual business planning and budgetary
procedures, and cost accounting) were introduced. MAM was re-oriented towards



                                            32

conducting more contract research, also a technopark and technology free zone
(TEKSEB) was established, attracting substantial interest from R&D-intensive
companies.

MAM was successful in expanding its client base. The number of clients rose from 87 in
1999 to 348 in 2005, a 4-fold increase in six years. MAM has also been able to keep the
share of repeat clients almost constant throughout the period. The number of industrial
services performed (analyses, tests, etc.) has increased steadily in this period (from
14,458 in 2000 to 50,580 in 2005); and economic crisis of 2001 had little interruption.
The impact of economic crisis, however, was seen in average income from industrial
services: earning per industrial service was US$79 in 2000, dropped to US$26 in 2001
and 2002 due to the sharp real devaluation of TL and increased to its pre-crisis level
(US$78) in 2005.

Also, the number of industrial projects conducted by MAM has increased from 43 in
2001 to 94 in 2003. The number of private projects reached 73 in 2005. MAM and all its
laboratories have obtained ISO 9000 certification. Many of its laboratory analyses are
internationally accredited and others are in the process of obtaining such accreditation.
The self-sufficiency ratio has risen continuously because of the re-orientation of MAM
towards the industrial sector, from 14.2 percent in 1999 to about 58 percent in 2005.
MAM has significantly reduced its non-research personnel, bringing the share of
researchers in total staffing from 51 percent in 1999 to 65 percent in 2005.

Component D: Supporting Technology Upgrading by Firms

TTGV was the largest component of the Project in terms of funding. It was established
by the participation of public and private sectors. TTGV received additional funding for
technology development financing from the Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade (UFT)
and also managed the Montreal Protocol Multiparty Fund in Turkey to assist industry in
moving towards non-ozone depleting technologies. The expert review system for project
applications has been very effective, and has brought academics and scientists in contact
with the industry. In addition to technology development financing (TDF), TTGV
supported the establishment of VCFs, and provided technology services and training
programs. Most importantly, TTGV made valuable contributions to nurturing a
"technology culture" and awareness in Turkey, through activities like active
campaigning and technology awards launched in 1999.

TTGV received, on average, 71 applications annually for technology development
financing during 1993-1998. The number of annual applications increased to 150 during
ITP (1999-2005). TTGV supported about one-third of these projects. The share of SMEs
and start-ups in TDF clients remained about 80 percent. TTGV provides US Dollar loans
for R&D activities. TTGV was successful in its core business of technology
development funding. The repayment ratio has been very high for such risky activity, at
above 94 percent for ITP projects which could be an indication that TTGV did not fund
riskier R&D Projects. TTGV has participated in two venture capital funds (VCFs), Is
Risk and Turkven, to facilitate the development of the venture capital industry in



                                            33

Turkey. The two VCFs have been active in seeking out venture investment opportunities
and had funded nine projects by the end of 2005. In addition to its TDF function, TTGV
has also provided training services and technology support services (to almost 1,400
SMEs). The four technology service centers (TSCs) established by TDP-I have
continued to assist a large number of (small) companies.

Although the main function of TDF is to provide R&D funding, it has also facilitated
collaborative links between industrial companies and universities/R&D institutes (RDIs)
via the project evaluation and monitoring process. The cumulative number of
universities and RDIs involved in the evaluation process reached 29 in 2005, and the
number of researchers/scientists who participated in the evaluation process increased to
545 in 2005.

Technology financing is TTGV's core activity. Since TTGV provides US dollar
denominated loans, its income and expenditures were not greatly affected by the 2001
economic crisis. Its average annual income has been around US$15 million and its
expenditures around US$4 million in 1999-2005 without any major variations. Its
personnel have increased steadily and by end 2005 amounted to 48 (24 in 1999).




                                           34

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)


Four outcomes of ITP were assessed: technological effort and R&D, labor productivity,
competitiveness, and employment.

Technological effort and R&D

The main objective of ITP was to stimulate R&D and technological activities in the
Turkish industry, especially in the manufacturing sector. It was assumed that business
enterprises under invest in R&D, and total R&D expenditures could be increased by
providing subsidized loans and assisting firms in their technological activities. An
important criterion, in this respect, is the measurement of the so-called "additionality"; that
is, additional investment in R&D as a result of the Project. The support provided by ITP
was aimed to generate additional R&D.

In order to assess the impact of R&D support program implemented by TTGV, three
complementary approaches were used. First, those firms that received R&D support were
asked what they would do, had they not received R&D support. Second, those firms whose
applications were rejected were asked if they implemented the project without TTGV
support, and if they did, if there was any change in the project budget. Third, econometric
analyses were performed to check the impact of the program.

Some 211 firms who completed at least one R&D project supported by TTGV were asked
what they would do without the support. 12 percent of large corporations (LCs) and 27
percent of SMEs stated that they would cancel the project (22 percent on average) (Table
2). Almost half of the firms who claimed to conduct R&D project without TTGV support
stated that they would reduce the project budget by 40 percent. A few firms stated that they
would increase the project budget by 20 percent. Thus, Large Companies and SMEs would
spend 20 percent and 40 percent less, respectively, on R&D without TTGV support (on
average 34 percent). These findings suggest that TTGV's R&D support program has a
substantial additionality effect, especially on SMEs.




                                              35

The Survey provided information about 110 R&D projects of 102 firms rejected by TTGV.
More than 40 percent of these projects have not been conducted because of the lack of
TTGV support. A large proportion of projects conducted without the support have been
scaled down. Thus, R&D expenditures have been reduced by 50 percent when they did not
get TTGV support.

There are various methods that are used to assess the impact of R&D support programs on
R&D activities. Matching methods (treatment effect models) have been extensively used in
the literature on the evaluation of labor market policies. These methods have also been
applied to assess the effects of R&D support programs in recent studies.

Matching methods are based on a comparison of the outcomes that would have been
observed for supported ("treated") firms had they not benefited from the program. Let RD1
be the outcome conditional on R&D support ("treatment") and RD0 the outcome that would
have been observed if the same firm received no support ("no treatment"). The impact of
the program is
 = RD1  RD0



                                          36

Since only RD1 or RD0 is observed for each firm,  is not observable. Although it is not
possible to identify the individual effect of the support program, the average effect can be
estimated under certain assumptions. The main parameter estimated in empirical studies is
the mean "impact of treatment on the treated", and it is defined by
TT = E (| D = 1) = E (RD1| D = 1)  E (RD0| D = 1)

where D = 1 denotes the group of support-receiving firms (D = 0 the group of firms that do
not participate in the program), and E (.) the expectation operator.

The counterfactual E (RD0| D = 1) needs to be estimated because it is not observed. There
are three estimators available: before-after (uses the data on support-receiving firms prior
to participation in the program), cross-section (uses the data on non-participants), and
difference-in-differences (DID, uses both types of data). The cross-section (CS) and DID
estimators are defined as follows:

CS = E (RD1it | Dit = 1)  E (RD1it| Dit = 0)
DID = E (RD1it  RD1it-1| Dit = 1, Dit-1 = 0)  E (RD0it  RD0it-1| Dit = 0, Dit-1 = 0)

The CS estimator compares the difference in average values of supported and non-
supported firms whereas the DID estimator compares the average change in the outcome
variable in supported and non-supported firms conditional on not having received the
support at time t-1 (Dit = 0). Due to its panel data feature, the DID estimator is superior
                        -1
to other (before-after and cross-section) estimators, because it allows for firm-specific and
time-specific unobserved effects, that are eliminated by "same-firm" and "same-period"
differences, respectively.


The cross-section and DID estimator require the construction of a control group that is
"similar" to the support-receiving group. In this report, we use nearest neighbor matching
to construct the control group where each firm receiving support was matched with its
closest non-participant neighbor. Firms are matched on the propensity score (the
probability to receive TTGV support) that is estimated by a probit model (we used the
psmatch2 program written by Leuven and Sianesi, 2003). This method ensures that the
groups of support receiving and non-participant firms are statistically not different in X, the
set of variables used in the estimation of propensity scores.




                                              37

Estimated average effects of TTGV support program on total R&D intensity (including
TTGV support) and own R&D intensity are shown in Table above The DID parameter was
estimated for two cases: Case 1 includes all observations whereas Case 2 includes only
those establishments that performed R&D in both years under consideration (t-1 and t).
The propensity scores are used to construct the matched control group. t-tests show that,
although the group of support receiving establishments is different from the unmatched
group (non-participants) in almost all respects, the groups of support receiving and
matched non-participant establishments are statistically not different in the set of variables
used for matching. In other words, the treated (supported) and matched control groups
have, on average, similar characteristics.

The DID estimates for R&D and own R&D are quite substantial and statistically different
from zero. For example, TTGV clients increased their R&D intensity by 5.22 percentage
points and own R&D intensity by 3.79 percentage points from t-1 to t, i.e., after receiving
the support (the difference between R&D intensity and own R&D intensity is the value of
the supported projects), whereas there is almost no change in the R&D intensity of non-
participants that have similar characteristics in the same time period. We observe a similar
change in Case 2 that includes only R&D performers. TTGV clients experienced 3.67
percentage points increase in R&D intensity and 2.35 percentage points increase in own
R&D intensity, whereas the matched control group raised R&D intensity only by 0.06
percentage points. These results indicate that there could be an "acceleration effect"
because an average firm increases its own R&D spending if it receives any R&D support.


We have also estimated R&D investment models by using panel data on R&D intensity.
The findings of various econometric estimates confirm the results of average effects
estimates. TTGV support is found to have a (statistically and economically) significant
impact on R&D and technological effort. In addition to the econometric evidence, which is
inevitably subject to caveats in discerning causal relations, it is important to consider
qualitative evidence obtained from interviews. This also indicates clearly that the projects
had beneficial effects. Firms benefiting from ITP services often changed the way they
conducted R&D. The main benefits claimed were: the time discipline and tight R&D



                                             38

process management introduced by TTGV, the advice provided by the supervisors
(academic and industrial) and the prestige attached to winning TTGV projects.

The screening and evaluation of R&D projects by TTGV was felt to be very useful, and
one firm claimed to have "saved a lot of money" when TTGV rejected one of its proposals.
Most firms claimed that the access gained to leading academic researchers in the relevant
fields was a major benefit  and would not have been possible without the project even if
they were to offer money to the experts.

Firms interacted more closely with universities and academic research staff. Most of the
institutions participating in the ITP projects were held in high regard by the enterprises
using their services and appear to have made a positive contribution to technological
upgrading and competitiveness in Turkey. The contribution, however, is still relatively
modest  perhaps it would be unreasonable to expect more at this early stage, given the
long tradition of minimal technological activity in the country.

More generally, a "technology culture" is now developing in Turkish industry, with
enterprises realizing the value of technological effort and the contribution that technology
institutions and universities can make. Exposure to international competition is clearly an
important stimulus, but the projects have helped build an awareness of R&D
methodologies and linkages. Most firms did not know how to plan an R&D budget,
develop an R&D plan or manage R&D projects. The fact that TTGV required very tight
schedules and demands "invoices for everything" was considered to be very useful.

Some suggestions to improve the technology development support program received from
survey were to advertise more and inform more firms of the available facilities, get more
resources and staff, and set up sector-specific departments with the relevant expertise.

In addition to TTGV, other ITP components had an impact on R&D and technological
effort as well. For example, TPE clients were all highly complimentary about its services
and appreciated its improved facilities and staff skills. It was a 'transparent' organization,
with well-trained and helpful staff. Its provision of training to IPR staff was considered
very valuable and its awareness raising campaign effective. However, there was
insufficient experience of foreign patent rules, and problems arose when there were
differences with foreign patent authorities on technical details of particular patents.

The expansion of UME has benefited Turkish industry. Earlier, most metrology work had
to be carried out in Europe , which was slow and expensive. With the development of
UME capabilities in most relevant areas and the promotion of private calibration
laboratories, costs have fallen sharply.

MAM clients generally speak highly of its capabilities and services. Its equipment is
modern and the staff well-qualified. The cost of its services is regarded as modest, decided
by the number of man-days, cost of materials and an overhead (one large firm suggested
that it could easily raise its charges). The staff is responsive to private sector needs and
pressures. Clients intend to continue their collaboration and to extend the scope of their



                                            39

contracts. However, there is a risk that UME will do too much industrial work and not
enough basic research and primary calibration. However basic research provides the long-
term foundation for its contribution to the economy, and justifies its existence as a public
institute.




Productivity

ITP clients are expected to be more productive than non-participant firms as a result of
technological effort supported by ITP services. In order to test if there is a difference
between clients and non-participants, average effects of ITP participation were estimated
for low-technology manufacturing, medium and high-technology manufacturing, services



                                           40

and the software sector because industry-specific factors can also affect productivity. Table
below summarizes main findings on productivity.

There is a significant difference between ITP clients and non-clients in terms of labor
productivity (measured as output per employee), especially in manufacturing industries.
Clients for all ITP components are more productive than non-clients in manufacturing. This
is also valid in most of the cases in services and software sector where there are a
"sufficient" number of clients (more than 10 clients). However, the difference between
clients and non-clients could be caused by other exogenous factors that are not determined
by ITP program participation. For example, as seen in Table above, client firms are on
average larger than non-clients. Thus, if large firms are more productive than small firms,
than we could observe productivity differential in favor of client firms. Therefore, we
established "control" groups for each ITP component by using propensity score matching
as explained in the preceding sub-section, and tested if the productivity difference between
clients and non-clients is statistically significant. (As may be expected, the average
productivity of control groups is higher than the average of all non-clients.)

Our findings indicate that ITP clients are more productive than those non-clients in the
control group, and the differences are statistically significant for MAM and UME clients in
low- and medium/high-tech manufacturing, and TTGV clients in low-tech manufacturing.
The differences are not statistically significant for any ITP component in services and
software sector. Since the number of client firms is rather small in services and software,
the standard errors of estimates becomes quite large, and the null hypothesis of no
difference cannot be rejected.

The findings suggest that the average effects of ITP participation on labor productivity is,
on average, positive in manufacturing industries. The evidence for services and the
software sector is not conclusive.

Competitiveness

The average effects of ITP participation on competitiveness were estimated similarly.
"Competitiveness" is defined by "export intensity", i.e., the share of exports in total sales,
because it is assumed that competition in foreign firms is tougher, and those firms who are
able to sell in foreign markets are likely to be more competitive.

A simple comparison between average export intensity reveals that ITP clients are, on
average, more competitive than non-clients in control groups. In 12 out of 16 comparisons
(4 ITP components  4 sectors), clients have higher average export intensity than non-
clients in control groups. The difference is statistically significant in six cases in favor of
ITP clients. MAM and UME services seem to be more beneficial for competitiveness and
services is the sector that takes the best advantage of ITP services in raising
competitiveness.




                                              41

Employment

The HTP Survey provided accurate information on employment generation by TTGV
clients. There are 195 firms in the survey that were established before 2000. Total number
of employees in these firms, classified by sectors, and employment growth rates are shown
in Table above. Chemicals industry is by far the largest sector in terms of employment
among all R&D support receiving sectors. There were about 27 thousands people
employed by TTGV clients firms in the chemicals industry in 2005. Total number of
employees of clients reached 75 thousands in 2005.

TTGV clients who received R&D support before 2005 achieved a substantial increase in



                                            42

employment from 2000 to 2005. The 5-year employment growth rate of client firms is 26.3
percent. Firms in automotive, machinery and software sectors achieved remarkable
employment growth rates (66.0, 53.7 and 43.3 percent, respectively). When only those
firms that received support during the ITP project (1999-2005) are taken into account (157
firms), the growth rate becomes even higher (46.4 percent).

Firms were asked why they applied for TTGV support. About 80 percent of firms indicated
that they applied TTGV support for financial reasons (there is not any significant
difference between large and small firms in this regard). Employment growth rates for
those firms that applied for R&D support for financial reasons were also calculated to test
if financial constraints affect growth rates. It seems that financial constraint for R&D does
not make any difference for employment growth.

Finally, six very large firms (those who employed more than 1000 people either in 2000 or
2005) are excluded from the sample. The 5-year average employment growth rate declined
to 32.1 percent because most of these very large firms increased their employment from
2000 to 2005.




                                             43

Average employment growth rate of TTGV clients has to be compared with other groups
of firms to get a better view of the impact of R&D support program. For this purpose, we
selected two groups of firms: first, we calculated employment growth rates for those firms
whose applications were rejected in the same period (67 firms). These firms are expected to
be technologically closer to TTGV clients because they all conduct R&D. The second
group includes all those firms surveyed by the SIS to calculate the Manufacturing Industry
Production Workers Indices (more than 3,000 firms).

Table 6 provides the data for annualized growth rates of employment for these groups of
firms. TTGV clients are divided into two groups depending on when they received the
support. Manufacturing industry experienced a decline in total employment (production
workers) by almost one percent annually since 2000. Employment in the private sector
remained almost constant whereas the public sector had a significant loss.

Average annual employment growth in TTGV clients who received R&D support before
2000 is almost equal to the industry average, whereas those who received support had a
very high growth rate (9.3 percent). Those firms whose R&D projects were not financed by
TTGV achieved quite a significant growth in employment. However, it is apparent that
those rejected firms who anyway continued with their R&D project had almost the same
growth rate as those of TTGV clients, but those that cancelled the R&D project rejected by
TTGV had a much lower average annual employment growth. These findings indicate that
technological effort is what matters for employment generation.

Its source of funding may have a secondary impact.

The data used here does not provide additional information about employment generation
by skill categories. The qualitative evidence obtained through the Industrial Technology
Services Survey indicates that R&D support receiving firms experienced an increase in the
number of skilled workers and researchers. Moreover, a recent econometric study found
that TTGV clients, controlling for the endogeneity of program participation, increase the
demand for researchers.



                                           44

Performance dynamics

The Industrial Technology Services Survey conducted in 2005 includes the data on various
performance measures for the last three years, i.e., 2002-2004. These measures are used to
assess changes in the performance of client firms. Since changes in performance are
compared, only those firms that provided the data for all three years were selected for the
analysis. Firms in services and software sectors are grouped together because of the
insufficient number of observations for some categories. Figures 5a, 5b and 5c provide the
data on changes in a number of performance measures for low-technology manufacturing,
high-technology manufacturing and services (including software companies), respectively.
The data are normalized for 2002 (2002 = 1) to allow for comparisons over time.

All clients firms except TPE clients achieved faster output growth rate than the rest of other
firms in low-technology manufacturing. Note that "TPE client" is defined rather broadly; it
includes any firm that benefited any services provided by TPE. Therefore, almost half of
the firms in manufacturing are "TPE clients". (The proportion is much lower in the case of
services, about 20 percent.) The growth of TTGV clients is particularly striking.

Clients' employment performance is either better than or at par with non-clients. TPE
clients perform slightly worse than others. Thus, there is no significant difference between
clients and others in terms of labor productivity growth rate. TTGV clients constitute an
exception. Due to their superior output growth performance, their labor productivity
increased at a very high rate (almost 50 percent in real terms from 2002 to 2004).TTGV
clients in low-technology manufacturing are also successful in raising wages. The highest
increase in wages is observed among TTGV clients who were able to increase labor
productivity at a very high rate. MAM, UME and TPE clients raised their wages slightly
more than non-clients. Low-technology firms increased exports to a very large extent in
2004. UME clients performed even better than the average whereas MAM, TTGV and TPE
clients'export performance is somewhat lower.

Innovativeness is, of course, the main determinant of competitiveness in the long-term. The
data indicate that client firms performed much better than others in the 2002-2004 period in
terms of innovativeness. The proportion of innovative firms (in terms of both product and
process innovations) is higher in client firms. As may be expected, TTGV clients who
received support for their R&D projects are, on average, more innovative than other firms.
Moreover, it seems that SMEs benefited more than large corporations (LCs) from the ITP
with regard to innovativeness. The innovativeness performance may indicate that clients'
performance is likely to be much better than non-clients in the future.

There are two major differences between low-technology and high-technology
manufacturing in terms of the relative change in the performance of client firms. First, the
client firms perform relatively better in low-technology manufacturing. Second, TPE
clients perform relatively better in high-technology manufacturing than in low-technology
manufacturing. This finding may indicate that IPRs could be more important in high-
technology manufacturing where technological dynamism is higher. Thus, in terms of



                                            45

output growth, MAM and TPE clients perform better whereas UME and especially TTGV
clients lag behind. In terms of employment generation, MAM clients are also in a better
position. All categories of clients with the exception of TTGV clients achieved faster labor
productivity growth rates than non-client firms in high-technology manufacturing. As a
result of better productivity performance, all but MAM clients increased wages more than
non-client firms. These finding may indicate that clients increase the quality of labor they
employ which may generate further benefits in the long-term. Export performance of
MAM and TTGV clients are much better than non-clients, and UME and TPE clients
perform almost at the same level that non-clients do. Although firms in high-technology
manufacturing are quite innovative (the proportion of innovative firms is more than 50
percent), the ITP clients perform even better.

In services, client firms (except TTGV clients, most of them software companies) achieved
faster output and employment growth than non-client did. However, their labor
productivity growth rates remained quite close to the average growth rate. As in low- and
high-technology manufacturing, TTGV clients in services had the highest growth rate in
wages. The innovative performance of small TTGV clients in services is outstanding.

All client categories had much higher growth in exports and were more innovative. These
findings together imply that client firms'performance in services is also quite remarkable,
and we would expect more benefits in the future.

Outcome assessment

The qualitative and quantitative evidence suggests that ITP program had a positive impact
on Turkish industry in terms of:
   Technological effort and R&D spending,
   Productivity and profitability,
   Competitiveness (export intensity), and
   Employment generation


The program has achieved, to a large extent, the intended outcomes in the Turkish industry
although its share in total expenditures on technological activities was quite small.
Technological activities are expected to have long term impact on firms'performance.
Since the program was just completed, this study can evaluate only its short term impact,
and, in this sense, should be considered as a partial assessment of its impact that will
extend over the long term. Moreover, ITP clients have closer links with their suppliers and
help them to raise their quality levels. Thus, ITP's impact is likely to be diffused in the
economy through user-supplier linkages and other forms of spillovers as well.




                                             46

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members


       Names                   Title                Unit        Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Elmas Arisoy           Sr Procurement Spec. EAPCO
Furuzan Bilir          Operations Officer   ECCU6
Vinod K. Goel          Consultant           ECSPF

Supervision/ICR
                       Sr Financial
Ayse Seda Aroymak                           ECSPS
                       Management Specia
Mohini Bhatia          Consultant           EASRD
Ian Cooper             Consultant           ECSPF
Vinod K. Goel          Consultant           ECSPF
Hiran Herat            Consultant           AFTNL
Salih Kemal Kalyoncu Procurement Spec.      ECSPS
Ekaterina N. Koryukin Projects Officer      COCPO
Zeynep Lalik Mete      E T Consultant       ECSPS
Sanjaya Lall           Consultant           AFTP1
Ahmet Gurhan Ozdora Sr Operations Off.      ECSIE
Ibrahim Sirer          Sr Procurement Spec. ECSPS


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No. Date ISR Archived            DO             IP       Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1   06/28/1999            Satisfactory       Satisfactory                         0.00
2   09/30/1999            Satisfactory       Satisfactory                         0.00
3   12/29/1999            Satisfactory       Satisfactory                         5.80
4   04/10/2000            Satisfactory       Satisfactory                         6.14
5   07/17/2000            Satisfactory       Satisfactory                         7.67
6   12/08/2000            Satisfactory       Satisfactory                        12.66
7   04/12/2001            Satisfactory       Satisfactory                        19.57
8   06/18/2001            Satisfactory       Satisfactory                        23.58
9   09/05/2001            Satisfactory       Satisfactory                        30.50
10 12/21/2001             Satisfactory       Satisfactory                        33.70
11 04/09/2002             Satisfactory       Satisfactory                        40.13
12 06/10/2002             Satisfactory       Satisfactory                        42.05
13 10/07/2002             Satisfactory       Satisfactory                        54.77
14 06/17/2003             Satisfactory       Satisfactory                        76.16
15 09/16/2003             Satisfactory       Satisfactory                        82.66
16 03/12/2004             Satisfactory       Satisfactory                       103.61



                                           47

17 03/29/2004           Satisfactory         Satisfactory                     103.61
18 09/28/2004           Satisfactory         Satisfactory                     121.29
19 12/10/2004           Highly Satisfactory  Satisfactory                     123.47
20 04/13/2005           Highly Satisfactory  Satisfactory                     133.01
21 12/13/2005           Highly Satisfactory  Satisfactory                     144.48


(c) Staff Time and Cost

                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                             No. of staff weeks    USD Thousands

Lending
                   FY93                                                         7.06
                   FY94                                                        11.55
                   FY95                                                         3.63
                   FY96                                                        22.31
                   FY97                                                        38.99
                   FY98                                                        64.77
                   FY99                                                       257.22
                   FY00                                        2                1.71
                   FY01                                                         0.00
                   FY02                                                         0.00
                   FY03                                                         0.63
                   FY04                                                         0.00
                   FY05                                                         0.00
                   FY06                                                         0.00
                   FY07                                                         0.00
                                      Total:                   2              407.87

Supervision/ICR
                   FY93                                                         0.00
                   FY94                                                         0.30
                   FY95                                                         0.40
                   FY96                                                         0.00
                   FY97                                                         0.00
                   FY98                                                         0.00
                   FY99                                                         0.00
                   FY00                                      59               157.37
                   FY01                                      30               141.89
                   FY02                                      25               120.54
                   FY03                                      26               138.76
                   FY04                                      30               127.39
                   FY05                                      19               125.70
                   FY06                                                        87.29
                   FY07                                                         8.46




                                           48

FY07                      8.46
        Total:    189    908.10




            49

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance


        Bank                    Ratings           Borrower             Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
                        Satisfactory         Government:       Satisfactory
Entry:
                                             Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Highly Satisfactory                    Satisfactory
                                             Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                 Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                                 Performance:




                                            50

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)


A large number of interviews were conducted with the client firms in 2003-2004 to get a
feedback on their perceptions about institutional effectiveness. Moreover, three surveys
were conducted with 1332, 2376 and 3014 firms in 1999, 2002 and 2005, respectively. The
first two surveys covered only manufacturing industries whereas the last one included
services and software sectors as well. The surveys included questions regarding firms'
knowledge about ITP services, their use and perceptions of institutional effectiveness.




The impact of ITP depends on the diffusion of the information about these services. If
firms are not aware of the existence of these services, they would not get any benefit even
if they need them. It seems that four out of five firms in Turkish manufacturing industries
do not have any information about the services provided by MAM and UME. Firms are
informed the least about the TTGV services: Only 8-10 percent of firms had an idea about
the TTGV's R&D support program in 1999-2005. However, software companies are quite
knowledgeable about TTGV's support, due to the fact that a large number of software
companies are located in the so-called "science parks" that have close connections with
R&D support programs. Firms are more informed about the TPE services that may have a
direct commercial effect (trademarks, etc.). Almost half of firms know something about the
TPE services. The proportion of firms who were informed about ITP services increased to
by about 20 percent since 1999.

Program participants tend to be well informed about other programs. This is especially the
case for MAM and UME clients. A MAM (UME) client is very likely to be more
knowledgeable about the UME (MAM) services. Moreover, all ITP clients tend to be well-
informed about IPR issues (the TPE services).



                                            51

It is interesting to observe that, among all R&D support schemes, TTGV program is the
least known possibly because of three reasons: TUBITAK-TIDEB support is more
generous, and may attract more attention. KOSGEB, that has an extensive network among
small and medium sized establishments in Turkey, has the best known program. The R&D
support schemes implemented by the Treasury and the Ministry of Finance are known by
more than 10 percent of manufacturing firms. These two programs are likely to be known
by firms because they are codified in the tax regulations. Software companies are much
more knowledgeable about R&D support programs than firms operating in other sectors
because many software companies are located in science parks, and benefit from
information externalities.




Although the number of firms knowledgeable about MAM and UME services increased in
2005, the proportion of firms who actually used these services among knowledgeable ones
was low. About 60-70 percent of firms who claimed to have information about MAM and



                                           52

UME services did not benefit from these services. Manufacturing firms tend to use MAM
and TPE services more intensively than those in services and software sectors. There is no
discernible change over time in use of ITP services.

When asked why they did not benefit from any ITP service, most of the firms claimed that
they do not need these services. Moreover, an insignificant proportion of firms stated that
they did not use UME services because they were expensive. The share of those firms that
did not use MAM, TPE and UME services because of quality concerns has been extremely
low in all time periods.




                                           53

There were, on average, more than 40 firms per year who received R&D support from
TTGV from 1999 to 2005. TTGV provided about US$31 million loans for R&D activities
in 1999-2002 whereas during this period the business sector spent US$1,573 million for
R&D. Thus, the share of R&D loans in business expenditures on R&D was about 2
percent. (In the last three years (2003-2005), TTGV provided US$40 million loans.)

Although TTGV's share in total R&D is low, it has a significant contribution to those who
receive support. Table below presents the data on the number of R&D projects conducted
by TTGV clients that completed at least one TTGV-sponsored R&D project until the end
of 2005 (there are 207 firms whose project data are available). Those firms who benefited
TTGV support until 2005 received the support for only 14 percent of their project. In other
words, 86 percent of R&D project conducted by TTGV clients did not receive any support
from TTGV. Since firms tend to apply for TTGV for their large projects, the share of
TTGV-supported projects in R&D expenditures reached 46 percent. The share of TTGV-
supported project is higher in automotive and components industry and lower in
electronics/informatics and machinery industries.




TTGV clients, almost at equal proportions, stated that high loan costs (31.5 percent),
sufficient own resources (27.4 percent), and inconvenience of getting TTGV support (26.2



                                            54

percent) were the main reasons for not applying for TTGV for other R&D projects.

Overall assessment of ITP services by client firms are shown in Table above. MAM and
especially UME services were received favorably but the overall level of satisfaction
declined somewhat from 1999 to 2005, and TPE services were graded lower than the
"normal" level, but the degree of satisfaction with TPE services increased slightly in 2005.
Technological aspects of MAM and UME services were valued favorably, but their costs
were considered to be quite high as well. Interestingly, the software sector had negative
view for all aspects of TPE activities.

There are more than 50 firms who received TTGV support at least for two projects (Table
9). These firms were asked to assess changes in the quality of TTGV's activities (from the
first project to the last one). More than half of firms suggested that paperwork needed to
complete project applications got more complicated (difficult/time consuming), and almost
the same number of firms stated the response time has become shorter. A great majority of
firms were pleased that the quality of evaluation and monitoring improved over time.




                                            55

When asked about alternative sources for MAM and UME services, a significant number
of firms acknowledged that MAM and UME services are cheaper than alternative sources.
For example, 41.6 percent of manufacturing firms in 1999 stated that MAM services were
cheaper than its alternatives, whereas only 17.7 percent of manufacturing firms claimed the
opposite. The same ratios for UME services were 41.3 percent (UME cheaper) and 24.5
percent (UME expensive) in 1999. However, it seems that MAM and UME services were
getting more expensive relative to their alternatives in the last five years. Thus, the
proportion of manufacturing firms that considered MAM (UME) cheaper declined to 32.1
(23.9) percent in 2005, whereas those who stated that MAM (UME) was more expensive
increased to 38.8 (32.1) percent in the same year. Service sector firms had a more favorable
view for MAM and UME costs in 2005.




                                            56

57

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)


Not applicable.




                                  58

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                  59

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Not applicable.




                                   60

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents


Project Appraisal Documents of may 5, 1999

Loan Agreement of August 2, 1999

ITP ISRs: 1999-2006

Borrower Inputs to the ICR

Turkey CASs

An Assessment of the Industrial Technology Project by E. Taymaz  Reports 2000, 2003, April
2004 and May 2006

Project Implementation Plan

Project Agency Business Plans and Annual Operating Plans

Project Management Reports, Annual Audit Reports

Feasibility Studies  MAM, UME, TTGV

Project Agency Feedback Survey Reports

Special Reports- Reviews, Accreditation and Others

MAM International Review November 2005- R.A. Mashelkar, et al

Mid Term Reports May-July 2001

A Comparative Assessment of India- Industrial Technology Project and Turkey 쵺DP-I & ITP
Projects- May 2005- Taymaz, L all & Hari

Innovation Systems- World Bank Support of Science and Technology Development- April 2004-
Vinod K. Goel, et al




                                             61

MAP




       62

                                                                                                                                              TURKEY

                                                                                                                                                   PROVINCE CAPITALS*

                                                                                                                                                   NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                   RIVERS                                                                                             TURKEY
                                                                                                                                                   MAIN ROADS

                                                                       Prut                                                                        RAILROADS

                                                                                                                                                   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES*
             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
             shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
             Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                          *Province names are the same as their capitals.


                        26캞                         28캞                         30캞                    32캞                 34캞                     36캞                     38캞                                                RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                BULGARIA
                                                                                                                   Black Sea
                                                                                                                                                              0       50    100     150    200 Kilometers

                                          To
                                          To
                           To
                           To
             42캮                       Burgas
                      Kurdzhali                                                                                                                               0          50          100          150 Miles                                    GEORGIA                               42캮

                                Edirne                                                                                                         Sinop
                                         Kirklareli
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                         Bartin
                       E                                               Bosporus                                                                                                                                                  Batumi
                                                                                              Zonguldak
               GREECKomatini      Tekirdag                            Istanbul                                                 Kastamonou  Kuzey                Samsun                                                               Artvin    Kura           To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              To
                         To                                                                                      Karabk
                                                                                                                 Karabk                                                                                                                    Ardahan
                                                  Sea of                   Kocaeli                                                                    A nadolu                      Ordu                  Trabzon                                          Kirovakan              AZER-
                                Dardanelles                                (Izmit)              Dzce
                                                                                                Dzce
                                                 Marmara                                                                       Devrez                                                                                Rize
                                                              Yalova                                                                                                D a g l a r i                                                                                                BAIJAN
                                                                                       Sakarya                                                                                             Giresun
                                                                                                      Bolu                                                                                                                                           Kars
                                                                                       (Adapazari)                          ankiri
                                                                                                                            ankiri   Kizil    Amasya
                                                                                                                                     orum
                                                                                                                                     orum                                                                             oruh                                  ARMENIA
             40캮                                                                                                                                                                       
                         anakkale
                         anakkale                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   40캮
                                                               Bursa              Bilecik                                                                                 Kelkit            Gmshane
                                                                                                                                                                                            Gmshane
                                                                                                                                                                    Tokat                                         Bayburt                                          Mt. Ararat
                                                                                               Sakarya                                                                                                                                  Aras                       (5166 m)
                                      Balikesir                                         Eskisehir     ANKARA                                             Cekerek                                                                                           Igdir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Erzurum              Agri

                                                                                                                          Kirikkale                                                                       Erzincan
                                                                                                                                           Yozgat                         Sivas
                                                                     Ktahya
                                                                     Ktahya                                                                                                               Firat                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       To     AZER.
                                                                                                                                                           Kizil                                                                                                      Maku

                                                                                                                          Kirsehir                                                                Tunceli
                                                                                     Afyon                                                                                                                       Bingl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Bingl
                                        Manisa                                                                                                                                                                                       Mus
                          Izmir                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Lake                       ISLAMIC
                                                                    Usak                                        TTuz
                                                                                                                 uz                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                                               Elazig                  Murat                       Van    Van
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Van
                                                                                                    Aksehir     Gl
                                                                                                                Gl            Nevsehir                                                                                                                               Salmas
                                                                                                                                                 Kayseri                                                                                                                     REP. OF
             38캮                                                                                    Gl
                                                                                                     Gl                                                                                                                                  Bitlis
                                                                                                                       Aksaray
                                         Aydin                                                                                                                                            Malatya
                                                                                  Hoyran                                                                                                                                                                                        IRAN
                                                                                   Gl
                                                                                   Gl                                                                                                                            Diyarbakir             Siirt
                                                     Denizli                                                                      Nigde                                                                                       Batman                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                         Baysehir                                                                                        Adiyaman
                                                                           Burdur                                                                                                                                                                                         Oroumieh
                                                                                      IspartaG
                                                                                             Gl
                                                                                              l       Konya                                                         Kahraman                                                 Tigris                  Hakkari


                   GREECE                Mugla                                                                                                  Seyhan          Ceyhan   Maras                                                         Sirnak
                                                                                                                                                                                        Euphrates                          Mardin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                    Osmaniye                    Gaziantep         Sanliurfa                           To Damir       Dahuk
                                                                              Antalya                            GksuKaraman
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Kabu
                                                                                                                                               Adana                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Al Hasakah
                                                                                         Gulf of                                       Icel                                 Kilis
JANUAR                                                                                  Antalya                                                                                                                                                              IRAQ                        IBRD
             36캮                                                                                               Toros    Daglari (Mersin)
                                                                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                                            Hatay (Antakya)            Aleppo        SYRIAN ARAB                                                                                             33501
      Y                                           Mediterranean Sea
       2005
                                       28캞                             30캞                         32캞                   34캞                                                          REPUBLIC
                                                                                                                                                        To Ladhiqiyah                                                                     42캞                     44캞

