Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 18351-TU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$155 MILLION
TO
TURKEY
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
May 5, 1999
Financial and Private Sector Development Unit
Country Department VI
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Exchange rate as of May 1 1999
Currency Unit = Turkish Lira
I million Turkish Lira = US$2.78
US$I = 390,000 Turkish Lira
BORROWER FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                 -         Country Assistance Strategy
CMB                 -         Capital Markets Board
CPIU                -         Central Project Implementation Unit
ECU                  -        European Customs Union
EDP                 -         Economic Development Program
ESW                 -         Economic Sector Work
FMS                 -         Financial Management System
FY                  -         Fiscal Year
&OT                 -         Govemment of Turkey
lAS                           Intemational Accounting Standards
ICB                 -         Intemational Competitive Bidding
ICR                 -         Implementation Completion Reporn
IPR                 -         Intellectual Property Rights
IRA                 -         Institutional Renewal Account
Is                            tntemational Shopping
ISO                           Istanbul Chamber of Industry (Istanbul Sanayi Odasi)
IT                  -         Information Technology
ITP                           Industrial Technology Project (the Project)
ITU                 -         Istanbul Technical University
KOSGEB              -         Small and Medium Enterprise Development Organization
LACI                -         Loan Administration Change Initiative
LIB                 -         Limited International Bidding
MAM                 -         Marmara Research Center (Marmara Arastirmna Merkezi)
METU                -         Middle East Technical University
MTR                 -         Mid-term Review
MSTQ                -         Measurement, Standards, Testing and Quality
NAC                 -         National Accreditation Council (TURKAK)
NGO                 -         Non-Governmental Organization
NS                  -         National Shopping
OECD                -         Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PA                  -         Project Agency
PAD                 -         Project Appraisal Document
PIP                 -         Project Implementation Plan
PIlU                -         Project Implementation Unit
PCT                 -         Patent Cooperation Treaty
PPF                 -         Project Preparation Facility
R&D                 -         Research & Development
SIS                 -         State Institute of Statistics
SME                 -         Small and Medium Enterprise
SOE                 -         Statement of Expenses
SPO                 -         State Planning Organization
TDF                 -         Technology Development Finance
TDP- I               -        Technology Development Project -I
TIDEB               -         Technology Monitoring and Evaluation Department (Teknoloji Izleme ve Degeriendirnme Baskanligi)
TP                  -         Technopark
TPE                 -         Turkish Patent Institute (Turk Patent Enstitusu)
TRIPs               -         Trade Related Intellectual Property Rights
TSC                 -         Technology Services Center
TSE                 -         Turkish Standards Institute (Turk Standard Enstitusu)
TSS                 -         Technology Support Services
TTGV                -         Technology Developnsent Foundation of Turkey (Turkiye Teknologi Gelistirme lVak'.i)
TUBITAK             -         Council for Scientific and Technological Research
UFT                 -         Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade
UME                 -         National Metrology Institute (Ulusal Metroloji Enstitusu)
VC                  -         Venture Capital
VCF                 -         Venture Capital Fund
WTO                 -         World Trade Organization
Y2K                 -         Year 2000
Vice President: Johannes Linn
Country Director: Ajay Chhibber
Sector Director: Lajos Bokros
Task Team Leader: Vinod K. Goel



Turkey
Industrial Technology Project
Project Appraisal Document
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A.  Project Development Objective
1.  Project Development Objective and Key Performance Indicators ..........................................................2
B.    Strategic Context
1. Sector-Related CAS Goal Supported by the Project ..........................................................3
2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy .........................................................4
3. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project ..........................................................4
C.  Project Description Summary
1. Project Components .........................................................7
2. Benefits and Target Population .........................................................7
3. Implementation Arrangements .........................................................8
D.   Project Rationale
1. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons For Rejection ..........................................................8
2. Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank ......................................................... 10
3. Lessons Learned and Reflected in Proposed Project Design .......................................... ............... 10
4. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership .........................................................                     11
5. Value Added of Bank Support ......................................................... 12
E.  Sommary Project Analysis
1. Economic ......................................................... 12
2. Financial ......................................................... 12
3. Monitoring and Evaluation ......................................................... 13
4. Technical ......................................................... 13
5. Institutional .........................................................                                                        13
6. Social ......................................................... 13
7. Environmental Assessment ......................................................... 13
8. Participatory Approach .........................................................                                               13
F.    Sustainability And Risks
1. Sustainability  ......................................................... 14
2. Critical Risks ......................................................... 15
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ......................................................... 16
G.  Main Loan Conditions
1. Conditions of Effectiveness ......................................................... 16
2. Conditions of Disbursements ......................................................... 16
3. General Covenants ......................................................... 16
4. Institution Specific Covenants .........................................................                                       16
H.   Readiness For Implementation  ......................................................... 17
I.    Compliance With Bank Policies .........................................................                                            18



Annexes
Annex 1.                  Project Design Summary ...............................................                                                                             19
Annex 2.                  Detailed Project Description ................................................ 21
Annex 3.                  Project Costs and Financing ...............................................                                                                       23
Table 3.1:    Project Costs Summary by Components ...............................................                                                                        23
Table 3.2:    Project Costs Summary by Component and Financier ...............................................                                                           24
Table 3.3:            Project Costs Summary by Expenditure Category  and Financier ............................................... 24
Annex 4.                  Project Implementation Arrangements ...............................................                                                               25
Annex 5.                  Economic Analysis ...............................................                                                                                 28
Table 5.1:   Measurements ...............................................                                                                                                31
Table 5.2:   Calibration ...............................................                                                                                                  31
Annex 6.                  Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements ...............................................                                                            34
Appendix 1: Project Performance Indicators .35
Annex 7.                  Procurement Arrangements and Allocation of Loan Proceeds .............................................     36
Table 7.1:   Summary of Procurement Arrangements .............................................                                                                         36
Table 7.2:  Procurement Review .............................................                                                                                           37
Table 7.3:  Procurement Plan .............................................                                                                                             38
Table 7.4:  Allocation of Loan Proceeds .............................................                                                                                  44
Annex 8.                  Project Processing Budget and Schedule .............................................                                                              47
Annex 9.                  Documents in Project File .............................................                                                                            48
Annex 10.                 Statement of Loans and Credits .............................................                                                                       50
Annex 11.                 Country at a Glance .............................................                                                                                  53
Map No 29767: Turkey: Location of Project Agencies



TURKEY
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Date: May 5, 1999                                   Task Team Leader: Vinod K. Goel
Couatry Director: Ajay Chhibber                     Sector Leader: Ilham Zurayk
Project ID: TR-PE-9073                              Program Objective Category: PSD
Lending Instrument: Investrnent                     Program of Targeted Intervention: O Yes 0 No
Project Financing Data                                   0   Loan  Cl   Credit D    Guarantee
For Loans and Credits:
Amount (US$ million): 155.0
Proposed Terms:                                0   Multicurrency    0  Single currency
Grace period (year):              5            D   Standard Variable El Fixed        0l  LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:                 17
Cormmitment fee:                  Standard
Service charge:                   Standard 1%
Financing Plan (US$m):
Source                                        Local                  Foreign               Total
IBRD                                    7.7                    147.2                155.0
Private Sector                         69.2                    87.7                 156.9
Goverrnment                            45.9                                         45.9
Project Agencies                       12.6                    16.6                 29.2
Total                          135.4                   251.6                387.0
Borrower: Republic of Turkey
Responsible Agencies: Turkish Patent Institute, National Metrology Institute, Marmara Research Center, and
Technology Development Foundation of Turkey
Estimated Disbursements (Bank FY/US$ million)               2000   2001   2002   2003   2004
Annual                       5       15     30       60     45
Cumulative                      5       20      50     110    155
Project Implementation Period: 4 years; Expected Effectiveness Date: August 1999; Closing Date: December 31, 2003



2
A: Project Development Objective (see Annex 1):
The major objective of the project is to assist in the harmonization of Turkish technology infrastructure with
European Customs Union (ECU) standards, and assist firms in upgrading their technological capabilities in order to
improve the competitiveness of Turkish industry, both in domestic as well as foreign markets.
Project Objective                             Key Performance Indicator
Harmonization of technology infrastructure     Compliance of Turkish Industrial Property Regime with
WTO and ECU requirements.
Improvement in Turkish metrology infrastructure to
facilitate alignment of industry with ECU requirements.
Technology upgrading by firms                 Increase in contractual research undertaken by technology
institutions for industry purposes.
Increase in number cf firms developing, adapting, and
commercializing new technologies.
1. Background.
Increased economic integration with Europe has been high on the Turkish agenda since the 1980s. The ECU is a
major trading partner, accounting for over 50 percent of the country's exports as well as imports. These figures are
expected to grow due to the customs union agreement signed between Turkey and the EU in January 1996, which
allows most industrial goods to pass freely between the partners, and will hopefully prepare the way for full
membership in the years to come. While accession to ECU offers Turkey a unique opportunity to accelerate its
development through freer and better access to markets, it has also made Turkish firms more vulnerable to
intemational competition. In order to take advantage of trade opportunities created by the ECU and respond
effectively to greater competition in the domestic market, Turkish industry would need to upgrade from low-
quality, labor-intensive products, which have limited growth prospects, towards the production of higher value-
added goods and services. This transition would require upgrading of their technological capabilities. According
to the OED report on Industrial Technology', technological capabilities are defined as the skills that are necessary
to set up a plant, utilize it efficiently, improve and expand over time, and develop new products and processes.
They comprise a broad range of activities from the routine ones needed for the factory shop-floor, to the
sophisticated ones needed for advanced research. In most developing countries it means the ability to become
more efficient and competitive in the technologies they have imported across a range of manufacturing activity.
Under the Bank-supported first Technology Development Project (TDP-I, efforts were undertaken towards the
improvement of Turkish technology infrastructure and services. TDP-I supported the strengthening of Turkey's
Metrology, Standards, Testing and Quality (MSTQ) infrastructure by assisting the Turkish Standards Institute
(TSE) in strengthening competencies in the areas of standards preparation, product certification, and testing,
including the development of a Quality Campus near Istanbul to help the industrial community in that area gain
greater access to these services. TDP-I also supported the strengthening of metrology services to industry through
the National Metrology Institute (UME), with investments in physical infrastructure, equipment, technical
assistance and training. As a result of these investments, UME is widely used by industry, and small and medium
enterprises (SMEs) claim to be aware of the importance of metrology to productivity due to its presence. While
independent national accreditation services could not be established during the project due to the pending of a new
Study on Bank Lending for Industrial Technology Development, 1993, OED, The World Bank (Report No. 12138).



3
N1AC Law with the Parliament and failure to reach consensus, progress has been made in recent months. The
project also supported the establishment of the Technology Development Foundation of Turkey (TTGV) which
was instrumental in initiating a culture of technology finance in Turkey to assist firms in undertaking
technological upgrading activities. Through conditional loans provided by TTGV, firms were able to undertake
substantial technological effort and introduce new products and processes, as well as replace expensive or
pxroprietary foreign technologies with viable, adapted and cheaper counterparts. The record of commercialization
of such efforts was also good - so far, about thirty percent of the completed projects were able to develop
technologies that were commercialized. The project also made a significant contribution towards making the legal
and regulatory framework conducive to venture capital (VC) finance although no Venture Capital Funds (VCFs)
were established under the project.
However, more work remains to be done to deepen Turkish technology infrastructure and services. Industry's
demand for refinements in measurement accuracy, and for rigorous product specifications embodied in public
standards continues to grow in all OECD countries. Turkish industry's needs are likely to increase substantially as
it tries to move from low-skill goods to technology and skill intensive products that demand precision, quality and
traceability to international standards. These requirements will place heavy demands on the MSTQ infrastructure
which would, therefore, need to be further expanded and strengthened. UME would need to make stronger efforts
tc, stay one step ahead of industry's needs and this expansion would require strengthening of its institutional
capacity to manage such a rapid transformation. Firms are also responding to competitive pressures by trying to
upgrade their technologies. Therefore, continued support for technology investments in the private sector through
a vehicle such as TTGV would become even more important. While an awareness and market for technology
development has been created through TTGV's activities, there is a large potential for carrying this momentum
fcrward. As is natural in most instances when such a project is attempted for the first time, TTGV's lending
portfolio was skewed towards established firms with reasonable financial track records that proved them credit
worthy. With this learning period behind them now, TTGV should be able to take on more challenging activities -
which is to focus more attention on small and medium sized firms (and/or start-ups) - so that industry as a whole
becomes more competitive. A culture of technology development and modification has only recently begun to be
fcirmed, therefore it is critical to build upon the successes of TTGV's activities. Meanwhile, research institutions
and universities can also help Turkish industry upgrade its capabilities, but these institutions would have to be
brought into the mainstream by helping them become better aligned to the needs of industry. Finally, Turkey's
Industrial Property Rights (IPR) regime would need to be strengthened to facilitate technology transfer from
fcireign firms to domestic ones and also to protect domestic innovations. These next steps are important in
achieving this critical transition for Turkey.
B. Strategic Context (see Annex 1):
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goal Supported by the Project:
Document number and date of latest CAS: 16992-TU, August 6, 1997.
Thie proposed project would support important elements of two major objectives as stated in the CAS:
(i) enhancing industrial competitiveness, through the upgrading of technology infrastructure and services to
industry; and
(:ii) improving public expenditure management, by providing greater fiscal discipline in the functioning of the
individual institutions thus lowering their dependence on government funding.
Public assistance in the provision of technological support is justified by the high level of externalities which
characterize this activity. It is believed that there are market failures in the supply of skills, finance, information,
standards, etc. Based on this assumption, most developed industrial countries have, over a long period of time,
invested in setting up specific mechanisms and institutions to provide for education, training, technology finance,
science infrastructure and research institutions. This is true not only of original research but also of diffusion and
acdaptation activities. Even metrology, standards and testing facilitates are often referred to as infrastructural with
reference to their public good nature. Many technology services are also characterized by economies of scale,
making in-house provision prohibitive for all but the larger firms. Therefore, assistance provided though this
project is seen as an important step towards increasing the access of Turkish industry to better technology services.
This would help improve its competitiveness thus accelerating realization of the benefits of economic integration.



4
2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy:
The Government's industrial technology strategy is articulated in the policy document, "Turkish Science and
Technology Policy: 1993-2003;" and forms an integral part of Turkey's Seventh Five-Year Development Plan. In
the context of Turkey's integration with the ECU and the World Trade Organization (WTO), the Government
recognizes the importance of increasing the competitiveness of industrial enterprises through productivity
improvements and technological innovation. It is aware that Turkey's science and technology infrastructure has
largely operated in isolation of industry's needs, and stresses that a nation becomes competitive in world markets
"only when it has the ability to transform scientific and technological products into economic and social profits".
To this end, the key objectives of Turkey's science and technology strategy are to achieve a better integration of
the science and technology infrastructure with production needs, to increase private sector participation in
technology development, and to develop stronger linkages between industry, universities, and research
institutions. Over the next decade, the strategy aims to increase private sector contribution to Research &
Development (R&D) and to raise the level of R&D spending from 0.3 percent to 1 percent of GDP. The
Government recognizes that it has an important role to play in providing a conducive environment for technology
development. In recent years, it has passed various laws regulating industrial property rights, established TPE and
UME, is in the process of creating a law for an independent national accreditation institution, and provided seed
capital for innovative projects through TTGV. In order to further encourage innovation among Turkish industry,
the Government in 1995 started a scheme known as TIDEB to provide grants for R&D activities among private
firms. This scheme is administered by TUBITAK in collaboration with TTGV. Nevertheless, it would be useful to
monitor the use of TIDEB in order to ensure its complimentarity with TTGV programs and avoid any future
distortions. The Goverrnent has also granted public research institutions some degree of autonomy in becoming
more market-oriented and reducing their dependence on government funding. The Government now hopes to
deepen Turkey's technological capability and to increase private sector i.avestments in technology upgrading
through initiatives such as risk capital financing and collaborative private-public mechanisms. The proposed
project would directly support the Government's technology development strategy.
3. Sector Issues to be addressed by the Project:
Industry is the second leading sector in the Turkish economy, accounting for nearly a quarter of GNP and more
than 88 percent of total exports. The manufacturing sector in Turkey is dominated by SMEs and a majority of
enterprises are concentrated in low-skill and low-technology manufacturing. After a prolonged period of import
substitution and heavy state involvement in the economy, Turkey embarked on an export-oriented development
strategy in the early 1980s, progressively opening up its economy to the outside world and handing over the main
initiative for industrial development to the private sector. The main aim of these policy changes was closer
integration with the EU. An important milestone in that regard was the signing of the ECU agreement under which
barriers to free trade will gradually be dismantled. However, in order to :-eap the benefits of greater economic
integration, Turkish industry needs to pay increasing attention to matters of adherence to intemational standards
(technical and non-technical), quality, technological upgradation and innovation management. Looking at the
existing technology infrastructure in the context of assessing the readiness of industry to compete in global markets,
Turkish industry faces a number of pressing constraints.
Product and Process Quality: Over the last decade, OECD markets have become increasingly stringent vis-a-vis
product quality and performance, and conformity with intemationally-recognized standards such as ISO 9000 has
become a de facto requirement to access OECD markets. Turkish industry, therefore, needs to comply with these
requirements if they want to gain access to major markets, or even allow domestic production to compete
effectively with OECD imports. As a result, demand from industry for MSTQ services has increased and is likely
to increase significantly in the near future. Also, MSTQ can drive incremental innovation in firms through the
nested relationship between product testing, identification of technical problems, and process innovation. A weak
MSTQ infrastructure could, therefore, severely impede industry's ability to compete effectively. However,
investments in MSTQ are expensive and cost recovery from direct metrology services can be as low as 10-30
percent (as is the case in most metrology institutes in industrial economies). Even large private firms can not create
these facilities in-house, and hence these services are considered "infrastructural". Sustainability and improvements
therefore remain public funded to a large extent in most economies. The Government helped to upgrade the
capabilities of UME and TSE through TDP-I. The private sector, which previously had to obtain calibration and
measurement services from abroad, has started to benefit from UME's services, but a large part of industry's



5
metrology needs, about 50 percent, still need to be outsourced to foreign centers, which not only increases the
diiect cost of such services by several multiples and adds costly delays, but also denies Turkish firms the
externalities that emerge from having their metrology needs met locally. Another problem facing the Turkish
indlustry is the absence of an independent National Accreditation Council (NAC), which would regulate and certify
standards and testing institutions. With such a body, many more institutions could be accredited -- decreasing the
cost, and increasing the availability of certification services in Turkey. Establishment of such an accreditation body
has now been given priority by the Government with the completion of significant preparatory work and a draft law
has been presented to the Parliament.
Indlustrial Property Regime: While Turkey offers financial incentives for the import of technology, strong
international evidence exists to suggest that the ease with which foreign companies sell technology to developing
coumtries, the terms on which it is sold (licensed), and the vintage that is sold, is affected by the owners ability to
maintain proprietariness of the technology. The prevailing IPR regime thus becomes an important determinant of
tht amount and quality of technology transfer from developed to developing countries. Also, as the country
moves from simply importing technology to finding creative ways to adapt and modify it to local demand or
technical conditions, the lack of a regime that protects such new ideas can be an impediment to undertaking such
costly investments. Turkey has recently become a signatory to the agreement on adopting stronger industrial
property rights to be in conformance with Trade Related Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPs) regulations and
EC'U standards. However, the existing infrastructure and facilities for the filing of patents (or utility models), and
access to existing patent literature is weak. Meanwhile, industry's awareness of the importance of these services is
nearly absent. The absence of trained attorneys, patent agents, and judges to handle infringement cases renders the
en^forcement mechanism for IPRs incapable of fully supporting innovation and technology transfer. Based on an
independent assessment of the compatibility of domestic procedures required to make the agreement effective,
domestic ratification of TRIPs appears to be complete and no more domestic statutory regulations are required.
Average Level of Technology Development: While the policy environment in Turkey has been quite liberal for
technology imports, and tax incentives for R&D in firms have also existed, both of these mechanisms generally
favor the larger firms. Only two percent of all industry undertakes any kind of R&D and most large firms have
achieved equipment modernization through simply importing embodied technology in order to catch-up with
Western best practice. A majority of the industry, which comprises mostly SMEs, remains technologically
behind and needs help in learning how to adopt new technologies, effectively assimilate and integrate new
equipment with existing technologies, and in adapting and modifying raw materials and requirements to suit local
conditions, in such a way to enhance their competitiveness. In sectors that have attained a degree of depth and
maturity, such a latent demand exists. This was confirmed in Bank missions' extensive interaction with private
sector firms of all sizes and across several sectors. Private sector associations have also been frequently contacted
by their members in search of information and support on technology-related activities. Feedback received by
TT GV also underscores the existence of this demand. Further, this demand will be stimulated as the process of
integration exposes firms to greater international competition. However, a large majority of firms are unable to
find technology finance for undertaking such innovative and riskier activities, or even accessing existing
technology services. Under TDP-I, TTGV created a market for technology development finance (TDF) and
technical assistance to firms. TTGV provided up to 50 percent of the counterpart finance (on softer terms) for the
development and modification of technologies to firms and is considered a valuable and pioneering effort by
Turkish industry. In the absence of such a scheme, most of these efforts would have remained unrealized and a
culture of research and innovation could not have taken root. Firms that have benefited under TDP-I through
T1I'GV have reiterated this point strongly.
Further, the development of new ideas, or innovative modifications of existing ones, requires non-traditional
financial instruments that are not based on commercial terms of market rates and collateral requirements.
Typically, venture capital is needed to finance such technology development, but Turkey does not have such
finance as yet. While there are two small VCFs, the culture of VC needs to be promoted in order to attract the
right kind of investors as well as the skills needed to run such risky, but rewarding, operations. Perhaps minor
adjiustments may also be required in the existing regulatory framework. Also industry needs to be made aware of
how venture capital works.
Another area of concern, which stems from the largely SME based industrial structure, is the fact that most firms
are simply unaware of the recent advances in technology, changes in the world trading system, of the new laws
and regulations, or of the technical and non-technical standards that must be adhered to. This is not unique to



6
Turkey, it is a symptom of most SME based sectors because these small firns can not afford to have the in-house
specialized services to seek out the latest information. Quite often, even if financing is available, what stops SMEs
from implementing important changes in their technology infrastructure is the lack of information on what the
state-of-the-art is, what is most appropriate for their firm, and what the potential benefits of upgrading might be.
While market imperfections in the generation of technology for small firms are generally accepted, it is only
recently that it has been recognized that very similar market imperfections exist even in the diffusion of existing
technologies. This is due to uncertainty on the part of the user, coordination problems between user and supplier,
and high leaming costs on both sides, which are particularly acute for small firms. Therefore, policies and
instruments that could help address the obstacles faced in the dissemination of standard information, reducing the
uncertainty and leaming costs of technology diffusion and adoption, and augment sources of assistance that could
increase the willingness of firms to take up new technologies and better practices are very important, but lacking
in Turkey. Without these, any investments in addressing the infrastructural constraints are likely to remain
underutilized. In this context, promoting information dissemination and advisory services to SMEs, e.g. through
industry associations and other appropriate means, need to be pursued.
Linkages between R&D Institutions and Industry: Universities and public research institutions do conduct R&D,
in fact, most of Turkey's R&D (68 percent) is public, compared to the OECD average of 16 percent. However, it
has not served as an effective agent of technology transfer to the private sector, and its activities are largely
disconnected from the needs of industry. Very few firms have had any contact with technology institutions or
universities. The only evidence of any university-industry linkage is through the incubators that some universities
have established to support young entrepreneurs develop and commercialize technologies. These incubators
provide university infrastructure for a few start-up companies in exchange for a nominal fee and have successfully
"graduated" entrepreneurs in about 3-4 years.
This isolationist culture is likely to change in the near future on two accounts. First, industry recognizes that
technology upgrading is imperative and therefore must seek to form partnerships with universities and technology
institutions. This is especially true for SMEs that can not afford to respond to the imperative by investing in large
R&D and technology departments within their firms. Second, government funding for research institutions as
well as universities is likely to decrease in the coming years. Therefore, these institutions are willing to channel
their expertise towards joint activities with industry by changing their focus from basic research to applied
contract based research for outside clients. In the absence of such a restructuring, these institutions may lose the
technical and human capital that has been built up over the years. However, the focus, pace and prioritization of
the restructuring process needs to be carefully matched with the growing needs of industry in order to reap the
benefits of this infrastructure that has the potential of supporting firms from various sectors and sizes.
The existence of technoparks (TP) can sometimes help catalyze this restructuring process. Technoparks, by
definition, focus on technology-intensive development, generally with a university or research institution as a key
aspect of their establishment and operation (as opposed to industrial estates where the defining characteristic is the
availability of land for business purposes, generally manufacturing). The university or research institution
provides access to faculty, staff, students, libraries, laboratories, as well as technological infrastructure. Such
operations are characterized by large, mature tenants, which can make substantial commitments required to take
advantage of the technological potential of a nearby institution. Success in supporting entrepreneurship by
exploiting synergy between universities and industry is not easy to attain. Intemational experience points towards
location, reputation of university or research institution, ability to attract the right kind of entrepreneurs, well
trained management, right incentives given to researchers to seek industry collaboration, realistic costing
scenarios, and strict performance benchmarks and monitoring as key ingredients of success.



7
C. Project Description Summary (see Annex 2 for project description, and Annex 3 for detailed cost breakdown):
i'. Project Components:
Indica-  % of  Bank         of
Component                   Category       tive     total  Financing  ank
costs          (US$M)   inan-
(US$M)                    ing
A. Strengthening of Industrial Property Rights Services:  Institutional    19.3    5.0    15.0  9.7
Assist in harmonizing Turkey's IPR regime with   building,
WTO and ECU standards.                           goods, works
B3. Strengthening of Metrology Services:            Institutional   42.5     11.0  33.0       21.3
Further investments in Turkey's metrology        building,
infrastructure to serve a larger section of Turkish  goods, works
industry and gain acceptance from European bodies.
C. Restructuring of R&D Institutions:               Institutional   42.3    10.9  33.0        21.3
Support restructuring of technology institutions to  building, goods
help them become industry-oriented.              works
l). Supporting Technology Upgrading by Firms:       Institutional    265.4   68.6  60.0       38.7
Support innovation in firms by providing matching    building,
loans for technology development, promoting      goods
information-dissemination to SMEs, and exploring
formation of technology service centers, venture
capital and technoparks.
F'ees                                                               1.5     0.4    1.5        1.0
lJnallocated                                                        15.9    4.1    12.5       8.0
Total                                                              387.0   100.0  155.0       100.0
2. Benefits and Target Population:
Benefits
ii  Harmonization of regulations and technology infrastructure with ECU standards.
l  Increased participation by private sector in R&D and technology upgrading activities.
ii  Efficient use of technology institutions via alignment with industry needs.
Target Population
Exporters will have access to technology services that were previously unavailable or inadequate, giving them
better access to new markets.
4i  Domestic firms will be able to increase their competitiveness through greater awareness, adoption, and
modification of technologies.
The government budget will be less strained due to the increasing capability of some of the institutions to earn
a greater portion of their incomes through the sale of their services.



8
3. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements, including on-lending arrangements (see Annex 4 and Project
Implementation Plan (PIP)).
I. Implementation Arrangements:
A. Project Management
Overall responsibility for the coordination of the proposed project rests with the Turkish Treasury, while the
activities planned under the project would be managed and implemented by the various institutions concerned. The
Central Project Implementation Unit (CPIU) established at TTGV would also act as the coordination unit handling
common aspects (such as information, development impact measurement) in association with individual PIUs
established under each component.  All disbursements, accounting and financial reporting would be the
responsibility of each of the PIUs ofTPE, UME, MAM and TTGV.
B. Agreements Between Borrower and Implementation Agencies
The Borrower is the Republic of Turkey represented by its Treasury. Assurances have been obtained from the
Governmnent that adequate funding, based on the project financing plan, would be made available to project
agencies (PA) in a timely manner.
C. Implementation Arrangements by Component
TPE would be responsible for the strengthening of IPR services component, UME for the metrology services
component, MAM for the restructuring of R&D institutions component, and TTGV for supporting the technology
upgrading activities of Turkish firms.
II. On-lending Arrangements:
Bank funds would be lent to the Treasury to be passed on to project agencies in the form of soft loans and grants,
under Subsidiary Finance Agreements. The exact terms of grants and loans reflect the respective roles of project
agencies, their ability to pay through revenues generated from industry, expected reduction in dependence on the
government budget, and on the public-good nature of the services they provide. TTGV would on-lend project funds
for technology development financing sub-projects to private sector enterprises, technology service centers, venture
capital funds and technoparks.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection.
Due to the externalities associated with the generation, adaptation and diffusion of new technologies, it is well
known that if the private sector were left to itself it would invest in these activities only to the extent that it could
internalize the benefits of these investments fully. This is possible only for the very large firms leaving a large part
of industry needs unfulfilled and the level of private investment far below the socially desirable level. On the other
hand, completely public sector approaches to this problem have lead to inappropriate infrastructure and service
development with poor coverage of industry needs. Compared to both of these alternative strategies, the project
takes the "in-between" approach by providing support for setting up of technology services where they do not exist
or re-orienting those that do exist, but with a strong emphasis on private sector participation in design, delivery and
cost sharing.
Another alternative was to postpone all technology development support until Turkey's macro-economic situation
had improved. This alternative was not pursued for three reasons: (i) technology and innovation investments have
long gestation periods before the financial or economic returns can be realized. Building a strong technology
support infrastructure as well as inculcating a greater awareness of the issues among the private sector is a slow
process and must be catalyzed as early as possible, (ii) Turkey has joined the ECU and under this liberalized regime
the importance and relevance of paying attention to technological activity to enhance competitiveness can not be
underestimated, and (iii) Turkish private sector is strong and ready to undertake efforts to increase its capabilities in



9
the face of competition. Postponing technology support would only hold back the potential of the private sector to
upgrade its performance in domestic and international markets.
At the other end of the spectrun was the alternative of responding to individual institutions' request for a
comprehensive investments plan that would aim to fulfill nearly 100 -.ercent of their investment needs. This
altemative was rejected because it was not considered prudent to attempt to make a radical transformation in one
project, and further, the benefits of these investments are likely to be optimal when they are made at a reasonable
pace in keeping with industry needs as well as institutional absorptive capacity. Hence, the support extended to
institutions in the proposed project does not promise to bring these institutions to their long term goals by the end
of the project, but rather attempts to facilitate and catalyze their reforms in the right direction. Further, even during
the transition phase in the next few years these institutions warrant adequate government support in order to
conduct their operations smoothly.
Other alternatives considered and not adopted were the establishment of new research institutes and sector specific
testing laboratories proposed separately by the TTGV, TSE, METU and ITU. Proposals made included an
Informatics Center (US$23 million), high voltage power testing laboratory (US$45 million) for electronics and
engineering sectors, and testing laboratories for the automobile, food and textile sectors. In light of the specificity
cf the demands that such infrastructure could serve and the high cost recovery possible from such targeted services,
it was considered appropriate to leave such investments to the industry. Instead, the project would make
investments in strengthening technology infrastructure and services more broadly so that it becomes responsive to
industry needs in general.
Initially, TTGV proposed setting up several technology service centers (TSC), technoparks, venture capital funds,
and credit guarantee fund, with majority equity participation and operating responsibilities. This alternative was not
found appropriate because TTGV would be able to serve its mandate well if it concentrated its efforts on playing
the role of an intermediary and catalyst in technology upgrading activities of the SMEs rather than getting bogged
d.own by ownership of expensive institutions. Similarly, high-tech research laboratories were proposed by
universities and these proposals were not considered prudent because interviews with the private sector revealed,
that while there were some commonly acknowledged gaps in the technology infrastructure, as far as research
institutions were considered, the few that existed were underutilized and disconnected from industry. Restructuring
existing facilities to meet industry's needs was therefore selected.
Alternatively, given the fact that TTGV is a relatively new institution with considerable scope for institution
building, the prospect of pursuing some of the new activities as separate components with distinct implementing
agencies outside of TTGV was also considered. However, few institutions would be immediate candidates for
implementation of these activities, and TTGV had already begun to entertain preliminary proposals on several of
theem, e.g. technology service centers, technoparks. Hence, inspite of the concerns regarding the widely expanded
scale and scope of TTGV's activities, these new activities were allowed to remain under the TTGV umbrella.
Strong technical assistance and training requirements were emphasized in order to ensure the fiscal, technical, and
nmanagerial soundness during the implementation of these new activities.
(liven the high-risk and high-reward nature of technopark investments, the project would support these initiatives
on a limited basis and in a phased manner on the basis of evidence of demand from industry, and with explicit cost
sharing arrangements with the research institution/university, as well as with other interested organizations.
Similarly, venture capital would be approached on a pilot basis to test the demand for such non-traditional
financing if the right elements are deemed present in the country.
In terms of the scope, the project is complex, and simpler designs were considered for easier implementation.
However, experience has shown that industrial technology development projects are most effective when an
integrated approach that addresses the infrastructure, institutional, and demand aspects of technology services is
adopted. On the other hand, certain aspects of technology development were considered beyond the scope of the
project, such as the development of scientific skills within the country or establishment of vocational training
institutes. While these are acknowledged to be critical elements in raising the competitiveness of any country, it is
proposed that education reform (and other complementary elements) be addressed in a separate project.
Considering that the Y2K problem may require some Bank assistance on a short notice, the project had to explore
the possibility of adding a separate component for a Y2K program. While considerable assessment work is needed



10
before the appropriate technical needs and resources can be determined for Y2K problem, a tentative provision for a
small pilot program was considered useful within the TTGV component. Given the complexity of this project and
the scale of activities being pursued by TTGV, implementation details of the potential Y2K component would be
designed such that no additional burden is imposed on TTGV. Given that the proposed project is already a quite
complex, it was not considered prudent   burden the project with an additional large component and especially
which is not fully defined and could be quae complex to implement.
Finally, adequate flexibility has been built into the project design (including some unallocated funds to be utilized
for priority activities demonstrating superior performance). Given the very nature of technology development
activities, and the newness of many of these activities in Turkey, it was not considered appropriate to follow a rigid
implementation scenario. Thus, several of the initiatives discussed above would be started on a pilot basis, business
plans for several sub-projects would be required, and with the help of intensive monitoring criteria their design
and/or continuation would be reviewed and modified if necessary.
2. Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank:
Sector Issue                             Ongoing and Previous Bank Loans                  Latest Form
590 Ratings
Scientific Research and Technological
Infrastructure                           Technology Development Project (Loan 3296)       S
Improve competitiveness of Turkish
industrial enterprises
Small and Medium Enterprise Support    Small and Medium Scale Industry Project (Loan   S
Support development of labor-intensive   2647)
SMEs                                 Second Small & Medium Scale Industry Project     S
(Loan 3067)
Human Resources Development
Increase supply and quality of skilled   Industrial Schools Project (Loan 2536)           S
manpower
Increase supply and quality of technical  Industrial Training Project (Loan 2399)         S
manpower
3. Lessons Learned and Reflected in Proposed Project Design:
The project incorporates relevant lessons leamed from previous and ongoing Bank-financed projects, the OED
evaluation of industrial technology projects, as well as the current literature on industrial technology development:
*  The first project (TDP-I) initiated the enhancement of technological capabilities among Turkish industry. The
investments made in metrology and standards have resulted in the establishment of valuable systems that
possess the potential of serving a large part of Turkish industry's needs. An awareness and market for
technology development have been created through TTGV's activities, which holds great potential for carrying
this momentum forward. A culture of technology development and modification has only recently begun to be
formed, therefore, building on the successes of the first project is considered appropriate.
*  On the other hand, a lesson learnt from the first project is that greater institution-building efforts in the newly
formed institutions may have been able to prepare them better to serve the needs of industry more effectively.
For example, TTGV generally followed a somewhat conservative apps:oach, lending to firms primarily with
established track record, and could get actively involved in the start-up projects only to a limnited extent. UME
has developed into a reputable institution but more needs to be done in terms of attracting the qualified
personnel to assist in the management as well as implementation of metrology services to industry. This project
recognizes the need for focusing on institution strengthening from the start through training, study tours,
technical assistance, and greater private sector participation in setting priorities for these institutions. These



I1
efforts would be supplemented with intense Bank supervision during implementation. The experience of NAC
under TDP-I has indicated that any changes in Parliamentary laws should be sought early in the project cycle.
*  Findings from the recently completed India Technology Project in the Bank as well as the technology
development literature, stress the importance of acknowledging and correctly identifying the public good
element of technology-related infrastructure. Experience has shown that market deficiencies that hold back
technological effort can be overcome by careful market friendly interventions and that timing is important to
get the incentive structure right. Often, the liberalization of an economy serves as a necessary precondition for
such support to work, but liberalization in itself is not enough. It has to be accompanied by institutional,
financial and informational measures to remedy deficient markets. This project uses the backdrop of the ECU to
catalyze technology building efforts but supports instruments to address institutional, financial and
informational bottlenecks facing the private and public sectors.
* The OED report suggests that "altogether there appears to be too much attention to R&D financing rather than
the more mundane needs of training, quality improvement..." This project recognizes that due to the SME based
industrial structure, the main needs of Turkish industry are centered around availability of measurement,
testing, and standardization services as well as upgrading their technological capabilities and hence places a
strong emphasis on the MSTQ component and technology development financing.
*  A recent informal review of past and ongoing technology development projects in the Bank stresses the
importance of addressing the market failures that exist in accessing and utilizing correct information,
particularly for SMEs. It therefore suggests a more proactive approach towards dissemination, outreach, and
training for owners and workers of SMEs. This project incorporates this lesson by supporting the awareness
raising, information dissemination and match-making functions that private sector associations would perform
on a cost sharing basis with industry.
*  While this project has tried to adopt a comprehensive and integrated approach to technology development, it
recognizes that there are some aspects which, while important - such as the improvement in skills and output of
scientific technical manpower - are beyond the scope of this project. Lessons leamt from previous Bank
projects endorse this approach by suggesting that technology development be approached in an integrated way
and as part of a broader industrialization strategy, but acknowledges that no one project can or should try to
address all constraints. Therefore, for the sake of effectiveness in reaching the project goals, the project design
has attempted to stay within implementable and monitorable parameters. Also, given the nature of technology
development efforts and the risk associated with some of these efforts, adequate flexibility has been maintained
in project design to allow for certain initiatives to be piloted if the environment is right (technoparks, venture
capital), rather than conunitting large funds up front. While not part of this project, skill needs of firms would
be monitored through the benchmarking and tracking surveys. Skill deficiencies and constraint to technology
upgrading would be assessed and findings on how to improve the skills delivery would be made available to the
appropriate agencies, including to Bank staff involved in on-going Bank supported education projects.
4. Indicators of Borrower Commitment and Ownership.
The Government is committed to continuing the technology reform and strengthening process started under the first
Tec]:mology Development Project and has requested Bank support for a follow-up project.
Each institution has carried out assessment and feasibility reports of their investments using Turkish and
international consultants. Some have begun to implement the recormnendations of the reports already. TPE has
begun to conduct seminars for sectors that are likely to be most affected with the new IPR laws and has begun to
train its own staff for new WTO related procedures. UME has prepared a detailed prioritization plan for investments
and has started to pay more attention to client feedback through client reports and industry visits. UME has
commissioned a study on the institution's organizational, management and staffing systems and will implement its
recommendations through a detailed action plan. MAM has also begun its transition towards a contractual research
organization by instituting incentives for scientists who initiate contractual research and providing advice to
scientists on negotiation, marketing, and intellectual property rights sharing on contractual research. MAM's
commitment to restructuring is evidenced by the gradual increase in its earnings from contractual research over the
last two years. TTGV has developed its policy and strategy statements with the help of Turkish and international
consultants and has revised its operating procedures and by-laws. It has drafted a comprehensive business plan to



12
reflect TTGV's new focus. In order to accomplish its expanded role TTGV has hired two top level experts from the
private sector in corporate finance, and new technology business areas.
A detailed Project Implementation Plan (PIP) has been prepared for each component. A PIU has been established by
each institution, which would be further trained on Bank procedures and guidelines. A Project Preparation Facility
(PPF) Advance (US$2.5 million) has been instituted for advance preparatory work to be undertaken by project
agencies. A workshop on Bank procurement, disbursement and financial management procedures was organized for
PIUs (in September 1998). A project launch workshop is planned for September 1999.
5. Value Added of Bank Support:
Recent management and OED reviews have suggested that the Bank has an important role to play particularly along
the lines supported in the India, Indonesia, Mexico, Hungary and Korea industrial technology projects. The Bank
has already contributed substantial value added to strengthening the technology infrastructure in Turkey under the
first Technology Development Project. Bank participation in the proposed project would catalyze private sector
participation in technology development and shift the emphasis away from a public-sector driven and largely
ineffectual approach to one that is directly driven by industry's needs.
In the case of several components Bank participation would speed up the reform process (TPE, UME and MAM)
thus accelerating the realization of the benefits of economic integration with the ECU. In other components, such as
the TTGV support for technology development in SMEs and start-up companies, without Bank involvement the
momentum that has built up thus far is not likely to be sustained, and piloting new infrastructure such as venture
capital funds and technoparks, is not likely to be pursued effectively.
On the institution building side, the Bank could contribute immensely in its capacity as an objective overseer of the
reform process and play the role of a broker in bringing together effective partners for each of the institutions that
would advise and participate in building the institutional capabilities. This would ensure effectiveness of current
services in the design and delivery and build in sustainability of these activities for the future.
Bank involvement would also help ensure that difficult measures are taken with regard to increasing the
accountability of several institutions. With Bank involvement, prudent market tests would be applied to components
such as technoparks and venture capital, and fiscal discipline imposed on institutions that are in the process of
restructuring. Based on experience from other countries the Bank could provide the long term support, advice, and
leverage needed during the restructuring phase for the institutions that seek to attain greater fiscal independence and
quality of their services.
E. Summary Project Analysis (see Annex 9 for list of documents containing detailed assessments)
1. Economic (see Annex 5)
Cost-Benefit Analysis
Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[x] Other: A cornerstone of the justification for technology support is the public good nature of technology
development and upgrading due to the high spillovers from such efforts. It is not feasible, given the importance of
externalities in technology development efforts and our limited ability to measure these externalities, to measure
project specific rates of return (such as net present value (NPV) and financial rate of return (FRR)) or accurate
estimations of the benefits that might flow from the proposed investment. Annex 5 contains a discussion of the
direct and indirect benefits from such activities. Where evidence can be found in the existing empirical literature in
this area, plausible ranges for rates of return are also presented. This project, and the monitoring and impact
evaluation information system, that it would implement, is expected to advance our knowledge base on the private
and public benefits of industrial technology projects.
2. Financial
NPV and FRR -- Not applicable (see above)



13
3. Monitoring and Evaluation (see Annex 6)
The monitoring and evaluation indicators have been finalized in consultation with the project agencies and other
stakeholders, on the basis of sensitivity to project inputs, conceptual relevance to project objectives, feasibility of
calculation and parsimony. Three sets of indicators would be used to monitor project progress and achievements:
(il input indicators to keep track of the extent to which implementation meets stated expectations and schedule;
(ii) output indicators to track immediate results of implementation in accordance with project plans; and (iii)
development impact indicators to evaluate the extent to which the project has achieved its objective of improving
technology development in the Turkish industry.
4. Technical
A[l project agencies would strengthen their practices regarding industry feedback mechanisms for the appropriate
delivery of services and effective phasing of their investments. MAM has prepared detailed business plans for the
restructuring of each of the technical institutes. TPE would review the extent of patent examination that can be
outsourced to other patent offices and plan for an optimal amount of in-house technical training on IPR
examination procedures. The TTGV has revised its operating policies and procedures for sub-project selection,
evaluation, and monitoring.
5. Institutional
UME and MAM have reviewed their institutional models and changes to provide them with appropriate
operational and financial autonomy during transition have been adopted. It is expected that UME would be able to
mnaintain a 10-30 percent cost recovery ratio, and MAM would be able to achieve 40-70 percent self sufficiency
during the next five to seven years. Both these institutions are pursuing a dialogue with TUBITAK to arrive at a
long-term arrangement that would allow them to institute incentive mechanisms required for the reform process to
be effective without sacrificing critical public support for their activities.
High staff turnover and institutional systems are identified as a source of concern in UME. The institute has
conducted, with the help of a professional management consultancy firm, a review of its organizational and
m,magement structure, including personnel policies with regard to remuneration, and non-financial incentives.
Based on the recommendations of this report, an institutional development plan would be implemented in
consultation with the Bank.
TTGV's institutional capacity to assist technology development among the private sector would be strengthened. It
would act upon the recommendations of the consultant studies and recruit individuals with appropriate finance and
technology development experience from the private sector as well as further strengthen its operational procedures
and staff skills base in order to sharpen its core business activities and enhance commercial orientation.
The Financial Management Specialist on the mission team has evaluated project agencies' financial management
system (FMS), including accounting, reporting and auditing systems of all four PIUs and appropriate steps have
been taken to design and install such systems with the help of professional consulting firms. The FMS will be tested
and certified prior to project effectiveness and satisfy Bank's requirements for the use of special accounts and
Statement of Expenses (SOEs).
6. Social
None
7. Environmental Aspects:
The project is not expected to cause any environmental problems and thus has been designated Category C.
8. Participatory Approach:
Private sector companies representing firms of all sizes, varying levels of technological complexity and export
orientation, were consulted on the quality of technological services available in the country and constraints facing



14
their growth and expansion. Feedback was also obtained on the services strengthened through TDP-I and some
concrete suggestions gathered on areas of improvement in design and focus. Business associations such as Istanbul
Chamber of Industry (ISO) and the Small and Medium Industry Development Organization (KOSGEB) and their
sector representatives were also consulted to understand the nature of existing services offered by these
organizations as well as their perceptions of industry demand for the near future. Input and involvement from such
organizations would continue to be obtained during project implementation, including using co-financing grants
from TTGV to promote increased provision of technology support services to SMEs.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project is being proposed at a critical juncture when Turkey is embarking on a significant liberalization effort as
part of the European Customs Union. The incentive structure has changed and Turkish industry's demand for
technology services has received a boost in light of this economic integration. These needs are expected to continue
to grow as competition becomes more fierce.
The project has been designed to fill in the infrastructural gaps as well as provide technical assistance with strong
private sector participation, not just in the demand for these services but also in the design delivery and cost sharing
of their delivery. This private-sector focus of the project is designed to promote the sustainability of technology
support services and resources in Turkey. Also, in large part the project builds upon the recent creation of culture of
innovation that is taking root, and through awareness-raising and information dissemination, would continue to
propel the momentum of this change forward. Careful attention would be paid to the institutional capacity building,
not just in terms of upgrading facilities, but strengthening the management as well as staff quality to ensure that the
reform efforts permeates all levels.
Individual institutions supported under the project are being assisted in becoming less dependent on government
fLunding by restructuring their activities to be more industry-oriented and thus revenue generating and self-
sustainable to a large extent in the long run. For example, given that UME provides national level services, it aims
to achieve a cost recovery ratio of between 10-30 percent, a figure equivalent to other similar institutions in
Europe. At the retail level such services are expected to be provided by secondary level laboratories in the private
sector. MAM has reduced its dependence on public funds in the last two years and aims to achieve around 40-70
percent self sufficiency. In addition, an innovative approach would be introduced whereby UME and MAM
would establish Institutional Renewal Accounts (IRA) to be used to sustain their continuous renewal efforts. It
should be possible for institutions to self-finance a rising portion of further improvements and infrastructure
investments in their facilities from the revenues eamed from providing services to industry.
The on-lending terms would comprise a combination of soft loans and grants from the Treasury to the institutions
to encourage a business-like thinking and fiscal discipline in the management and functioning of institutions.
Under TDP-I, TTGV received 100 percent grant to carry out TD finance activities, but with the leaming and
experience of evaluating viable R&D projects behind them now, they would be encouraged to make the transition
towards adopting a business-like approach in lending and hence a mix of soft loan and grant is designed for them.
In addition, TTGV would co-finance 25 percent of sub-finance for TDF sub-projects. In the case of MAM and
UME, the arrangements are designed such that repayments based on the revenues be funneled into an Institutional
Renewal Account from which they could borrow for their future investment needs. Such an IRA would instill a
financial discipline and long-term planning on the institutions without forcing them to adopt short-term financial
austerity measures and sacrifice the delivery of important services. Each institution would phase investment on the
basis of business plans, thus providing adequate attention to the issues of financial sustainability.
The project design has given careful attention to the issue of institutional capacity. Each institution's top and
middle management structures have been reviewed and where necessary, additional measures to strengthen these
structures have been designed. Training, study tours, possible twinning arrangements and other appropriate forms
of technical assistance form a key part of project design in each institute so that the reform process permeates and
strengthens all levels of staff and institutions.



15
2. Critical Risks:
Type of Risk        Risk                    Risk Rating  Risk Minimization Measure
Generic Risks       Serious macro-           M           Turkey possesses a strong and resilient private sector in
(e.g., macro-       economic conditions                  spite of years of macro-economic instability. Integration
economic risks,     may decrease demand                  with the ECU and other major markets provides the
past country        and/or opportunity for               context to increase their demand for adherence to
portfolio failure   firm technological                   international standards and increased investments in
rate based on       upgrading                            technological innovation.
OED project
ratings, etc.)      Lack of counterpart     M            Several of the activities are income generating and hence
funds                                the institutions' own resources have been committed.
Where other counterpart funding is needed,
commitments have been obtained by agencies within the
government system.
Project-Specific Risks Insufficient demand for    M      Preliminary proposals indicate that there is a large
technological                        unfilled and increasing demand for more advanced
infrastructure and                   facilities and technological services. Individual business
services from industry               plans for R&D institutions and technoparks investments
would be evaluated on the basis of evidence of being
demand-driven and cost-sharing by private sector.
Inadequate institutional    M        All agencies would receive appropriate technical
capabilities and their               assistance and training support.
willingness and ability
to adopt appropriate                 TPE is hiring extemal help for project management, and
changes (e.g., TTGV                  will consult with other Patent Offices in the design of
and MAM)                             their institutional strengthening programs such as
training for its staff and awareness raising for industry
and enforcement personnel.
UME's management systems have been reviewed by
international management consulting firm,
recommendations will be implemented by UME.
MAM has engaged intemational consultant to prepare
business plans for each institute. Investment and training
needs will proceed along recommendations made
therein.
TTGV has engaged international consultant to draft its
business plan reflecting a focus on institution
strengthening and a private sector commercialization
and management.
Insufficient            M            Content, design, and delivery of outreach programs for
participation of SMEs                SMEs will proceed on the initiative of business associations
and inability of                     who represent SMEs and experienced private sector
institutions to deliver              practitioners. Cost sharing in these services with the
the outreach programs                beneficiary firms should ensure demand-responsiveness.
TTGV would review these criteria before approving funds
for this purpose.
Provision of            M            Draft NAC law is pending in Parliament. If law does not get
independent                          passed in the near future, the Government would need to
accreditation services               adopt appropriate legislation compatible with intemational
standards.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
*Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



16
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Conditions of Effectiveness:
(i)    Signing of satisfactory Subsidiary Finance Agreements by the Treasury with each Project Agency (LA Sec.
3.01, 6.01(a))
(ii)    Establishment of satisfactory Financial Management System by all Project Agencies (PA Sec. 4.01(a), LA
Sec. 6.01(b))
(iii)    Selection of extemal auditors under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (PA Sec. 4.01(b), LA
Sec. 6.01(c))
(iv)    Adoption of satisfactory business plans by MAM and TTGV (LA Sec. 6.01(d))
(v)    Adoption of satisfactory Institutional Development Plans by all project agencies (LA Sec. 6.01(e))
2. Conditions of Disbursements (apply to respective components).
(i)    Establishment of IRA by MAM under satisfactory terms and conditions (LA Sch. 1, Para 3(b))
(ii)    Establishment of IRA by UME under satisfactory terms and conditions (LA Sch. 1, Para 3(c))
(iii)    Establishment of National Accreditation Council with satisfactory terms and conditions and signing of a
satisfactory protocol between TTGV and the Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade (LA Sch. 1, 3(c))
(iv)    Signing of a satisfactory Y2K protocol between TTGV and State Planning Organization (LA, Sch. 1, 3(d))
3. General Covenants:
(i)    All Project Agencies to submit by October each year, for Bank review, satisfactory Annual Operating Plans
including technical assistance, training and procurement plans (PA Sch., Para 3)
(ii)   A Mid Term Review to be conducted by June 30, 2001, based on satisfactory terms and conditions (LA,
Sch. 5, Para 4(b))
(iii)    All Project Agencies to maintain satisfactory Financial Management Systems including records and
accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting standards satisfactory to the
Bank and annual project accounts and institutional audits to be provided to the Bank within six months of
each year (the audits to be carried out by independent external auditors in accordance with international
accounting standards, and TORs satisfactory to the Bank) (PA Sec. 4.01(b))
(iv)    All Project Agencies to maintain PIUs (and TTGV also CPIU) with satisfactory functions, staffing and
other resources (PA, Sch., Para 1)
(v)    All Project Agencies to maintain satisfactory statues, business plans, policies and strategies, by-laws,
organizational structure, staffing, and operating procedures (PA Sec. 3.04)
(vi)    All Project Agencies to establish (by September 30, 1999) or maintain and operate satisfactory Advisory
Boards based on international best practices on industry feedback mechanisms (TTGV, TPE PA Sec. 3.05;
MAM, UME PA Sec. 3.06)
(vii)   All Project Agencies to implement the project in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan (LA,
Sch. 5, Sec. 1)
(viii)   All Project Agencies in coordination with the Borrower to monitor project performance in accordance with
the satisfactory monitoring indicators framework (LA, Sch. 5, Para 4(a)(b))
(ix)    The Borrower to maintain satisfactory operations of NAC in conformance with international guidelines
(LA, Sch. 5, Para 2)
4. Institution Specific Covenants:
UME:
(i)    UME to maintaining satisfactory organizational autonomy model with an optimal balance between
autonomy and stability of institutional enviromnent (PA Sec. 3.05)
(ii)   UME to operate IRA with satisfactory policies and procedures, and to contribute from its revenues at least
US$8 million into an IRA during the 2001-2012 period (PA, Sch., Para 2)



17
TPE:
(i)    TPE to take all measures to ensure that the World Trade Organization carry out, by December 31, 2001, or
other date as the Bank shall agree, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, a review of compliance of the
Turkish Industrial Property Rights Regime with the standards of the Council of Trade Related Intellectual
Property Rights (TRIPs) agreement (PA, Sch., Para 2)
(ii)    TPE to, by December 31 of every two calendar years, starting in calendar year 1999, carry out, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank, an exercise to benchmark the pricing of its services and the duration of its
processing time with comparable patent offices in other European countries (PA, Sch., Para 3)
MAM:
(i)    MAM  to maintaining satisfactory organizational autonomy model with an optimal balance between
autonomy and stability of research environment (PA Sec. 3.05))
(ii)   MAM to operate IRA with satisfactory policies and procedures, and to contribute from its revenues at least
US$10 mnillion into an IRF during the 2001-2012 period (PA, Sch., Para 2)
(iii)    Each sub-project for investments in MAM's technical institutions and other activities to be based on
satisfactory business plan subject to Bank's prior review (PA, Sch., Para 3)
(iv)    MAM to generate adequate contractual income to cover at least 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 62%, and 70% of
its total annual expenditures during the year 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, and 2004, respectively (PA
Sec. 4.03)
TTGV:
(i)    TTGV to maintain satisfactory criteria for R&D financing including TDF sub-projects, technology service
centers, venture capital funds and technoparks (PA, Annex to the Sch., Para 1)
(ii)    TTGV to develop by August 31, 1999, and adopt by September 30, 1999, satisfactory technology support
services programs (PA, Sch., Para 3)
(iii)    TTGV to take all measures to assist UFT in the establishment of NAC (PA, Sch., Para 4)
(iv)    TTGV to take all measures to assist SPO to prepare and fumish to the Bank by August 31, 1999, an
implementation plan for carrying out the Y2K pilot program (PA, Sch., Para 5)
(v)    TTGV to demonstrate satisfactory (at least 75% with a target of 90%) collection rate on its total technology
development financing portfolio in order to utilize project funds over $20 million (PA, Annex to the Sch.,
Para 8)
H. Readiness for Implementation
1. The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[x] Under preparation [] Not applicable.
3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Each agency to install satisfactory financial management systems.



18
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team  Leader:    i b Goel
Sectdok ifo:ta       okros
C-ountry Director: Ajay Chhibber



19
Annex 1
Turkey: Industrial Technology Project
Project Design Summary
Sunmunry                           Key Pefortwace Indicators?           Monitoringgand Evalution   CiiaMtt~do
Method-
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                          (Goal to Bank Mission)
Enhancing international           Increased exports into new markets    Annual industrial and      To enhance
competitiveness.                   from Turkey, increase in             trade statistics.          competitiveness through
technological sophistication of                                productivity increases
exports, increased market shares in  ESW reports.              contributes to growth
destination markets.                                           and poverty alleviation.
Project Development Objective:                                                                     (Objective to Goal)
Promote integration with ECU       Acceptance of metrology traceability    Progress reports from   Continued adherence to
through harmonization of           procedures intemationally, increased  agencies.                the ECU.
technology infrastructure system.  awareness of metrology-productivity
link among firms.                    Survey of firms           No major changes in the
Enhance firm-level competitiveness                                      conducted by SIS.          policy and regulatory
through private sector investments    Intemational recognition of valid                            environment affecting
in technology development.         IPR system in Turkey by ECU/WTO,    Supervision reports        the trade & industrial
increase in licensing and other                                 sectors.
technology transfer agreements,      Evaluation reports (MTR,
increase in R&D activity, improved   ICR).
protection of IPR in Turkey.
Increased awareness of R&D activity
among private sector, increased
investments in technology upgrading,
introduction of new products and
processes into new markets by
private sector.
Relevant industrial research being
conducted for Turkish industry.
Outputs:                                                                                           (Outputs to Objective)
Upgraded industrial property rights    Reduction in processing time of IPR  Progress reports from  No major changes in the
system created in Turkey.          applications, increase in foreign and  agencies.                policy and regulatory
domestic applicants for IPR                                    environment affecting the
protection.                          Survey of firms            trade & industrial sectors.
conducted by SIS.
Improved metrology capabilities    Increased coverage of metrology
within Turkey.                     services, demonstration of cost      Supervision reports
savings to Turkish industry.
Evaluation reports (MTR,
Provision of sources of finance and    Number of firms supported in their  ICR)
technical assistance to promote   investments in R&D projects,
private sector investments in      number of these efforts that are
technology development.            commercialized, increase in
productivity of beneficiary firms.
Technology institutions realigned to   Reduced dependence on govemment
the needs of Turkish industry.     budget, increased share of contract
research in total output, increase in
joint projects between participating
technology institutions and industry.
- See appendix to Annex 6.
See Annex 6.



20
Project Components/ Sub-             (US                                       re oillion)                (Ciomponents to
components                                                                                                Outputs)
Strengthening of industrcial property   15.00                                Progress reports from        Comitment to
rights serviceso                                                             agencies.                    institution building to
*    expanding physical familities                                                                        manage and sustain new
and documentation and                                                   Survey of firms              investments would
infosnation center;                                                     conducted by SIS.           remain.
*    training for staffi                                                                                          a
R    training of enforcement                                                 Disbursement reports.        Firms will be interested in
personnel;                                                                                           upgrading technological
    awareness raising among                                                 Audit reports.               capability and using
industry & consumers.                                                                                technology servuces.
Strengthening of metrology           33.00                                                                Institupons will be able to
servicesc                                                                                                 brdge the 'culture gap'
*    expanding farilities;                                                                                between themselves and
*    training for staff,                                                                                  industry and to adopt
*    technology transfer to                                                                               commercsal focus.
industry.
Restructuring of R&D institutions:   33.00
f upgrading laboratory facilities
of individual institutes;
*    training of staffn
*     awareness raising for industry.
Supporting  technology upgrading     60.00
by firms:
    teFhnology development
finanUe;
S  venture capital;
S  teehnology servi6 e centers;
e    technoparks;
*technology support services
for SMEs;
*technical assistance & training
for staff;
*NAC and Y2K pilot support.
Fees             1.55
Unallocated      12.45
Total            155.00
4 See appendix to Annex 6.
5See Annex 6.



21
Annex 2
Turkey: Industrial Technology Project
Detailed Project Description
A. Strengthening Industrial Property Rights Services
1.  The project would support activities necessary to bring Turkish IPR systems in conformance with ECU
requirements. The project would do so by: (i) supporting technical assistance and training to TPE to help improve
its operation and proceedings to bring harmonization with international agreements, (ii) re-organization of the
workflows of TPE staff to streamline the processes and meet legal and administrative requirements, upgrading EDP
systems, expansion of the knowledge base of the current staff through training in handling new procedures,
conducting search, examinations, and preparation of examiners report. As part of upgrading TPE's infrastructure,
the construction of a new building would be supported to accommodate the expansion and upgrading of proposed
activities, (iii) increasing the awareness of new IP regime among consumers, industry, R&D managers and technical
staff, as well as academics through workshops, symposia, and distribution of basic documentation, (iv) establishing
of dedicated information centers with state of the art documentation and dissemination facilities that are easily
accessible to customers would also be supported within TPE, and (v) supporting TPE in improving the enforcement
of IP issues through improved training of judicial personnel.
B. Strengthening Metrology Services
2.  The project would support expansion of UME's facilities to serve a greater portion of the country's metrology
needs. The overall strategy for the future development of UME's measurement services involves upgrading (i) the
existing measurement services by improving the efficiency with which the measurements are performed; (ii)
embarking upon measurement services in new areas such as chemical and medical metrology. The project would do
so by financing new building, equipment, consultancy, training, and related costs. In addition to expanding the
scope of the metrology institute through investment in its laboratories, developing a two way industrial interface and
building up technology transfer is also a key element of the project. A specific program for technology transfer
would seek to maximize the benefit of the laboratory's activities through transfer of new measurement technologies
to customers, training and advice on best practice in existing technologies, consultancy services, establishing
licensing arrangements, producing newsletters and developing educational aids.
3.  Strengthening UME's promotional activities would also be supported. These activities would concentrate on
increasing awareness among industry of the national measurement system, its structure, and the benefits that a
particular company or a particular activity can obtain from proper use of metrology. Technical assistance in the
design and delivery of these promotion and outreach activities would form a key part of the project. UME's
organizational and management systems would be strengthened to be compatible with the increased coverage of the
institute's activities as well as greater interaction with the needs of industry. Technical staff would be trained in the
newer areas of metrology and support would also be provided to the institute for working with other educational and
technical institutions to develop metrology-related skills within the country.
C. Restructuring of R&D Institutions
4.  The project would support the restructuring of the network of MAM's seven technical institutions. Since its
inception MAM has played the role of a premier national research institute, but focus is now turning to a more
direct application and utilization of the R&D investment for industry. MAM's goal is to conduct greater contractual
research for industry with a much larger share of its future income generated through contracts research and with a
reduced support from Government funding. In order to accomplish these goals, the project would support
investments in (i) decentralization of responsibility to the individual technical institutes, (ii) stronger management
for strategic planning, change management, and business development, (iii) human resource development, through
training for project management, development of management capabilities, quality control methods, in order to
meet potential client needs, (iv) introduction of a full cost accounting system, (v) establishment of profit centers for
each institute, (vi) introduction of annual budgetary procedures which would ensure realistic levels of charges for
projects and services, (vii) strengthening internal contract management capacity, and (viii) investments for
upgrading its infrastructure and laboratory facilities, TP pilot, IT network and office equipment.



22
D. Supporting Technology Upgrading by Firms
5.  The project would continue to support the technological upgrading activities of Turkish private sector firms
through the TTGV. TTGV, established in 1991 under Vakif Law, is an independent non-profit Foundation managed
by a private sector majority Board. It supports technology development activities, including on-lending of funds
and taking credit risk. TTGV covers its administrative expenses from its income and does not receive budgetary
support from the Government. The core activity of the Foundation would be the co-financing of product and process
R&D among private enterprises, with an emphasis on SMEs. Special emphasis on promoting linkages between the
R&D institutions and Turkish industry would be pursued. It would put greater focus on the commercial and
sustainability aspects. In order to support a successful transformation to a greater risk-taking and a more hands-on
approach the project would support the institution building efforts of TTGV. TTGV plans to establish few regional
offices as it expands its business. It should consider moving its headquarters to Istanbul area, a high industrial
center in the country in order to serve its clients more effectively. Assistance and advice would be provided in
increasing private sector representation in the composition of the executive level staff, improvement of financial
management and treasury functions as well as in supporting the training needs for staff and management engaged in
its core business as well as in new business areas.
11.  TTGV would support technology service centers by catalyzing their formation with minor financial
participation. It would stimulate the creation of venture capital by supporting a few VCFs in high-tech industries.
Alongside, TTGV would need to promote greater understanding of VC finance in the country to promote the
culture of VC in Turkey. Similarly, minor participation in technopark investments would be supported by TTGV.
It would stimulate pro-active information dissemination methods for SMEs through the support of outreach
programs that offer technical and managerial support to firms. TTGV would also assist UFT in the establishment
of the NAC and the State Planning Organization (SPO) in the piloting of a small Y2K program.



23
Annex 3
Turkey: Industrial Technology Project
Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
1. Summary of Project Costs. The total costs of the proposed project are estimated at US$387.00 million (Table
3.1), including contingencies, taxes and duties. Physical contingencies (10 percent) are estimated at US$11.09
million. Price contingencies between August 1998 and the end of the four-year project implementation period
would amount to about US$2.55 million, or 2.3 percent of base costs (contingencies have not been applied to R&D
financing as it is a line of credit component with unknown private sector contribution). The foreign exchange
component is estimated at about US$251.60 million, including contingencies, or about 65 percent of total cost.
Taxes and duties are estimated at US$25.16 million equivalent. The total project cost includes study tours, training,
technical assistance, studies, computer hardware and software, equipment, financing of R&D investments and civil
works.
Table 3.1: Project Cost Summary by Component
(US$ million)
Foreign Local Total Foreign as Component as
percent of   percent of
total    total base
costs
1. Strengthening Industrial Property Right Services (TPE)  11.49   5.72  17.21    66.76  4.84
2. Strengthening Metrology Services (UME)        27.94   9.87  37.80    73.90       10.62
3. Restructuring R&D Institutions (MAM)          28.92   8.77  37.69    76.74       10.59
4. Supporting Technology Upgrading by Firms (TTGV)   160.89  102.27 263.16    61.14  73.95
Total Baseline Costs             229.25  126.62 355.87   64.42       100.00
Physical Contingencies                         8.22   2.86  11.09    74.18
Price Contingencies                            1.89   0.66   2.55    74.18
Fees and Unallocated                           12.24   5.26  17.50    69.92
Total Project Costs              251.60 135.40 387.00   65.01
B. Project Financing
2.     The proposed Bank Loan of US$155 million would finance about 40 percent of total project costs (or about
58 percent of foreign costs, and 6 about percent of local costs); of this loan amount, 95 percent (US$147.2 million)
would go towards the foreign exchange costs and 5 percent (US$7.7 million) towards local costs, excluding taxes
and duties (US$25.16 million). Tables 3.2 and 3.3 below provide the summary of costs by component, expenditure
category and financier. Further details are presented in PIP.



24
Table 3.2: Summary of Costs by Component and by Financier
(US$ million)
IBRD   Private   Govt.  Internal   Total
Sector           Funds
I. Strengthening Industrial Property Right Services (TPE)  15.00    0.72    2.15  1.47    19.33
2. Strengthening Metrology Services (UME)         33.00    0.30    7.08     2.07    42.45
3. Restructuring R&D Institutions (MAM)          33.00    0.62    5.89      2.82    42.32
4. Supporting Technology Upgrading by Firms (TTGV)   60.00   153.79   30.74    20.86   265.39
Sub-total                                 141.00   155.42   45.86    29.22   369.50
Unallocated                                       12.45    1.50    0.00     2.00    15.95
Fees                                              1.55     0.00    0.00     0.00     1.55
Total Project Costs                       155.00   156.92   45.86    29.22   387.00
Table 3.3: Summary of Costs by Expenditure Category and Financier
(US$ million)
IBRD   Government Private Sector/  Total
Agencies
Civil Works                                       17.60      4.83        1.03       23.46
Goods
Laboratory Equipment                              39.80      7.80        3.34       54.02
Office / IT Equipment                              6.02      1.05        0.63       6.30
Other Goods                                        1.48      0.21        0.20       1.64
Total Goods Cost                                  47.30      9.07        4.18       61.95
R&D Financing                                     49.00      30.00      166.00     245.00
Consultant Services and Training
Architect. & Engg. Design Fees                     2.68      0.00        0.54       3.22
Training                                           7.13      0.60        1.69       7.88
Technical Assistance                              17.30      1.35        9.21       27.98
Subtotal Technical Assist. & Training             27.11      1.96        11.43      39.08
Sub-total                                         141.00    45.86       182.49     369.50
Unallocated and Fees                              14.00      0.00        3.50       17.50
Total Costs                                       155.00     45.86      186.14   J 387.00



25
Annex 4
Turkey: Industrial Technology Project
Project Implementation Arrangements
Project Management
1. Overall responsibility for the coordination of the proposed project rests with the Treasury, while the activities
planned under the project would be managed and implemented by the Project Implementation Units of the various
institutions concerned. The Central PIU established at the TTGV would also act as the coordination unit for
purposes of collecting project progress reports from the individual PIJs established under the various components.
All disbursements, accounting and financial reporting would be the responsibility of each PIU of TPE, UME, MAM
and TTGV.
Agreements Between Borrower and Implementation Agencies
2. The Borrower is the Government of the Republic of Turkey represented by its Treasury. Assurances have been
obtained from the administration that adequate funding, based on the pToject financing plan, would be made
available to project agencies in a timely manner and necessary steps would be taken to expedite the procurement
procedures related to major equipment.
Implementation Arrangements by Component
3. The paragraphs below discuss implementation arrangements and activities for each component. Detailed
implementation schedules related to the specific components are presented in the PIP.
(i) Strengthening Industrial Property Rights Services. TPE would be responsible for upgrading its
physical infrastructure through new building campus and equipment purchases. For upgrading the
skills of its staff, TPE would explore training arrangements with other patent offices. For formal
training of judges, attomeys and patent agents, TPE would work with universities in helping them
institute IPR courses into their curriculum. TPE would operate an advisory panel comprising industry
and judicial system representatives which would assist in the focus and design of all such programs.
Informal training through workshops and seminars for the consumers, scientific and business
community to raise awareness would also be TPE's responsibility.
(ii) Strengthening Metrology Services. UME would be responsible for upgrading the metrology
infrastructure through new metrology building and laboratory equipment purchases. UME would also
be in charge of technology transfer programs for industry and information dissemination to firms. For
upgrading the skills of its staff UME would make arrangements for training and technical assistance
from other metrology institutes. UME would also implement the recommendations on its
organizational and managerial system study. For review and advice, UME would rely on the industry
feedback mechanisms that it will strengthen, and the industry/peer reviewer advisory panel that will be
expanded.
(iii) Restructuring of R&D Institutions. MAM would be responsible for the restructuring of the network of
its institutions. The sequencing and extent of investment in each institute would be determined on the
basis of demand from industry and specifics of each institute which would be detailed in the business
plans. MAM would also strengthen industry feedback mechanisms and seek advice from industry
review panels. MAM would also be responsible for the training of its staff on technical aspects,
contractual research and marketing of their activities to industry.
(iv) Supporting Technology Upgrading by Firms. TTGV would be responsible for the overall coordination
of the improvement in private sector participation in technology related activities. It would continue to
implement the co-financing of technology development activities with participant firms with the
maximum sub-loan size of US$2.0 million per firm (US$1.5 million from Bank funds), and a
minimum of 30% of project costs to come from the beneficiary firms' intemal resources. The sub-



26
project selection would be on a competitive basis using the technical merits, costs of the project,
likelihood of commercialization of output, and the business and financial projections of the applicant
as criteria for evaluation. During the review and evaluation process of R&D proposals TTGV would
involve qualified personnel from universities, technology institutions, and private sector and a special
emphasis would be placed on promoting linkages between the R&D institutions and Turkish industry.
In addition, the project would support joint-ventures between the R&D institutions and Turkish
industry for the establishment of technology service centers and technoparks. In order to make the
transition towards a more participatory approach in TD financing, TTGV would institute and organize
training programs and study tours for their own management and staff and the sub-project reviewers
In the case of venture capital, TTGV would start with awareness-raising and demand-assessment
seminars for industry and the banking sector in collaboration with the Capital Markets Board (CMB).
If the environment is conducive to encouraging VCFs, then TTGV would facilitate their formation
through minority (up to US$4.0 million or 20-30%) equity participation in two VCFs in high-tech
sectors that would be managed and operated by the private sector. Technopark investments would be
piloted in a phased manner on the basis of well defined business plans and entry and exit criteria. Two
or three technopark proposals could be funded up to 20% or USS2.5 million, whichever is smaller.
TTGV would apply consistent subproject evaluation criteria, which have been developed by
intemational consultants, to each technopark proposal. TTGV would support technology service
centers with minor (maximum 20% investment, exceptional cases 10% equity participation, upper
limit of US$ 1.0 million per center). While these centers could be located in universities or have strong
university support behind them, each center would need to be promoted by an industry association (or
group of private companies). Once established they would be managed by the private sector. Criteria
for their selection, financing, and exit policy of TTGV has been developed by TTGV with the help of
consultants.
TTGV would act as a coordinator in the awareness-raising, match-making and dissemination of
information to SMEs. Design of these services would be undertaken by business associations such as
the ISO and possibly other NGOs. Delivery of these services would be demand driven, conducted by
the private sector, and on a substantial cost sharing basis with the beneficiaries. TTGV would also
assist (based on a satisfactory protocol between TTGV and UFT/NAC) the Undersecretariat of Foreign
Trade (UFT) in the establishment of the National Accreditation Council. Once established, the
independent NAC, which would be managed by a private sector Board, would take over the
responsibility for the accreditation services and quality campaigns for the industry. Assessment work
on the Y2K component is underway. The Government has set up a committee to coordinate this work.
Once this work is completed, appropriate implementation arrangements would be made (based on a
satisfactory protocol to be signed between TTGV and SPO) that do not involve TTGV directly beyond
the simple administration of funds.
A Central PIU (CPIU) would also operate in TTGV to coordinate reporting, development impact
measurement and other common aspects of the project. Impact measurement studies would involve
firm level surveys that would be conducted by the State Institute of Statistics (SIS) towards the
beginning, middle and end of the project. The training and technical assistance needs of the SIS
required to facilitate such impact measurement would be coordinated through the CPIU in TTGV.
On-lending Arrangements
4. Bank funds would be lent to the Government to be passed on to project agencies in the form of loans and grants
(in US dollars) under Subsidiary Finance Agreements. The terms of grants and loans reflect the respective roles of
project agencies, their ability to pay through revenues generated from industry, expected reduction in dependence
on the government budget, and the public-good nature of the services they provide. For soft loans, the duration of
loans will be same as the World Bank loan to the Govemment, i.e. 5 years grace period and 17 years maturity.
Foreign exchange risk on loan portion would be bom by respective agencies. The proposed arrangements are as
follows:



27
(i)    TPE, UME and MAM: 75 percent grant and 25 percent soft loan (interest free). However, UME
and MAM would set up a separate Institution Renewal Account and contribute from their
revenues US$8 million and US$10 million, respectively, into the IRA during 2001-2012. The loan
portion of the funds would be repaid by the agencies to Turkish Treasury in US dollars, with
agencies carrying the foreign exchange risk.
(ii)    TTGV: 50 percent grant and 50 percent soft loan (interest free) for sub-finance. Funding for
technical assistance, training, TSS, NAC and Y2K programs would be on a 100 percent grant
basis to TTGV. As in the case of other agencies, the repayment of the loan portion of the funds by
TTGV to Turkish Treasury would be in US dollars. TTGV would utilize these funds for making
loans/equity for technology development projects and new activities such as TSC, VCF and TP,
under terms and conditions based on appropriate policies and procedures acceptable to the Bank.
TTGV would provide sub-finance to enterprises in US dollars with enterprises carrying the
foreign exchange risk. The sub-finance terms would include mnaturities of up to 6 years including
up to 3 years grace period. This sub-finance will not carry interest charge, but TTGV would
charge one-time 9 percent fee for TDF projects with 5 year maturity including 1 year grace. In
case of VCF these are likely to be equity investments by TTGV.



28
Annex 5
Turkey: Industrial Technology Project
Economic Analysis6
Strengthening of Industrial Property Rights Services
I.  While industrial property rights are a topic of intense debate currently, perhaps the best way to describe the
role of an IPR system is as a response to a market failure associated with the public good nature of knowledge
creation. Patents, by creating a property right that can be profitably and usefully exploited, provides economic
actors an incentive to devote more resources to innovation. This definition of the role of patents should also be
expanded to include its function in diffusing technology. A patent document is a contract between the inventor and
the Government: the Government bestows exclusivity in manufacture, sale, and use to the inventor in exchange for
the disclosure of the information contained in the patented invention. Every patent document outlines the invention
in some amount of detail, allowing future inventors to learn of its existence and thus foster "inventing around." This
is called the disclosure element of the patent system, and is supposed to be in society's interest because it
encourages further innovation. Thus short term costs in terms of loss of consumers' welfare from awarding
temporary monopolies are pitted against the long term benefits of encouraging greater innovation and diffusion of
those innovations.
2.  No empirical study has or can measure the net social gains and losses from strengthening patent regimes.
However, progress has been made in estimating the private benefits from patent protection in a few countries, i.e.,
the value of patent protection to the inventor has been estimated. Patent values follow a rather skewed distribution
with most patents being worth relatively little. Estimates of the private return to patenting are available for three
developed countries - UK, France and Germany. On average, patents yield US$30,000 in the UK and France, and
nearly US$80,000 in Germany7. Estimates for developing countries are hard to estimate due to data limitations, and
exist for only one developing country - India8. Returns to patenting in India are substantially smaller -- around
US$3,0009.
3.  Using estimates on private returns to patenting, then estimates of the appropriability of R&D investments
through the patent system are also calculated. Again, for European countries this ratio is between 15-20 percent, i.e.,
between 15 to 20 percent of expenditures are recouped back through patents, or in one sense, this is the extent of the
implicit subsidy to (successful) innovation that the industrial property system offers in these countries. These
estimates are also often used to quantify the extra inducement to undertake R&D investments that patent protection
provides.
4.   An important point to note is that the value of a strong patenting system varies differently across sectors. The
pharmaceutical, chemical, metallurgy and medical equipment sectors for instance use patents extensively and rely
on them to protect their innovations. Others such as mechanical engineering sectors may rely on other instruments
(or natural barriers to imitation) to prevent imitation. Hence while one might construe that on average the additional
incentive to invest in R&D is around 15-20 percent, this estimate may be revised significantly upwards or
downwards for certain sectors.
5.   Studies have also tried to gain insights into the value of patent protection in bringing about innovation by using
survey data to find out what fraction of innovations would not have come about without patenting. The results
6 The overall nature of this project does not lend itself to a traditional cost benefit or cost effectiveness analysis of the proposed
investments. Therefore, an attempt has been made to present a comprehensive but relevant discussion of the potential benefits
from the proposed activities along with providing justification of the public good nature of the investments. Where possible
econometric estimates of rates of return from the relevant literature are also provided.
7Schankerman, M. and A. Pakes (1986) "Estimates of the Value of Patent Rights in European Countries during the post-1950
Period," Economic Journal, Vol. 96.
' Luthria, M (1996) "Intellectual Property Protection In A Developing Country: How Much And For Whom? Estimates Of The
Private Value Of Patent Protection In India," Ph.D. Dissertation, Georgetown University.
9 All estimates are expressed in 1995 US dollar prices.



29
revealed that 65 percent of the existing innovation in the pharmnaceutical industry, 30 percent in chemicals, 18
percent in petroleum, 15 percent in machinery, 12 percent in metal products, 8 percent in primary metals, 4 percent
in electrical machinery, 1 percent in machinery and 0 percent in office equipment, motor vehicles, rubber, and
textiles would not have occurred were patent protection unavailable to the innovations 10.
6.  For developing countries it is perhaps not an exaggeration to say that the importance of strong patents regimes
is more critical in the area of technology transfer than in the area of technology generation. Evidence exists from
surveys which shows that funis in the US, Japan, and Germany, particularly in some sectors are very sensitive to the
IPR regime prevailing in the host country in their decision to transfer technologyl 1. Executives stated their
reluctance to transfer technology to a country where they were afraid they would lose control of it, and in some
cases resorted to transferring old and outdated technology if the IPR regime prevailing was not conducive. Some
evidence also points in the direction of treating weak IPRs as barriers to trade. In order to prevent imitation, firms
that export into countries with weak IPRs must incur additional costs for either monitoring and policing, or of
"masking" the technology in such a way that it could not be copied easily. These additional expenditures imposed
an implicit "tax" on exports and limit trade benefits. Thus weak IPRs can not only deny inventors the additional
incentive to incur costly and uncertain innovative actives, but can also constrain the country's ability to attract
enough foreign direct investment and facilitate technology purchase by local firms.
Strengthening of Metrology Services
7.  All countries require a national measurement system, which entails the necessary technical and administrative
infrastructure to allow businesses and organizations to make measurements to the accuracy they require. Each
measurement is expressed in terms of a unit and the standards of these units form the core of the national
measurement system. For many sectors, traceable measurement, i.e., formal links back to the national measurement
system are of considerable importance and often the existence of a comprehensive measurement infrastructure
becomes a precondition for competitiveness in a modem industrialized economy. The links between the national
measurement system and competitiveness are seen most clearly in the context of three areas: (i) facilitation of free
and open trade, (ii) promotion of quality, and (iii) encouraging innovation and the spread of new technology.
8.  The role of standards and metrology as an important policy instrument for addressing all three of the above
issues is being increasingly recognizedl2. Evidence corroborating a high correlation between quality certification
and export orientation of a firm is increasing. Further, when export orientation is separated out to reveal the
markets, which are being exported to, firms without quality certification tend not to be able to export to
industrialized markets13.
9.  The justification for public funding of these national measurement systems lies in the nature of measurement
standards themselves. Since a measurement standard will typically be used by a very wide range of individuals and
firms, the investment necessary to develop and maintain it will yield benefits which accrue to all. The private
benefits to be obtained from committing funds to work on measurement standards are therefore generally
overshadowed by the broader benefits they confer to the community as a whole which makes for a strong
disincentive to invest by individual firms. Left to itself therefore the private sector can be expected to devote fewer
resources to the development of measurement standards than is desirable from the point of view of the economy as a
whole. Further, if govermment funding from these services was not strong, and complete cost recovery through fees
was attempted, it would be likely to discourage potential users of standards and set companies at a disadvantage vis-
a-vis their international competitors.
10.  In the absence of a suitable and traceable measurement standard Turkish firms would bear direct or indirect
costs in the form of (i) sending equipment outside the country, which adds to the "down time" and often additional
Mansfield, E. (1986) "Patents and Innovation: An Empirical Study", Management Science. February issue
Mansfield, E. (1995) "Intellectual Property Protection, Direct Investment, & Technology Transfer," IFCDiscussion Paper 27.
12 Dahlman, C (1993) "Challenges And Opportunities: The Increasing Importance of Standards as an Element of a Country's
Competitive Position in the Global Marketplace," The Role of Standardization in Economic Development: Proceedings of an
International Seminar, The World Bank, Washington DC.
'3 "Malaysia: Enterprise Training, Technology, and Productivity," The World Bank, UNDP, and the Government of Malaysia.



30
rnachinery needs to be purchased to cover this time, (ii) transport costs are high, especially for expensive and fragile
machinery, (iii) access to local specialist equipment and facilities which enables local firms to carry out R&D to
improve products and processes is not possible.
11.  SMEs are particularly disadvantaged because they can not bear huge shipping costs for calibration abroad
and hence can not demonstrate compliance with international directives. Survey data from Turkey shows that
compared to larger firms, SMEs have been found to be much less likely to have quality control and testing
equipment. Whereas 59 percent of large firms use precision measurement and testing instruments in production,
only 26 percent of SMEs use the same to verify accuracy in production. Whereas 23 percent of medium to large
firms have adopted ISO 9000 process control measures, among small firms only 5.8 percent have done so. This
sharp differential in quality control focus related to size of the firm highlights an area of priority for policy makers
and is an issue in most developing countries. It also emphasizes the need to instill quality consciousness through
information dissemination, quality control training, and making the testing infrastructure easier to access for these
firms. Strengthening UME's capabilities would allow a greater range of services to be available locally for Turkish
firms. In terms of pricing, UME services are to be priced lower than other comparable institutes. When
transportation costs are taken into account it is expected that other institutes would turn out to be about four times as
expensive. In addition, costs in terms of losses of production time and loss of access to the skills of scientists locally
can not be computed but should be borne in mind when making comparisons.
12.  The interaction between national measurement systems and the economies they support are complex and
diverse. There are considerable difficulties involved in assessing the likely future demand for measurement
infrastructure and services in a rapidly developing economy such as that of Turkey. Recently the commercial
environment in Turkey has started to undergo a radical transformation - an opening of the economy throughout the
ECU and also process of privatization. The ECU has stimulated trade, particularly imports of raw materials and
investment goods and exports of consumeT goods. An econometric model was therefore fitted to run simulations on
the benefit scenarios from strengthening metrology services - or to compute the economic importance of the
recommended enhancements to U ME's capabilities to Turkish enterprises through the improved future provision of
measurement capabilities and standards. The assumption made is that the Turkish economy will continue to increase
trade and attempt harmonization with other economies in Europe. Using the expected measurement needs of a
'typical' economy as a model, Turkey's metrology needs and benefits from it are calculated.
13.  The methodology for calculation of benefits relies firstly on a scoring across sectors according to the strength
of metrology needs that each sector faces. Elasticities of productivity with respect to metrology infrastructure are
then calculated. Using these elasticities, growth rates of value added across sectors are calculated in the presence
and absence of such metrology services over a ten year horizon. The differential in the net present value of the value
added between the two scenarios is considered the economic surplus attributed to metrology services in the
economy. In the model estimated14, the ratio of this economic surplus to the cost of new services works out to be
42, which is considered quite high for public sector investments.
14.  Two points are noteworthy in placing this expected benefit into context. First, while there are generally two
ways in which the benefit of implementing the proposed enhancement and installation of new services could be
delivered to the industrial beneficiaries, viz., through an expansion of sales (through improved product designs) or
via a reduction in production costs (due to process optimization or QA). In the simple version of the model, the
extra economic surplus from two channels of benefit delivery are not separated but rather estimated together. The
second point is that the elasticities used in this model are based on those computed for 'typical' European economies
which are considerably more advanced than the Turkish economy. It is in fact reasonable to assume that the Turkish
industries are starting at a lower base than their European counterparts. Hence the elasticities, and consequently the
economic surplus estimation, is, if anything, an underestimation of the potential true benefit to the Turkish
economy.
15.  An alternative approach is used by UME to calculate the economic impact of metrology services. This
approach looks at the number of measurements that are performed as a result of UME's activities. It is estimated
that for each calibration that UME performs, 40 measurements are performed bv the secondary laboratories. The
i4 The model was simulated by the Scientific Generics group, UK. Due to the proprietary nature of this model, none of the actual
estimates are available for presentation here.



31
average value of these secondary measurement is about half the value of a measurement performed at UME. So for
each dollar of UME calibrations, US$0.5 worth of calibration is done by secondary laboratories. This argument is
extended to measurements done at lower laboratories such as industrial laboratories and during the production
process. These measurements are valued at one-fourth and one-twentieth the value of UME measurements
respectively. This basic argument is presented in Table 5.1 below.
Table 5.1 
Traceability        Measurements        Unit Value           Added Value
UME                 Xi                  1                    1                   1
Secondary Labs      X40                 40                  0.50                 20
Industrial Labs     X50                 2,000               0.25                 500
Production          X100                200,000             0.05                 10,000
Total               _                   202,041                                  10,521
16.  In 1997, UME performed 11 5 0 calibrations and the average value for each calibration was $196. Therefore,
Table 5.1 can be computed with actual numbers which are presented in Table 5.2.
Table 5.2
Traceability        Measurements        Unit Value           Added Value
UME                 Xi                  1,150                196                 225,400
Secondary Labs      X40                 46,000              98                   4,508,000
Industrial Labs     X50                 2,300,000           49                   112,700,000
Production          X100                230,000,000          10                  2,254,000,000
Total              I_232,347,150                            _                    2,371,433,400
17.  Table 5.2 shows that US$2.37 billion worth of measurement was done in 1997 due to the operation of UME.
This constitutes 1.2 percent of Turkish GDP. In addition to the production process, systematic measurements are
demanded by legal metrology, military and special purposes (health, environment, security etc.). Such
measurements are estimated to be 20 percent of industrial measurements, and when added together with the earlier
numbers yields a total figure of US$4.31 billion, which corresponds to 2.2 percent of GDP.
Restructuring R&D Institutions
18. Until recently, the connection between technological development of industry and scientific research in R&D
institutions has been relatively ignored in the framing of the science and technology policies of nations. In some
countries this has been due to the fact that researchers based in research institutions traditionally have had few
incentives to collaborate with their counterparts in industry and often there have been strong cultural and legal
reasons for the lack of collaboration. Industry on the other hand has either found it unnecessary, prohibitively
expensive, or intimidating, to seek collaborations with scientific institutions. In recent years however two changes
have come about: industry everywhere is finding it necessary to respond to the challenges of globalization and
increased international competition by increasing their competitiveness -- which often means paying greater
attention to cost and quality -- which in turn is often a function of the mix of techniques and vintage of technology
being adopted. This has made industry sensitive to the potential of augmenting local scientific infrastructure. On the
other hand, R&D institutions are turning to industry due to the cuts in financial assistance that most governments are
imposing on these institutions.
19. A close and judicious alliance between these two can be a win-win situation. Industry can count on the existing
expertise in R&D institutions to develop better products and processes; and institutions can attract private funding to
fill in their budget gaps and prevent years of scientific infrastructure from going to waste. Since countries are only
recently beginning to experiment with such a re-orientation of their scientific institutions, it is difficult to point
towards the most effective models under a wide range of circumstances.
20. Some lessons have emerged however from the experience of the Bank project in India on Industrial Technology
Development which assisted the transformation of several govermnent-funded R&D institutions into industry-



32
oriented institutions that were able to conduct contractual research for industry. The lesson in that country was that
public sector technology institutions can be restructured to sell their services to industry without compromising on
the quality of their scientific research, if the right incentives are provided. A number of research institutes that
upgraded their facilities were able to increase the proportion of the budget that comes from their own earning by
almost double, in some cases research contracts with foreign companies were secured, and patent filings increased
both domestically and internationally. On average technology institutions were able to increase their share of
contractual income from about 10 percent to 40 percent within a four year period.
21. A number of the factors that were credited with the success of this reform effort in India are present within the
MAM system in Turkey. First, a very strong commitment from the management and strong leadership are present.
In fact, this commitment has permeated down to the researcher level and was evident in interviews. Scientists do not
regard making inroads into industry as an inferior or undesirable change in their work program, but in fact welcome
it. MAM has also instituted formal training programs for their staff for the past three years where scientists have
been introduced to the idea of customer oriented-ness and marketing of their skills. Seminars and study tours have
removed the sense of intimidation that this process can often bring. A unit has been set up within MAM to deal
with IPR issues - both to educate scientist on the role and value of patents, as well as advisory services on how to
negotiate and manage joint projects where IPRs may be shared.
22. While events such as a slump in economic growth, failure to develop required skills and products on the part of
MAM, and competition from other knowledge centers, can prevent reaching the goal of greater self sufficiency,
efforts to mitigate them have been put into place. For example, specific targets have been set for cost/income both at
the institute and sub-institute level; non-economic indicators such as development of new products/services training
and recruitment of personnel, and marketing efforts, have been specified; the initiation of investments is conditioned
upon a satisfactory business plan for the unit; and a phased investment plan will be followed which is based on strict
performance criteria. In light of these, an above average performance of around 50-70 percent self sufficiency can
be reasonably expected, which is viewed as a commensurate reduction in the burden on Turkey's public budget.
Supporting Technology Upgrading by Firms
23. A role for public funding of R&D activities of firms stems from the argument that the process of scientific and
technological discovery is sufficiently random and fraught with uncertainties, that fewer than optimal firms would
invest in R&D if left to themselves. In addition to the uncertainty associated with the success of the effort, the
inappropriability of the R&D effort also plays a key role in keeping firms from investing near the socially optimal
level. To mitigate these market deficiencies in the process of knowledge or innovation creation, public assistance for
R&D activities is justified. These deficiencies are magnified in the case of small firms who can not afford the
specialization of functions in-house, and face additional constraints in the design of mechanisms for appropriation
of the returns to any successful R&D (e.g., advertising or patenting ).
24. The rate of return to R&D, i.e., the effect of R&D activities on firm level productivity has been researched
extensively but remains a difficult area to gain quantitative insights due to a host of econometric issues15. Most of
these studies however are conducted for industrial countries because data on firm level R&D is difficult to obtain
for developing countries. These existing studies find a strong relationship in the cross sectional dimension between
the firm productivity and the level of R&D undertaken by a firm.
25. Estimates from a developing country show that the rate of return on R&D investments is around 18-20 percent,
with firms in scientific sectors measuring an elasticity of R&D capital to productivity of 0.2016. In addition to a
firms own R&D efforts translating into higher productivity, R&D capital accumulation in one firm can also affect
the production costs of other firms as well -- the well known problem of spillovers. When spillovers are taken into
account we can estimate the Social Rate of Return (SRR) to R&D instead of just the Private Rate of Return
(PRR)17. Evidence shows that in the United States, the SRR is around 150 percent greater than the PRR (and in
Griliches, Zvi (1991) "The Search for R&D Spillovers," National Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. 3768.
6 Fikkert, B and Besant, R. (1996) "The Effect of R&D, Foreign Technology Purchase, and Domestic and International
Spillovers on Productivity in Indian Firms," Review of Economics and Statistics, May 1996, Vol. 78.
'7 The PRR is the rate of return accruing strictly to the agent who pays for the effort, whereas the SRR may include benefits



33
agricultural projects could be as high as 300 percent). Evidence also shows that a 1 percent increase in R&D
spillover across firms causes their average cost to decline by 0.05 percent. Across sectors, the SRR is roughly twice
the private rate of return, which justifies the case for public cost sharing in these activities1 8.
accruing to agents who do not pay for the effort.
*s Bernstein, J. 1. (1989) "The Structure of Canadian Inter-Industry R&D Spillovers, and the Rates of Return to R&D," Journal
of lndustrial Economics, March 1989, Vol. 37.



34
Annex 6
Turkey: Industrial Technology Project
Monitoring and Evaluation Mechanism
1. The monitoring and evaluation have been selected in consultation with the project agencies, on the basis of
sensitivity to project inputs, conceptual relevance to project objectives, ease of calculation and parsimony. Three
sets of indicators would be used to monitor project progress and achievements: (a) input indicators would be used
to keep track of the extent to which implementation meets stated expectations and schedule; (b) output indicators
would be used to track immediate results of implementation in accordance with project plans; and (c) outcome
indicators would be used to evaluate the extent to which the Project has achieved its objective of improving
technology development in the industrial sectors. A tentative list of indicators is attached as Appendix to Annex 6.
2. The monitoring and evaluation system would be implemented at two levels--agencies supported under the
project, and industrial firms that are the ultimate beneficiaries and users of services financed by the project. First,
each project agency would maintain and provide metrics of progress towards the institution's financial and
developmental goals on a regular basis (semi-annually). Second, a panel survey of a random sample of firms would
be conducted to track the project's progress in meeting the private sector's metrological, quality control, R&D and
technology needs. Unlike the first monitoring system, which focuses on metrology and technology service
providers, these surveys focus on the potential users of these services--industrial firms across a range of sectors and
including both SMEs and larger companies. By eliciting information on their constraints and their technological
and other needs, as well as their familiarity with and perspectives on the services offered, these firm surveys provide
the necessary feedback to the relevant agencies to make their services more demand-driven and tailored to the needs
of different groups of finns and SMEs.
3. Modules of project-relevant questions would be appended to the annual manufacturing surveys conducted by
the State Institute of Statistics (SIS), following an approach that has been used to good effect in several Bank-
financed or assisted projects in Mexico, Malaysia and Morocco. SIS already does this, for example, as part of the
Turkey R&D Survey. This approach has several advantages--it produces a survey with known statistical properties,
it builds upon the established survey infrastructure and expertise of SIS, and it can be accomplished at relatively low
cost since add-on modules can draw upon the wealth of key economic data already elicited by the existing
manufacturing surveys. The add-on modules would include, for example, questions on firms' familiarity with and
use of metrology, R&D, technology and other services provided by UME, TPE, MAM, TTGV and industrial
organizations such as ISO. This information is key in tracking the outreach and effectiveness of technology services
provided by the different agencies. Other questions, similar to the monitoring indicators identified above for each
agency, would also be included but at greater depth to elicit critical, but hitherto unavailable, information needed to
evaluate the economic impacts of different technology services on firms (see Annex 5).
4. Surveys at three points in time are envisaged--at the beginning, middle, and end of the project. These would
provide, respectively, a benchmark survey on the status of different groups of industrial firms at project start, a
monitoring and feedback mechanism at the mid-point of project implementation, and an evaluation instrument to
assess achievement of project goals in the final stage of the project. The first survey not only provides a benchmark
against which all subsequent surveys of the same group of firms can be compared, but also critical information
needed by agencies to implement and target technology services at different groups of firms. The second survey,
approximately two years later, provides an implementation progress report for agencies--for example, are more
firms familiar with the range of technology services available, and what they think of services provided--and
through this feedback, possible mid-course changes in implementation. The third (and final) survey provides a
second opportunity to monitor project implementation; equally important, coupled with input/output information
collected by agencies, it permits a thorough, unique evaluation of the economic impact of the project, including
cost-benefit analyses and ROR calculations. The Bank and TTGV have secured the cooperation of the SIS in
conducting the surveys and in collaborating on the tracking and evaluation studies. Details of cooperation with SIS,
the design of the survey instrument, the sampling frame to be used, and technical assistance and training needs of
SIS staff who would have principal responsibility for conducting the surveys and analysis have been finalized in a
protocol bctoeen TTGV and SIS.



35
Annex 6
Appendix 1
Turkey: Industrial Technology Project
Project Performance Indicators
A. Input and Output Indicators
Inputs                                                Outputs
Stren gthening Intellectual Property Rights Services (TPE)
*   Investments in physical         *   Acceptance and harmonization of procedures by WTO/ECU
infrastructure                  a   Ease of retrieval of data/documentation in TPE
*   Staff training                  *   Reduction in duration of time to process IPR applications
*   Information dissemination for   *   Increase in awareness among industry, consumers, judges, attorneys, and
industry and scientific             patent agents
community
Strengtheing Metrology Services (UME)
*   Investments in physical        *   Continued acceptance of traceability in metrology by European bodies
infrastructure                 *   Increase in number, types, sophistication and coverage of metrology services
*   Institutionalization of industry  *   Decrease in average duration/cost to industry of undertaking metrology services
feedback mechanisms            *   Reduction in ratio of income generated from calibration services
*   Seminars for industry          *   Participation in international committees and cooperation agreements, scientific
*   Strengthening of management        publications
structure and staff retention  *   Reduction in staff turnover
Restructuring df R&D fnstitutions (MAM)
*   Investments in physical        *   Increase in income from contractual research
infrastructure                 *   Number of repeat clients
*   Staff training                 *   Number of publications, patents, other awards to scientists
*   Frequency and scope of         *   Increased alignment of research to industry - measured by percentage of
marketing efforts                  research commercialized (licenses, royalties)
*   Institution strengthening      *   Number of joint projects with other R&D institutions
measures, e.g.: retention of   *   Savings to public budget
scientists, recruitment of new
scientists
Suporting Technology Upgrading by Firms (TTGV)
*   Strengthening of management    *   Number of beneficiary firms of technology financing
structure and demonstrated     *   Share of SMEs/startups in portfolio
expertise in technology        *   Repayment profile of technology financing
management                     *   Share of commercialization of projects supported
*   Number of training programs,   *   Number of linkages made with universities or R&D institutions
workshops, seminars conducted    *   Number of technoparks established
for SMEs                       *   Number of companies supported through VCFs
*   Number of joint ventures in    *   Number of technology service centers established
technoparks/R&D centers
B. Development Impact Indicators
*          Increase in awareness of IP among industry and consumers
*          Increase in patent applications domestically and abroad
*          Increase in licensing agreements or other forms of technology transfer agreements
*          Increased awareness of metrology needs among industry
*          Increase in secondary, tertiary and production level measurements
*          Number of joint R&D projects done with client as fallout of metrology service
*          Increase in R&D among beneficiary firms of the project
*          Increase in firm-level productivity among beneficiary firms of the project
*          Increase in exports among beneficiary firms of the project
*          Increase in market shares at home or abroad among beneficiary firms of the project
*          Reduction in barriers perceived by industry in interacting with research institutions



36
Annex 7
Turkey: Industrial Technology Project
Project Procurement Arrangements and Allocation of Loan proceeds
Project Procurement Arrangements
1. The procurement of works, goods and services of the Bank financed components would be procured in
accordance with the Bank's relevant procurement guidelines (e.g., Goods and Works Procurement Guidelines, etc.).
The project components not financed directly by the Bank would be procured in accordance with national
regulations, or co-financing institutions' procurement regulations. The project elements, their estimated cost and
procurement methods are summarized in Table 7.1 of this Annex. The Bank's review process is presented in Tables
7.2 of this Annex. A procurement plan detailing the packaging and estimated schedule of the major procurement
actions is presented in Table 7.3 of this Annex.   The projected procurement would initially be advertised in a
General Procurement Notice, with specific and/or annual notice to be issued thereafter. A workshop on procurement
and other aspects was organized for PIU staff during September 1998. Further details on procurement procedures
are presented in the Project Implementation Plan.
Table 7.1: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements a/
(US$ million equivalent)
Category                                   Procurement Methods                                   Total Total
Bank
ICB       NCB         IS         NS       LIB       DC        Other    NBF Cost Financ
_______                  ~~~~~~ing
1. Works
1vil Works              16.1 (12.1) 6.7 (5.0)                                           0.7  (0.5)        23.5  (17.6)
2. Goods b/
2.1 Lab Equipment      21.9 (17.1)          22.6  (17.6) 1.5 (1.2) 1.3  (1.0) 3.2  (2.5)                 50.4  (39.3)
2.2 IT/Office Equipment   5.1  (4.0)         2.4  (1.8)-                                                  7.5  (5.8)
2.3 Other Goods                              0.8  (0.6) 1.1 (0.9)                                         1.9  (1.5)
3. Consultant Services &
Training c/
3.1 Architectural Design                                                               2.9  (2.4)         2.9  (2.4)
3.2 Training/Study Tours                                                               9.1  (6.8)         9.1  (6.8)
3.3 Technical Assistance                                                              26.7  (16.1)       26.7  (16.1)
4. R&D Financing (Credit                                                              245.0  (49.0)      245.0  (49.0)
Line)               _
5. Miscellaneous
5.1 PPF Advance                              0.7  (0.7)                                1.8  (1.8)         2.5  (2.5)
5.2 Unallocated d/                                                                     1.6  (1.6)         1.6  (1.6)
5.3 Fee e/                                                                            16.0  (12.5)       16.0 (12.5)
TOTAL               43.2 (33.2) 6.7 (5.0) 26.4  (20.7) 2.6 (2.0) 1.3 (1.0) 3.2  (2.5) 303.7  (90.6)   0.0 387.0 (155.0
a/ Bank funded portion indicated in parenthesis
b/ Amount of $0.5 million under category 2.1 (IS method) and of $0.2 million of category 2.2 (IS method) to be financed from PPF
c/ Amount s under category 3.1 ($0.3 million); category 3.2 ($0.3 million); and category 3.3 ($1.2 million) to be financed from PPF
di Would be allocated during project implementation
e/ In accordance with Section 2.04 of the Loan Agreement



37
Table 7.2: Procurement Review
Goods and Civil     ICB          NCB           IS         NS        LIB a/      DC       Other   Percentage of
Works                                                                               Methods      Loan
Amount
subject to
prior review
Procurement        >$3,000,000   < 3,000,000                                               Minor       36%
thresholds - works                                                                         Works
$100,000
Procurement        >S400,000        ---      s$400,000   <$100,000    400,000-500,000
thresholds - goods
Aggregate - works    $12,100,000    $5,000,000                                            $500,000     26%
Aggregate - goods    $21,100,000             $20,700,000  $2,000,000  $1,000,000  $2,500,000           44%
Prior review (for     all         First two   first two    First two   all        all                  79%
each Project                     packages +    packages   packages
Agency)                         >=$1,000,000
R&D financing      $2,000,000
threshold c/
Consultants       QCBS          QBS      Fixed Budget   LCS    Qualification   Single  Individuals   Other cl
s       Source
Procurement method  $13,900,000    $1,700,000                       $1,700,000  $250,000  $1,500,000   $8,200,00O
thresholds
(aggregate)
Prior review       >=$100,000    >=$ 100,000  >$100,000 >$100,000 >=$ 100,000    all    >$50,000       All
Ex-post review d/   < 100,000    < 1 00,000   <100,000   <100,000   < 100,000            <$50,000
R&D financing                                                                                          $500,000
threshold el    I
a/ LIB would be used for specialized equipment with prior Bank approval
b/ R&D financing procurement to be undertaken by the sub-borrowers using commercial practices, acceptable to the Bank; with
works and goods above $2 million to be procured through ICB
c/ Training will be carried out in accordance with training plans acceptable to the Bank
d/ Ex-post review will be conducted using Borrower's files and Bank procurement and disbursement records during
Supervision missions. About 20% of such contracts would be reviewed on a random basis.
e/ Consultants' services estimated to cost less then US$0.5 million could be procured using commercial practices, acceptable to the Bank.
ICB-International Competitive Bidding; NCB - National Competitive Bidding; IS - International Shopping; NS-National
Shopping; LIB - Limited International Bidding; DC - Direct Contracting; QCBS - Quality and Cost Based Selection; QBS -
Quality Based Selection; LCS - Least Cost Selection



38
Table 7.3: Procurement Plan
Procurement Plan: TPE Component
1  2        3         4           5      6. Estimated Dates a!
Description of Goods   Type Number of Estimated  Procurement   Pre-qual/SL    (BD/RFP)      Bid        Contract   Contract
items/sub-   Cost      method      1. Invitation     1.      1. Invitation    Signing   Completion
packages  ($ mln)               GPN/SPN/Local Preparation GPN/SPN/Loca
2. Opening                 1    2.
3. Eval&Recom.                Opening
3. Eval &
recom Award
Civil Works            CW        1        5.30       ICB          Aug-99       Feb-00       I. Jan-00    Aug-00      Dec-01
2. June-00
3. Aug-00
Civil Works            CW        I        1.00       NCB          Aug-99       Feb-00       1. Jan-00    Aug-00      Dec-01
2. June-00
3. Aug-00
Civil Works           |CW                 0.50    Small Works    1999-2001    1999-2001    1999-2001    1999-2001  1999-2001
Total Civil Works                         6.80
GOODS
Fumiture & Furnishings    G      2       0.48        NS                       1999-2000    1999-2001    1999-2000  2000-2002
Archive Equipment &     G        2        0.30        1s                      1999-2001    1999-2001    1999-2002  2000-2002
Interpret. Equip.
IT Equipment            G        2        1.37       ICB                      1999-2001    1999-2001    1999-2002  2000-2002
IT Equipment            G       2        0.60         is                      1999-2001    1999-2001   1999-2002  2000-2002
Teoal Goods                               2.75
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE &
TRAINING
TT & IPR Search Training|        1       0.40                 Training Plan -- 1999 --2002
lIntemational Treaties &         1        0.47                Training Plan -- 1999 --2002
Examination
Training of Judges &             1       0.50                 Training Plan -- 1999 --2002
Attomeys
Total Training                            1.37
Architectural Design    CS       1        0.62      QCBS                        Feb-99      1. Mar-99     Oct-99     Mar-00
2. July-99
3. Sept-99
Construction Supervision  CS     1       0.56       QCBS                       Feb-00       1. Feb-00    Dec-00      Mar-02
2. May-00
3. Aug-00
Project Advisory       CS        I       0.15         SS                      1999-2002    1999-2002    1999-2002  1999-2002
Trademark - Search      CS       1        0.25       QBS                        Jun-00       Jul-00      Aug-00      Dec-03
Retrieval/ -Examination
Industrial Design       CS       I       0.10        QBS                        Jun-00       Jul-00      Aug-00      Dec-03
Retrieval/Examination
Patents. Search,        CS       1       0.45       QCBS                       Nov-99       1. Jan-00    Mar-00      Dec-03
Examination, Granting                                                                      2. Mar-00
3. Apr-00
Inform.Dissam.PA TV,   CS        1       0.65       QCBS                       Feb-00      1. Mar.2000    Jul-00    Dec.2003
Video, Newspapers                                                                         2. May 2000
3.June 2000
lnf. Dis. Enforcement   CS       1       0.40        QBS                        Jun-00       Jul-00      Aug-00      Dec-03
hif. Dis. Industry      CS       1       0.50       QCBS                        Jun-00    1. June 2000    Oct-00    Nov-01
Seminar/Workshop                                                                           2.Aug.2000
3.Sep.2000
Project Management      CS       1        0.40       IND                        Jan-99       Feb-99      Mar-99      Dec-03
Total Technical                           4.08
Assistance
LTOTAL                                    15.0



39
Procurement Plan: UME Component
2       3        4         5     6. Estimated Dates a/
Description of Goods     Type  Number Estimated  Procur.    Pre-qual/SL   (BD/RFP)          Bid        Contract    Contract
of      Cost    method    1. Invitation      1.      1. Invitation    Signing   Completion
items/sub  ($ mln)           GPN/SPN/Local Preparation GPN/SPN/Loc
2. Opening              al 2. Opening
packages                     3. Eval&Recom.              3. Eval &
recom Award
Civil Works               CW       1       6.80      ICB                      Jun-99      1. Sep-99     Dec-99     Dec-01
2. Nov-99
3. Dec-99
Civil Works               CW       1       2.00      NCB                      Jun-99      1. Sep-99    Dec-99      Dec-01
2. Nov-99
3. Dec-99
Total Civil Works                          8.80
GOODS
Chemical Metrology         G       1       0.75      ICB                    2000-2003   2000-2003    2000-2003  2000-2003
Equipment                       ___
Chemical Metrology         G       1       0.50      LIB                    2000-2003   2000-2003    2000-2003  2000-2003
Equipment                  _
Chemical Metrology         G       8       1.15       IS                    2000-2003   2000-2003    2000-2003  2000-2003
Equipment
Chemical Metrology         G       2       0.15      NS                     2000-2003   2000-2003    2000-2003  2000-2003
Equipment
Electrical Metrology       G       53      1.50       IS                     1999-2003   1999-2003    1999-2003  1999-2003
Equipment
Electrical Metrology       G       13      1.00      DC                      1999-2003   1999-2003    1999-2003   1999-2003
Equipment
Mechanical Metrology       G       66      5.45       IS                     1999-2003   1999-2003    1999-2003   1999-2003
Equipment                          _
Mechanical Metrology       G       3       0.30      DC                      1999-2003   1999-2003    1999-2003   1999-2003
Equipment                               _
Medical Metrology          G       1       0.50      LIB                    2000-2003   2000-2003    2000-2003  2000-2003
Eqipment
Medical Metrology          G       4       0.85       IS                    2000-2003   2000-2003    2000-2003  2000-2003
Eqipment
Medical Metrology          G       1       0.15       NS                    2000-2003   2000-2003    2000-2003  2000-2003
Eqipment                 ._.._
Physical Metrology         G       1       1.50      ICB                    2000-2003   2000-2003    2000-2003  2000-2003
Equipment
Physical Metrology         G      128      2.80       is                     1999-2003   1999-2003    1999-2003   1999-2003
Equipment
Physical Metrology         G       10      0.80      DC                      1999-2003   1999-2003    1999-2003   1999-2003
Equipment
Optical Shop Equipment     G       5       0.10       is                    2001-2003   2001-2003    200 1-2003  2001-2003
Optical Shop Equipment     G       5       0.10       NS                    2001-2003   2001-2003    2001-2003  2001-2003
Technology Transfer        G       12      1.20       is                     1999-2003   1999-2003    1999-2003   1999-2003
Equipment
Technology Transfer        G       2       0.10      NS                      1999-2003   1999-2003    1999-2003   1999-2003
Equipment
Research Equipment         G      21       2.10       is                     1999-2003   1999-2003    1999-2003   1999-2003
Total Goods                                21.00.



40
Technical Assistance &                             l                                    l
Training                                   _I_                                          l
Training                           180      1.45                     Training Plan -- 1999 - 2002
Architectural Design       CS       1       0.10      IND                       Jan-99     1. Apr-99     Apr-99       Jul-99
2. April-99
3. May-99
Architectural Design       CS       5       1.40     QCBS                      Apr-99      1. May-99      Jul-99      Jun -02
2. Jun-99
3. July-99
Technical Assistance       CS      15       0.15     QCBS                     1999-2003   1999-2003    1999-2003   1999-2003
Technical Assistance       Cs      10       0.10      IND                     1999-2003   1999-2003    1999-2003   1999-2003
Total Technical Assistance &                3.20
Training
TOTAL                   |                  33.00



41
Procurement Plan: MAM Component
I                            | 2       3        4        5       6. Estimated Dates a/
Description of Goods          Type Number Estimated Procure  Pre-qual/SL  (BD/RFP)         Bid         Contract    Contract
of      Cost   method  1. Invitation    1.       1. Invitation  Signing    Completion
items/sub  ($ mln)         GPN/SPN/Lc Preparation GPN/SPN/Local
-packages                   2. Opening               2. Opening
3. Eval&Rec           3. Eval & recom
Award
MAM Technopark                 CW      1       2.00     NCB                  Mar-00    1. June 2000    Jan-01       Dec-01
2. Sept. 2000
3. Nov 2000
GOODS
Lab. Equip. of Food Tech.
Analyzers & spectrophometers    G      4       0.90     ICB                   Jul-99    1. March 2000    Oct-00     Jun-01
2. August 2000
3. Sept.2000
Analyzers & spectrophometers    G      6       1.10     ICB                 2000-2001   2000-2001    2000-2001   2000-2001
Other equipment                 G      2       0.20      NS                 2000-2001   2000-2001    2000-2001   2000-2001
Other equipment                 G      2       0.20      NS                 2001-2002   2001-2002    2001-2002   2001-2002
Lab. Equipment of Earth Science
Organic Geochemistry Lab.       G      1       0.60     ICB                  Nov-99    1. Feb.2000    Aug-00        Jan-01
Equipment                                                                               2. May 2000
3. June 2000
Seismology/GPS Equipment        G      2       0.20      is                 Nov-99/00  I. Feb.2000/01  Aug-00/01    Feb-01/02
2.May 2000/01
3.June 2000/01
Lab. Equipment of Materials &
Chemicals
Adv. Ceramics, Powder Met., Adv.  G    4       0.50     ICB                  Nov-99      Feb-Jun-99    Aug-99       Feb-01
Coating Lab. Eq.
Adv. Ceramics, Powder Met., Adv.  G    3       0.40      is                   Mar-01    May-Aug-01  Jun-Sept-01 Dec-01-Feb-02
Coating Lab. Eq.
Adv. Ceramics, Powder Met., Adv.  G    3       0.30     ICB                   Jul-99    Sept-Dec-99   Feb-May-00    Dec-00
Coating Lab. Eq.
Metallic Mat., Processing, alloy  G    2       0.10      IS                  Mar-01    May-Aug-01  Jun-Sept-01 Dec-01-Feb-02
dev., adv.forming tech.
Metallic Mat., Processing, alloy  G    5       0.60     ICB                  Nov-99    Jan-Mar-00   Mar-Jun-00    Dec-00
dev., adv.forming tech.
Metallic Mat., Processing, alloy  G    3       0.20     ICB                   Jul-99    Sept-Dec-99   Feb-May-00    Dec-00
dev., adv.forming tech.
Test, analysis, Characterization  G    1       0.20     ICB                   Jul-99    Sept-Dec-99   Feb-May-00    Dec-00
equip.                             I_                                                     __ __I_      _ __I_
Test, analysis, Characterization  G    5       0.50     ICB                  Nov-99    Jan-Mar-00   Mar-Jun-00    Dec-00
equip.
Test, analysis, Characterization  G    3       0.30     ICB                  Nov-00    Jan-Mar-O1   Mar-Jun-01    Dec-01
equip.                       |
Test, analysis, Characterization  G    2       0.05      IS                  Mar-01    May-Aug-01  Jun-Sept-01 Dec-01-Feb-02
equip.                                        ________                                 ______________
Organic/inorganic/Process       G      3       0.30     ICB                   Jul-99    Sept-Dec-99   Feb-May-00    Dec-00
Eng./spectrometers Equipmenti
Organic/inorganic/Process       G      7       1.00     ICB                  Nov-99    Jan-Mar-00   Mar-Jun-00    Dec-00
Eng./spectrometers Equipment
Organic/inorganic/Process       G      4       0.55     ICB                  Nov-00    Jan-Mar-O1   Mar-Jun-01    Dec-01
Eng./spectrometers Equipment
Organic/inorganic/Process       G      2       0.10      is                   Mar-00    May-Aug-00  Jun-Sept-00    Feb-01
Eng./spectrometers Equipment
Organic/inorganic/Process       0 G            0.25      is                  Mar-01    May-Aug-01  Jun-Sept-01    Feb-02
Eng./spectrometers Equipment



42
Organic/inorganic/Process       G      3       0.10      NS                  Nov-99    Jan-Mar-00   Mar-Jun-00    Dec-00
Eng./spectrometers Equipment
Lab. Equipment of Env. & Energy
Systems
Cable energy audit equipment and   G   5       0.60     ICB                   Jul-99    Sept-Dec-99   Feb-May-00    Dec-00
test
Acquisition sys. & analyzers    G      5       0.70     ICB                  Nov-99    Jan-Mar-00   Mar-Jun-00    Dec-00
Other analyzers                 G              0.70     ICB                  Nov-00    Jan-Mar-Ol   Mar-Jun-01    Dec-01
Other small equipment           G              0.15      NS                  Nov-00    Jan-Mar-01   Mar-Jun-01    Dec-01
Lab. Equipment of Genetic Eng. &
Biotech.
Biotech. Equipment              G              0.40     ICB                   Jul-99    1. July 1999    Nov-99      Feb-00
2. August 1999
3. October 1999
Biotech. Equipment              G      20      0.80     ICB                  Nov-99    Jan-Mar-00   Mar-Jun-00    Dec-00
Biotech. Equipment             G       20      0.50     ICB                  Nov-00    Jan-Mar-Ol   Mar-Jun-01    Dec-01
Other small equipment           G      2       1.00     ICB                   Jul-99    Sept-Dec-99   Feb-May-00    Dec-00
Lab. Equipment of Textile
Textile and Apparel Lab.       G       5       0.80     ICB                  Nov-99    Jan-Mar-00   Mar-Jun-00    Dec-00
Equipment
Textile and Apparel Lab,       G       5       0.50     ICB                  Nov-00    Jan-Mar-O1   Mar-Jun-01    Dec-01
Equipment
Laboratory Equipment Informatics
software engg/artificial intell.       4       1.40      IS                 1999-2002    1999-2002    2000-2003   2000-2003
Robotics/Automation                    I       1.10     ICB                   Jun-99    1. July 1999    Nov-99      Feb-00
2. August 1999
3. October 1999
Other Lab. Equipment            G              0.70     ICB                 1999-2003    1999-2003    1999-2003    1999-2003
Other Lab. Equipment            G              0.40      is                 1999-2003    1999-2003    1999-2003   1999-2003
Specialized Lab. Equipment      G              0.40      DC                 1999-2003   1999-2003    1999-2003   1999-2003
Total Lab. Equipment                           18.80
IT Equipment
Fiber Cabeling and Connections    G    2       0.70      IS                 Jun-99-00    Aug-99-00    Sep-99-00    Jan-00-01
Software                        G      1       0.40      IS                  Jul-99-00    Sep-99-00    Oct-99-00    Feb-00-01
Software                      G           1    0.70    1ICB                  Jul-99-00    Sep-99-00    Oct-99-00    Feb-00-01
IT equipment                   G       1       1.95     ICB                   Feb-99   April- Sep 1999   Oct-99     Feb-00
Total IT Equipment                             3.75
Other Equipment                             I
Other Equipment                 G      I       0.10      NS                   Jan-01      Mar-01        Apr-01      Aug-01
Other Equipment                G       1       0.10      NS                   Jan-02      Mar-02        Apr-02      Aug-02
Other Equipment                G       1       0.30      IS                   Jan-03      Mar-03        Apr-03      Aug-03
Total Other Equipment                          0.50
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE &
TRAINING
Management Training            TR      4       0.65            Training Plan - 1999 - 2002
Technical Training             TR      35      3.40            Training Plan - 1999 - 2002
Total Training                                 4.05
TQM                            CS      1       0.60    QCBS                  May-99    1. June 1999    Aug-99       Jan-00
Lab. Accreditation Prep.       CS      2       1.00    QCBS                 1999-2000   2000-2001    2000-2001   2000-2001
MIS                            CS      1       0.30    QCBS                   Jul-00      Aug-00       Sept-00      Dec-00
Business Development           CS      2       0.30    QCBS                  Mar-00    May-Aug-00  Jun-Sept-00    Feb-01
FMS Qualification              CS      1       0.05      SS                   Feb-99   Mar- Apr 1999   May-99       Sep-99
Accreditation                  CS      4       0.50    QUAL                 2000-2002   2000-2002    2001-2003   2002-2003
Tech. Assistance for Institutes  CS    7       1.15    QUAL                 1999-2002    1999-2002    2000-2003   2001-2003
Total Technical Assistance                     3.90
TOTAL                                          33.00



43
Frocurement Plan: TTGV Component
2       3         4        5        6. Estimated Dates a!
Description of Goods         Type Number of Estimated  Procure  Pre-qual/SL   (BD/RFP)          Bid        Contract    Contract
items/sub-   Cost   method   1. Invitation  1. Preparation   1. Invitation  Signing   Completion
packages  ( mln)            GPN/SPN/Lc                GPN/SPN/Local
2. Opening                 2. Opening
3. Eval&Rec.              3. Eval & recom
Award
GOODS
Office fumiture (NAC)         G        1       0.10      NS                     Oct-99        Nov-99        Dec-99      Mar-00
Office Equipment (NAC)        G        1       0.10      NS                     Oct-99        Nov-99        Dec-99      Mar-00
IT Equipment (Y2K)            0        1       0.30       is                    Aug-99        Aug-99        Sep-99      Feb-00
Total Goods                                     0.50
R&D FINANCING
Technology Develop. Financing G/CS             32.00      I/                  1999 - 2002    1999 - 2002   1999 - 2002  00 - 2003
Venture Capital              G/CS              7.00       1/                  1999 - 2002    1999 - 2002   1999 - 2002  00 - 2003
Technoparks                  G/CS              5.00       I/                  1999 - 2002    1999 - 2002   1999 - 2002  00 - 2003
Technology Service Centers   G/CS               5.00      I/                  1999 - 2002    1999 - 2002   1999 - 2002  00 - 2003
Total R&D Financing                            49.00
T'RAINING & TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE                                                                                                      _
Technology Support Services   CS                1.00      2/   training plan-- 1999 - 2002
NAC training                  CS                0.10      2/   training plan-- 1999 - 2002
TTGV Training/Study Tours     CS               0.25       2/   training plan-- 1999 - 2002
lotal Training                                 1.35
Y2K Services                  CS       5       2.70     QCBS                  1999 - 2000    1999 - 2000   1999 - 2000 2000 - 2000
N1!AC Services                CS       2        0.70    QCBS                  1999 - 2002    1999 - 2002   1999 - 2002 2000 - 2003
NAC preparatory work          CS       2        0.50    QCBS                  1999 - 2002    1999 - 2002   1999 - 2002 2000 -2003
NAC Quality Campaigns         CS       10       0.50     QBS                  1999 - 2002    1999 - 2002   1999 - 2002 2000 - 2003
T'echnology Support Services  CS       9        1.70    QCBS                  1999 - 2002    1999 - 2002   1999 - 2002 2000 - 2003
Technology Support Services   CS       10      0.30      IND                  1999 - 2002    1999 - 2002   1999 - 2002 2000 - 2003
Venture Capital Services      CS       3        0.40     QBS                  1999 - 2002    1999 - 2002   1999 - 2002 2000 - 2003
T'echnoparks Services         CS       3       0.20      IND                  1999 - 2002    1999 - 2002   1999 - 2002 2000 - 2003
Technoparks Services          CS       2        0.05      SS                  1999 - 2002    1999 - 2002   1999 - 2002 2000 - 2003
TS Centers Services           CS       2       0.10      IND                  1999 - 2002    1999 - 2002   1999 - 2002 2000 - 2003
7TGV Institutional Aspects    CS       6        1.75    QCBS                  1999 - 2002    1999 - 2002   1999 - 2002 2000 - 2003
I)evelopment- Impact Studies    CS     1       0.25   IND/QCB                 1999 - 2002    1999 - 2002   1999 - 2002 2000 - 2003
S
Total Technical Assistance                     9.15
TrOTAL                                         60.00



44
Disbursements
2. The Disbursement Categories and Percentage of Expenditures to be financed are shown in Table 7.4 below.
Payments made for eligible expenditures incurred after November 1, 1998, and prior to the loan signing date in an
aggregate amount not exceeding US$2 million may be financed retroactively. The project is expected to be fully
disbursed over a period of four and a half years from Date of Effectiveness, scheduled for August 1999.
Table 7.4: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(US$ million)
Expenditure Category             Amount of Loan                      Financing Percentage
Allocated
1. Part A. of the Project (TPE)
(a) Goods                                     2.60            100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
costs); and 80% of local costs for other items procured locally
(b) Works                                     6.80            75%
(c) Consultant's Services & Training          5.00            100%
Total Part A.                                           14.40
2. Part B. of the Project (UME)
(a) Goods                                     20.60           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
costs); and 80% of local costs for other items procured locally
(b) Works                                     8.80           75%
(c) Consultant's Services & Training          2.35            100%
Total Part B.                                           31.75
3. Part C. of the Project (MAM)
(a) Goods                                     24.00           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
costs); and 80% of local costs for other items procured locally
(b) Works                                     2.00            75%
(c) Consultant's Services & Training          6.35            100%
Total Part C.                                           32.35
4. Part D. of the Project (TTGV)
(a) Goods
(i) NAC Services                           0.20           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
costs); and 80% of local costs for other items procured locally
(ii) Y2K Pilot                             0.30           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
costs); and 80% of local costs for other items procured locally
(b) Consultant's Services & Training
(i) TTGV Assistance & Training             3.50           100%
(ii) NAC Services                          1.30           100%
(iii) Y2K Pilot                            2.70           100%
(iv) Technology Support Services           3.00           100%
(c) Sub-finance (R&D Finance)
(i) Technology Development Financing       32.00          75%
(ii) TS Centers                            5.00           100%
(iii) Technoparks                          5.00           100%
(iv) Venture Capital Funds                 7.00           100%
Total Part D.                                           60.00
5. Refunding PPF Advance                                 2.50 Amounts due pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of Loan Agreement
6. Fee                                                   1 .55 Amounts due pursuant to Section 2.04 of Loan Agreement
7. Unallocated                                          12.45
TOTAL                                                  155.00
Categories I through 3 are net of PPF, which is allocated separately under Category 5 (US$0.60 million for TPE, US$1.25 million for UME, and
US$0.65 million for MAM).



45
Use of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs)
3. Disbursements would be made against Statements of Expenditures for: (a) goods contacts costing less than
US$400,000 equivalent each; (b) work contracts costing less then US$1 million each; (c) services contracts for (i)
individuals costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; (ii) firms costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each;
(e) sub-loans (R&D financing sub-projects); and (e) training, fellowships and study tours under terms and
conditions as to be specified by the Bank. Detailed documents evidencing these expenditures would be reviewed
and retained by the PlIUs and made available for the required audit as well as to the Bank supervision missions.
Elisbursements against goods and services exceeding the above limits would be made against normal
documentation. Disbursement and procurement documents using SOE procedures would be retained by the PIUs
for a period of at least two years after disbursement and made available to Bank staff and external auditors.
Special Accounts
4. To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower would establish, maintain and operate, under terms
arnd conditions satisfactory to the Bank, up to four Special Accounts in US dollars at a bank acceptable to the Bank.
The Special Accounts would have an Authorized Allocation of up to US$1.5 million (TPE), US$3.0 million (UME),
UIS$3.0 million (MAM), and US$5.0 million (TTGV) representing the expected advance payments (20 percent) on
contracts during the peak quarter of expenditures if made exclusively through the Special Account. At the start of
the project, the Special Account deposits would be limited to half of the Authorized Allocation, and the remaining
portion of the Authorized Allocation would be disbursed upon Government request when the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding Special Commitments entered into by
the Bank shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of US$6 million (TPE), US$13 million (UME), US$13 million
(MAM), and US$24 million (TTGV). Replenishment applications would be submitted at least every three months,
and would include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents. The minimum
application size for payments directly from the Loan Account for issuance of Special Commitments is 20 percent of
thle Special Account authorized allocations.  Disbursements on eligible expenditures would be disbursed
simultaneously from the Special Accounts and the project account in the respective financing ratios derived from
T'able 7.5 above.
Project Financial Management and Audit
5. Prior to the appraisal mission, a seminar on procurement, disbursements and financial management system was
held for all participating PIUs. During the seminar, the Bank's financial management requirements, monitoring and
reporting criteria, including financial reporting formats in conformity with LACI was discussed and explained to the
PIUs. The appraisal mission assessed the capabilities with respect to each agency's financial management and
reporting systems, including accounting, financial reporting, auditing, internal and other control procedures for the
EIlUs managing and the Bank's monitoring of project implementation. UME and MAM are research oriented
institutions, providing a public service, under the TUBITAK organization. These institutions depend mainly on
government budget allocations for their operational and investment requirements. A large part of TPE's operational
budget is covered by the revenues it earns from its services (issuing of patents), while its investment needs are
covered by government budget allocations. TTGV is an independent non-profit Foundation managed by a majority
private sector Board. It supports technology development activities, including on-lending of funds and taking credit
risk. TTGV covers its administrative expenses from its income and does not receive budgetary support from the
Government.
6. All four Project Agencies' financial statements are prepared in accordance with local financial and accounting
iules and regulations and guidelines of the Ministry of Finance, Undersecretariat of the Treasury. Annual
operational and investment budgets for UME and MAM are prepared by the institutions and approved by the
Science Board of TUBITAK, while the budget for TTGV is approved by the Board, and for TPE by MOF. Internal
controls are imposed at various stages of the approval process and subject to review by the heads of departments.
Bank account statements are reconciled on a weekly basis and reviewed by the head of the accounting department
and is signed off by the head of each agency. Annual audits are conducted under Turkish law and are implemented
by an authorized financial auditor on behalf of the Ministry of Finance with respect to tax and general accountancy.



46
7. UME and MAM have recently upgraded their financial and cost accounting systems as part of an overall
upgrading of the TUBITAK management information systems. TTGV is taking steps to upgrade its accounting
system in line with International Accounting Standards (IAS) with the help of external consultants. All agencies are
staffed with qualified people with accounting and finance degrees and several years of experience. Although the
technical capabilities exist within each agency to maintain and prepare financial and accounting reports as required
by the Bank, the current accounting and reporting systems are geared towards producing statements and information
as required by Turkish law. In this context, separate project accounting and reporting modules have been designed
and implemented to ensure adherence to accounting and auditing standards and reporting formats acceptable to the
Bank.
8. During appraisal, the mission discussed and agreed with all four agencies to establish financial management
systems including project accounts in conformity with Bank's standards for project accounts and financial records
for all project-related expenditures. All agencies have designed and established FMS systems. All four agencies
have hired international accounting firms either to establish or to certify (if the system is developed internally) the
FMSs for the project. The selected firms, while establishing the FMS would also train PIU accounting staff in
operating the system. The FMS in accordance with the Bank's standards for project accounts and financial records,
which has been established in all agencies, is expected to be fully operational during the next few months. The FMS
in all four agencies would be certified as acceptable to the Bank. The project team would consider in agreement
with the government based on the experience of fully operational FMS during the early stages of project
implementation, if being satisfactory to the Bank, whether the agencies should adopt LACI disbursement procedures
under this project. A sample terms of reference for the establishment of a FMS and sample fornats for the FMS are
presented in the PIP. A time bound action plan for the establishment of the FMS is also attached to the PIP
(Appendix 8).
9. In order to ensure that the Special Account, project accounts and institutional accounts would be audited in
accordance with the Bank Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World
Bank, the appraisal mission discussed and agreed with the agencies on the process for selection and engagement of
auditors. There are several international audit firns represented in Turkey, who are independent and competent to
carry out the audits of the project agencies in accordance with Bank guidelines, and one of them would be selected
to carry out the audits. TOR for these assignments were discussed and agreed. The agencies would provide the
Bank within six months of the end of each Government Fiscal Year, with an audit report of such scope and detail as
the Bank may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by the independent auditor on disbursement against
certified SOEs and special account and a full audit report on each institution. The separate opinion should mention
whether the SOEs submitted during the fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal control involved in
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawal applications.



47
Annex 8
Turkey: Industrial Technology Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget"9                                 Planned                Actual
$330,000              $250,000
B. Project Schedule                                 Planned                Actual
Time taken to prepare the project                                          16 months
Identification mission                              February, 1998         February, 1998
Pre-appraisal mission                               June, 1998             June, 1998
Appraisal mission                                   October, 1998          October, 1998
Negotiations                                        March, 1999            May, 1999
Board presentation                                  April, 1999            June, 1999
Planned date of effectiveness                       July, 1999             August, 1999 (est.)
Prepared by: Bank, Government of Turkey and Project Agencies
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant: $250,000
Bank staff working on project:
Name                                         Specialty
Vinod K. Goel                                Task Team Leader
Hiran Herat                                  Financial Management
Manjula M. Luthria                           EconomistlVPRs
Furuzan Bilir                                Resident Mission Coordinator
Bansi Lal Amla (consultant)                  R&D Institutions
Hratch Semerjian (consultant)                MSTQ
Ian Cooper (Consultant)                      R&D Restructuring
Melvin Goldman (consultant)                  Technology Finance
Victor Barrios (consultant)                  Financial Institutions
Ekaterina Koryukin                           Financial Analysis
Francis Kenefick/Gyorgy Novotny/Ibrahim Sierer  Procurement
Barbara Santos                               Legal
Rohit Mehta                                  Disbursement
Ranjan Ganguli                               Financial Management Specialist
Peer Reviewers
Sanjay Lall (Oxford University)             Industrial Technology
Hong Tan (PSDBE)                             Economist
9 'Since July 1997.



48
Annex 9
Turkey: Industrial Technology Project
Documents in the Project File
1. Ankara Business and Science Park, Feasibility Study, ISMERI Europa, April 1996
2. Determination of the Patterns of Owned Advanced and High Technologies by the SMI's of Turkish
Manufacturing Industry, KARAR, May 1998
3. Development of an Investment Strategy for TUBITAK Marmara Research Center, Force Institute, Danish
Technology Institute, Biotechnological Institute, November 1997
4. Feasibility Study and Development Plan for the Turkish Industrial Property System, European Patent Office
5. Industrial Property Protection in Turkey, Legislation and Applications, TPE, January, 1998
6. Industrial Property Protection in Turkey, Patents, Utility Models, Trademarks, Services Marks, Industrial
Designs, Geographical Indications, LEGISLATION AND APPLICATIONS, Turkish Patent Institute, January,
1998
7. MAM Business Plan, May 1999
8. MAM Institutional Development Plan, MAM, May 1999
9. METU-TECH, Ankara, April 1995
10. Middle East Technical University, METU-TEKNOKENT, Business Plan Development Project, METU
Department of Management, Ankara, December 1997
11. National Council for Quality and Accreditation Report for the World Bank (Related to Technology
Development Project on Accreditation Activities), Single Copy issued to World Bank, September 1996
12. Policy and Corporate Strategy Statement, TTGV, June, 1998
13. Pre-feasibility Study on the Laboratory Accreditation for the Food Schience and TEchnology Research Institute
of TUBITAK-Marmara Research Center, TNO Nutrition and Food Institute, December 24, 1998
14. Preliminary Report on Investment Strategy for Information Technologies Research Center, Torben Sevel
FORCE Institute Broenby, Denmark, April 1997
15. Productivity Improvement in Small and Medium Scale Enterprises in Turkey (draft), Ankara April 16, 1997
16. Project Proposal, Istanbul Chamber of Industry, May, 1998
17. Report on Investrnent Strategy for Chemical Technologues Department & Department of Chemistry of the
Materials & Chemical Technologies Research Institute, Torben Sevel FORCE Institute Broenby, Denmark,
May 1997
18. Study of the Second Phase Investment in Ulusal Metroloji Enstitusu, Turkey, National Physical Laboratory,
UK, May 1997
19. Technology Development Foundation of Turkey (TDF), Private Sector Reorientation and Commercialization
(Perspectives for the Future), TTGV, March, 1998
20. Technology Development Foundation of Turkey, Assessment Report, TTGV, February, 1998
21. Technology Development Foundation of Turkey, Criteria for Supporting R&D Centers, September 1998



49
22. Technology Development Foundation of Turkey, Financial Projections, TTGV, September 1998
23. Technology Development Foundation of Turkey, Introduction Information, TTGV, May 1995
24. Technology Development Foundation of Turkey, Policies and Procedures for Technology Development
Support, TTGV, September 1998
25. Technology Development Foundation of Turkey, Policy and Corporate Strategy Statement, TTGV, September
1998
26. The New Strategy of Technology Development Foundation of Turkey for the next Century, TTGV
27. TPE Institutional Development Plan, TPE, May 1999
28. TTGV Annual Report, December 31, 1996, and 1997
29. TTGV Business Plan 1999-2003, May 1999
30. TTGV Criteria for Investment in Technological Parks, Report to TTGV, Segal Quince Wicksteed Ltd, March
1998
31. TTGV Framework Requirements for the Funding of New R&D Centers in Turkey, Draft Report, Segal Quince
Wicksteed Ltd, December 1998
32. TTGV Institutional Development Plan, TTGV, May 1999
33. TUBITAK -- Marmara Research Center Twenty Fifth Anniversary Book 1972-1997
34. TUBITAK Bilten Booklet, Information Technologies and Electronics Research Institute, Ankara
35. TURKAK, National Accreditation Council of Turkey, Final Report (Procedures Manuals, Operating Manual,
Criteria), Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade, February 1999
36. Turkey's Science and Technology Policy, Turkiye Bilimsei ve Teknik Arastirma Kurumu, TUBITAK BTP,
August 1997
37. Ulusal Metroloji Enstitusu, Management Review Executive Report, Arthur Andersen, February 1999
38. Ulusal Metroloji Enstitusu, Assessor's Guide, Arthur Andersen, January 1999
39. Ulusal Metroloji Enstitusu, ABO - Quality Leadership Survey Report, Arthur Andersen, January 1999
40. Ulusal Metroloji Enstitusu, Information Systems Analysis Reports, Arthur Andersen, November 1998
41. Ulusal Metroloji Enstitusu, Organizational Diagnostic Survey Report, Arthur Andersen, January 1999
42. Ulusal Metroloji Enstitusu, Self-Assessment Findings Report, Arthur Andersen, February 1999
43. Ulusal Metroloji Enstitusu, Strategy Articulation Report, Arthur Andersen, November 1998
44. UME Institutional Development Plan, UME, May 1999
45. United Nations Development Programme, Project of the Government of Turkey, Assistance to Develop
Indigenous Software Industry, UNDP, November 1996
46. Venture Capital Fund Identification Study, Technology Development Project, TTGV, November, 1996



50
Annex 10
Turkey: Industrial Technology Project
Status of Active Operations in Turkey
IBRD Loans anid IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Loan/| 'Financier  Project Project Name                         - Sector C'urrency  Principal    Undisbirsed   Disbursed   Approval    jSigned Date -Effective    Closing
Credit                ID               _,                             _                                                  Date                        Date          Date
21i43      EFCT   38220 ISTANBUL ENVIRON.                         VX     F.UR              0.27            0         0.27                   15-Jul-93    15-Jul-93   31 -Dec-96
21146     EECT   38152 PATARA MANAGEMENT                          VX     EUR               0.27            0        0.27                    14-Jul-93    14-Jul-93   30-Sep-97
590     EXIM            INANCIAI. SECTOR                               JPY         40,000.00             0   38,272.14                    5-Sep-88     5-Sep-88   311-)ec-92
1540     EXIM           ENERGY SECTOR                                   JPY         54,375.00      (      0   37,725.75                 22-Sep-87    22-Sep-87   31-Jan-94
_ADJUSTMENT                           _            _ _ _
3057A      IBRD    9030 HFALTH I                                  HX    USD               26.77          3 22       23.55    11-May-89    16-Aug-90    17-Oct-90   31-Dec-98
3057S      IBRD    9030 IHEALTH I                                 HX     USD              29.48          0.1        29.39    11-May-89    1f6-Aug-90    17-Oct-90   31-Dec-98
3151 A     IBRD    9061 ANKARA SEWERAGE                           WX    USD               25.13          3. 8       21.96    21 -Dec-89    16-Aug-90    23-Jan-91   28-Feb-99
3192A      IBRD    9029 NATIONAL EDUCATION D                      EX      tJD             57.28         27.85       29 43    26-Apr-90    18-May-90       31 -Jul-90   30-Jun-99
3192S      IBRD    9029 NATIONAL EDUCATION D                      EX     USD              17.88         0.22        17.66    26-Apr-90    18-May-90      31-Jul-90   30-Jun-99
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BX-. 7_                                                                       395       2-5Ar9
3296A      iBRD    9058 TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME                      BX      USD              42.3          3.78       38.52    2-Feb-91       5-Apr-91      6-Scp-91   31 -Dec-98
3296S      IBRD    9058 TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME                      BX    USD               49.37         0.01       49.36    28-Feb-91       5-Apr-91      6-Sep-91   31 -Dec-98
334511    IBRD      9071 TEK RESTRUCT.                            PX     USD                40         24.19         3.81     13-Jun-91    13-Sep-91    27-Apr-92   31 -Dec-99
3345A      IBRD    9071 TEK RESTRUCT.                             PX      USD             69.88        25.68         44.2    13-Jun-91     13-Sep-91    27-Apr-92   31 -Dec-99
3472A      IIBRD    9044 AGRJC. RESEARCH                          AX    USD                34.7         14.94       19.76    21 -May-92     1 2-Jun-92    1 6-Sep-92   3 1 -Dec-99
3472S      IBRD     9044 AGRIC. RESEARCH                          AX    UJSD               14.3         0.16        14.14    21 -May-92    12-Jun-92     16-Sep-92   31 -Dec-99
3477A      IBRD    9097 TA FOR TREAS URY DATA                     B X    USD               2.12          1.13        0.98    28-May-92      12-Jun-92    10-Sep-92   30-Jun-99
351 IA     IBRD    9099 EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRU                      UX    USD                58.9        27.05        12.35     23-Jul-92     27-Jul-92    18-Sep-92   30-Jun-00
3541A      IBRD    9064 EMPLOYMENT & TRAININ                      SX      USD             48.82          37.2       11.62    10-Dec-92       1-Feb-93    26-May-93   31-Dec-00
3541S      IBRD    9064 EMPLOYMENT & TRAININ                      SX     USD              18.18         0.03        18.16    10-Dec-92      I-Feb-93    26-May-93   31 -Dec-00
3565A      IBRI)   9065 BURSA WATER & SANITA                      WX    USD               85.61         25.51       40.11    11 -Mar-93    25-Mar-9     26-Aug-93   30-Jun-01
3565S      IBRL    9065 BURSA WATER & SANITA                      WX    USD               31.39         0.07        31.31    11 -Mar-93    25-Mar-93    26-Aug-93   30-Jun-01
3566A      IBRD    9065 BURSA WATER & SANITA                      WX    USD                7.84           4.9        2.95    11 -Mar-93    25-Mar-93    26-Aug-93   30-Jun-01
3567A      IBRD    9023 E. ANATOLIA WATERSHE                      AX    DEM              106.43         83.23        23.2    11 -Mar-93    25-Mar-93      26-Jul-93   30-Sep-00
3728A      IBRD    9102 PRIVATIZATION IMPLEM                      BX      USD             82.81         16          10.12     3-May-94     5-May-94    28-Feb-95   30-Jun-99
3728S      IBRD    9102 PRIVATIZATION IMPLEM                      BX     US0 17.19                      0.39         16.     3-May-94      5-May-94    28-Feb-95   30-Jun-99
3802A      IBRD    9076 IIEAL'I'H 11                              fIX    DEM             231.97        188.43       43.54    22-Sep-94    28-Sep-94      31 -Jan-95   31 -Dec-01
38936      IBRD    9093 ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY                      WX    USD                100         78.05       21.95    25-May-95        5-Jul-95    22-Dec-95   30-JuL-03
39420      IBRR1    35759 PUBLIC FfNAN. MGT.            - -      BX      USD                62          58.7          3.3    21-Sep-95     11-Oct-95     1-May-96   31-Dec-01
4048A      IBRD   38091 ROAD  IMPP   . & SAFETY                   TX      OEM            255.53        255.5.3          0    20-Ju--96     24-Jun-9 6       O-Oct-96   31 Mar-03
4049(0     IBRI)  38091 ROAD IMPR. & SAFETY                       TX     USD               100         20.77        79.23    20-iun-96     i 24-Jun-96    10-Oct-96   31-Mar-03
40890 ___II        45073 OIL PIPELINE ENG.                        GX     USD                 5          2.41         2.59    12-Scp-96    29-Sep-96    20-Mar-97   3 1 -Mar-99



51
42010      IBRD    9095 PRIM HEALTH CARF SER                       HX    USD                14.5            0           0      24-Jun-97    22-Sep-97    18-Dec-97  30-Nov-00
42350      IBRD    9072 PRIV. OF IRRIGATION                        AX      USD                20         18.49         1.51     14-Oct-97    28-Oct-97    24-Apr-98   31-Dec-02
43150      IBRD    8985 CESME W.S. & SEWER.                        WX    USD                13.1            13          0.1    14-Apr-98      8-May-98      7-Sep-98   31 -Dec-03
43440      IBRD   48852 NAT'L. TRNSM. GRID                         PX     USD                270        269.75         0.25     11-Jun-98    25-Jun-98    17-Sep-98   31-Dec-03
43550      IBRD    9089 BASIC ED I                                 EX      USD               300           296           4      23-Jun-98    25-Jun-98    12-Aug-98   30-Jun-01
43760      IBRD   48851 COMMODITIES.MKT.DEV.                       AX    USD                   4           3.9          0.1     16-Jul-98     31-Jul-98    26-Feb-99   30-Sep-01
43880      IBRD   58877 EMGY FLOOD RECOVERY                        WX    USD                 369        322.78        46.22    10-Sep-98    11 -Sep-98    13-Oct-98   30-Jun-02
P0630      IBRD           *DUMMY FOR * TURKEY                              USD                 1             0            1    27-Apr-83    27-Apr-83    27-Apr-83   31-Dec-85
P3500      IBRD    9073 INDUSTRIAL TECH                            IX      USD               2.5             2          0.5     30-Jul-98    28-Aug-98      8-Sep-98   31-Oct-99
930      IFAD           ERZURUM RURAL DEVELOPMENT                       XDR               17.2             0       13.08                    3-Aug-82      1-Nov-82   30-Jun-89
1410     IFAD      8951 AGR.EXTN.& APPLD.RESRCH.                  AX    XDR                 9.7            0         6.32                  16-May-84    14-Aug-84   30-Jun-94
20465        JPN     9065 BURSA WATER& SANITA                      WX    JPY               202.5             0      202.19                    3-Sep-91      3-Sep-91   31-Dec-92
20475       JPN      9019 BERKE HYDRO PLANT                        PX     JPY              117.4             0        39.79                  11 -Dec-91    I -Dec-91   30-Jun-95
20485       JPN    9077 COAL POLLUTION ABATE                       PX       .Y               108          13.8         94.2                  28-May-92    28-May-92   31-Dec-99
21388       JPN    9093 ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY                       WX      .Y              310.5             0      310.28                   16-Mar-92    16-Mar-92   31-Dec-96
21986       JPN      9098 ISTANBUL WAT.SUPPLY                      WX    WY                  250             0         250                   25-Mar-93    25-Mar-93   30-Jun-94
22597        JPN     9102 PRIVATIZATION IMPLEM                     BX      JPY               106             0        98.84                   3-May-94      3-May-94   31 -Dec-95
22598       JPN      9073 INDUSTRIAL TECH                          IX     JPY               32.4          3.32        29.08                   11-Jul-95     I 1-Jul-95   31-Dec-98
22599       JPN    35769 ZONGULDAK REGIONAL D                      UX    JPY                 106             0         106                    3-Apr-94      3-Apr-94   30-Sep-97
23064        JPN     9101 MICROENTERPRISES                         IX      JPY              40.9             0        21.91                  16-Nov-93    16-Nov-93   31 -Dec-96
23065       JPN      9095 PRIM HEALTH CARE SER                     HX       .Y             122.3             0        98.91                  16-Aug-93    16-Aug-93   31-Dec-95
25558       JPN   48851 COMMODITIES.MKT.DEV.                       AX    USD                 0.4          0.17         0.23     2-Feb-98      2-Feb-98      2-Feb-98   30-Apr-99
25800       JPN           AGRICULTURAL RESOURCE SURVEY                     JPY                45             0          45                    17-Jul-91     17-Jul-91   31-Dec-92
26610       JPN      8985 CESME W.S. & SEWER.                      WX    JPY               607.5         44.59      562.91                    7-Nov-89      7-Nov-89   31-Dec-98
27110       JPN      9056 AGROINDUSTRY                             AX    JPY               582.5             0      571.92                    26-Jul-90     26-Jul-90   31 -Oct-97
27133       JPN      8961 DR& ON-FARM DEV.                         AX    USD                 0.3          0.17         0.13      3-Oct-97      3-Oct-97      3-Oct-97   30-Jun-99
27134       JPN   43388 S.E.REGION URBAN SAN                       UX    USD                0.39          0.08         0.31    26-Sep-97    26-Sep-97    26-Sep-97   30-Jun-99
27320       JPN   37959 PUB. SECTOR ADJ. LN.                       BX    WY                 60.5             0       49.06                    26-Jul-90     26-Jul-90   30-Jun-93
27690       JPN      9058 TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME                     BX      JPY              87.7             0         87.7                   26-Jul-90     26-Jul-90   30-Jun-97
27700       JPN      9071 TEK RESTRUCT.                            PX      JPY               290             0        52.55                  28-Aug-92    28-Aug-92   30-Jun-96
29113       JPN      9070 LOW INCOME HOUSING                       UX    JPY                79.5          7.24        72.26                   3-Apr-95      6-Apr-95   30-Jun-99
29114       JPN      9074 TRANSPORT                                TX      JPY               106             0         106                   22-Mar-95    22-Mar-95   31 -Dec-96
29482       JPN   53253 CAPA.BUILD.POV. MON.                       SX      USD               0.5          0.39         0.11      9-Jul-96      9-Jul-96      9-Jul-96   31 -Dec-98
29483       JPN   43365 BURSA URBAN TRANSP.                        TX      USD              0.86             0         0.86    30-May-96   30-May-96   30-May-96   30-Jun-98
29666       JPN   45362 ANKARA URBAN TRANSPO                       TX      USD              0.69             0         0.69     10-Jan-97     10-Jan-97     10-Jan-97   31 -Aug-98
29667       JPN   48852 NATL. TRNSM. GRID                          PX      USD              0.76          0.11         0.65    13-May-97    13-May-97    13-May-97    31-Jul-99



52
29051     MUl.T   44175 BIODIVERSITY                             VX    USD               035          0.07        0.28    24-Oct-97    24-Oct-97    24-Oct-97   31-Dec-98
2980     SWTZ    8951 AGR.EXTN.& APPLD.RESRCH.                 AX    tJSI)                 6            0        4.58                   4-Dec-92     18-Jan-93   30-Jun-95
3000     SWTZ    9051 STATI'E AND PROVINCIA .I'X                       USD                15         0.01        14.99                 26-Jun-92    26-Jun-92   30-Jun-97
21934     WBTF    8871 PHASING OUT OZONE DE                     VX      USD              6.17         0.07          6.1                  24-Jan-94     4-Apr-94   31 -Dec-99
21942     WB'I'F  38404 ODS PI-HASEOUT 11                        VX    USD                 14         8.63         5.37     6-Nov-95     6-Nov-95    11-Dec-95   30-Jun-99
28550     WBTF           IDF-TURKEY PARTI'ICIPATORY ENV.                USD              0.39         0.03         0.36                  20-Ju1-95     20-Jul-95  12-May-98
28632     WBTF    8869 IN SITU GENE CONSERV                      VX    XDR               3.71         0.11          3.6    19-Feb-93    25-Mar-93    25-Mar-93   30-Sep-98



53
Annex II
Turkey: Industrial Technology Project
Turkey at a glance
Turk"  Elump &   Upp.-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        Cenal   middl
As  lraome        Dev
Population nidA1997 (nAlIons)                      03.7      476      571               Life  pcy
GNP per capib 1997 (USS)                          3,130     2.320    4,520
GNP 1907 (billons USS)                            199.5    1.106    2.584
Aveae annual growth, 199046
Population 1X)                                      1.7       0.2      1.5
Labor fh   %)                                       2.1       0.5      1.9     GNP I       /                  r 
Noat r antetimaab (laest  yew avjabio slie 1989                                  P)Y
capit                      nrle
Poverty: headcount inxex (% opopulaon)
Uban population (% oftotsi popultion)               69        67       73
Libe expea    at bW   ears)                         as        69       70
Infant moaiy wper 1,000 he biths)                   48        25       30
Chid n elnuldton ( of chiren under 5)
Acesas to ah water (% of populatin)                  92         ..     79              Accs to Sam Wr
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                 18        ..      15
Gross priary enment (% of schooi-ag. population)    97        92      107        -     Turkey
male                                             101                           -    Upp  -wniidd   come goup
Female                                            64
KEY ECONObC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1385      191      1917
GDP (bilions USS)                         46.7    67.2    181.5   189.9        Ec_c rsOs
Gross domesc hvestntVGDP                  17.9    16.5       24.6    25.1
Export ofgoods & serviceGDP                4.2    15.9       21.5    24.6             Openness of
Gdss domestc sawrgslG                     11.4    13.4       18.6    19.3
Gross national saviG WIGOP                14.4    15.0       22.4    23.6
Curmnt account baIdrx*lGDP                 -3.5    -1.5      -2.6    -2.5
Interest payrntaGDP                        0.3      2.0       1.9      1.5
Total ddbVGWP                             10.8    38.7       46.8    48.0     Savi_   nvesgTent
Total debt serAoeexport                   11.3    35.0       23.3    19.1
Present value of dbtWGDP
Prswnt vadso d bUxport.......
1975.65 1U8446    19"        1197 1996102                  lndebtedn
(average annual growth)
GDP                                3.1     3.9      7.0       7.5      4.3        -Tukey
GNP per capta                      0.4     2.1      5.3       6.8      2.9
Exports of goods and non-factor ev    17.5  8.4    22.0      19.1      5.5              Uppeddle ioome group
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GOP)                                1975    1966      1996    197       Gm h     A of OulA wid fnwbnt(%
AgrIculture                               35.8    20.4       17.4    15.1      4
Industry                                  19.9    27.1       27.9    28.2    20
Manufacturing                            12.5    17.7      18.0    18.3
Servk                                     44.3    52.5       54.7    56.7      0 7   2    95  9       5      ff   9
Pnvate consumption                        79.1    79.8       69.8    68.4 
General govemment consumption              9.5      6.8      11.6    12.3                           GO      0  GDP
Imports of goods and servIces             10.7    19.0       27.5    30.4
197S56  19864        1991    1997      Gro  a.eapoite md ua (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                09       1.3       47      -22      4
Industry                                   3.2      4.7       6 5     10.1    30
Manufacturing                             3.?      5.3       6.4    11.2    20         /
Servics                                    4.2      3.9       7 6       7      o           _
Private consumption                        2.3      4.1       8.5      8.4    .10    i2   ff  \9  /       95    f  7
Genera government consumption              37       39        86       4.1    -20
Gross domestic invesmnt                    0.2      4.4       0.2      5.8    40 
Imports of goods and servIcs               2.6      9.5      19.0    22.4
Gross national product                     2.7      4.0       7.1      8.3 3                                 Ims
The diamonds show four key Indicators In th country (in bold) compared wit its Incomegroup average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



54
Turkey
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
a117    1986      1094    1997
Oom"dc prk"                                                                   Irritation (%)
(% change)                                                                    so
Consumer proes                            19.2    45.7       80.4    55.7      o
Implicit GDP deflator                     20.5    52.1       78.3     1.2      o
Goverment fInanc,                                                              20
(% of GNP)                                                                     o .       ,     - ,     U ,       ,-
Current revenue indudhg grants              ..       ..      18.0    23.4       91   92   "                       97
Current budget baance                                        -2.5    -0.8 8
Overall surplusdeficit                                       -9.0    .8.7
TRADE
1975    19U5     19"    11997
(millions US$)                           E17       1t NW6                                b    _ OEt O t   (US$ IUIion)
Tows Sz   tw), Udmd  *.uw  tfa            ,401    8 255    23,64  26,762      .tmO
Textbles and wearkn appuel                191    2.219     8,818    9 969      _
Agricuture and forastry                   759    1,502     2,455   4,385
Machinery and equipment                    19     852     3.492     404      4.OOD
1ta1 mots (of)                           4,502   11,230    43.028  48,585     30.0O0
Food and beverag"                        233      417     2.393   2,425
Fuel and energy                          628    1,576     5i730    S287      20i000
Capitl goods                            1,851    3,050    10,208  18,451     lo,oro
Export prce index (1994=100)                ..       .-      108      103        0 -       _ 
Import pric index (1994=100)                 ..      ..      110      100            91  92 93  94  95  9g  97
Terms of trade (1994=100)                     .       ..       98     102                    *          _ *nports
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    1985      1996    1997
(millions USS)                                                                Currnt account balance to GOP raio
ExportsofGoodsandSeevices                2,018   11,119    40.529  47,560
Imports of Goods and Services            4.979   12,661    48.782  56.536
Resource batarc                         -2,961   -1,542    4,253   e8.976      2
Net Income                                -123   -1,455     -960    -558 *
Net current transfes                     1,437    1,954     4,447   4,S6       o
Current account balance,                 -1,647   -1,013 .4,766   4,868    *2
Financing itemw (net)                      970    1.137     9.311    8,012    -3
Changes in net reserves                    677    -124    -4,545   -3,344      4 l
MeM:
Reserves excduding gold (lir USS)        1,444    2.322    17,695   19,575
Conversion rate (locakUSS)                16.1   674.5  81,404.9  #
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975    1985      199i    1997
(millions USS)                                                                Cofadlon of toted de. 1097
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     5,059   25,998    84,666  91.205
lBRD                                     268    3,432     4.260    3,587
IDA                                      t44      176      124      11a
Totaldebtsarvice                           377    4,600    11,095   10,716                                22e34
IBRD                                      31     400      1,154     965
IDA                                        2        5        7        7
Composition of net resource flows                                  \                                            A
Officialgrants                            18      115      555      314                                   \ 3587
Official creditors                       165      424      -841      64                                     a  C
Private creditors                        -11      -14       114   2,914                                     18 594
Foreign direc-i nvestment                114       99      612      554                                       D
Portfolio equity excd. privatization       ..      ..    -761    -140         F                              2940
World B3ank program                                                           54193                       E
Comnitents                               158      838       255      35                                7139
Disbursements                            108      636       490     266
Principal repayments                      11      159      821      698      A - IBRD                  E - sdat'
Net flows                                 97      477      -332    -432      8- IDA    0 - Othr mutitea   F - Pm*e
Interest payments                         21      246      337      274      C - IMF                   G - Shor-tOni
Net transfer                              76      231     -472    -706
Intemational Economics Department



IBRD 29767
BUG  GARIA ;                                                               -                                                                                                       40                                            bEORG;K'
,,Wr~-j.erdo \'-t-   -L -5q           n4 u '3                                                               6   ',e    Adtou   afzpo  '$;
tQA\yE&rr)soII~lBfI  EI    X      .                                                                             $ Oirinqp ODU
'B~'*  $        <   ' '~ x                                                                   'A SIMNI    /   5117             - 3'glC  .' .;;X                                                                              '3 2~   ~\.    \( ;
'GREECE                       AI  1A/ALlO- gud i                                                                  ( .- ,\/E
'      '   '(SNEr'         '   "' 3-''.5t'D         .                '3   '-,__.'--f-''-'2"'/                        SAMSON-'    ''  GAod'33zkyo1i3!.  -I                        TOCATIO                OF   PROJEC
. I'll .    .                                                                 ;4_rrf                 ARAf3 REP.                  IMPLEMENTATION AGENCIES~~~~~~~RABZO
\-A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-"3
I   . 8       ,        ,4 2 9 .i i i,. t t tS }l'Rc l ''~ NB                                                                                                                                                         '1 ;i    ,J (S TE UKS  ATN  NTTT     RVNECPTL
,,~ stow.-  31   -Ttt                                                      "-"N. /~'~  'Yt     010")0 '7                                      <'7" -   'abttf  TTtD3EVVETLUORPKStASENT TIC  NATONALCAPITAL  ,K
Thaboundrr;rJ,PpYqtovdenomInpig4'PntenroIhopazari)l%olushoCi I<I3RITh nObeE UMr Ym/ hrw7oors/>   ARMENIA
ii  ocrepfrirrof>U6hhopnfpoW''  '/"                                       '3leDrie  3'                         '-Amsyo
- r ,, , )4 -'                                                       __                                                          3KAT>G mLhfne7                                                      {<  f-AG          OS 1    411
'v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<~~~3  Crmrr~.    <~(                                                                                     '1A(I1T  ERZURUISO 
1 ~~~~-  -  3',  , ~~~~~~~~~~~ANKARA                                                                                   ER'3A'                                                       A,
bkk.hi ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\AIJAN
AiSNISI    I                                                                    -   N                                                                                       MOO     '_SKSEHR  SVA
U4msa            /      3                                                ' ~~~~~~~~s'~~                                              Mooch6          /  'BNOOL  '3 .~Ki-i,  .-I                              ISLAMIC
~~ ~~  Af7ot                 '3                KAYSFOI       /          V            Q'K'  ~~~~~~~~~~ 4    '3 ~~~~    ~          ~    '~'A'~~~ 'v"' "ANt ~~~~"BREPRE.OO
'N    IaBso   I    Y~%  A1'o/'   /33                         \)'         Nevseh,r                                              /<    BIaz0        ~      '                                '3 GVan           4      IRAN
I/MI? ~~~~~~~                  '3'                   /~~~~~~~or5oo  kNFSRIA~~~~~~~~~~~Q ' r  Kaysr ..iM  LATYA  " EM/ 
-4  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~.                             <n'                         N,gde                3'.~~4'-                                           
1              4                                                                                                   -       /  ? "11IN M6                            -- S61(1NAK,"5
MOOt!" 33  'OMIt,   I    A ~~~~P.H5,                     I  NGw1'/"
M~~~~gl.                                                                                                                        SANLIZJRFA  'Nsfr'3    (33          UR      E
3/ohS 31033    17733~ ~ ~ ~ ~~4         iiS                                                                                      RA 
4,    C-dc    '~~ IA,,taI.~~o3  p'       SYRIAN                          LOCATION  OF PROJECT
ARA R  P,            IMPLEMENTATION AGENCIES
A     ' oFM,'~''                                                                                                                               IPE. TURKISH PATENT INSTITUTE        Ai  PROVINCE CAPITALS
3413  '    .  .   "                '                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~TTGV TURKISH TECHNOLOGY    NATIONAL CAPITAL
~~   'T"    '0"    "'I"  '           .            '      -                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION                    RVR
IS.U-ap psA-ssod by4 EaMap Basis, Bob~ oM. World BanE.  '  KILMETERS                                     'A                                                                              UME: NATIONAL METROLOGT INSTITUTE     -pROVINCE BOUNDARIES
nov61. soap Asset 1o4, on sbepoo of iN EM?? Bank 11rsup  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   CYPRUS           -{*                                                                         MADS MARMARA RESEARCH CENTER        _-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
AUUIJST 1-998



