Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4495 TU
TTGV Project Agreement
(Industrial Technology Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
TURKIYE TEKNOLOJI GELISTIRME VAKFI
Dated August 2, 1999 
LOAN NUMBER 4495 TU 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated August 2, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and TURKIYE TEKNOLOJI GELISTIRME VAKFI (TTGV). 
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Republic of 
Turkey (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount equal to one hundred fifty-five million dollars ($155,000,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that 
TTGV agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement; 
(B)
by a Subsidiary Finance Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and TTGV, part of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will 
be made available to TTGV on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary 
Finance Agreement; and 
WHEREAS TTGV, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
Definitions 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II 
Execution of Part D of the Project 
Section 2.01. (a) TTGV declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
Part D of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, technical and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for said Part D of the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and TTGV shall otherwise agree, TTGV shall carry out Part D of 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the 
Loan Agreement. 
Section 2.03. (a) TTGV shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement and Part 
D of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, TTGV shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Bank and TTGV, a plan for the 
future operation of Part D of the 
Project; and 
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
TTGV on said 
plan. 
Section 2.04. TTGV shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Finance Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, TTGV shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Finance Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 2.05. (a) TTGV shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of Part D of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Finance Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
TTGV shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of Part D of the Project, the accomplishment 
of the purposes of Loan, or the performance by TTGV of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Finance Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of TTGV 
Section 3.01. TTGV shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical and environmental practices 
Page  3
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers. 
Section 3.02. TTGV shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and technical practices. 
Section 3.03. TTGV shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. TTGV shall maintain, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, policy 
and strategy statements, a business plan, organization, management, personnel 
resources, by-laws, and operating procedures. 
Section 3.05 TTGV shall, maintain an advisory board, satisfactory to the Bank, 
in accordance with international best practices on industry feedback mechanisms.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) TTGV shall establish and maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
and in connection with the carrying out of Part D of the Project.
(b)
TTGV shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and 
the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02 (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, TTGV shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for 
the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of 
said Section 4.01 in order to enable TTGV, not later than September 30, 1999, or such 
later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, 
acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for Part D 
of the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered 
by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of 
funds for Part D of the Project for the 
six-month period following 
the period covered by said report, and (B) shows 
separately 
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the 
period 
covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Part D of the Project 
implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation  targets; 
and
Page  4
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under Part D of the Project 
and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, as at 
the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, TTGV shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of 
each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of TTGV 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify TTGV thereof. 
Section 5.03. All provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For TTGV:
Turkiye Teknoloji Gelistirme Vakfi
Ataturk Bulvan No. 221
Kavaklidere 06100 Ankara, Turkey
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of TTGV may be 
taken or executed by its Secretary-General or such other person or persons as the 
Secretary-General shall designate in writing, and TTGV shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
Page  5
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Ankara, Turkey, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ajay Chhiber 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
TURKIYE TEKNOLOJI GELISTIRME VAKFI
By /s/ Akin Cakmakci 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 
Implementation Program 
1.
TTGV shall maintain a project implementation unit (PIU) and a central project 
implementation unit (CPIU) on the basis of terms of reference and with staff and other 
resources satisfactory to the Bank which shall be responsible for the overall 
coordination of the Project, including the management and implementation of Part D of 
the Project in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in the PIP. 
2.
TTGV shall relend to or make available to eligible Beneficiaries on the basis of 
Sub-finance Agreements, the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to 
Category (4) (c) of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement to finance 
Sub-projects, on terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Annex to this 
Schedule except as otherwise agreed with the Bank.
3.
TTGV shall: (a) by August 31, 1999, prepare and furnish, to the Bank a proposed 
technology support services program, setting forth the technical assistance, training 
and information dissemination activities for small and medium size enterprises, for 
review and comment by the Bank; and (b) by September 30, 1999, put into effect said 
outreach program, taking into consideration the comments and recommendations of the 
Bank. 
4.
TTGV shall take all measures, satisfactory to the Bank, required on its part to 
assist the Borrower in the establishment of an independent national accreditation 
council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to the Loan 
Agreement. 
5.
TTGV shall, take all measures required on its part to assist the State Planning 
Organization of the Borrower to prepare and furnish to the Bank by August 31, 1999, an 
implementation plan for carrying out the Y2K pilot program.
6.
TTGV shall: (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank, by October 31 of each calendar 
year, its operational plans for the following calendar year, including its 
requirements for financing Sub-projects and for equipment, technical assistance and 
training, together with the proposed budget and procurement plans for said 
requirements; and (b) taking into consideration the comments and recommendations of 
the Bank, put into effect said operational plan for the following calendar year.
7.
TTGV shall, in coordination with the Borrower:  
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank 
the carrying out of Part D of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
Page  6
to the Bank, on or about June 30, 2001, a mid-term report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part D of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended 
to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by July 31, 2001, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures including, inter alia, revision of the PIP and the 
annual operational program for the following calendar year as agreed with the Bank, 
required to ensure the efficient completion of Part D of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
ANNEX TO THE SCHEDULE 
Terms and Conditions of the Sub-finance
1.
Sub-finance shall be made by TTGV to: (a) private enterprises for technology 
development financing; (b) technology service centers; (c) technopark enterprises; and 
(d) venture capital funds.  Each Beneficiary shall have established, to the 
satisfaction of TTGV, on the basis of operational guidelines to be adopted by TTGV as 
agreed with the Bank, that it has a sound structure and the organization, management, 
business plan, staff and other resources required for the efficient carrying out of 
the Sub-project.
2.
For the purpose of paragraph 1(a) of this Annex to the Schedule, the 
Sub-finance: (i) shall be provided to private enterprises; (ii) the amount financed by 
TTGV shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the total Sub-project cost; and (iii) at 
least thirty percent (30%) of the Sub-project cost shall be financed by the 
Beneficiary from its own resources.
3.
For the purpose of paragraphs 1(b) and 1(c), respectively, of this Annex, the 
Sub-finance: (i) shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the total Sub-project cost; 
and (ii) shall be co-financed by other sector agencies, including agencies in the 
private sector.
4.
For the purposes of paragraph 1(d) of this Annex, the Sub-finance: (i) shall not 
exceed thirty percent (30%) of the total Sub-project cost; and (ii) shall be 
co-financed by other sector agencies, including agencies in the private sector.
5.
Sub-finance shall be made by TTGV for Sub-projects which are: (a) determined on 
the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank to be technically feasible and 
commercially viable; and (b) designed with appropriate environmental standards 
consistent with the legislation of the Borrower. 
6.
Sub-finance made by TTGV may comprise a range of financing, including loans, and 
equity and any other type of financing as agreed with the Bank and as specified in the 
PIP.
7.
Unless otherwise agreed with the Bank: (a) the principal amount of each 
Sub-finance referred to in paragraph 1(a) of this Annex shall be limited to an amount 
of $2,000,000 equivalent, of which seventy-five percent (75%) shall be financed from 
the proceeds of the Loan and the sum of Sub-finance outstanding at any time to one 
single Beneficiary shall not exceed $2,000,000 equivalent; (b) the principal amount of 
each Sub-finance referred to in paragraph 1(b) of this Annex shall be limited to an 
amount of $1,000,000 equivalent; (c) the principal amount of each Sub-finance referred 
to in paragraph 1(c) of this Annex shall be limited to an amount of $2,500,000 
equivalent; and (d) the principal amount of each Sub-finance referred to in paragraph 
1(d) of this Annex shall be limited to an amount of $4,000,000;  
8.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, no new commitments for Sub-finance 
shall be made above the aggregate amount of $20,000,000, unless TTGV shall have 
furnished to the Bank evidence showing that a collection rate of not less then 
seventy-five percent (75%) has been maintained by TTGV, on all loans made by TTGV 
including Sub-finance financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Page  7
9.
The maturity of each Sub-finance in the form of a loan shall not be more than  
six (6) years, inclusive of a grace period of not more than three years. 
10.
Each Sub-finance in the form of a loan shall be charged interest or a service 
fee, on the principal amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at 
the rate of interest of TTGV applicable for research and development loans based on 
TTGV’s interest rate and service fee policies satisfactory to the Bank. 
11.
The first five (5) Sub-finance and non-free-limit Sub-finance shall be subject 
to prior review by the Bank. For the purposes of the Loan Agreement and this 
Agreement, a free-limit Sub-finance shall be a Sub-finance for a Sub-project defined 
in paragraph 1(a) of this Annex to Schedule 1, and shall be in an amount to be 
financed out of proceeds of the Loan and not exceeding the amount, which shall be 
determined by the Bank based on the experience of first five (5) Sub-finance, when 
added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan or of any other loan, provided for in any outstanding loan 
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower entered into before the date of this 
Agreement, the proceeds of which have been or are being used for financial goods and 
services directly and materially related to such Sub-project.
12.
TTGV shall maintain pre-screening, evaluation and supervision procedures for 
Sub-finance, satisfactory to the Bank, including review of each Sub-project.
13.
No expenditures for goods or services required for a Sub-project shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless: (a) the Sub-finance for 
such Sub-project shall have been approved by the Bank and such expenditures shall have 
been made not earlier then 120 days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have 
received the application and information required under paragraph 13 (a) of this Annex 
to Schedule 1 in respect of such Sub-finance; or (b)
the Sub-finance for such 
Sub-project shall have been a free-limit Sub-finance for which the Bank has authorized 
withdrawals from the Loan Account and such expenditures shall have been made not 
earlier than 120 days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received the 
request and information required under paragraph 13 (a) of this Annex to Schedule 1 in 
respect of such free-limit Sub-finance.
14.
(a)  When presenting a Sub-finance (other then a free-limit Sub-finance) to the 
Bank for approval, TTGV shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory 
to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the Beneficiary and an appraisal of 
the Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the 
Sub-finance, including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-finance; and (iii) such 
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)
Each request by TTGV for authorization to make withdrawals from the loan 
Account  in respect of a free-limit Sub-finance shall contain: (i) a summary 
description and evaluation of the Beneficiary and the Sub-project, including a 
description of the expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and 
(ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-finance, including the schedule of 
amortization thereof. 
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or 
before June 30, 2003.
15.
Sub-finance shall be made on terms whereby TTGV shall obtain, by written 
contract with the Beneficiary or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to 
protect the interests of the Bank, the Borrower and TTGV, including the right to: 
(a)
 require the Beneficiary to carry out and operate the Sub-project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and 
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records; 
(b)
require that goods, works and services shall be procured in accordance 
with commercial practices or the procedures provided in Part C.5 of Schedule 4 to the 
Loan Agreement, and that such goods shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of 
the Sub-project; 
Page  8
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representative of the Bank and the PIU 
on behalf of TTGV, the goods and the sites, works, plans and construction included in 
the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents; 
(d)
require that the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain such insurance, 
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business 
practice, including such insurance to cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of good financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
carry out and operate the Sub-project in accordance with appropriate 
health, safety and environmental standards in accordance with Turkish legislation; 
(f)
obtain all such information as the Bank or the PIU on behalf of TTGV 
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, 
operations and financial condition of the Beneficiary and to the benefits to be 
derived from the Sub-project; and  
(g)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform its obligations under 
its contract with TTGV.
