Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4495 TU
Loan Agreement
(Industrial Technology Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 2, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4495 TU 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated August 2, 1999, between the REPUBLIC OF TURKEY (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Turk Patent Enstitusu (TPE) (the 
Turkish Patent Institute), Turkiye Bilimsel ve Teknik Arastirma Kurumu (TUBITAK) (the 
Scientific and Technical Research Organization of Turkey), through Ulusal Metroloji 
Enstitusu (TUBITAK/UME) (the National Metrology Institute) and Marmara Arastirma 
Merkezi (TUBITAK/MAM) (the Marmara Research Center), and Turkiye Teknoloji Gelistirme 
Vakfi (TTGV) (the Technology Development Foundation of Turkey) with the Borrower’s 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the 
loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to the Project 
Agencies (defined hereafter);
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreements of even date herewith between the Bank and TPE, 
TUBITAK/ UME, TUBITAK/ MAM and TTGV (the Project Agreements);
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Beneficiary” means any eligible recipient to which TTGV made or proposes 
to make a sub-finance (defined hereafter).
(b)
“Eligible Categories” means: (i) in respect of the Special Account for 
Part A of the Project, Category (1) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule l 
to this Agreement; (ii) in respect of the Special Account for Part B of the Project, 
Category (2) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; (iii) 
in respect of the Special Account for Part C of the Project, Category (3) set forth in 
the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (iv) in respect of the 
Special Account for Part D of the Project, Category (4) set forth in the table in Part 
A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(c)
“Eligible Expenditures” means: (i) in respect of the Special Account for 
Part A of the Project, the expenditures for goods and services referred to in Section 
2.02 of this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated 
from time to time to said Special Account’s respective Eligible Category; (ii) in 
respect of the Special Account for Part B of the Project, the expenditures for goods 
and services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to said Special Account’s 
respective Eligible Category; (iii) in respect of the Special Account for Part C of 
the Project, the expenditures for goods and services referred to in Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time 
to time to said Special Account’s respective Eligible Category;  and (iv) in respect 
of the Special Account for Part D of the Project, the expenditures for goods and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to said Special Account's respective 
Eligible Category.
(d)
“NAC” means the national accreditation council (TURKAK) to be established 
by the Borrower as an independent entity. 
(e)
“PIP” means the Project Implementation Plan for the carrying out of the 
Project referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement and in paragraph 1 
of the Schedule to each Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to 
time with the agreement of the Bank. 
(f)
“Project Agency” means individually, TPE, TUBITAK/UME, TUBITAK/MAM or 
TTGV, and "Project Agencies” means, collectively, TPE, TUBITAK/ UME, TUBITAK/ MAM and 
TTGV. 
(g)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.01 (a) of the Project Agreements (defined hereafter).
(h)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf 
of the Bank on August 28, 1998, and on behalf of the Borrower on September 8, 1998. 
(i)
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement.
(j)
“Sub-finance” means a loan and/or equity investment made or proposed to 
Page  3
be made by TTGV out of the proceeds of a Subsidiary Finance (defined hereafter) to a 
Beneficiary for a Sub-project (defined hereafter). 
(k)
“Sub-project” means a specific research and development project to be 
carried out by a Beneficiary using the proceeds of a Sub-finance. 
(l)
“Subsidiary Finance” means a loan and/or grant provided under a 
Subsidiary Finance Agreement (defined hereafter). 
(m)
“Subsidiary Finance Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and each Project Agency pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to each Subsidiary Finance Agreement, and the term “Subsidiary Finance 
Agreements” means, collectively, the Subsidiary Finance Agreements between the 
Borrower and the Project Agencies. 
(n)
“TPE Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and TPE of 
even date herewith, “TUBITAK/UME Project Agreement” means the agreement between the 
Bank and TUBITAK/UME of even date herewith, “TUBITAK/MAM Project Agreement” means the 
agreement between the Bank and TUBITAK/MAM of even date herewith, and “TTGV Project 
Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and TTGV of even date herewith, all as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such terms include all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to said Project Agreements, and the term "Project Agreements” 
means, collectively, the TPE Project Agreement, the TUBITAK/UME Project Agreement, the 
TUBITAK/MAM Project Agreement and the TTGV Project Agreement.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project Agency 
shall be deemed as a reference to TPE, TUBITAK/UME, TUBITAK/MAM and TTGV.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred fifty-five million dollars ($155,000,000). 
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
Page  4
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this 
Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) 
the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause each Project Agency to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of its respective Project Agreement all the obligations 
of each Project Agency therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable TPE, TUBITAK/UME, TUBITAK/MAM and TTGV to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make available to the respective Project Agency the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) 
of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, all under Subsidiary Finance 
Agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and the respective Project Agency 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, such terms and conditions shall include the following: 
Page  5
(i)
the Borrower shall make available to the respective Project Agency 
as 
Subsidiary Finance an amount in Dollars equivalent to the 
amount of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to Category (1), (2), (3) 
or (4) of the table set 
forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(ii)
the Borrower shall make available the principal amount of each 
Subsidiary 
Finance to each Project Agency as follows:
(a)
TPE – twenty-five percent (25%) loan and seventy-five 
percent (75%) 
grant;
(b)
TUBITAK/UME – twenty-five percent (25%) loan and 
seventy-five percent 
(75%) grant; 
(c) 
TUBITAK/MAM – twenty-five percent (25%) loan and 
seventy-five percent 
(75%) grant; and
(d)
TTGV – fifty percent (50%) loan and fifty percent (50%) 
grant for 
Sub-finance and one hundred percent (100%) 
grant for all other 
components; 
(iii)
the term of each Subsidiary Finance made as a loan shall be 17 
years, 
including a 5 year grace period; 
(iv)
the Borrower shall not charge any interest on the principal amount 
of the 
Subsidiary Finance withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time by any Project 
Agency; and 
(v)
the principal amount of each Subsidiary Finance made as a loan 
shall be repaid 
by each Project Agency in Dollars and shall be the 
equivalent in Dollars 
(determined as of the date or respective 
dates of repayment) of the value of 
currency or currencies withdrawn 
from the Loan to finance the respective 
Subsidiary Finance.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Subsidiary Finance 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Subsidiary Finance 
Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General 
Conditions  (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried 
out by each Project Agency, pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of its respective Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements 
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
Page  6
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this 
Section including those for the Special Accounts for each 
fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank, who shall be appointed by 
September 30, 1999 on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year the report 
of such audit by said 
auditors of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested including a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation can be relied 
upon 
to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any Project Agency shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under its respective Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that any Project Agency will be able to perform its obligations under its respective 
Project Agreement.
(c)
The statutes of any Project Agency shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
said Project Agency to perform any of its obligations under its respective Project 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events specified, namely, that the events specified in paragraphs 
(a) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a 
period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to 
the Borrower.  
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions:  
(a)
that each Subsidiary Finance Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and the respective Project Agency;  
(b)
the financial management system referred to in Section 4.01(a) of each 
Page  7
Project Agreement has been established in a format satisfactory to the Bank;   
(c)
the auditors referred to in Section 4.01(b) of each Project Agreement 
have been appointed; 
(d)
a business plan, satisfactory to the Bank, has been adopted by TUBITAK/ 
MAM and TTGV; and 
(e)
an institutional development plan, satisfactory to the Bank, has been 
adopted by each Project Agency.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that each Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
respective Project Agency, and is legally binding upon the respective Project Agency 
in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that each Subsidiary Finance Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and the respective Project Agency and is legally binding upon 
the Borrower and the respective Project Agency in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Undersecretary of the Treasury of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Basbakanlik
Hazine Mustesarligi
Inonu Bulvari
Emek, Ankara
Republic of Turkey
Cable address: 
Telex:
MALIYE
821-42285
Hazine, Ankara
(MLYE-TR) or
821-42689
(ANK-TR)
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
Page  8
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Ankara, Turkey, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
By /s/ Aydin Karaoz 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ajay Chhibber 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Part A of the Project (TPE)
(a) Goods
   2,600,000
100% of foreign
expenditures
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 80%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items
procured
locally
(b) Works
   6,800,000
75%
(c) Consultants
services and training
   5,000,000
100%
(2) 
Part B of the Project
(TUBITAK/UME)
(a) Goods
  20,600,000
100% of foreign
expenditures
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 80%
of local ex-
penditures for
Page  9
other items
procured
locally
(b) Works
   8,800,000
75%
(c) Consultants’
   2,350,000
100%
services and training
 (3) 
Part C of the Project 
(TUBITAK/MAM)
(a) Goods
  24,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 80%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items
procured
locally
(b) Works
   2,000,000
75%
(c) Consultants’
   6,350,000
100%
services and training
  (4)  Part D of the Project (TTGV)
(a) Goods
100% of foreign
expenditures
    (i) for Part D (2)(b) 
     200,000
100% of local
           of the Project
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 80%
    (ii) for Part D (2)(c) 
     300,000
of local 
           of the Project
expenditures for
other items
procured
locally
(b) Consultants’
       services and training
    (i) for Part D (2)(a) 
   3,500,000
100%
               of the Project
   (ii) for Part D (2)(b) 
   1,300,000
100%
               of the Project
  (iii) for Part D (2)(c) 
   2,700,000
100%
               of the Project
   (iv) for Part D (2)(d) 
   3,000,000
100%
               of the Project
(c) Sub-finance
(i) for Part D (1)(a) 
                  of the Project
  32,000,000
75%
      (ii) for Part D (1)(b) 
                  of the Project
   5,000,000
100%
     (iii) for Part D (1)(c) 
   5,000,000
100%
Page  10
                  of the Project
      (iv) for Part D (1)(d) 
   7,000,000
100%
                  of the Project
(5) 
Refunding of
   2,500,000
Amount due pursuant 
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (b) 
of 
Advance
this Agreement
(6) 
Fee
   1,550,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(7) 
Unallocated
  12,450,000
TOTAL
        155,000,000
 ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and  
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures.”
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:  
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$2,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after November 1, 1998;  
(b)
payments made for expenditures in respect of Category (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement until the Bank has received 
from TUBITAK/UME evidence of the establishment of an institutional renewal account 
with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; 
(c)
payments made for expenditures in respect of Category (3) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement until the Bank has received 
from TUBITAK/MAM evidence of the establishment of an institutional renewal account 
with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;  
(d)
payments made for expenditures in respect of Category 4(a)(i) and 
4(b)(ii) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement until 
an independent NAC has been established and a protocol, satisfactory to the Bank, 
between the Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade of the Borrower, and TTGV has been 
executed, and
(e)
payments made for expenditures in respect of Category 4(a)(ii) and 
4(b)(iii) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement until 
a protocol, satisfactory to the Bank between the State Planning Organization of the 
Borrower and TTGV, has been executed. 
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (i) for goods under contracts costing 
less than $400,000 equivalent each; (ii) for works under contracts costing less than 
$1,000,000 equivalent each; (iii) for each Sub-finance under Part D (1) of the 
Project; (iv) for consultants services under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each for consulting firms and under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent for the employment of individual consultants; and (iv) for training, under 
Page  11
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower and the 
respective Project Agencies.
B.
Special Accounts
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account for 
each Part of the Project in the Central Bank of Turkey or a commercial bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into 
said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report of the Project Agencies referred to in Section 4.02(b) of the respective 
Project Agreements; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis 
of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02(b) of the respective Project Agreement, accompanied by a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this 
Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of each Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of the 
respective Project Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of the respective Project Agreement, 
any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for any Special Account or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into said Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of any Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into said Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into said Special Account shall be made until 
the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case 
may be.
Page  12
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in any 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
ANNEX A TO SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Accounts When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
The term "Authorized Allocation" means:
(a)
in respect of the Special Account for Part  A  of  the  Project,  an 
 amount equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and 
deposited into said Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; 
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, said Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $750,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts allocated to said Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions in respect of amounts allocated to said Categories, shall equal or exceed 
the equivalent of $6,000,000;
(b)
in respect of the Special Account for Part B of the Project, an amount 
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into said 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account of amounts allocated to said Special Account's Eligible Categories, plus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of amounts allocated to 
said Categories, shall equal or exceed the equivalent of $13,000,000;
(c)
in respect of the Special Account for Part C of the Project, an amount 
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into said 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account of amounts allocated to said Special Account’s Eligible Categories, plus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of amounts allocated to 
said Categories, shall equal or exceed the equivalent of $13,000,000; and
(d)
in respect of the Special Account for Part D of the Project, an amount 
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into said 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $2,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account of amounts allocated to said Special Account's Eligible Categories, plus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of amounts allocated to 
said Categories, shall equal or exceed the equivalent of $24,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of a Special Account's Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of said Special Account's Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into said Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed said Authorized 
Page  13
Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into said Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of said Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into said Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into said Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of said Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures.  Each such deposit into said Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to said Special Account minus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of expenditures to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, 
withdrawals from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan 
allocated to said Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in said Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
ANNEX B TO SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Accounts When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the respective 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
Each such deposit into a Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into a Special 
Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project 
Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order 
to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount 
indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in: (a) the Special 
Account for Part A of the Project shall not exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000; (b) 
the Special Account for Part B of the Project shall not exceed the equivalent of 
$6,000,000; (c) the Special Account for Part C of the Project shall not exceed the 
equivalent of $6,000,000; and (d) the Special Account for Part D of the Project shall 
not exceed the equiv
alent of $10,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) facilitate Turkey’s economic 
integration into the European Customs Union (ECU) by improving the competitiveness of 
Turkish industry through assistance in the harmonization of Turkish technology 
infrastructure services with ECU standards; and (ii) assist firms in upgrading their 
technological capabilities.
Page  14
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree from time to time to achieve such 
objectives.
Part A:
Industrial Property Rights Services (TPE)
Construction and equipping of specialized buildings and strengthening the 
capacity of TPE to harmonize the Borrower’s industrial property rights regime with ECU 
standards by improving patent filing and search and examination procedures and to 
enforce industrial property rights through the provision of technical assistance and 
training.
Part B:
Metrology Services (TUBITAK/UME)
Construction and equipping of specialized buildings and strengthening the 
capacity of TUBITAK/UME to provide metrology services, including, inter alia, 
upgrading of existing measurement services, extending measurement services into new 
areas and developing technology transfer activities through the provision of technical 
assistance and training.
Part C:
Restructuring of Research and Development Institutions (TUBITAK/MAM)
Provision of laboratory and office equipment and strengthening the capacity of 
TUBITAK/MAM as a network of research organizations through the provision of technical 
assistance and training.
Part D:
Technology Upgrading (TTGV)
(1)     Provision of Sub-finance for: (a) technology upgrading and modification 
activities; (b) technology service centers; (c) technopark initiatives; and (d) 
venture capital funds.
(2)     Provision of technical assistance and training: (a) to strengthen the capacity 
of TTGV to provide support for technology development projects and prepatory work for 
the establishment of an independent NAC; (b) for the establishment of an independent 
NAC by the Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade of the Borrower; (c) for the 
implementation through the State Planning Organization of the Borrower of a pilot 
program to address Y2K issues; and (d) to strengthen the capacity of TTGV to provide 
technology support services to private enterprises. 
*** 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
   (Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
      Dollars*
On each January 15 and July 15
Beginning January 15, 2005
through January 15, 2016
6,460,000
On July 15, 2016
6,420,000 
Page  15
____________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods estimated to cost between $400,000 to $500,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, and goods, which the Bank 
agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the 
cost thereof, may be procured, under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.  
2.
National Competitive Bidding 
Works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
Page  16
aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the procedures agreed with the Bank. 
3.
International Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $400,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $20,700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
amended on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
5.
Direct Contracting
Goods which should be procured as an extension of an existing contract must be 
purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment are of a 
proprietary nature/must be procured from a particular supplier as a condition of a 
performance guarantee or are required to respond to natural disasters and costing 
$2,500,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, 
be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
6.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three 
(3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
7.
Commercial Practices
Goods and works costing less than $2,000,000 per contract required by private 
sector Beneficiaries in carrying out Sub-projects under Part D (1) of the Project may 
be procured in accordance with commercial practices acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and works awarded pursuant 
to the provisions of Part B hereof; and (ii) each contract for goods awarded pursuant 
to the provisions of Part C.1 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to: (i) the first two contracts for works awarded by each 
Project Agency pursuant to the provisions of Parts C.2 and C.6 hereof; (ii) the first 
two contracts for goods awarded by each Project Agency pursuant to the provisions of 
Parts C.3 and C.4 hereof; and (iii) each contract for goods to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in C.5 above, the following procedures 
Page  17
shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the execution of each said contract under shopping 
procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the 
comparison and evaluation 
of quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of each said contract procured under direct 
contracting 
or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for the procurement of services for the Project, 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for studies and research contracts and other services under the Project 
as agreed with the Bank shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines and the 
prior approval of the Bank. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for Project implementation support and other services as agreed with 
the Bank under the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for specialized activities under the Project which are estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, 
be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
4.
Commercial Practices
Page  18
Services for carrying out Sub-projects by private sector Beneficiaries under 
Part D (1) of the Project estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured in accordance with commercial practices acceptable to the Bank.  For 
services costing the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the Project Agency shall furnish 
to the Bank information on the terms of reference and estimated cost. 
5.
Individual Consultants
Services for procurement training and project management shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines and with the prior approval of 
the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for  
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall, through its Undersecretariat of the Treasury, have overall 
responsibility for the coordination of the Project in accordance with the requirements 
set forth or referred to in the PIP. 
2.
The Borrower shall, through its Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade, maintain an 
independent NAC with policy and strategy statements, organization, management, 
personnel resources, by-laws, operating procedures and the structure and procedures of 
its board of directors in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
3.
The Borrower shall, through its State Planning Organization, prepare and furnish 
to the Bank, by August 31, 1999, an implementation plan for carrying out the Y2K pilot 
program in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
4.
The Borrower shall take all measures necessary on its part to ensure that 
TUBITAK/UME and TUBITAK/MAM each comply with the requirements for the establishment 
and operation of an institutional renewal account referred to in paragraph 2 of the 
Schedule to the TUBITAK/UME Project Agreement and paragraph 2 of the Schedule to the 
TUBITAK/MAM Project Agreement, respectively.
Page  19
5.
The Borrower shall, jointly with the Project Agencies: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about June 30, 2001, a mid-term report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by July 31, 2001, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
