Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4495 TU
TUBITAK/MAM Project Agreement
(Industrial Technology Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
TURKIYE BILIMSEL VE TEKNIK  ARASTIRMA KURUMU
Dated August 2, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4495 TU 
TUBITAK/MAM PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated August 2, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and TURKIYE BILIMSEL VE TEKNIK ARASTIRMA KURUMU 
(TUBITAK/MAM). 
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Republic of 
Turkey (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount equal to one hundred fifty-five million dollars ($155,000,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that 
TUBITAK/MAM agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in 
this Agreement; 
(B)
by a Subsidiary Finance Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and TUBITAK/MAM, part of the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan 
Agreement will be made available to TUBITAK/MAM on the terms and conditions set forth 
in said Subsidiary Finance Agreement; and 
WHEREAS TUBITAK/MAM, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
Definitions 
Section 1.01.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II 
Execution of Part C of the Project 
Section 2.01. (a) TUBITAK/MAM declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Part C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, technical and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for said Part C of the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and TUBITAK/MAM shall otherwise agree, TUBITAK/MAM shall carry 
out Part C of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for Part C of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement. 
Section 2.03. (a) TUBITAK/MAM shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement and Part 
C of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, TUBITAK/MAM shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Bank and TUBITAK/MAM, a plan for 
the future operation of Part C of the 
Project; and 
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
TUBITAK/MAM on 
said plan. 
Section 2.04. TUBITAK/MAM shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Finance Agreement.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, TUBITAK/MAM 
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Finance Agreement or any provision 
thereof. 
Section 2.05. (a) TUBITAK/MAM shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to progress of Part C of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Finance Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
TUBITAK/MAM shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part C of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the performance by TUBITAK/MAM of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Finance Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of TUBITAK/MAM 
Section 3.01. TUBITAK/MAM shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs 
Page  3
in accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical and environmental 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers. 
Section 3.02. TUBITAK/MAM shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and technical practices. 
Section 3.03. TUBITAK/MAM shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, 
or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. TUBITAK/MAM shall maintain, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, 
policy and strategy statements, a business plan, organization, management, personnel 
resources, by-laws, and operating procedures. 
Section 3.05. TUBITAK/MAM shall maintain an organizational autonomy model, 
satisfactory to the Bank, with an optimal balance between autonomy and stability of 
research environment. 
Section 3.06 TUBITAK/MAM shall, by September 30, 1999, establish and make 
operational an advisory board, satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with 
international best practices on industry feedback mechanisms.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) TUBITAK/MAM shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, 
in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures and in connection with the carrying out of Part C of the Project.
(b)
TUBITAK/MAM shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and 
the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02 (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, TUBITAK/MAM shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank 
for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) 
of said Section 4.01 in order to enable TUBITAK/MAM, not later than September 30, 
1999, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare Project Management 
Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for Part C 
of the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered 
by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of 
funds for Part C of the Project for the 
six-month period following 
the period covered by said report, and (B) shows 
separately 
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the 
period 
covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
Page  4
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Part C of the Project 
implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation  targets; 
and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under Part C of the Project 
and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, as at 
the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, TUBITAK/MAM shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of 
each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
Section 4.03. TUBITAK/MAM shall generate sufficient income from its contractual 
activities to cover at least forty percent (40%), forty-five percent (45%), fifty 
percent (50%), fifty-five percent (55%), sixty-two percent (62%), and seventy percent 
(70%) of its total annual expenses during the 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004 
calendar years, respectively.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of TUBITAK/MAM 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify TUBITAK/MAM thereof. 
Section 5.03. All provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For TUBITAK/MAM:
TUBITAK/MAM
P.O. Box 21
Gebze Kocaeli 41470
Page  5
Turkey
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of TUBITAK/MAM 
may be taken or executed by its President or such other person or persons as the 
President shall designate in writing, and TUBITAK/MAM shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Ankara, Turkey, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ajay Chhibber 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
TURKIYE BILIMSEL VE TEKNIK ARASTIRMA KURUMU
By /s/ Namik Pak 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program 
1.
TUBITAK/MAM shall maintain a project implementation unit (PIU) on the basis of 
terms of reference and with staff and other resources satisfactory to the Bank which 
shall have the responsibility for managing and implementing the activities under Part 
C of the Project in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in the 
PIP.
2.
TUBITAK/MAM shall: (a) maintain an institutional renewal account on the basis of 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; (b) thereafter operate said 
institutional renewal account in accordance with policies and procedures satisfactory 
to the Bank; (c) deposit into said institutional renewal account at least ten million 
dollars ($10,000,000) equivalent from its revenues during the 2001 through 2012 
calendar years; and (d) thereafter use the amounts on deposit in said institutional 
renewal account for the purpose of financing its institutional renewal requirements. 
3.
Each activity, including the provision of funds to its technical institutions, 
proposed by TUBITAK/MAM to be financed out of the proceeds of its respective 
Subsidiary Finance shall be subject to the preparation of a business plan satisfactory 
to the Bank.
4.
TUBITAK/MAM shall: (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank, by October 31 of each 
calendar year, its operational plans for the following calendar year, including its 
requirements for equipment, technical assistance and training, together with the 
proposed budget and procurement plans for said requirements; and (b) taking into 
consideration the comments and recommendations of the Bank, put into effect said 
operational plans for the following calendar year.
5.
TUBITAK/MAM shall, in coordination with the Borrower: 
Page  6
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank 
the carrying out of Part C of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about June 30, 2001, a mid-term report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part C of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended 
to ensure the efficient carrying out of Part C of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by July 31, 2001, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures, including, inter alia, revision of the PIP and the 
annual operational program for the following calendar year as agreed with the Bank, 
required to ensure the efficient completion of Part C of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
