RETURN TO
REPORTS DESK                                             RESTRICTED
ONE WIT1 "1 N                     4       Ir            Report No.  PA-102a
T11 rOport a for officai us oy by tie »ank rGoup ud ipecicay authoded «pztions
or pwSoiu. It may not bc publbld, quoted or cited wlthout Dank Group utlor&tlon. Tle
snk GrouP don nlot acoept Mponubilty for the accuray or completeonu of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAURITANIA
October 15, 1971
Agriculture Projects Department



CUEC E9QUIVAIENTS
United States Dollar 1 (US$1)  m   CPF  277.71
CFA Frnc 1000 (OFAF)           -   US$3.60
WEIGRTS AND NIASURES
1 hectare (ha)                 -   2.147 acres (ac)
1 square kilometer (ko2)       a   100 ha
a  247.11 ac
3  0.39 squae miles (sq. .1)
_ liter (1)                    -  0.22 imperial gallons (Ig)
l kilogram (kg)                =   2.20 pounds (lb)
i metric ton (m. ton)          m  1000 kg
a  2200 lb
ÂEBSVIATIOINS
FAC              m Fonde d'Aide et de Cooperation
FmD              a Fonda Nuropean pour le Developpepent
USAI             - United States Agency for Internatioal Developuent



MAURITANIA
APPRAISAL OF A
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  . .................................  i-ii
I.    INTRODUCTION .............................................    1
Il.   BACKGROUND ...............................................   1
A.  General ........................................  1
B.    The Agricultural Sector   ...........................              2
The Livestock Industry  ...........................              2
Animal Health .............................. .                   3
Water for Livestock    ...........................               4
Marketing of Livestock Products .................                5
The Livestock Service   ..........................               5
Outlook for Livestock Production ................                6
III.    TEIE PROJECT AREA .........................................   7
IV.   ITIE PROJECT ..............................................   8
A.    Definition        ......................................           8
B.    Detailed Features .......        ................... .             8
C.    Cost Estimates         ......................................  11
D.    Proposed Financing ......          ............................  13
E.    Organization and Management .....           ....................  13
F.   Procurement             .........................................  14
G.    Disbursement ........         ................................   14
H.    Auditing          ............................................  15
V.   BENEFITS, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION, MARKETS AND PRICES .....  15
VI.   RECOIMMENDATIONS ..........................................  17
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission to Mauritania
in March/April 1971 composed of Messrs. D.N. Sutherland and C. Megas (IDA)
and O. Siegert (Well Construction Consultant).



-2-
ANNEXES
1. Pastoral Wells in the Project Area
Table 1 - Phasing of Expenditures on Wells Component
Diagram - Design for Wells to be Reconstructed
2. Well Maintenance Teams
3. Summary Terms of Reference for Consultant Services on the Wells Component
4. Animal Health Component
Table 1 - Investment Costs
Table 2 - Operating Costs
5.  Firebreaks Component
Table 1 - Investment Costs
Table 2 - Operating Costs
6.  Phasing of Expenditure
7. Estimated Schedule of Quarterly Disbursements
8. Projections of Cattle Herd Production
Table 1 - With the Project
Table 2 - Without the Project
9. Projections of Production of Sheep and Goat Flocks
Table 1 - With the Project
Table 2 - Without the Project
10. Project Cash Flow and Economic Rate of Return
11.  Sensitivity Test of Rate of Return to the Economy
MAP



MAURITANIA
APPRAISAL OF A
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project to assist the development of the
livestock industry in the third, fourth, and fifth administrative regions of
Mauritania in the southwestern part of the country. About half of the
country's population and 40% of its livestock are located within the project
area. This would be the first Bank group project for the agricultural sec-
tor in Mauritania.
ii.       The livestock industry is the most important sub-sector of the
economy of Mauritania. It supports directly about 70% of the population and
contributes about 27% of GDP. Livestock herds are managed on a nomadic sys-
tem with large-scale seasonal movements each year. It does not appear feas-
ible or desirable to alter this system of management in the immediate future,
at least as far as the bulk of the national herd is concerned.
iii.      Under this system of management, the major measures which can be
taken to maintain and improve productivity of the livestock herds are: (i)
improvement of the network of wells which provide water for livestock; (ii)
protection of livestock against the diseases which cause serious mortalities;
and (iii) protection of pastures against destruction by fire. The Project
would involve three components dealing with the above activities.
iv.       The wells component would provide for repair and reconstruction of
a total of approximately 300 existing pastoral wells; for establishment and
training of three well maintenance teams; for exploratory drilling for water
in one zone within the project area; and for construction of 15 new pastoral
wells contingent on the results of the exploratory drilling.
v.        Under the animal health component of the Project cattle in the
project area would be vaccinated annually against rinderpest and contagious
bovine pleuropneumonia, the two major infectious diseases occurring in West-
ern Africa. Provision would also be made for vaccination against certain
other infectious diseases that occur on a sporadic basis within Mauritania
and for regular treatment of livestock against parasitic infestations.
vi.       Under the third component of the Project, provision would be made
to reestablish and maintain a network of some 6,500 km of firebreaks, to pro-
tect pastures against destruction by grass fires during the dry season of
each year.
vii.      Contracts for reconstruction and repair of wells would be tendered
by international competitive bidding. In addition, vehicles and equipment
to an estimated value of approximately US$0.5 million equivalent would be
procured by international competitive bidding.



- ii -
viii.     The Ministry of Rural Development would have overall responsibility
for administration of the Project; the Livestock Service within this Ministry
would be responsible for carrying out the animal health component of the
Project; the Ministry of Equipment would be responsible for maintenance of
firebreake; and the Hydrological Service of the Ministry of Equipment would
be responsible for the program of well maintenance.
ix.       The total Project cost is estimated at approximately US$6.0 million
equivalent; the foreign exchange component of US$4.1 million is equivalent
to 69% of total Project cost. It is proposed that the IDA Credit should
meet US$4.1 million of the total Project cost.
x.        It is estimated that production of meat and milk from the livestock
herds in the Project area would be increased by about 30% above present levels
through reduction of cattle mortalities and of loss of pastures by fire.
However, in assessing economic returns of the Project it is recognized that
livestock herds and output would fall substantially below present levels if
some action along the lines proposed in the project is not taken. The rate
of return of the project to the economy is estimated at approximately 19%.
xi.       The Project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$4.1 million
equivalent to be disbursed over four years. The Government of Mauritania
would be the borrower and would bear the foreign exchange risk.



MAURITANIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Mauritania has requested IDA assistance in the
financing of a project to develop the livestock industry in the southwestern
part of the country. This would be the first project in the agricultural
sector in Mauritania financed by the Bank Group.
1.02      Assistance in the development of agriculture in Mauritania is being
provided by a number of bilateral and multilateral agencies. Fonds d'Aide
et de Cooperation (FAC) is providing assistance for the construction of a
veterinary diagnostic laboratory at Nouakchott including technical assistance
in the initial year for its operations. It i8 also assisting in establishing
a pilot project to control animal diseases in the Fourth region and in parts
of the Fifth region. On the basis of a study by FAC, Mauritania is seeking
assistance for the establishment of a number of teama to undertake maintenance
of wells throughout the country. FAC has agreed to finance two of these teams
and will also provide three experts to assist in training the teams and in
supervising their operations.
1.03      The People's Republic of China has provided assistance in the
construction of about 50 pastoral vells in the southeastern area of the
country and a UNDP/SF Project is now studying underground water resources
and will construct a limited number of wells. Another UNDP/SF Project,
executed by FAO, is investigating the potential for irrigation development
in the watershed of the Gorgol River.
1.04      This Project was prepared with the assistance of several missions of
the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program. A well survey was carried out over about
six weeks in February/March 1971 by a consultant retained by FAO/CP at IDA's
request. This report is based on the FAO/CP report and on the findings of
an appraisal mission composed of Messrs. D. N. Sutherland and C. Megas (IDA)
and 0. Siegert (consultant on well construction).
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Mauritania, situated on the west coast of Africa, between latitudes
150 and 25° N, has an area of approximately 1.1 million km2 and a population
of about 1.1 million wîth an annual growth rate of 1.9%. The northern two-
thirds of the country is desert or subdesert and is virtually unpopulated
apart from isolated mining centers and, on the coast, fishing activities.
Some 80% of the population including all the farmers and livestock owners
reside within a zone about 180 km vide from north to south extending along
the southern border. It covers about one-third of the area of the country



- 2 -
and has a Sahelian 1/ climate suited to extensive livestock grazing.
2.02      About 15% of the population are engaged in or dependent on the
modern sector of the economy which comprises iron ore mining based on
Zouerate, a developing copper mining enterprise at Akjoujt, a fishing indus-
try at Nouadhibou and public services and administrative activities centered
on Nouakchott. The remaining 85% of the population are dependent on live-
stock production (70%) and agriculture (15%).
2.03      In recent years, GDP has been of the order of US$170 million
equivalent including approximately US$55 million from mining, US$45 million
from livestock, US$10 million from crop production, US$5 million from fish-
ing and the balance from construction, transport, administration and ser-
vices. While average per capita income is estimated at approximately US$180,
the respective figures within the modern and traditional sectors are estimated
to be about US$510 and US$52.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.04      Within the agricultural sector, livestock herding is, by far, the
most important pursuit. Crop production is confined to a limited area in
the south which has average annual rainfall of 300 mm or more. It is most
intensive along the Senegal River which forms the southern boundary between
Mauritania and Senegal. The principal crops grown are sorghum and millet.
Under dry farming conditions, yields are low -- about 400 kg per ha on average.
Experiments in Senegal suggest that yields could be improved appreciably by
introduction of animal-drawn ploughs for cultivation. Construction of
barrages and dams to permit irrigation of larger areas would permit diversi-
fication of crop production and increased yields. However, investments made
to date in this regard have not given good financial returns.
The Livestock Industry
2.05      Livestock raising is carried on in an area of about 300,000 km2
in the southern portion of the country. This area is limited in the north
by the 200 mm isohyet which corresponds roughly with the 18'N parallel of
latitude. Livestock population in 1970 was estimated at 2 million cattle,
5.5 million sheep, 2.5 million goats, 0.7 million camels, 0.23 million
asses and 16,000 horses, equivalent in total to about 3.4 million cattle
units. This represents an average stocking rate of 1 cattle unit to nearly
9 ha vithin the stocked area.
2.06      About 95% of the livestock herds are nomadic or transhumant.  It
is estimated that the livestock herds are owned by about 200,000 families,
comprising some 820,000 people. During the rainy season (July to September),
1/   The Sahelian zone is a semiarid region extending across Western Africa
south of the Sahara; the bulk of the livestock herds of Western Africa
are carried within this zone.



the herds are pastured in the drier, northern parts of the pastoral zone.
As the dry season progresses, they are moved to the southern areas and in
some cases across the southern border into Senegal and Mali. Individual
herd owners tend to follow a similar pattern of livestock movement each
year and to graze their herds around the same water points in the south each
dry season. The nomadic pastoralists generally do not carry out cultivation.
Their diet is based on milk, together with sorghum and rice purchased from
farmers in the south of the country.
2.07      Under the climatic conditions of the pastoral zone, the growing
season of pastures is limited to three to five months per year. For the
remainder of the year livestock must subsist on dry, mature pasture. There
are considerable variations from year to year in the length of the rainy
season and in the amount of rainfall. The forage available for livestock
varies accordingly, with periodic severe droughts.
2.08      The bulk of the pasture comprises ainual grasses which have a
short vegetative cycle and set seed by September. l'his type of pasture is
not very susceptible to degradation by overgrazing as seeds are always plen-
tiful for regeneration in the following season. As there is virtually no
growth of pasture from the end of one rainy season to the next, it is essen-
tial that the mature standing pasture be protected against fire during this
period. In 1968-69, it is estimated that about 20% of the total cattle
population perished as a result of rainfall below average and the destruction
of pastures by fire.
2.09      Cattle belong to two Zebu breeds - Maure and Peuhl - with mature
liveweight of 330 to 380 kg and 400 to 420 kg respectively. Both breeds are
well adapted to the environnent of the Sahelian zone. There are no reliable
data on herd productivity but it is estimated by extrapolation from data in
other Sahelian areas of Western Africa that the extraction rate for cattle
is of the order of 10% of herd numbers annually. The major factor limiting
productivity is a high mortality rate of about 40% in young calves in the
first year of life.  This is very largely due to malnutrition resulting from
deprivation of cows' milk which is used for family consumption or sale.
Productivity of sheep and goat flocks is estimated at about 30% of herd num-
bers annually, which is fairly sati8factory.
Animal Health
2.10      Until recent years, the most serious disease problem of livestock
in Mauritania was rinderpest, a highly infectious disease which can cause
heavy mortalities în cattle. It can be controlled adequately, however, by
vaccination which confers a solid immunity lasting for a number of years in
vaccinated animals. Over the period 1966-68, the FED/USAID-financed campaign
(JP15 campaign) was carried out in Mauritania, Mali and Senegal. Under this
campaign, all cattle in the country were to be vacclnated against rinderpest
annually for three years. This drastically reduced the incidence of the
disease in Mauritania -- from 86 outbreaks in 1966 to one in 1970. Vacci-
nation against the disease has been continued by the Mauritanian Livestock
Service since 1968 but activities in this regard have been greatly curtailed
due to shortage of vehicles and equipment and of finance for operating expenses.



-4-
2.11      As losses from rinderpest have been reduced by vaccination, con-
tagious bovine pleuropneumonia (CBPP) has become the disease causing most
concern to the Livestock Service. Recorded outbreaks increased from 134 in
1966 to 195 in 1970, with loss of over 4,000 cattle. Until 1970, the
Livestock Service had carried on vaccination against CBPP with vaccine of the
atrain KH3J which confers an immunity for only about six months.  More
:ecently, it has commenced using strain TI/44 vaccine which confers immunity
<or about 12 months in vaccinated cattle.
.2.12     Anthrax and blackleg are two other infectious diseases that occur
in cattle in Mauritania but their occurrence is more sporadic than is the
:ase with rinderpest and CBPP.  They can be controlled by vaccination.
ouring 1969, heavy losses were recorded in some localities from botulism.
'his disease is associated with malnutrition which causes animals to develop
a depraved appetite and eat carrion containing the toxin of botulism. Animals
Zan be protected against the effects of the toxin by vaccination. Foot and
mnouth disease occurs in Mauritania but it causes only mild effects in cattle
rof the Maure and Peuhl breeds.
2.13      Sheep and goats are not affected by major infectious diseases in
the Sahelian zone to the same extent as cattle. Sheep, goats and calves are
subject to infestations with internal parasites and this, combined with the
effects of malnutrition, causes serious mortalities.
.Water for Livestock
;.14      Mauritania is dependent on underground water for survival of the
human and livestock population, except for limited supplies of surface water
-Lnd the water supply of the capital, Nuakchott, which is provided by desali-
-iation of sea water. In the western sector of the pastoral zone, underground
water is generally found at depths from 8 to 70 m.  In the eastern sector
chere is less information on underground water and lack of water facilities
is a definite constraint to livestock production.
2.15      Utilization of underground water is by means of dug wells from
.ehich water is drawn in buckets hauled by hand, by asses or by camels.
.Jindmills and engines are not used to any extent for this purpose. The stan-
lard of construction of wells varies considerably. Some have been dug by
local livestock owners and are of primitive design, without proper lining,
filter column or surface installations. Prior to independence in 1960, a
number of wells were constructed with Government funds. Since then, a num-
ber of new wells have been constructed with assistance from FED and FAC and
the Government has assisted communities by providing materials for construc-
tion of other wells. Overall it is estimated there are about 3,000 pastoral
4ells in Mauritania.
2.16      The carrying capacity of pastures in the pastoral zone is generally
in the range of one beast to 6 to 10 ha and cattle can make good use of
pasture for grazing up to 8 km or more from a watering point. At one beast
to 8 ha, an area of 8 km radius would support about 2,000 cattle equivalent
with a total daily requirement of about 40 m3 of water. This would require



- 5 -
a yield of about 3 m3/hour for 13 to 14 hours drawing per day. The actuai
number of wells in existence in many areas at present is much higher than
would be needed on this basis. However, the yield of most of the wells is
considerably below 3 m3/hour because of their faulty condition, due either
to bad initial design, lack of maintenance or both. Prior to 1960, there
were four well maintenance teams in operation but naw there is only one
and it lacks equipment and funds for operating expenses.
Marketing of Livestock Products
2.17      Livestock owners generally sell stock when they need to raîse
money to pay taxes or to purchase items such as food and clothing. There îs
no official marketing organization but there is a recognized system of sell-
ing through local markets.  The principal flow of livestock is to the south,
particularly to Dakar. There is also an established pattern of movement of
cattle from the eastern regions to the Ivory Coast, through Mali.
2.18      Total annual off-take for the nation's livestock population is
estimated at about 240,000 cattle, 2 million sheep and goats and 65,000
camels, about 45% of which are exported as live animals. This off-take is
equivalent to about 70,000 tons of carcass meat. Prices paid for cattle
are equivalent to CFAF 70 to 80 per kg carcass weight in the eastern regions
and CFAF 80 to 100 per kg in the western regions. Prices for sheep and goats
are higher at about CFAF 100 to 120 per kg carcass weight.
2.19      A modern abattoir with cold storage facilities has been established
at Kaedi with assistance from FAC. Operated by a national company (Compagnie
de Commercialisation des Viandes de Mauritanie (COVIMA), it was designed to
produce meat of good quality to supply the major population centers in
Mauritania and potential export markets, particularly the Canary Islands.
While no export markets have been established to date, study of outlets for
meat from Kaedi is being undertaken by the French consulting organization
SEDES. Feasibility studies have also been carried out on establishment of
a ranch north of Kaedi for fattening cattle for treatment at the Kaedi
abattoir for export markets. Because of lack of market outlets, the abattoir
is working well below capacity with a throughput of about 400 tons of meat
per year to supply markets within Mauritania. It was designed to handle
3,000 tons per year.
The Livestock Service
2.20      The Livestock Service (Service de l'Elevage) is part of the Minis-
try of Rural Development.  There are three Mauritanian veterinarians within
the Service, namely the Director, the chief of the diagnostic laboratory at
Nouakchott and the manager of the Kaedi abattoir.  In addition, there is one
veterinary adviser to the Director, provided under French technical assistance.
There are, in addition, a total of about 100 livestock assistants, veterinary
technicians and vaccinators. Training for technicians and assistants is pro-
vided at the Kaedi Training Center, which is supported by a UNDP/SF Project.



- 6 -
2.21      In recent years, the ability of the Livestock Service to serve
the industry has been severely restricted by shortage of funds and lack of
equipment. The annual budget of the Service in 1970 was only slightly less
than in 1960, but, as personnel expenses had increased considerably, the
amount available for other operating expenses decreased by 50%. Activities
now are virtually limited to vaccination against major diseases and even
this cannot be carried on effectively on the existing budget.
2.22      The Government collects taxes on livestock exported and on those
slaughtered within the country. Revenue from this source is about CFAF 50
million (US$180,000) annually. In addition local authorities collect a
variety of taxes on livestock including taxes per head, market taxes and
slaughter taxes, amounting in all to about CFAF 345 million (US$1.24 million)
annually. There is considerable evasion of taxes as the amount collected in
per head taxes is only about one-third of the amount which should be paid.
Goverrment budgetary provision for the Livestock Service in 1970 was CFAF 113
million (US$0.46 million) and expenditures by local authorities to assist
livestock owners is estimated at about CFAF 88 million (US$0.32 million)
annually.
outlook for Livestock Production
2.23      The system of nomadic grazing of livestock is not conducive to the
introduction of improved methods of animal husbandry, but at present it is
the only form of land use for the Sahelian zone which is feasible on a large
scale. The northerly movement of cattle to use pastures and water in the
drier zones during and immediately after the rainy season reduces grazing
pressures on pastures in the southern zones to which cattle return for the
dry season. Losses from drought would increase considerably if there were
a basic change from nomadic to sedentary grazing.
2.24      Development of commercial ranching for fattening of cattle would be
justified only to the extent that markets can be established which pay higlier
prices for meat of better quality. Bilateral sources might finance this type
of development if market studies indicated that it were justified. In
particular, FED is considered a likely source of finance for the Kaedi ranch.
Its output would represent only a very small portion of Mauritania's beef
production.
2.25      In many areas in the Sahelian zone of Western Africa where communal
grazing is practiced, overgrazing has become a serious problem leading to
pasture degradation and soil erosion. Various measures for control of graz-
ing have been attempted by countries in Western Africa but they have met
with only a limited degree of success. Fortunately, overgrazing does not
appear to be a serious problem in Mauritania at this stage. Studies suggest,
in fact, that the available pastures could support more livestock than they
do At prosont. In any event, it is doubtful whether any systems of grazing
contral would be acceptable to livestock owners or could be enforced by the
Government Services in Mauritania at this stage.



-7-
2.26      For some years to come, any proposals for developing or assisting
the livestock industry will have to be based on the premise that the indluatrY
will continue to operate on a system of communal grazing with largv-mcnl.
seasonal movement of the herds. In this situation, feasible actions to a8--
sist the livestock sub-sector are virtually limited to those designed to im-
prove the network of wells, to control animal diseases and to protect pastures
against fire.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      The Project area would comprise the fourth administrative region,
all of the fifth region except the department of Tichitt and that portion of
the sixth region south of the 19' parallel of latitude. It is bounded on the
west by the Atlantic Ocean and on the south by the Senegal River which is the
international boundary with Senegal. This area, with half of the human pop-
ulation is the most densely populated part of the country. Earth roads con-
nect the towns of Rosso, Boutilimit, Aleg, Boghe and Kaedi within the area
but they are subject to flooding for several months each year.  A bitumen
road constructed under an IDA project connects Rosso to Nouakchott and good
roads connect both Rosso and Kaedi with Dakar.
3.02      Although the area includes only about one-quarter of the pastoral
zone of the country, it carries over 40% of the total cattle population and
about 25% of the sheep and goat population. About three quarters of the
cattle and two thirds of the sheep and goats exported to Senegal come from or
on pass through this area. The only modern abattoir in the country is located
at Kaedi within the area. The area has a network of over 1,000 wells but most
of them are in a bad state of repair due to lack of maintenance in recent
years. There are about 57 vaccination yards, constructed for the JP15
vaccination campaign against rinderpest. The network of firebreaks which
existed within the area has virtually disappeared through lack of maintenance.
3.03      The climate of the area is typical of the Sahelian zone with average
annual rainfall ranging from less than 200 mm in the north of the area to 500
mm in a small sector along the Senegal River in the south. Rain falls in a
season of three to four months duration between June and September, but reli-
ability from one year to the next is not high. Pasture carrying capacity
ranges from one head of cattle to 4 to 11 ha during the dry season. The part
of the area in close proximity to the Senegal River is the most important ag-
ricultural area in the country. The principal crops grown are sorghum and
millet.
3.04      Because of its relatively high human and livestock population,
and its netwqork of wells and vaccination yards, it is the most suitable area
in the country for an initial livestock development project.



- 8 -
IV. THF ProJECT
A. Definition
4.M1      The Prolect consists of the improvement of nomadic livestock pro-
duction vithin three administrative regions of Mauritania through the pro-
vision of watering facilities and their maintenance, animal health control
measures and fire protection works. It would be implemented over a four-year
neriod under the responsibility of the Ministrv of Planning and Rural Devel-
cpment.
4.n2      It would comprise the following components:
(a)  Wells.  'rhis would include (i) reconstruction and/or
repair of approximately 300 pastoral wells; (ii) es-
tablishment of three well maintenance teams and
implementation of a program for reRular maintenance
of pastoral wells; (iii) exploratory drilling for water
at 10 sites within a sector of the Project area where
there is inadequate Information on groundwater supply;
and construction of 15 new wells contingent on the
results of the exploratory drilling.
(b)  Animal T!ealth.  This would involve the strengthening of
the Livestock Service of the Ministry of Rural Devel-
onment to enable it to carrv on a campaign to
vaccinate animals in the Prolect area against
the important endemic diseases and provide regular
treatment of sheep, goats and cattle against parasitic
diseases.
(c)  Firebreaks.  This would involve organization and
nrovision of equipment for regular maintenance of
approximately 6,500 km of firebreaks within the
Project area.
B. Detailed Features
4.n3      Wells.  A survey of over 400 wells in the Project area was carried
out in Webruarv/March 1971 by an expert engaged by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program at the request of IDA. On the basis of this survey, some 300 wells
were identified to be in need of repair or reconstruction. Of the 300 wells
Mome In vould need to be fully reconstructed.  Details of the type of repairs



to be carried out and of the proposed design of wells to be reconstructed are
given in Annex 1.
4.04      The major part of the repairs and reconstruction of the 300 wells
would be carried out by contract. A maximum of 15% of this work could be
carried out by "force account". Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that consultants acceptable to IDA would be engaged, under terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to IDA: (i) to carry ont a detailed survey of the wells
to L'e repaired or reconstructed; (ii) to prepare bidding documents includîing
plans and specifications of the work to be carried out under the contract for
repair and reconstruction of 300 wells; (iii) to advise on the extent to
which repairs and reconstruction should be carried out by contract; (iv) to
advise and make recommendations on the bids received; and (v) to supervise
the execution of the work. Summary terms of reference for the consultants
are given in Annex 3.
4.05      Under the Project, three well maintenance teams would be established,
equipped and trained to carry out maintenance on wells in the Project area.
FAC has agreed to finance establishment of two similar teams, one to be la-
cated in the Project area and to cover parts of the Fourth and Fifth Regions.
FAC is also providing three specialist personnel -- an engineer, a wells ex-
pert and a mechanic -- to serve in the Hydrological Service within the Miinis-
try of Equipment. They would be responsible for training of the well main-
tenance teams and for supervision of their operations.
4.06      Each well maintenance team would comprise one chief, three well
diggers, three skilled workmen, one mechanic and three or four drivers. The
unskilled labor required would be provided by the local communities using the
wells. It is expected that each team would be able to carry out repairs and
maintenance of 30 to 40 wells per year (see Annex 2). Assurances were ob-
tained during negotiations that the wells in the Project area would be main-
tained in a satisfactory condition and that for this purpose a manual and a
schedule for carrying out the maintenance work would be prepared to the sat-
isfaction of the Government and IDA before completion of well repair and re-
construction under the project. This would be prepared by the consultants
(para 4.04), by the FAC personnel in the hydrologized service (para 4.05) or
under such other arrangements as may be agreed between the Government and IDA.
4.07      Within the Project area, there is an area close to Mal where there
are practically no wells and little information on availability of under-
ground water. Exploratory drilling would be carried out under the Project at
10 sites within this area to a depth of 100 meters and with a diameter of
6 in. This drilling would be carried out by contract on terms and conditions
approved by IDA. Depending on results of the drilling, provision would be
made for construction of up to 15 new wells in this area. On completion of
this component of the Project, there would be a network of at least 300
soundly constructed wells in the area. The well maintenance teams established
in the area should be able to maintain these wells.
4.08      Animal Health.  Under this component of the Project, provision would
be made to undertake a campaign covering the following treatments in the Proa-
ect area:



- 10 -
(a) vaccination of all cattle against rinderpest in each of
the first two years of the Project;
(b)  vaccination annually of all cattle under 1 year of age
against rinderpest after year 2;
(c) vaccination of all cattle each year against contagious
bovine pleuropneumonia;
(d) vaccination against botulism, anthrax and blackleg of all
cattle in zones where outbreaks occur; and
(e) regular treatment of sheep, goats and calves against para-
sitic infestations.
4.09      During the JP 15 campaign of vaccination against rinderpest, the
veterinary service was built up in the Project area, and in other parts of
the country, to carry out a campaign to vaccinate all cattle once a year.
Vehicles and veterinary equipment were purchased and vaccination yards were
built. However, the service is now unable to carry on vaccination of all
cattle each year because of failure to maintain or replace equipment and ve-
hicles. Under the Project, vehicles and equipment required would be purchased,
a number of additional vaccination yards would be built and the service would
be built up to the level necessary to carry out the vaccination campaign de-
tailed above (para 4.08). Details of items to be purchased and cost estimates
are given in Annex 4.
4.10      All of the vaccinations proposed would be carried out at the same
time on individual animals. Thus it would be necessary to handle cattle for
this purpose only once each year. Each vaccination team would comprise two
vaccinators and one technician. Following experience in the JP 15 campaign,
the Project has been planned on the basis that each team will vaccinate about
85,000 cattle per year or about 3,300 per week for a period of eight months
during the dry season. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the above program (para 4.08) would be carried on for at least 10 years from
the commencement of the ProJect and that satisfactory measures for control
of the major infectious diseases of livestock would be maintained thereafter.
4.11      A qualified and experienced veterinary officer, acceptable to IDA,
would be appointed on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA to be stationed
in the Project area and to supervise the animal health component of the Proj-
ect. Provision would be made in the Project for construction of a residence
for him. The pilot project on animal disease control financed by FAC will
also operate within the Project area. However, it will be concerned mainly
with control of internal parasites in livestock. Discussions have been held
with officials of FAC to ensure that there will be coordination of action on
disease control under the two Projects. No expenditure under the Animal
Health Component of the IDA credit would be eligible for reimbursement until
the veterinary officer had been appointed.



- il -
4.12      Firebreaks.  Provision would be made for the rehabilitation
and annual maintenance of the former network of some 6,500 km of firebreaks.
Some parts of this network will have to be reopened by bulldozer. Annual
maintenance will be carried out with graders. Under the Project, five
graders, one bulldozer, three trucks and three four-wheel drive vehicles
would be procured.
4.13      It is estimated that a grader will be able to clear on average
abou. 15 km of firebreaks of a width of 6 to 7 m per day. To be effective
in protecting pastures from fire, the clearing of firebreaks must be com--
pleted in a matter of 2 to 3 months following the end of the rainy season.
For this reason, it is necessary to employ five graders on the clearing
of 6,500 km of firebreaks in the Project area. The equipment would be
entrusted to the Ministry of Equipment which has the staff, workshop and fa-
cilities to operate and maintain the equipment. The Ministry would carry
out each year as first priority the opening and maintenance of firebreaks
within the Project Area in accordance with a timetable determined in advance.
This timetable would be prepared by the Service for Water and Forests within
the Ministry of Rural Development and approved by the Project Coordinating
Commission (para 4.20). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
procedures would be established along these lines for carrying out the annual
program of maintenance of firebreaks.
4.14      Initial Operating Expenses.  The estimates of operating costs over
four years for the well maintenance teams, the vaccination campaign and the
maintenance of firebreaks in the Project area are given in Annexes 2, 4 and
5 respectively. Provision would be made in the Project to meet these costs
over the four years disbursement period of the Project. It is even more
important to ensure that provision will be made to provide finance for these
activities on a continuing basis after completion of the project. This
issue is discussed more fully in para 4.18.
C. Cost Estimates
4.15      Total Project cost is estimated at approximately US$6.0 million
equivalent with a foreign exchange component of US$4.1 million equivalent or
69% of total cost. The estimate includes the cost of operation for the ini-
tial four years of the animal health component, the firebreaks component and
the two well maintenance teams. The breakdown of Project cost into its major
categories is shown below:



- 12 -
COST ESTIMATES
CFAF Million         US$'000 Equivalent       %
For-                     For-           Foreign
Category             Local  eign   Total    Local  eign   Total  Exchange
Wells
Repair 270 wells       71.9  287.7    359.6    259  1,036  1,295         80
Reconstruct 30 wells  25.2  101.4    126.6         91    365    456      80
Construct 15
new wells             12.8   50.5      63.3      46    182    228      90
Exploratory drilling   3.3   30.0        33.3      12    108    120      90
Equip 3 maintenance
teams                11.3   45.4       56.7     40    164    204       80
Consultant services    6.9   62.5        69.4      25    225    250      90
Sub-total         120.1  588.8    708.9    433   2120   2553
Animal Health
-equipment           16.5   58.5       75.0     40    230    270       78
Firebreaks
-equipment            -      59.7      59.7     -      215    215    100
Contingencies
Physical                17.8   81.6      99.4      64    294    358       84
Price                   12.2   57.2      69.5      44    205    250       84
Sub-total
Investments      172.1  840.4  1,012.5    621  3,05 2 3,646         83
Operating Costa (Years 1-4)
Well Maintenance
Teams               104.1   12.5    144.4    475        45    520       9
Animal Health          127.5  158.3    285.8    459    570  1,029        55
Firebreaks             51.9   50.0    101.9    187    180    367         49
Contingencies
Physical                22.2   31.9      54.1      80    115    195       59
Price                   22.2   31.9      54.1      80    115    195       59
Sub-total
Operating Costs  355.7  284.7    640.4  1 281  1,025  2,306          44
Total Proj-
ect Costs       528.2 1,124.7 1,652.9  1,900  4,050  5,950         69
October 15, 1971



- 13 -
D. Proposed Financing
4.16      The Project would be financed as follows:
…        US$ '000 Equivalent---------
Category                  Government           IDA        Total
(Amount)  (%)  (Amount)  (Z)  (Amount)
Investments                    646     17   3,000      83   3,646
Initial Operating Costs    1,156       50   1,150      50   2,306
Total             1,802      28   4,150      70   5,952
4.17      The IDA credit would finance the foreign exchange component of the
investment costs. Its contribution to operating costs would be on a declining
basis over the disbursement period. It would meet 80% of operating costs in
year 1, 60% in year 2, 40% in year 3 and 20% in year 4. This arrangement
would give the Government time to make the budgetary and fiscal arrangements
needed to enable it to meet 100% of the costs after year 4. Assurances were
obtained that the Government would maintain wells and firebreaks and the an-
imal health services and would make the necessary budgetary provisions for
this purpose on a continuing basis.
4.18      As the works to be carried out and the services to be provided are
for the benefit of livestock owners in the Project area it is reasonable to
expect that they should meet some of the costs involved in the form of
user taxes. However, under a system of communal grazing it is not feasible
to enforce a system of direct payment for water facilities and firebreaks
or for animal health services nor is it considered practicable to seek
assurances from the Government to enforce additional taxes to recover the
costs of the services provided through the Project. In these circumstances,
assurances were obtained that the Government would take measures to improve
its collection of taxes on the lîvestock sub-sector (para 2.22) and to provide
IDA with regular reports on the status of its tax collection in this sub-sector.
E. Organization and Management
4.19      The Project would be administered by the Ministry of Rural Develop-
ment. The Livestock Service and the Service for Water and Forests are within
the ltinistry of Rural Development. The Department of Infrastructure and the
Hydrological Service within the Ministry oi Equipment would be concrned
with some aspects of the Project.
4.20      A Project Coordinating Commission would be appointed, before
credit effectiveness, to advise the Minister for Rural Development on certain
aspects of the wells and firebreaks components of the Project. It would
advise the ?tinister on terms and conditions of engagement of the wells



- 14 -
consultants (para 4.04), on selection of the wells to be repaired or
reconstructed, on the bidding documents and on the award of the tenders.
4.21      The Director of Livestock would be the executive officer of the
Project Coordinating Commission. Other members would be representatives of
(a) the Minister for Planning (as Chairman), (b) the Service for Waters and
Forests, (c) the Hydrological Service, (d) the Department of Infrastructure,
and (e) the Director of the Budget.
4.22      The Director of Livestock would have overall responsibility for
execution of the animal health component of the Project.
F. Procurement
4.23      The consultants to be engaged under the wells component (para 4.04)
and their terms and conditions of employment would be subject to the approval
of IDA. The bidding documents for well repair and reconstruction and for
the exploratory drilling for water would be submitted for IDA approval before
the invitations to bid were issued. The contracts for these items estimated
at about US$2.3 million equivalent would be tendered on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with the IDA guidelines for
procurement.
4.24      Provision is made for purchase of approximately 27 four-wheel
drive vehicles, 12 trucks, one bulldozer and five graders under the Project
plus various items of plant and machinery for the well maintenance teams.
These items, estimated to cost approximately US$0.5 million, would be
procured by international competitive bidding. The value of the items of
equipment other than vehicles required for the animal health component of the
Project would not justify international competition. Vaccines required for
the Project are available from the veterinary laboratory in Dakar and it is
anticipated they would be obtained from there.
G. Disbursement
4.25      The proceeds of the IDA Credit would be disbursed against:
(a) the foreign exchange component of expenditure for approved
Project purposes on employment of consultants, on recon-
struction and repair of wells, on exploratory drilling for
water and on purchase of equipment for the well maintenance
tems and for carrying out the animal health and firebreaks
components of the project; and
(b) 80% of operating coats of the Project in year 1, 60% of
8uch centa in year 2, 40X in year 3 and 20% in year 4, sub-
ject to certification by the veterinary officer (para 4.11)
that such costs were incurred for approved Project purposes.



- 15 -
4.26      Disbursements of the IDA Credit would be over a period of four
years. Estimated schedule of quarterly disbursements is shown in Annex 7.
H. Auditing
4.27      Assurances were obtained that the Government would maintain sep-
arate accounts for the Project, have them audited under arrangements accep-
table to IDA, and submit the audited accounts to IDA vithin four months
of the close of each fiscal year.
V. BENEFITS, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION, MARKETS AND PRICES
5.01      On completion of the Project, there would be a network of at least
300 soundly constructed wells in the Project area plus several hundred wells
constructed by individuals or local communities principally in the southern
parts of the area where water is found at shallow depth. The well
maintenance teams to be established in the Project area should be able to
maintain this network of wells in good order and condition.
5.02      The continuation of vaccination of cattle against rinderpest is
essential in order to prevent the recurrence of this disease which can
cause mortalities up to 50% in individual herds. Because of the high degree
cf efficiency of vaccination against rinderpest, the campaign should give
high returns in terms of prevention of mortalities of cattle. The returns
from vaccination against contagious bovine pleuropneumonia (CBPP) are not as
great because the immunity given by vaccination is not as long-lasting and
because the disease itself is less virulent and causes lower mortalities.
Nevertheless, vaccination against CBPP would be warranted in conjunction with
vaccination against rinderpest. As botuliem, anthrax and blackleg are not
likely to occur on a country-wide basis, vaccination against these diseases
is only proposed in cases where outbreaks occur. Treatment of sheep, goats
and calves against parasitic diseases should result in substantial reduction
in the mortalities which occur regularly with these classes of animals.
5.03      It is estimated that grass fires, at present, destroy about 40%
of the available pasture on average during each dry season. The rehabili-
tation and maintenance of the network of firebreaks in the Project area
would substantially reduce this destruction.
Economic Justification
5.04      The costs of the various components of the Project can be
estimated with a fair degree of confidence but the estimates of the benefits
arising from it are difficult to measure. In the case of the wells component
of the Project, the benefits arise from the fact that the program of well
reconstruction, repair and maintenance would prevent the virtual collapse
of the existing well network. The survey of vells in the Project area



- 16 -
'para 4.03) indicated that practically all of the wells in the Project area
vere in a bad state of repair and that their condition was deteriorating
iapidly through lack of maintenance. In the absence of a program for well
repair, reconstruction and maintenance, it can be expected that all of the
deeper wells would go out of service over a period of 20 years, leaving only
ebout 200 shallow wells in the southern sector of the project area and
that livestock numbers in the Project area would have to be decreased by
;bout 60%.
5.05      At present, it is estimated that about 40% of the standing pasture
:ts destroyed by grass fires during the dry season each year. A regular
program of maintenance of firebreaks will greatly reduce this loss and thus
:-.ncrease the pasture available to livestock during the latter half of the
c*ry season which is the critical period for fodder supply. It is estimated
hat such a program would enable livestock owners to increase their herd
numbers in the project area by about 20%.
5.06      The present low extraction rate of about 10% from cattle herds is
largely due to the high mortality rates which occur for a number of reasons,
.ncluding losses from infectious and parasitic deseases. Overall mortality
^ate at present is estimated at 13.4Z of herd numbers annually and it is es-
:imated that this would be reduced to 8.8% as a result of animal health mea-
*;ures taken under the Project. In consequence the extraction rate of cattle
erds would increase by some 30% above the present level to 13%.
i.07      On the basis of the above assumptions, projections for production
'iith and without the Project by the cattle herds of the Project area are
Siven in Annex 8 and by the sheep and goat flocks in Annex 9. On the basis
f these projections and of the estimates of costs of the Project, the rate
r'f return of the Project to the economy is estimated at 19% (Annex 10).
dowever, achievement of this return is dependent on maintenance of the
Traccination campaign for at least ten years and of the wells and firebreaks
for at least thirty years. If these activities are not maintained after
rear 4, the rate of return would be reduced to about 14%. While recognizing
:he difficulties inherent in analyzing independently the effects of the
lifferent components of the Project, it is estimated that the rate of return
-o the wells component is 15% and to the animal health and firebreaks
~omponents taken together, it is 28%.
3.08      It is expected that total carcass meat production for the area
jould rise from 17,000 m tons to 23,000 m tons as a result of the Project,
and that it would decline to 7,500 tons without the Project. The gross
ralue of extra production attributable to the Project is estimated at
US$7.9 million equivalent. About 50% of the offtake of cattle, sheep and
goats from the Project area is exported to Senegal to earn export income
if approximately US$3.3 million equivalent. Without the Project, it is
almost certain that this export trade would disappear.



- 17 -
Markets and Prices
5.09      In the Project area, it is estimated that production of carcass
meat from the livestock herds would be increased by about 6,000 tons, i.e.,
by 30%. This is equivalent to an increase of about 15% in total meat
production in Mauritania. It could be readily absorbed by the internal
market and the market in Senegal. Demand is increasing on both markets
with increasing population and income. Prices realized should remain at
leasL at the present levels (para 2.18).
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Goveranent
that:
(a) consultants acceptable to IDA would be employed on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA to carry out a survey
of wells in the project area, to prepare bidding documents
for well repair and reconstruction, to advise on the extent
to which such work would be carried out by contract, to
advise and recommend on the bids received and to supervise
the execution of the work (para 4.04);
(b) for a period of at least 10 years, annual vaccination
would be continued of all animals in the project area against
CBPP, of all animals under one year of age against rinderpest,
and of animals against botulism, anthrax and blackleg in
zones where outbreaks of these diseases occur; regular
treatments of sheep, goats and calves against parasitic dis-
eases would be carried out and thereafter satisfactory mea-
sures would be maintained for control of these diseases
(para 4.10);
(c) procedures acceptable to IDA would be established under which
the Ministry of Equipment would carry out each year, as
first priority, the opening and maintenance of firebreaks
within the project area in accordance with a timetable de-
termined in advance (para 4.13);
(d) it would maintain wells and firebreaks and the animal health
services and would make the necessary budgetary provisions
for this purpose on a continuing basis (para 4.17);
(e) it would take measures to improve its collettion of taxes
in the livestock sub-sector and provide IDA with regular
reports of the status of its tax collection in this sub-
sector (para 4.18);



- 18 -
(f) goods and services required for the Project would be procured
under procedures acceptable to IDA (paras 4.23 and 4.24),
including international competitive bidding for well repair
and reconstruction, for exploratory drilling for water and
for purchase of vehicles, trucks, graders and bulldozers;
(g) separate accounts would be maintained for the Project;
these accounts would be audited under arrangements ac-
ceptable to IDA and the audited accounts would be submitted
to IDA within four months of the close of the Government's
fiscal year (para 4.27); and
(h) the employment of a veterinary officer acceptable to IDA
would be a necessary condition for disbursement of funds
under the animal health component of the Project (para 4.11).
6h02      It would be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit that a
project coordinating commission had been appointed with composition and terms
of reference acceptable to IDA (paras 4.19 and 4.20).
6.03      The Project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$4.1 million equiva-
lent. The Government of Mauritania would be the borrower.
october 15, 1971



ANNEX 1
Page   1
MAURITANIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PASTORAL WELLS IN THE PROJECT AREA
1.        It is estimated there are about 1,000 pastoral wells in the Project
area. Between February 8 and March 22, 1971 about 400 of these wells
were inspected by a wells consultant, engaged by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program at the request of IDA. The depth of the wells ranges from less than
5 meters to aboùt 75 meters. Approximately one-third of the wells inspected
were less than 20 meters in depth. Most of these shallow wells are in the
southwestern sector of the Project area close to the Senegal River. A large
proportion of the wells in the drier northern sectors, in the prefectures of
Boutilimit, Mededra and Aleg, are deeper than 50 meters.
2.        Wells have been constructed in Mauritania for centuries and the
method of construction has varied. Many have been constructed by individual
livestock owners and local communities with or without assistance from the
government in the form of materials and technical advice. The hydrological
services of the government construmcted about 550 wells in the period 1950-60.
Since then, a number have been constructed by private construction companies
engaged under external aid projects. Recently about 50 have been constructed
in southeastern Mauritania, outside the Project area under an external aid
project of the People's Republic of China.
3.        Many of the wells constructed by individuals are of very primitive
construction and can only be regarded as being temporary in nature. This
is particularly so in the case of wells in areas where underground vater is
found at depths less than 15 meters.
4.        In considering the condition of wells and the need for repairs,
three essential parts of the well are recognized. These are the filter
column in the aquifer, the lining of the well from the top of the filter
column to the ground level and finally, the surface installations.
5.        The filter column is designed to permit water to flow into the
cavity of the well while keeping soil and debris out. In properly constructed
wells it consists of a pipe, preferably of reinforced concrete, with a number
of screened perforations through which water can flow. In the wells in the
Project area, diameter of the filter column varies from 0.8 to 1.4 meters.
Preferably, the filter column should be surrounded by a layer of gravel, both
laterally and below.
6.        The lining of the well serves to retain the sides of the well from
collapse. Preferably, it should be constructed of reinforced concrete,
poured in wooden or metal moulds. A large number of the wells were cons-
tructed between 1900 and 1950 using a technique introduced by Captain



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Friry of the French Army Engineering Corps and they are lined with mortar
laid by hand. In the wells in the Project area, internal diameter of the
linings ranges from 1.0 to 4.0 meters, but for wells constructed by private
companies or by the "Friry" technique, they are generally in the range 1.6 to
2.0 meters.
7.        The surface installations of the well should serve a number of
purposes. The rim which is an extension in reinforced concrete of the
lining about 1 meter above ground is designed principally to keep debris
from falling into the well and to protect the lining.  It should be
surrounded by an apron of concrete several meters wide to prevent fouling
of the surrounding ground, which could lead to undermining and collapse of
the well lining. There should by some fittings to which pulleys can be
attached to carry the ropes on which water buckets are lowered and raised.
In the wells in Mauritania, the pulleys are usually mounted on sticks held
between two wooden forks. In those wells in the Project area equipped with
drinking troughs, they are situated in close proximity to the well resulting
in crowding of livestock around the well and conversion of the terrain into
a quagmire.
8.        In the wells inspected, the most serious faults are found in the
surface installations and in the filter columns. With the surface installa-
tions the principal problems are attributable to the proximity of the troughs
ta the wells, as stated above. In 90% of the wells, it was found that the
fLlter columns had separated from the linings.  In a large number of the
wialls the filter columns are partly filled with sand and debris. In addition
to the above faults, large fissures and cavities were found in a large
proportion of the linings and filter columns.
Repairs to be Effected
9.        one of the serious problems encountered in relation to repair of
wells is the absence of plans and designs of existing wells, except in the
case of those which have been constructed by private companies under
contract in recent years. This is particularly serious in the case of
repairs to the linings and filter columns as there is the danger that these
sections may collapse during repairs with consequent loss of life. Because
oE this, special precautions will have to be taken in carrying out repairs
unlderground. The following is a summary of the type of repairs to be
eEfected.
10.       Surface Installations.  In the case of all wells, the rims should
be reconstructed with reservoirs built into them to receive water and these
should be connected by pipes laid underground to drinking troughs located
20 meters from the vell. Concrete aprons should be constructed around the
wiells.
1I.       Linings:  Repairs to the linings comprise filling in of fissures,
cracks and cavities and the establishment of an anchorage of the lower
extremity of the lining to prevent it from subsiding and displacing the
f:Llter column. This anchorage would be in the form of a lateral flange in



ANNEX 1
Page 3
concrete at the base of the lining. Because of the danger of collapse of
the lining during repairs it is proposed that a well should be filled with
sand up to the level of work being carried out, the sand being pumped out
on completion of repairs. A similar technique would be applied in the case
of repairs to the filter column also.
12.       Filter Columns:  Before carrying out these repairs, it will be
necessary to remove debris from the well and pump out sand and water. As
in the case of the lining, cracks, fissures and cavities will have to be
repaired. In addition, more complex repairs will be needed in many wells -
partial demolition of filter pipes and reconstruction of new sections;
construction and setting in place a new base to the well with filter screens;
deepening of wells by a second telescopic filter column; where the latter
is not feasible because of inadequate diameter of existing filter column,
the lower level of the aquifer may be tapped by percussion drilling with a
pipe fitted with filter screens; in cases where water flow is stopped by
clay and where it is not feasible to tap the aquifer at lower level, fitting
of small filter pipes radiating out from the filter column into the aquifer.
Wells to be Reconstructed
13.       In the light of the observations made on the existing wells, certain
specific recommendations can be made about the design of wells to be recons-
tructed. The wells should be well adapted to the needs of the users. In
particular they should be constructed so that water can be readily withdrawn
with simple equipment, the surrounding area should be protected from fouling
by too many livestock; provision should be made that items such as buckets,
which fall in the well can be recovered by the users. More important still
is that the wells should be easy to maintain and repair. The following
is a brief description of the main features.
14.       Surface Installations:  Rims would be 1.8 to 2.0 m. in internal
diameter, 0.25 m. thickness of reinforced concrete and 0.8 m. in height
above ground; there would be two reservoirs for water, also of concrete
and with internal dimensions 0.6 x 0.7 x 0.3 m., connected to two drinking
troughs by pipes laid underground; the troughs would be at least 20 m. from
the well and with internal dimensions 5.8 x 0.8 x 0.25 m, which is large
enough to water 20 head of cattle at one time; there would be a concrete
apron of external diameter 5.5 m.
15.       Lining:  The linings would generally be of internal diameter 1.8
to 2.0 m. but in the case of some shallow wells this may be reduced to 1.4 m.
They would be of reinforced concrete, of at least 0.2 m. thickness. At
ground level, the lining will be joined to the concrete apron surrounding
the well.
16.       Filter Columns:  Whereas in most of the existing wells, the filter
column penetrates the aquifer for at most 3 m. it is proposed that in the
reconstructed wells this should be extended to 4 to 5 m. The structure
within the aquifer would comprise a column of four filter pipes, one on top
of the other and with a total of thirty screened apertures 15 x 15 cm., to



ANNEX 1
Page 4
permit water to enter the well and a base which would also have screened
apertures. Internal diameter would be 1.4 to 1.6 m. in general, with
thickness of concrete of 0.2 m. The whole filter column would be surrounded
by a layer of gravel. At 1.5 m. below the upper level of the filter column
a metal frame would be fixed in the column, to catch items such as buckets
which may fall into the well. This would enable users to recover such items.
In wells without such a frame, users often fill the well up to about 1.5 m.
below the static level of the water so that they will be able to recover
items which fall in.
Difficulties of Location
17.       The difficulties of effecting repairs and reconstruction will be
Lnfluenced considerably by the degree of difficulty in transporting materials
and equipment. Accordingly the Project area has been divided into four areas,
generally of radius about 50 km., depending on the difficulty of transport;
for purposes of determining co0t estimates:
Zone   I        -    normal conditions - Rosso, Rkiz and Borghe areas;
Zone  Il        -    some difficulties with limited access by tracks and
some difficulties of terrain - Kaedi and Mbout
areas;
Zone III        -    very difficult terrain with large sand dunes and
very few tracks - Beyla, Mededra, Boutilimit and
Aleg areas.
Zone IV         -    vells in isolated areas.
Cost Estimates
18.       The coats of repair of 270 wells and reconstruction of 30 wells are
estimated as follows:



ANNEX 1
Page 5
ESTIMATED COST OF WELL RECONSTRUCTION
(i)   Estimated Cost of Component Parts (Average Depth of.Well to Water,_hO M.)
Component             Zone I         Zone II        Zone III         Zone IV
------------CFAF mu--
Surface Installations        670            830             l,000           1,170
Lining                     1,670          2,080             2,500           2,920
Filter Columnn               420            520               620             730
Base Plate                    84            100               125             150
Yield Test                    8h            100               125             1.50
Contingencies:
Physical                   590            770               910           i,o4o
Price                      302            380               450             550
Total Cost Per Well   3,820           4,780                30           1,
($i4,000)     ($17,210)         ($2O,630)       ($24,050)
(ii)  Estimated Cost of Reconstruction of 30 Wells
Zone                  No. of Wells         Unit Cost         Aggregate Cost
-C-'- =FAF'O00---------------
I                         13                 3,820             49,700
II                        _                  4,780               _
III                       12                 5,730             68080
IV                        _                  6,680             33 ,4o
Total                        30                                  151_900
($547 ,000)
October 15, 1971



ANNE 1
Page S
ESTIMATED COST OF WELL REPAIRS
LOCATION
Zone I        Zone II       Zone III      Zone IV      Sub-Total
Unit          Unit          Unit          Unit
Item              No.  Cost    No.  Cost    No.  Cost    No.  Cost    No.  Costs
---ai------------aLl costs in CFAF'OOO--------------------
Repair FiLter Columns        5:    360    10    455    183   545    26    630   270  136,800
Repair Liniinga              17    180      2    225      33   270    17    315    69   17,S00
Repair Surf ace
Installations              51    545    10    670    183   820    26    940   270  205,200
Sub-total                -      -       -             -     -      -       -     -   369,500
Contingencies:
Physical                   -      -       -      _      -      _     _       -     _     42,000
Price                      -      -       -      -      -      -     -       -     -    29,900
Total Costs  (CFAF'000)-        -       -     -       -     -      -       -     -   1431,500
Total Costs  (US$)       -      _       -     -       -      _     _       -     - 1,554LO,OO
October 1', 1971



MAURITANIA
o                                                LIIXJES372K DEVEIDPGN4ET PROJECT
cF
o
Wells Component
Phasing of Expenditure
Foreign Exchange
-__-----    -- Year ---------------                Component
Category                 Total          1          2          3          4          Amount          %
-___________----------------U $1000------------------------
IVESTI4ENT COSTS
Repair 270 Wells                   1,295          -         431        432        432          1,036         80
Reconstruct. 30 Wells                456          -         152        152        152            365         80
Construct 15 New Wells               228          -          76         76         76            183         80
ronsultant Services                  250         130         40         h0         h0            225         90
Exploratory Drilling                 120          -         120         -          -             108
Three Well Maintenance Teams         204         204         -          -          -             204        100
Contingencies:  Price                237          30         60         69         78            199         8h
Physical            340          30         93       103        114             286         84
Total                           3,130         394        972       872        892          2,606          83
OPERATING COSTS
Well Maintenance Teams                520        130        130        130        130              7          9
Contingencies                        104          26         26         26         26              9          9
Total                             624         156        156       156        156              56          9
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ =






ANNEX i
MAURITANIA                                                                   DIAGRAM
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PLAN FOR WELL CONSTRUCTION
WOODEN SUPPORT FOR PULLEY
________~~j                                                       -i  _ ____ _~-o
DRINKING TROUGH                                                     -é:   
2R' PIPE TO DRINKING TROUGH                           ANCHORAGE
iFF200 M 3À
WATER LEVEL
SCREENS IN FILTER COLUMN     .
GRAVEL
| 40 M
i 60_Ml,
BASE PLATE
20 M
-~         '          X~  `\  - 
-S        =>    1                     >  A    _e==F-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--






ANNEX 2
Page   1
M&URITAUXA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPM1ENT PROJECT
WELL MAINTENANCE TEAMS
1.        In 1950, the Hydrological Service of Mauritania was established
with the objective of carryîng out work on village and pastoral vells. By
1959, 10 hydrological teans were functionitg wîthin this Service in carrying
out both construction and maintenance of wells. Between 1950 and 1960, some
550 wells of a total depth of 12,000 m. were constructed at an estimated cost
of CFAF 900 million (US$3.6 mî1lion equivalent). The annual expenditure on
well maintenance was estimated to 'Le in the range CFAF 40 to 70 million
(US$0.16 to 0.28 million equivalent).
2.        Since 1960, inadequate financial provision has been made in the
budget for operation of this service. Only one team for well maintenance
remains now and its operations are greatly limited due to lack of equipment
and funds.
3.        A well which is soundly constructed should have a lfe of at least
50 years, if it is given regular maintenance. Under these conditions, the
repairs which need to be done are generally only of a minor nature and
can be undertaken by a maintenance team with relatively light equipment.
Principal repairs to be undertaken are repair of fissures and cracks in the
lining or the filter column, removal of debris or sand from the cavity of
the well, repairs to the superstructure including the apron and the drinking
troughs.
4.        A study by FAC in 1970 considered that six well maintenance teams
should be established for maintenance of the network of pastoral and village
wells throughout the country. They would be located at Atar, Nouakchott,
Rosso, Aleg, Kiffa and Nema.  FAC has agreed to finance the establishment
of the teams at Aleg and Atar. The training and operation of the teame
would be supervised by a section within the Ministry of Equipment staffed
by an engineer, a wells specialist and a mechanic, ail of whom would initially
be expatriates supplied with technical assistance by FAC.
5.        Eaclh team would comprise one chief, 3 well diggers, 3 or 4 drivers,
3 skilled laborers and a mechanical assistant, all Mauritanians. Each team
would function as two sub-teams, one for minor repairs carrying out 20-30
operations a year and the other for larger works carrying out about 12
operations a year.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
6.        The annual costs of operations of each team are estimated as follows:
Personnel                                 US$11,500 equivalent
Maintenance and Renewal of Equipment         10,500
Operation of Workshops                       17,300
Contingencies (20%)                           8,000
Total          uS$47,300
In addition it is estimated that labor and materials to the value of
US$18,000 equivalent would be supplied by the local authorities or commu-
nities each year toward the cost of operations undertaken by each brigade.
7..       It is proposed that three teams located would be financed under
this Project. The following is an estimate of the cost of the equipment to
be provîded:
i.   4 x Vehicles, 4-wheel drive               US$  16,040
il.   3 x Trucks, 5 ton                              38,280
iii.   6 x Trucks, 2.5 ton, 4-wheel drive             65,630
Spare parts for vehicles                       30,000
iv.   6 x Water Carriers                              5,470
v.   6 x Compressors                                21,870
vi.   9 x Pneumatic Hammers                            1,640
vii.   9 x Diggers                                      1,650
viii.   5 x Moulds for Linings                           2,280
ix.   5 x Compressed Air Pumps                        4,550
x.   3 x Water Pumps                                 1,920
xi.   6 x Derricks                                    5,480
Miscellaneous Items                        8,340
Contingencies (20%)                       40?930
Total                           US$244_,040



ANNEX 3
Page   1
MAURITANIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR
CONSULTANT SERVICES ON THE WELLS COMPONENT
Consulting Engineer's services are needed for:
A.   -    carrying out a detailed inspection of pastoral wells in
the Project area;
-    advising the Government on the determination of a list of
approximately 270 wells to be repaired and 30 wells to be
reconstructed;
-    advising the Government on the extent to which the above
work should be carried out by contract;
-    fixing of 10 drilling locations in the region of Mal for the
execution of 10 exploratory boreholes of about 100 m in
depth at final diameters of 6";
B.   -    preparing of bidding documents comprising plans and specifications;
C.   -    supervising construction of well and drilling operations and
certifying the quality and quantity of the works.
The consultant will be responsible for providing the necessary personnel
and equipment to carry out the work described in A. B. and C. above within
a period of 6 months.
1.   The survey work will comprise:
a.   The visiting of about 350 wells situated in the above area.  The
inside of all wells has to be inspected by descending into each
well;
b.   Preparation of a detailed report giving detailed description of
each well;
c.   Preparation of a map at 1:500,000 showing the location and
identification of each well visited;
d.   Inventory and state of repair of the existing surface
installation;



ANNEX 3
Page 2
e.   Specifications for additional items to be included in
existing surface installation;
f.   Condition of each well shaft including proposed repair
methods;
g.   Condition of each filter column including proposed repair
methods;
h.   Depth of each well and water level;
i.   Depth of silt lying at the bottom of well and proposal to
desilt the well;
;.   Execution of yield tests on each of the 350 wells, including
desilting where necessary;
k.   Cost estimates for the necessary repairs and improvement;
1.   Cost estimates for the construction of 30 new wells of about
40 m in depth complete with all surface installations; and
m.   Cost estimates for the execution of 10 exploratory boreholes
of about 100 m in depth at a final diameter of 6".
Il.  The preparation of bidding documents will comprise:
A.   General description of Project area including details such as
geographical situation, hydrology, vegetation, water quality, etc.
The general description will be completed by corresponding maps
and plans;
b.   General bidding conditions;
c.   Detailed technical specifications for repair work such as:
Lining Repairs
<a) Repair of cracks
(D) Anchorage of lining
(c) Demolition and reconstruction of damaged parts
(d) Filling in of cavities
(e) Prolongation of lining in case water level has lowered.
F4lter Column
(el Repair of cracks above water level
1) Desilting
.c) Pumping
vd)  Total or partial dentolition of screens and reconstruction
of damaged parts



ANNEX 3
Page 3
(e) Manufacture and placing of screened base plate
(f) Deepening of well by means of a telescopic screen column
(g) Execution of a percussion drilling
(h) Placing of radial screened drain pipes
(i) Pumping and yield test.
Surface Installations
(a)  Repairs to well rims and troughs
(b) Ground levelling.
The technical specifications for the above work should comprise full
description of how to carry out the work, by which means and methods. All
technical changes to improve the yields, the lining and the surface installa-
tions should be accompanied by detailed technical drawings.
Construction of New Wells
Full technical specifications are to be provided for:
(a) Well rims
(b) Aprons
(c) Troughs
(d) Anchorage
(e) Lining
(f) Screen Column
These specifications will be accompanied by construction plane.
Execution of Exploratory Boreholes
The technical specifications will comprise:
(a) Drilling Method
(b)  Drilling Diameters
(c) Casing and Screen Diameters
(d) Yield Tests
(e) Measuring of Single Point Resistance and PS.
Preparation of bill of guantities for the execution of all repair,
construction and drilling work.
Preparation of price lists for the above work.
Planning of the above work.
Cost estimates for the preparation of the above bidding documents.
Cost estimates for detailing a qualified engineer for supervising the above
repair and construction work (per year).






ANNE h
Table 1
MAURITANIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Animal Health Component
Investment Costs
Foreign Exchange
Unit            ------Year------------               Component
Item             No. Price  Total         1        2       3       4      Amount    %
-----------------------CFAF '000-----------------------
Vehicles, 4-Wheel Drive  21    900   18,900   12,600                       6,300   18,900   100
Trucks, 3-5 Tons           3  3,500   10,500   10,500       -      -        -      10,500   100
Vaccination Yards         li  1,500   16,500   16,500       -      -        -       8,250    50
Refrigerators             14    140    1,960    1,960       -       -       -       1,960   100
Freezers                  14    115    1,610    1,610       -      -        -       1,610   100
Ice Machines               3    500    1,500    1,500       -      -        -       1,500   100
Containers                 -     -      1,120    1,120      -      -        -       1,120   100
Thermos Flasks             -     -      1,680    1,680      -      -        -       1,680   100
,et,erinary Equipment      -     -     5,000    3,000        650    650      700    5,000   100
Camping Equipment          -     -      1,500    1,500                                -       -
Residence                  1    6,950  6,950    6,950       -       -       -        3,h75    50
Miscellaneous              -      -     7,500    3,000    1,500  1,500   1,500    3,750    50
Contingencies:
Physical                 -     -      2,240    1,860        63     62      255    2,000    90
Price                    _     _      5,230    4,330       153    152      595    4,700    90
Total                              82,190-  68,110    2,366  2,364   9,350   64,4h5    78
US$'000 Equivalent                   296      245          9       8      3h    232.0
,1iY 11h, 1971



MAURITAeNIA
O                                                  T.TVESTOCrK nTIlW.TT
«F
o
oe
Anfimal Health Component
Operating Coets
------------------ Year -----------------                            Foreign Exchange
Category                    1           2          3           4                Total              Conponent
--~A~?QtJ-------------CFAF  000 -------------------             US$000 ----         )
Vehicle Operation and Maintenance    8,500        9,500      11,000      11,000     40,000       144.4        86.6      60
Vaccination Yard Maintenance           5,700      5,700       6,800       6,800     25,000        90.3          -        -
Vaccines                              17,200     17,200      13,200      13,200     60,800       219.5       219.5     100
Medica-ments                           5,550      5,550       5,550       5,550     22,200        80.0        80.0     100
Miscellaneous Supplies                 1,500      1,700       1,800       2,000      7,000        25.3        25.3     100
Salaries:  Local                      21,600     21,600      21,600      21,600     86,400       311.7          -       -
Foreign                   11,100      11,100     11,100      11,100    h4,>400       160.0       160.0       -
Contingencies:
Physical                   7,i50       7,150      7,150       7,150     28,600       105.0          -        52
Price                      5,720       6,580      7,4o        8,860      28,600      105.0 o                 52
Total               8__O__      85,880      85,61X0     87,260    3>43,WO    1,240.0          -
US$ '000 Equivalent    300         307         316         320      1 2>40



ANNE 5,
Table 1
MAURITANIA
LIVESTOcK DEVEIPMENT PROJECT
Firebreaks GCœponent
investment Costs
Foreign Exchange
Unit     Total 1/          Component
Item              No.     Price       Cost      Amount           %
------ CFAF '000---------
Graders                     5       7450      37,250      37,250          100
Bulldozers                  1       9150       9,150       9,l50          100
Vehicles, 4-Wheel Drive    3         900       2,700       2,700          100
Trucks, 3-5 Tons            3       3500      10,500      10,500          100
Cdntingencies (Price)       -        -         1,190       1_190          .00
Total                                    60,790     6o              100
US$ 1000 Equivalent                         219        219
1/ All equipment purchased in Project year 1.
July 14, 1971



MAURITANIA
c-._
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMTr PROJWST
Firebrcaks opiet
H                                                          Operating Costs
-Project Year -                                   Foreign. Exchange
1          2           3           4              Total.            Component
Category                                     -  CFAX  '000 -                       -----US$'000.--    (%)
Maintenance Vehicles, Equipment    4,650        4,950       5,100       5,100     19,800      71.5      63.7     89
Fuels, Oil1, Grease                 14,250     14,250      14,250      114,250    57,000    205.8    123.5       60
Salaries                             6,200      6,200       6,200       6,2C0     244,800     89.5       -        _
Contingencies
Physical                       2,508       2,508       2,508      2,508      10,160      38.4     18.6
Price                          2,000      _2.4oo       2,800      2,960      10160       38.4
Total                      29,608      30,008      30,858     31,018    121,290    443.6    224.4        51
US$'000 Equivalent          l1n          110         112        112
F3>



MAUFIRITANIA
LIVESTOCK DEVEIOPMT PROJEOT
cf-
'1                                                     Pnhasing of Expenditure
-----------------------Year-------------------------
1                2                3                4                  Total
---Us$----------------------us$1000----------------------------------
INVESTMENT COSTS
Wells Component                 394              972               872              892                 3,130
Animal Health Component         245                9                 8               34                   296
Firebreaks Component            220               -                 -                -                    220
Sub-total                     859              981              880               926                3,646
IDA                           780              775              702               743                3,000
Government                     79              206              178               183                  646
OPERATING 5OSTS
liells Component                156               156              156              156                   620
Animal IHealth Component        300              307               313              320                1,240
Firebreaks Component            110              110               112              112                   444
Sub-total                     566              573              581               588                2,304
IDA                           453              344              233               120                1,150
Goverrinent                   113              229              3h8               168                1,158
Total                 1,425             1,554            1,461            1,514                 5,950
IDA                   1,233             1,119              935              863                 4,i50
Government              192               435              526              651                 1,6014
oe






ANNEX 7
MAURITANIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Eatinat4d Sohedule of Qmttrl  DUsbmrsemnte
¢omlative Diabur sente
Project Year                Quarter              at lnd of Qarter
1                          100
2                          478
3                          855
4                        1,233
2
1                        1, 511
2                        1,789
3                        2,067
4                        2,352
3
1                        2,586
2                        2,820
3                        3,0o5
4                        3,287
4
1                        3,503
2                        3,719
3                        3,885
4                        4100 7
October 15, 1971






kAURITA31A
LBVESTOCK D77ELOFMET PROJET
Cattle Herd Projections (With the Projeot)
dD                                       ~~~~~~        ~        ~~~~~~~~Bef-r  -------------------------------------------------------------------------End of Fr-j t Y  r________---____________________________________-----------
-              ~~~Catagory                      Development                  1                 _                                     4 _3                     c e          6                   7                  8~~~~----__
lend Componiticn (No.)
Bulls                                        1,320                    1,400              1,400              1,400              i,4oo              1,400              1,4oo               1,400             1,4                1,4oo
Branding Cons                              328,100                  351,0X0)           351,000            351,000            351,000            351,100            351,W00             351,000           351,000             351,000
Ce ves                                     197,000                  197,000            200,140            217,600            221,600            221,600            221,600             221,600           221,600            221,600
Heif-rs: 1-2 years                          59,500                   59,500             6l'100             64,100             71,800             71,4oo             71i,40              71,400            71,4oo             71,4oo
2-3 ynars                          53,500                   53,500             54,100             56,200             59,6W              67,500             72,800              72,800            72,800              72,800
Stenre:  1-2  5ears                         79,500                   59,500             6,1100             64,ooo             71,800             77,4oo             77,400              77,400            77,400             77,400
2-3 Years                          5350                     53,500             54,100             56,200             59,600             67,57W             72,800              72,800            72,800              72,800
3-4 years                          48,100                   48,100             48,'00             49,700             72,3WX             76,woo             61,700              68,400            68,4W              68,400
4-5  earo                          46,700                   46,700             47,100             47,700             49,200             51,5W               55500              62,8W             67,700             67,700
Tote1                                  847,200                  870,100            878a740            907,900            937,800            981,600            993,400           1,005,600          1,010,500          1,010,500
Mortality (No.)
Buos                                            4o                       4o                 281 14                                14                 14                 14                  14                î4                  14
BreedLng Cons                                9,840                    9,840              7,020              7,020              3,510              3,510              3,510               3,510              3 510              3,510
Ce-ves                                      78,800                   78,800             74,860            7T,050              73,980             66,330             66,330              66,330             (6,330             66,330
HRiffcr: 1-2 years                           5,950                    5,950              5,360              4,8wo              4,490              4,310              4,640               4,640              4,64o              4,640
2-3 yeers                           5,350                    5,350              4 820              4,330              3,900              3,580              4,070               4,370              4,370              4,370
StBlns:  1-2 years                           5,950                    5,950              5,360              4,890              4,490              4,310              4,640               4,640             4,640               4,64o
2-3 y.ar-                            5,350                   5,35)              4,820              4,330              3,900              37580              4,050               4,370             4,370               4,370
3-4 yearo                           1,440                    1,440                960                970                500                520               '560                 630               680                 680
4-5 years                             700                      700                470                470                p4o                250                260                 280               310                 330
Total                                  113,4P0                  113,420            103,698             94,o64             95,024             86,404             &,so4               86,784            88,864              88,884
Sales (No.)
Ccll Cons                                   38,300                   17,410             41,66o             42,/70             48,790             52,ol0             59,940              64,880             64,98o             64,89o
Stlans                                      45,960'0 45696, 46,00                                          46,6o              4/ ,47             48,930             71,720              95,170            t2,500              67,360
Production Dats
Mortality - Calves (> io                                                  40 4               8                  36                34                 30                  3I                  30                30                 30
- StBlns & Haifero: 1-3 yaos          10                       10                  9                  8                  I                  6                  6                   6                 6                   6
oth-es                                 3                        3                  2                                     1                  1                  1                   1                  1                  1
Colviog Rata                                    6o                       60                 61                 62                 63                 63                 63                  63                 63                 63
VaJ.u of Soles  / (CFAF million)              1041.8                    958.6             1072.5             1087.b             1149.5             1203.n             1307.               14c1.4             1119.0             1596.8
Milk Productico  / ('0W lines)                39,372                   39,371             39,372             42,120             42,120             42,120             44,226              44,226             44,226             44,226
ValTt  of Mlk Produolton3/  (CFAF  ill-lo)      393.8                    393.0              393.8             421.2              421.2              421.2              442.3                442.3             442.3              442.3
Vale of Teta1 Productln (CFAF nilliBe)       1453.6                   1252.4             1466.3             1508.8             1570.7             1624,2             1746.1              1843.7             1961.3             2039.1
BSta-r  - caroCas wt 160 kg et 100 CFAF par kg; coco -     carcass wt100 k  st 80 CFA/kg.
2Y rs 1-7, 60% oi coo -- ic ilX, 200 1. per con; pence 6,, 63T cf cocoz it oiLk.
2] CFAF 10 par liter.



MAIJRI'IANIA
L0ESTOCK DIrEJLOBMENT PEOJECT
ProJections or Lnttle Production  Witho-t the Project
Before     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------End of PoJect Ya--------------------------------------------------
~ Cntegory                           Develososmir      i       2        3        4       5        6        .       8        _       10        il        12        1-                            1-       17        18        19        20        21
Cattle il Projeot Are  ('000)                              847.i       825     775      750      725      700     675      650     625      600      575      550       505       5                     4        7 400             375       350       325       300
Cattle Sales:  ('000)
Cows                                                      38.3        49.0    46.5    45,6    403.1    43.1    4o.6    4o.6    39.7    39.7    3'.2          37.2      34.6   _ 3             '        .1      29.6      26.7     28.7      76.02     26.2      15.2
Steers: 4-5 yerar                                         46.o        46.0    43.    43.1    41.4    40.6  '8.9    37.2    36.3    34.6    33.0              32.1      30.4      0,.                   O2    25.3       23.7      22.0      21.1      19.4  18.6
2-4 ye-r-                                        -           18.6    15,2    14.4    15.6    15.6    15.6    15,6    15.6    15.6             6 .6   15.6     15-.      159..6                        15.6      15.6      i5.6     15.6      15.6
Valso  of S-lnc    (CFAF million)                        î,o4i-.      1345.0  1257.)  1226.8  1194.7  1101.2  1133.8  1106.0 1o86.6  1039.,  1019.             9 98.7    901          -             ,3L    _  6 S39.8    795.9   756.9    735.1    708.0   4619.
Milk Production           1 0   i.)                     38,372.0    38318.0 37i(6.0 36012.0 34848.o 33684.0 32520.0 31368.0 30204.0 29040.0 27876.0  26712.0  255c06.o              ,     --c.    1331-5  1036.`  20o904.o  18576.o  17424.o  16260.0  1i096.o  i3944.o
Valoe of Milk ProductionTM (Coio million)                  393.7       363.8   371.8   360.i   34.8.5   336.8   325.2   313.7   302.0   290.4   278.8    267.1    5s.6   2^4.1   231.3    220.7    209.o    185.f    174.2    162.6    151,0    139.4
Totsl Vlasu of P-rodctio- (CAF  million)                 1,435.5      17?8.8  1629.1  1586.9  1543.2  1518.0   1459.0  i4ho.5  1388.6  1329.7  1291.0   1265.8   1207.0   1175.1   1109.6    1084.2   1038.S    981.7    943.1    897.7    859.0    558,             5
Production dnta and ebvottrtoa rns ns befose ieveLopmnst (           -se  Annex g., Tsble 1), blt catît attlne sold e-ch yens to cedace herd noubsos.
'   Cana - carcssa a. 100 kg. nt CFAD' 80/kg.  St-ccs 4-5 y-ntrs-(nrca aa. 160 kg at C0380 137/n; StOnro .-4 yerar  - 100 kg at CFAF 100/kEg.
'J  60% of cosa in cOlk,  -ch  2r00017n0  00 1. 0cr 10.
LO01 .0/liter



C.-.
MAURITANIA
f~                                                  LIVESTOCK DEVELOPiMENT PROJECT
H                                     Production of Sheep and Goat Flocks (with the Project)
No. of         No. of 1/    Value of 2          MiIlk 3/   Value of Milk 4/ Total Value
Sheep & Goats      Sales          Sales         Production      Production       of Production
(1000)          ('000)       (CFAF million)  ('000 1.)   (CFAF million)   (CFAF million)
Before Developmnent           1,850           555           799.2           23,588            235.9           1035.1
End of Project Year
1                    1,850           555            799.2           23,588           235.9           1035.1
2                    1,903           502           722.9           2h,263            242.6            965.5
3                    1,956           518           745.9           2L,939            249.4            995.3
h                    2,009           534           769.0            25,615           256.2           1025.2
5                    2,062           550           792.0           2&J291            262.9           1054.9
6                    2,115           566           815.0            26,966           269.7           1084.7
7                    2,168           582           838.1            27,6h2           276.4           iîi4.5
8                    2,221           597           859.7            28,318           283.2           11h2.9
9 - 21                 2,221           613            882.7           28,318           283.2            1165.9
1/  At 30% extraction rate, less livestock retained to increase herd numbers.
2/  Carcass weight 12 kg, at OFAF 120 per kg.
3/  85% ofoves in milk, giving 30 1. each year.
S/ CFAF 10 per liter.



MAURITANIA
,-
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Production of Sheep and Goat Flocks (Without the Project)
No. of          No. of 1/   Value of 2/         Milk 3/   Vlalue of  4/   Total Value of
Sheep & Goats      Sales          Sales         Production       Production      Production
('000)          ('000)      (CFAF million)  ('000 1.)       (CFAF million) (CFAF million)
Before Development             1,850           555           799.2           23,588           235.9            1,035.1
End of Project Year
1                      1,795           610           878.4           23,588            235.9           1,114.3
2                      1,740           594           855.4           22,886            228.9           1,084.3
3                      1,685           577           830.9           22,185            221.9           1,052.8
4                      1,630           561           807.8           21,484            214.8           1,022.6
5                      1,575           544           783.4           20,783            207.8             991.2
6                      1,520           528           760.3           20,081            200.8             961.1
7                      1,465           511           735.8           19,380            193.8             929.6
8                      1,41o           495           712.8           18,679            186.8             899.6
9                      1,355           h78           688.3           17,978            179.8             868.1
10                      1,300           4462          665.3           17,276            172.8             838.1
il                      1,245           445           640.8           16,575            165.8             806.6
12                      1,190           429           617.8           15,874            158.7             776.5
13                      1,135           412           593.3           15,173            151.7             745.0
1u                      1,080           396           570.2           14,471            144.7             714.9
15                      1,025           379           545.8           13,770            137.8             683.6
16                        970           363           522.7           13,069            130.7             653.4
17                        915           346            498.2          12,368            123.7             621.9
18                        860           332           1478.1          11,666            116.7             594.8
19                        805           313            450.7          10,965            109.7             560.1
20                        750           297            427.9          10,264            102.6             530.5
21                        750           242           348.5            9,562             95.6             444.1
l/  Extraction rate 30% plus sales to reduce livestock numbers.
2/  Carcass weight 12 kg at CFAF 120 per kg.
3/  85% of ewes in milk, each producing 30 1. per year.
T7/  CFAF 10 per liter.                                                                                                        9!



MA3IITANIA
LIVESTOCK D2VE3LOPkRNT PROJECT
F ,  roject Cash Plos asd Ecosoanomict Ra ofeturrs
-Produatia. W,th el    ProJet -------------_            -----------td-ti- With-t the Project -----________-                    Ve ue Attribute%,    ProjIr
l Catrie   Itardr/ Sbeep  &  bast  Plook - __  _-__  Tota.l  --------    Cattl- -  - --- --    I .See.
vs$ Millias            (us$ Millisa)      (us$ Millioa)   (us$ Million)
Before Dveelopment                       1435.5          1035.1          2470.6          8.90                     143>.7           1035.1          2î47.6          8.90
1.                               1252.4          1035.1          2287.5          8.24                     1728.8           iii4.3          2843.1         10.24                     (2.00)            1.48             (3.48)
2                                1466.3           965.5          2431.8           8.76                    1629.1,          1084.3          2713.4          9.77                     (1.01)            1.61             (2.62)
3                                1508.8           995.3          25o4.1          9.02                     1586.9           1052.8          2639.7          9.51                     (0.49)            1.51             (2.00)
4                                1570.7          1025.2          2595.9          9.35                     1543.2           1022.6          2565.8          9.24                      0.11             1.57             (l.68)
5                                1624.2          1054.9          2679.1          9.65                     1518.0            991.6          2509.6          9.04                      o.61               .64            (0.03)
6                                1746.1          1084.7          2830.8         10,29                     1459.0            961.1          2420.1          8.71                      1.48               .64            (o.84)
7                                1843.7          i114.5          2958.2         10.65                     1420.5            929.6          2350.1          8.46                      2.19               .64             1.55
8                                1961.3          1142.9          3104.2         11.18                     1388.6            899.6          2258.2          8.13                      3.05               .64.            2.41
9                                2039.1          1165.9          3205.0         i1.54                     1329.7            868.i          2197.8          7.91                      3.63              .64              2.99
10                                2039.1          1165.9          3205.0         11.54                     i291.0            838.1          2129.1          7.67                      3.87               .64             3.23
il                                2039.1          1265.9          3205.0         11.54                     1265.8            806.6          2072.4          7.46                      4.08               . 32.           3.76
12                                2039.1          1167.9          3'105.0        11.54                     1207.0            776.5          1983.5          7.14                      4.40               .32             4.o8
13                                2039.1          1165.9          3205.0         11.54                     1175.1            745.0          1920.1          6.91                      4.63               .32             4.31
14                                2039.1          1165.9          3205.0         1i.54                     1129.n            714.9          1844.5          6.64                      4.9°              ,3?              4.58
15                                2039.1          1165.9          3205.0         11.54                     1o84.2            683.6          1777.8          6.40                      5.14              .32              4.82
16                                2039.1          1165.9          3205.0         11.54                     1038.8            653.4          1692.2          6.o9                      5'45              .32              5.13
17                                2039.1          1165.9          3205.0          11.54                     981.7            621.9          1603.6           5.77                     5.77              .32              5.45
18                                2039.1          1165.9           3205.0         11.54                     943.1            594.8          1537.9          5.54                      6.00               .32             5.68
19                                2039.1          1'65.9          3205.0         11.54                      897.7            560.4          1458.i          5.25                      6.29              .32              5.y9
20                                2039,1          1'65.9          3?05.0          11.54                     85'9.J           530.r5         1389.5           5.00                     6.54               .32             6.22
21 - 30                           2039.1          1165.9          3205.0         11.54                      C 3.5            444 1          100?.6           3.61                     7.93               .32             7.61
Residual herd va1ue (yesa 30)    6438.4           2132.0           8570.0         30.85                    2070.7            720.0          2790.7          1o.o5                    20.80                              2 2. 80
sohooic: Fas of Oat;irt: 10.69o
F -Os Anses 8, Table 1.
j  FPa- Astes 9, Table 1.
j  F-os  Anses 8, Tabla 2.
4  Frys Ansex 9, Table 2.
5/ Prdodutionwîith tho raI.est minus produatios without tha Prajeat.
/ Instearaceaoeil ap-aatiag asata, including
third vell eaiaîaaaaaa taea  sclodiag tI, fourth oeil test prsoidal by FA,.






ANNEX 11
SENSITIVITY TEST OF RATE OF RETURN TO TUE ECONOMY
1,        A major objective of the Project is to establish a system under
which the maintenance of wells, the vaccination of cattle and the main-
tenance of firebreaks would be continued after disbursement of the Credit.
Arrangements for financing these activities on a permanent basis are
incorporated in the Project.
2.        The rate of return of the Project to the economy was calculated
on the assumption that these activities would be continued. However, the
effect on the rate of return of failure to maintain these programs can be
estimated on the basis of the following assumptions:
(a) Failure to Maintain Wells. The 300 wells repaired or
reconstructed should continue to function effectively
up till year 10, but thereafter they would commence to
go out of service if they were not maintained. It is
assumed that they would go out of service at the rate
of 5% per year, thereafter with proportionate reduction
in the number of livestock supported.
(b) Failure to Continue to Vaccinate Cattle. The cattle
herd would retain immunity to rinderpest after cessation
of vaccination but this would diminish as the proportion
of unvaccinated young animals in the herd increased
year by year. In the case of CBPP, the residual immunity
would not last for much more than one year. It could be
expected that the immunity to both diseases would have
disappeared by year 12 and that mortality rates would
have increased to the levels incurred before development.
(c)  Failure to Maintain Firebreaks.  Loss of pasture by fire
would rise again to the levels existing before development.
(d) Costs. If the above programs were not maintained, there
would be no project costs after year 4.
3.        On the above assumptions, the rate of return of the Project to
the economy would be reduced to 14.6%.
October 7, 1971






ISLAMIC REPUBUC OF MAURITANIA   0                                                         r>
LIVESTOCK PROJECT                                   ;                    ARA, L
- Poved roc"                                                                     AUIANA 
---- ___- Pved roods under constrution                :AURITANIAi
Gravei roads                                        GAL\f-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ? ~~NIGER 
-----Roilroods                                                                     E~~RVLS~
*    rofe                                                                                               R _.. 1
@<   Iran                     11     --17-8-
Otfe palms                                -280                               B
Fishing                                                                 
*Wherf                        --                        ' ' * '-       e
Annuol roinfoil, mlirneters        Aaiun                                tf
` _._ -Internotionai boundçties# ,                                              N.        ALGERIA
UXve5toGk p'jec$ area   f
0     50   I00   150e;                               1*        -                                            .
MILES               -~i-otr~
o  so 510 I5 200 250           SPANISH               .   I 
KIL40MEr!fts              SAHARA              i  "                                                        240
-_- - - -                       - - - - - - - -          7TRo          OF  CANCER
(*.,F.e Zouérate                                          M A L I
:   /f - t , t _,  t- ,7CHO~~~~IIUU TUNNEL
-  Xc'c         >       ffi5 A  °Chinguetti
-zs  Gj    s    \                                                                   2Tîdjikja0 *ih
NOUAKCHOT4                 /      Moudjé
A t   S                                                   e9t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oufl
GUM 7~~~~~~~ron ~A4*eNm p200
1.      St Louisw                                                                                                  0
6000    ~ tSIbb 
/               ~ ~~~~Ma te     a    *       X       >     ~      < 
BoKel              6° ° M            A      L I
S E N E GAL                                                           
OCrOBER 1971                                                                                                    IBRD 3557R



