7   L
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 273 MAU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 17, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 273 MAU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Livestock Development Projec!)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 17, 1971


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 17, 1971, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF MAURITANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02 (h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02 (i) into 6.02 (h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project area" means the 4th administrative region of the Borrower,
the 5th administrative region with the exception of the department of Tichitt and
the part of the 6th administrative region which is included between the southern
limit of such region and, in the north, the 19th parallel; and
(b)   "Project Coordinating Commission" means a commission established
by the Borrower in accordance to Section 3.09 of this Agreement.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to four million one hundred fifty thousand
dollars ($4,150,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in August 1969, as revised in May 1971, and in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1976 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shAl pay to the Association a se, e charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 1 and
December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing
December 1, 1981 and ending June 1, 2021, each installment to and including
the installment payable on June 1, 1991 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of


﻿5
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Ministries
of Rural Development and its Ministry of Equipment with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial and agricultural
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall employ engineering consultants acceptable
to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association in
order to assist the Borrower in:
(a)   conducting all detailed surveys required for the carrying out of Part
A of the Project, in the preparation of bidding documents, including plans and
specifications, in the evaluation of the bids received and in the supervision of the
execution of the work included in such Part; and
(b)   making recommendations regarding the extent to which the Borrower
should employ contractors pursuant to the provision of Section 3.04 of this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall promptly furnish upon its preparation
the report concerning exploratory drillings included in Part A (3) of the Project
and the recommendations relating thereto of the engineering consultants referred
to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower shall not carry out Part A (4) of the Project without
the prior approval of the Association.
Section 3.04. In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ
contractors acceptable to the Association to an extent and upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.


﻿6
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repLir such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules, for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.07. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ a qualified and experienced veterinary officer
satisfactory to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, who shall be stationed in the Project area.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (i) establish procedures satisfactory to the
Association for the carrying out of Part C of the Project; and (ii) cause the annual
maintenance to be carried out in accordance with a timetable drawn up by the
Service for Waters and Forests within the Ministry of Rural Development and
approved by the Project Coordinating Commission.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall establish a Proeict Coordinating Commission
to advise the Borrower on the following matters:
(a)   terms of reference and conditions of employment of the engineering
consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement;


﻿7
(b)   selection of the pastoral wells to be included in Part A (1) of the
Project; and
(c)   drafting of bidding documents and formulation of recommendations
relating to the award of tenders.
Section 3.10. The Project Coordinating Commission shall comprise the
following members:
(a)   the Minister of Planification, who shall be the President of such
Commission, or his representative;
(b)   the Director of Livestock, who shall be the Secretary of such
Commission;
(c)   the Head of the Service of Waters and Forests;
(d)   the Director of Hydraulics and Energy;
(e)   the Head of the Department of Infrastructure; and
(f)   the Director of Budget or his representative.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall: (i) maintain separate accounts for the
Project; (ii) have such accounts audited by auditors satisfactory to the Association
at the end of each fiscal year, in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied; (iii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
any case not later than four months after the end of each such year, certified
copies of its financial statements for such year relating to such accounts and the
report of such audit by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request; and (iv) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning such accounts and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part
of the Project.


﻿8
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) cause a manual and a schedule for
the maintenance and repairs of the pastoral wells included in Part A of the Project
to be prepared and furnished to the Association before Part A (1) of the Project
is completed; (ii) cause such pastoral wells to be adequately maintained and all
necessary repairs to be made thereto; and (iii) provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 4.03. After completion of Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(i) cause the firebreaks included therein to be adequately maintained; and (ii)
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 4.04. The Borrower: (i) shall carry on the animal health campaign
described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement for a period of ten years from the
date of this Agreement; (ii) shall cause satisfactory measures for the control of
the major infectious diseases and for the treatment of internal and external parasites
of livestock to be maintained thereafter; and (iii) provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 4.05. After completion of Part B of the Project, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall continue, for a period of 6
years, to employ a qualified and experienced veterinary officer in the Project area.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement and with regard to the administration and operations of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,


﻿9
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration and operations of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
a-complishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Crel      4greement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execc -., delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,


﻿10
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon, and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely that the Project Coordinating
Commission has been established with composition and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 8.02. The date April 1, 1972 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.02 (ii) and
(iii), 4.03 and 4.04 (ii) and (iii) of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date 20 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Planification of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere du Plan et de la Recherche
Nouakchott
R6publique Islamique de Mauritanie


﻿11
Cable address:
Miniplan
Nouakchott
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties her o, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
By /s / Moulaye El Hassen
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿12
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          Percentage of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
I.    Repair and Recon-             1,400,000           80% of total ex-
struction of Pastoral                             penditures
Wells
1I.  Exploratory Drilling            100,000            80% of total ex-
for Underground Water                             pend itures
III.  Construction of New            180,000            80% of total ex-
Wells                                             penditures
IV.  Engineering Consultants'        225,000            100% of foreign
Services                                          expenditures
V.   Equipment, Structures,          615,000
Vehicles, Graders and
Bulldozers:
(a)   Imported Items                              100% of foreign
expenditures
(b)   Structures                                  70% of total ex-
penditures
VI.  Operating Costs of Main-        930,000            80% of total ex-
taining Pastoral Wells                            penditures in
and Firebreaks and                                Project year 1;
Carrying out Vaccination
of Livestock                                      60% of total ex-
penditures in
Project year 2;
40% of total ex-
penditures in
Project year 3;
and
20% of total ex-
penditures in
Project year 4
VII. Unallocated                     700,000
TOTAL         4,150,000


﻿13
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country in the territories of which goods
are produced or from the territories of which services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   expenditures under Category VI, until the veterinary officer referred
to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement has been appointed; and
(c)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request


﻿14
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if any contract for the procurement of any item included in any
Category shall have been awarded according to procedures inconsistent with those
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, or if the Association
shall have reasonably objected to any such contract on the ground that the
procurement procedure followed is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or
referred to in such Section 2.03, or if the terms and conditions of any such contract
shall, without the Association's prior concurrence materially differ from those on
the basis of which bids were asked, the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit allocated to the relevant Category, as the Association shall reasonably
determine to represent the portion of total expenditures under such contract which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Categories I,
II, III, V (b) and VI shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available
for reallocation to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is included in the Borrower's program for development of the
livestock industry and consists of the following Parts, to be carried out within
the Project area:
Part A:    A program to improve pastoral wells, including:
(1)  reconstruction and repair of approximately 300 pastoral wells;
(2)   training and equipment of three pastoral well maintenance teams
and establishment of a program for regular maintenance of
pastoral wells;
(3)   exploratory drilling for underground water at 10 sites; and
(4)   construction of a maximum of 15 new pastoral wells.
Part B:    Program of regular vaccination of cattle against the endemic diseases,
rinderpest, contagious bovine pleuropneumonia, anthrax, blackleg and
botulism, and of periodic treatment of cattle against internal and
external parasites.
Part C:    Establishment and annual maintenance of a protective system   of
approximately 6,500 km of firebreaks of minimum width of 6 meters.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1976.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works under Categories I and II, or
equipment under Category IV, estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its
comments before the applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such
additions or deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by the engineering
consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award
of the said engineering consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The
Association shall promptly inform the Borrower whether it has any objection to
the intended award on the ground that it would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits referred to in Section
2.03 of this Agreement or with the Development Credit Agreement, and shall state
the reasons for any objections it may have.
(d)   If the contract shall be awarded over the Association's reasonable
objection, or if its terms and conditions shall, without the Association's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked, no expenditure
thereunder shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿17
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any contract for civil works or equipment estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $20,000 and estimated to cost the equivalent of $4,000
or more, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract. The Association shall promptly inform the Borrower if
it finds that the award of the contract is not consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits referred to in Section 2.03
of this Agreement or with the Development Credit Agreement and, in such event,
no expenditure under such contract shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
3.   Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $4,000
shall not be subject to international competitive bidding and shall be procured
in accordance with the procedures of the Borrower, who shall furnish to the
Association copy of the orders made for such items or groups of items.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 4
Operating Procedure for Animal Health Campaign
The animal health campaign covers the following treatments:
(a)   vaccination annually of all cattle against rinderpest in years 1 and 2
of the Project;
(b)   vaccination annually of all cattle under 1 year of age against rinderpest;
(c)   vaccination  annually   of  all  cattle  against  contagious bovine
pleuropneumonia;
(d)   vaccination annually against botulism, anthrax and blackleg of all cattle
in zones where outbreaks of such diseases occur; and
(e)   periodic treatment of all cattle against internal and external parasites.


