CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NO. 244 MAI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Phase II Lilongwe Agricultural Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 13, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NO. 244 MAI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Phase II Lilongwe Agricultural Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 13, 1971


﻿0
Bruetlopment (Grait Agreegment
AGREEMENT, dated May 13, 1971, between the REPUB-
LIC OF MALAWI (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATIoN (hereinafter
called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated
January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the dele-
tion of Sections 5.01 and 6.02 (h) thereof and to the renum-
bering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02 (h) thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being here-
inafter called the General Conditions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the severa, 'erms defined
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a) "ADMARC" means the Agricultural Development
and Marketing Corporation of the Borrower, es'ablished
under the Farmers Marketing Act, as amende.d by the
Farmers Marketing (Amendment) Act, 1971;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and ADMARC
pursuant to Section 3.03(a) of this Agreement, as the same
may be amended from time to time;
(c) "Program" means the Lilongwe Land Development
Program of the Borrower, referred to in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement;


﻿4
(d) "Program Manager" means the expert employed by
the Borrower as program manager pursuant to Section
3.05 of this Agreement;
(e) "Program Area" means the area defined in the
Borrower's Government Notice No. 108 of April 16, 1971;
(f) "Area Unit" means a portion of the Program Area
covering approximately 20,000 acres to be developed as a
unit; and
(g) "First Project" means the project described in the
Schedule of the Development Credit Agreement (Lilongwe
Agricultural Development Project) dated February 9, 1968
between the Borrower and the Association, as the descrip-
tion thereof shall be amended from time to time by agree-
ment between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount
in various currencies equivalent to seven million two hun-
dred and fifty thousand dollars ($7,250,000).
SECTION 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be with-
drawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Sched-
ule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development
Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be
made on account of expenditures in the territories of any


﻿5
country which is not a nember of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied
from, such territories.
SECTION 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the goods and services (other than services of con-
sultants) required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the
basis of international competition under procedures con-
sistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in
August 1969, and in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions -set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
SECTION 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1976
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Bor-
rower and the Association.
SECTION 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Associa-
tion a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable
on each January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1981
and ending January 15, 2021, each installment to and in-
cluding the installment payable on January 15, 1991 to be
one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-
half per cent (11/2%) of such principal amount.
SECTION 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿6
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
or cause the Project to be carried out, with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative,
agricultural, engineering and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
SECTION 3.02. (a) In order to make available to the
Program Manager the funds required for the carrying out
of the Project the Borrower shall establish and maintain
a Fund which shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(b) Unless the Borrower and the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall authorize the Program Man-
ager to use the proceeds of repayments it shall receive
under Part IV (b) and (c) of the Project, for purposes
of making new cash sales and seasonal and medium term
loans to farmers, respectively.
(c) The Borrower shall cause to be made available to the
Cold Storage Company Limited, promptly as needed, funds
in an amount required to maintain an adequate level of
working capital.
SECTION 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall relend the equiv-
alent of $190,000 out of the proceeds of the Credit to
ADMARC under a subsidiary loan agreement on terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Asso-
ciation for purposes of carrying out Part III of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿7
(c) The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agen-
cies to take -all action which will be necessary on their part
to enable ADMARC to perform all of its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and shall not take or per-
mit to be taken any action which might interfere with
such performance.
SECTION 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall establish within
twelve months of the date of the Credit Agreement, and
shall thereafter maintain until completion of the Project,
under its Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources a
project liaison committee, which shall (i) assist said Minis-
try in coordinating all aspects of the Project; (ii) review
quarterly the progress of the implementation of the Proj-
ect; and (iii) ensure close cooperation between all inter-
ested ministries, agencies and instrumentalities of the
Borrower and with the Association on all matters related
to the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall appoint as members of such
project liaison committee representatives of the depart-
ments of its Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
as well as senior representatives of all concerned minis-
tries, departments or agencies of the Borrower.
SECTION 3.05. The Borrower shall employ, until the
Closing Date, qualified and experienced specialists mutually
acceptable to the Borrower and the Association to serve as
Program Manager, Financial Controller, Chief Agricultural
Credit Officer and Ranch Manager, all under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
SECTION 3.06. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall: (a) employ and assign to the
Program Manager such staff as shall be required for pur-
poses of carrying out Part IV of the Project in each Area
Unit, at a ratio of not less than one extension worker to
every 200 farmers during the 21/2 years immediately after


﻿8
the establishment of the respective Area Unit, and not
less than one extension worker to every 400 farmers during
the following 21/2 years; and (b) approximately five years
after each Area Unit shall have been established, retain
said staff for purposes of continuing the provision of
extension services, each Area Unit having not less than
one extension worker to every 500 farmers.
SECTION 3.07. The Borrower shall, not later than June
30, 1972, prepare and submit for the Association's ap-
proval, detailed proposals on (a) the continuation of its
agricultural extension and credit services established under
Part IV of the Project and under Part IV of the First
Project; (b) the maintenance of the infrastructure de-
veloped under Parts I, III and V of the Project and under
Parts I and III of the First Project within the Program
Area after the completion of the Project. The Borrower
shall implement or cause to be implemented, such proposals
in accordance with a time schedule mutually acceptable to
the Boriower and the Association.
SECTION 3.08. In carrying out construction works for the
Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be em-
p.oyed contractors acceptable .o the Association upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, subject to
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.09. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure,
or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the im-
ported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or in-
stallation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of


﻿the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the
Project.
SECTION 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association, promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract doc-
uments and work and procurement schedules for the Proj-
ect, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain and cause to be
maintained records adequate to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Proj-
ect, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
SECTION 3.11. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause ADMARC to collect, at its
markets in the Program Area, repayments of loans to
farmers, and to continue to refuse licenses to any produce
buyers to operate within the Program Area.
SECTION 3.12. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause ADMARC to provide ade-
quate storage facilities for the crops produced in the Pro-
gram Area.
SECTION 3.13. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all new roads constructed
under the Project in the Program Area to have a maxi-


﻿10
mum width of 24 feet, except field access roads which will
have a maximum width of 16 f eet.
SECTION 3.14. During the years hereinafter indicated,
the Borrower shall carry out a complete survey over not
less than the following area of the Program Area: 75,000
acres during the year ending September 30, 1972 and
100,000 acres during each of the three following years.
This survey includes all such steps as shall be required
to enable the registration of land under Part II of the
Project. The Borrower shall promptly employ contractors
to achieve these targets, should it become reasonably fore-
seeable that its own staff will be unable to meet them.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause
to be maintained records, including separate accounts, ade-
quate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower, including ADMAIRC, respon-
sible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts in respect
of the Project for each fiscal year of the Borrower audited
by an independent auditor acceptable to the Association in
accordance with sound principles consistently applied; (ii)
cause ADMARC to have its accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently ap-
plied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Associa-
tion; (iii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of
each such year, (A) certified copies of its accounts and
ADMARC's accounts and financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audits by


﻿11
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Asso-
ciation shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish
to the Association such other information concerning said
accounts and financial statements and the audits thereof
-is the Association shall from time to time request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
SECTION 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purpose of the Credit will
be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a) Exchange views through their representatives with
regard to the performance of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the administra-
tion, operations and financial condition, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit; and
(b) Furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information shall
include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its
balance of payments, and the external debt of the Bor-
rower, of any of its political subdivisions and of any
agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
SECTION 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
operations and financial condition in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.


﻿12
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall promptly
inform each other of any condition which interferes with,
or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obliga-
tions under the Development Credit Agreement or the per-
formance by ADMARC of its obligations under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement.
SECTION 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable
opportunity for accredited representatives of the Associa-
tion to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for
purposes related to the Credit.
SECTION 5.04. The Borrower shall from time to time,
at the request of either party, review with the Association
the rates and fees to be paid in respect of the Program by
farmers in the Program Area.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
SECTION 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or
laws in effect in its territories.
SECTION 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execu-
tion, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the
laws of -the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
SECTION 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and
service charges on, the Credit shall be free from all restric-
tions, regulations, controls and moratoria of any nature
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.


﻿13
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions shall occur and shall continue for
the period, if any, therein set forth, then at any subse-
quent time during the continuance thereof, the Association,
at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare the
principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and pay-
able immediately together with the service charges thereon
and upon any such declaration such principal and service
charges shall become due and payable immediately, any-
thing to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement
notwithstanding.
SECTION 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) ADMARC shall have failed to perform any obliga-
tion under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b) A default shall occur in the performance of any
covenant or agreement on the part of the Borrower under
the Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower
and the Association, dated February 5, 1968; and
(c) The Borrower shall have amended the Farmers Mar-
keting Act, as amended in 1971, in such a way as to mate-
rially and adversely affect the ability of ADMARC to carry
out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 8.01. The following event is specified as an ad-
ditional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01 (b)


﻿14
of the General Conditions, namely that the execution and
delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf of
the Borrower and ADMARC, respectively, have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and gov-
ernmental action.
SECTION 8.02. The following is specified as additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the Gen-
eral Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions
to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or rati-
fied by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Bor-
rower and ADMARC, respectively, and constitutes a valid
and binding obligation of the Borrower and ADMARC in
accordance with its terms.
SECTION 8.03. The date September 15, 1971 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under
Sections 3.02(c), 3.06, 3.11, and 5.04 of this Agreement shall
cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
SECTION 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 9.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Treasury
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 53
Zomba, Malawi


﻿15
Cable address:
Finance
Zomba
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
TN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By /s/ N. W. MBEKEANI
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ MOHAMED SHOAIB
Vice President


﻿16
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation
of amounts of the Credit to each category and the per-
centage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each
category.
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in  % of Expendi-
Dollar Equiva-  tures to be
Category                              lent)        Financed
I. Vehicles, machinery,
equipment, fertilizers                           88% of total
and insecticides                     1,120,000   expenditures
II. Livestock                             372,000    88% of total
expenditures
III. Buildings                                        88% of total
(a) Headquarters and                            expenditures
Conservation                      177,000
(b) Service Center Units              352,000
(c) Ranch                             152,000
IV. Services of expatriate                           88% of total
staff                                  881,000   expenditures
V. Services of local staff                          88% of total
for:                                             expenditures
(a) Soil Conservation,
Planning and Building             372,000
(b) Surveys and Land
Allocation                        218,000
(c) Extension, Training and
Marketing, Service
Center Units                     1,114,000
(d) Ranch                              51,000
(e) Headquarters, Evaluation,
and Headquarters Credit           297,000


﻿17
VI. Marketing and Storage                         88% of total
Facilities of ADMARC                 172,000  expenditures
VII. Operating and Maintenance                     88% of total
Costs                              1,550,000  expenditures
VIII. Unallocated                         422,000
TOTAL                        7,250,000
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of :
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals may be made on account of expend-
itures for goods and services required under Part V of the
Project incurred after October 1, 1970 in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $105,000;
(b) payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the
Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement
or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount repre-
sented by the percentage set forth in the third column of
the table in paragraph 1 above in respect of any Category
would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds
of the Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments
for such taxes; and
3. Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the
Credit set forth in the second column of the table in para-
graph1 above:
(a) if the estimate of the expenditures under any Cate-
gory shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated
to such Category and no longer required therefor will be
reallocated by the Association by increasing correspond-
ingly the unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b) if the estimate of the expenditures under any Cate-
gory shall increase, the percentage set forth in the third


﻿is
column of the table in paragraph 1 above in respect of
such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such
increase, and a corresponding amount will be allocated by
the Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such
Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit, sub-
ject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as
determined by the Association, in respect of any other
expenditures.
4. Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third
column of the table in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate
of total expenditures under any Category shall increase and
no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to
any such Category, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, adjust the percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under any
such Category may continue until all expenditures there-
under shall have been made.


﻿SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the four-year second phase of the Lilongwe
Land Development Program, a long-term program for the
development of infrastructure and the improvement of
smallholder agricultural production in the Program Area.
The Project consists of the following:
I. Land Development
This includes: (a) the construction of about 540 miles
of crop extraction roads;
(b) the construction of about 1,700 miles of drainage
ditch; and
(c) the boring and equipping of about 160 boreholes.
II. Land Reorganization and Surveyance
This includes: (a) the carrying out of topographical sur-
veys and the preparation of contour maps;
(b) the demarcation, reorganization and registration of
holdings in approximately 375,000 acres.
III. The Provision of Marketing and Storage Facilities.
This includes the construction of a service center in each
of 14 different Area Units, each including a produce mar-
ket, a 450 ton fertilizer/feed store, and associated offices
and housing.
IV. Extension, Supply and Credit Services
This includes: (a) the provision of intensive agricultural
extension, and staff and farmers training services.
(b) the provision of facilities for the cash sale of agri-
cultural inputs to farmers; and
(c) the provision of seasonal and medium-term credit to
farmers.


﻿20
V. Livestock Development
This includes the establishment of a ranch of about
161,000 acres in the Dzalanyama Forest Reserve to provide
upgraded feeder stock for stall-fattening by farmers in the
Project Area.
VI. Management and Staff
This includes:
(a) the staffing of a program organization under the
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources with head-
quarters in Lilongwe;
(b) the establishment and staffing of a Program Evalua-
tion Unit;
(c) the recruitment of qualified managerial, professional,
technical and administrative staff and the provision of
in-service training;
(d) the construction, equipping and maintenance of
houses and offices for Program staff in Lilongwe and in
the Program Area;
(e) the purchase, operation and maintenance of vehi-
cles, machinery and equipment; and
(f) the provision of administrative services.
The Project is expected to be completed on September
30, 1975.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1. With respect to any contract for (a) housing; and (b)
for fertilizer, insecticides, vehicles, major equipment (in-
cluding well casings, fittings and pumps) and other goods
for which the estimated cost of annual requirement is less
than $25,000 equivalent; for which the usual government
procurement procedures of the Borrower shall apply, inter-
national competition shall not be required.
2. With respect to any contract for fertilizer, insecticides,
vehicles, major equipment (including well casings, fittings
and pumps) and other goods estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $25,000 or more:
(a) If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower
shall, before qualification is invited, inform the Association
in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall intro-
duce such modifications in said procedure as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bid-
ders, together with a statement of their qualifications and
of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for pre-
qualification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the
Association for its comments before the applicants are
notified and the Borrower shall make such additions or
deletions from the said list as the Association shall rea-
sonably request.
(b) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invi-
tations to bid and the specifications and other bidding docu-
ments, together with a description of the advertising pro-
cedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedure as the
Association shall reasonably request. Any further modifica-
tion to the bidding documents shall require the Associa-
tion's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.


﻿22
(c) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is
made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder
to whom it intends to award the contract and shall fur-
nish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall promptly inform the Bor-
rower whether it has any objection to the intended award
on the ground that it would be inconsistent with the Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement or
with the Credit Agreement, and shall state the reasons for
any objections it may have.
(d) If the contract shall be awarded over the Associa-
tion's reasonable objection, or if its terms and conditions
shall, without the Association's concurrence, materially
differ from those on which bids were asked, no expenditure
thereunder shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(e) Two copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
any such contract.
3. With respect to any other contract for fertilizer, insecti-
cides, major equipment (including well casings, fittings,
and pumps) and other goods, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior
to the submission to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract. The Association shall promptly inform the Borrower
if it finds that the award of the contract is not consistent
with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits referred to in Section 2.03 of this


﻿23
Agreement or with the Credit Agreement and, in such
event, no expenditure under such contract shall be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
4. Notwithstanding the above, the Borrower may construct
by force account roads, water supply, soil conservation and
drainage works and houses estimated to cost the equivalent
of $5,000 or less per house, under the Project.


