Document of
T he World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11494-ALB
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TRANSPORT PROJECT
APRIL 23, 1993
,j,    '  . J,     - 'Ij. !     
t~~~~~~~~
Infrastructcre Operations Division
Central Europe Department
Ehrope and Central Asia Region
l bi document ha a retdeted diaftibuom and may be usd? by reipse  ondy In the peuonnnc of
thei offici dudes Its contens may not owse be dislosed withwou Wodd Bank aftrozalo



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Lek (average rates)
Jan.- Aug.    Sept. - Dec.    Jan. - Sept.   Oct. - Dec.  Jan.-March
1988-90       1991           1991            1992         1992         1993
US$1 = Lek       8.00        10.00          25.00           50.00        100.00       100.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
dwt     -      dead weight tons
EC      -      European Community
BIB     -      European Investment Bank
eBRD   -       European Eank for Recotrucdon and Development
ERR     -      Economic Rate of Retum
FYR     -      First Year Retur
GDP    -      Gross Domestic Product
GOA    -       Govemment of Albania
HMIO    -      Harbor Master's Office
ICB     -      intnational Competitive Bidding
IDA     -      Inteational Development Association
IMF     -      International Monetuay Fund
IRI     -      International Roughness Index
iS      -      Intational Shopping
ISP2    -      lintituto for Studies and Pro1ects Nr. 2
lTPT    -     Institute for Transport, Post, and Telecommunications
KF      -     Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
LCB     -     LocA  Competitive Bidding
MEF    -      Miistry of Economy and Finance
m/m     -     man month
MOC    -      Ministry of Construction
MTC    -      Ministry of TrnWort and Communications
NBF    -      Non-Bank(IDA) Financed
NRD    -       National Roads Dqetment
pa      -     per naum
pcu     -     passenger car unit equivalent
PDA     -      Port of Dures Authority
p-km    -     passegerklometer
PMU    -       Project Management Unit
SOE     -      Statement of Expenditure
TA      -      Technical Assistance
t-km    -      ton-kilometer
TOR     -      Terms of Reference
TSC     -      Transport Study Center
UNDP   -      United Nations Development Program
vpd     -      vehicles per day
ALBANIA - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
ALD~
TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table or Cobtents
Chapte                                                               Paqp No.
CREDIr AND PROQCT SUMMARY               .......................... (i) - (4i)
I.    TITE ECONOMfY
A   Backsround..........          ... .....                  1
B.   PtOpOOb    .....................                        1
IL    TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Gbra1l                          ................... .. 2
B. Transition to a Ivisat Economy. .  .................... .3
C. Highways .         .............                           7
D. Pot ....  14
E. Raiwys                         ...  18
F. viAii .............. 19
,IL    THE PROJECT
A. Project Objetives                .....  20
B. Description ............. 21
C. Stats of Proec Preparation .... . . .   21
D. CostEstimtes       ................................. 22
B.  ProjeFinanS   ...............................            24
F.               anibaded Monbhoig ................................. 25
G.  Procremt ..................................              27
IL Disbursement                   ..... 30
L. Evimunnue....                           .... 31
J. Accountingxd Auditimg               .....  32
TV.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.. Geawul............................... .      .     ..... 32
B. RoadComponmnt ..............                      .     . 32
C. PonComponeuit .. .............................. 33
D. Cncluio, Sestivity ad Risks ........                .     35
V.    FINANCIAL EVALUATION: PORT OF DURRES
A. PresenSitdion    .        ......................... 35
B. Port (Cargo Hldg Tar i......................... 37
C. Futum Proec ...t .    ......................... .. .   38
D. PDA'sFinanciAutonomymandcFf   aldPPeoman  ......... 40
VL    AGREEGENTS TO BE REACHED ANDRECOMMENDATIONS  . 41
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not othewise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztion.



-NEXES
2.1    Main Road Network
2.2    Transport Action Plan
2.3    Port of Dumes - Global Miti    affic
2.4    Port of Duces - Bulk Trffic Opemtions
2.5    Port of Durres - Operational ndicatr
3.1    Road Desigp Standards
3.2    Road Rehabilitation Program - Suprvson of Work - Term  of Rdieo
3.3    Road Mantence Equipment
3.4    Technical Assistance to NRD and MTC: Tems of Reference
3.5    Road Safety Study and Program: Terms of Refrence
3.6    Port Equipment
3.7    Poft of Dures - Technical Asiance Ptogram - Terms of R_oece
3.8    Port Master Plan Study - Terms of Refrence
3.9    Port of Durs - Action Plan
3.10   Study of the Future Role of Albania Railways: Terms of Refeance
3.11   Project Organization and Management - Project Managemt Unit
3.12   E_td Annual Contractual and Other Payments
3.13   Monitoring nicators for Project Activites
3.14   Disbursement Forecast
4.1    Deails of the Economic Evaluation
4.2    Actual and Forecast Traffic at Dums Port
5.1    Port of Durres - Income Stements (Port Acfivities and HMO)
5.2    Port of Dumes - Soures and AppLications of Funds Sttment
5.3 Port of Dunfes - Balance Sheet years 1989 through 1997
5.4    Port of Dunes - Finacial Assumptions
6.1    Douments in Project File
CARTS
1.     MTC Orazato Suctre
2.     NRD Orgnization Structure
3.     NRD Oganization at District Level
4.     Average Daily Traffic Levels (1992) on Major Roads
MAPS
ALBANIA       IBRD No. 24468 (Roads)
IBRD No. 24469 (Port)
This report was prepared on the basis of an appraisal mission to Albania in Novembe 1992. The
misdon was led by Luis Revuelta (Trnsport Eogieer; EC2IN). Mission mberts were M
Pote     w Parker (Transport Economist; EC21N), Marc Jue (Pt Enger, ETIN) ad P. Chary=
(Fiacial Analyst; Consultant). The Peer Reviewer is Mr. Jeremy LIn  PAT". TM  Divion
Chif is Mr. Hans . Apitz (EC21N) and the Dearment Dieor Mr. Kemal Derio ECDR).



4-
ALBAI
TRANSPORT PROJECT
STAFF   SAL REPORT
CREDT ANMD PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrwer.          Republic of AIbania
Mnistry of Tansport, including the Natona Roads Deaunent and
Port of Dunfes.
Crdit amount:    SDR 13.0 million (US$18 million equivalent)
Tm:               Stndard IDA terms, with 40 year maturity.
Project Objectim
andDesrlptl:   The objecdves of the project are to (a) assist MTC and transport
ganizations to adopt market based taport polies, (b)    mm
the  exped   growth  of road  traffic  by    bi           and
complngextending main roads and by impoving their mainteance and
safety, (c) devdop the domestic cotrcti   industry and insc
employments, (d) ime opea , finance and  fety at the main port
of Dunes, and (e) prepare to detmine the future role of Albanian
aUways.
Te project includes (a) rehabilion of about 65 km, and complm  and
constrci   of 19 km  of main roads, (b) improv         of road
maintenn  in the Yumana dist through prn    of eqpment, (c)
repir of quays and port sufaces, and provision of equipment and Spare
par for the port of Dures, (d) tecni  asstce and taning for (i)
NRD to implement the project, (ii) MTC to make investment decisions n
the basis of economic creia, further prevat  the road tansport and
constrcon industries, reoraize the Ministry, and adopt market based
egu     s, inae taxes and use charges, and 6m) PDA to imprv
operations, produciv  and sfety, to establish an autonomous por, to
improve port finances, and to deveo a manpower plan, and (e) stda
to (i) improve road safety, (ii) prepare a Master Pla for the port of
Dune, and (iii) detmine the futume role of Albnian Raiways.



-ii-
Beneits and Rsks: The GOA has eressed intes in the prqect, which is eaxpcte to play
an important role in establishing a market-based trant sector. The
project is estimated to have an ERR of about 31 percent (road component
38 percent, port compotet 25 percent). The main proect rik are the
possiilit that GOA might not have sufficient counterpart funds for the
proect, or that recurent budget might be inadequate to implmnt a
saisfctoy road maintenance progm. In order to teduce these rk,
GOA was asked and agreed at negotations, to budget sufficient
coutrpart funds for the project, to charge border prices plus an ageed
tax for road fuel which covers all road  etes, and to allocate road
funds first to maintenance and theeaft to othxr road expenditures.
Project ris  are covideted acceptable with these aragements.



-ill-
ESTIMATED  ROJECT COST                        Ioal         Paoli         Total
A.     ROAD SUWSECIOR
(a)    Road Wod*                       3.9           9.1          13.0
(b)    Supftvislon of Road Woib        0.1           0.3          0.4
(o)    Naineanc Equenat                 -            2.0          2.0
(4)    TA  MIND)                        -            0.6          0.6
(a)    Training (TC/ )                  -            0.2          0.2
(t)    Road ay Study                    -            0.1          0.1
B.     PORT SUBSECTOR
(a)    Woks                            0.6           1.4          2.0
(b)    Equipment                        -            3.3          3.3
(o)    TA (PDA)                         -            0.4          0.4
(d)    Train  PDA)                      -            0.1          0.1
(1     Fort Master Pba                  -            0.2          0.2
Subta 2                                       I SA         J.
C.    RlAILWAY SUBSECTOR
Study Futar Role Railay                 -            0.2          0.2
Subto 3al                               -            0,
BASS COST                               A              22
D.   CONTINGENC
Physial (5%)                    0.2           0.9          1.1
=      Fib. (14%)                      0.7           2.7          3.4
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     A                          a
FlNANCING
MDA                                            2.1          15.9         18.0
Kuwait Fund                                    0.8           5.6          6.4
Gov_nuo"                                       2.6           -           2.6
TOTAL                                  A                
ESTIMTE  IDA DMSA   I MENI
IBD FIa Year                                          i92 1a         S
An                                             13      6.4    5.0    3.4      1.9
CunDWo                                         13      7.2    12.7   16.1    130
(%)                                     7       43     71      89     100
ECONOMIC DATE OF RETURN
Road Componet 38 prcent
Poit Component: 25 percen
GlEUW.1AS  CW3CU



-1-
I. THE ECONOMY
A. Bud
1.01       For four decades, until the collapse of the old regime, Albania rigidly centaized
all ecoomic actvity and isolated itself to an extent unprecedented in the sociaist world
Albania ignored economic Incentives, comparative advantage and financial constraints, and in
the end, the eonomy colapsed under the weight of an enormous foreign debt, severe price
distortions and an archaic production stucture. Albania is now by far the poorest country in
Burope. The anl gross domestic product (GDP) per capita of Albania's 3.3 million
poplation was eet aed to be less than US$400 in 1992, and to have declined some 30 percent
since the mid-1980s. Unemployment was esmated to be 31% in 1992, and the budget deficit,
currently arund 40 Percent of GD?, was until recently financed primarly through the domestic
banking system, result  in an inflaton of 555 percent from December 1991 through October
1992.
D. Prospects
1.02        Albania is now a full-fledged member of the international community, and its
democratic government is strongly determined to exploit the opporunities for development
assoated with a free market economy. Albama has good potential for reveng fte present
economic situation through productivity increases in sectors where, because of good nahtua
resouces, it bas an intmatona comparative adjantage. These include agrculture, mining and
its dedvative indusies, hydro-electricity, and eventually tourism. With social stability broadly
regained and e new, basic institutional setng now in place, the Government of Albania (GOA)
has decded to apply Shock therapy to foster economic recovery, recognizing that a gadualist
apprach woud not be effective. It removed most price controls in mid-1992, and shawly
incread the prices of those items which remain controlled (e.g., bread five-fold, wheat fwr-
fold). The Govenment also adopted a floating exchange rate, lifted most restrictions on current
account tranctons, abolished state ttading monopoles, and simplified the tariff suctre.
Reform legilation established an independent central bank and created the framework for a
commecial banling sector. The GOA has raised interest  es sharply, and intends to undert
futier refoms, suorted by a US$27.0 million IMP Standby Arrangement which was appved
on August26, 1992. These reforms include: (a) eliminatingpce supports and subsidies to state
entises with a view to sharply reducing the fiscal deficit (50.2 percet of GDP in the first
half of 1992); 0) ionizing and monitoring expenditures, particularly in the military and
social security secto; (c) reforming the tax system to tax the fuure private sector; (d) takdng
additional step to tabilize p s, with a view to ultimately unlining monetary policy and
budget financing; (e) limitng increases in salaries for civil servants, and reducing real wages
in line with te fal in domestic output; (f) estabishing a legal framework and commercial codes
to develop the pivate sectr, and (g) taklng further steps toward pnvatizauon under the Standby



-2-
Arrangement. The GOA has already privatized a number of small orgnizations, and distributed
substantil amounts of agricultural land to small fanners.
1.03       Albania faces critical balance of payments and financing constraints in the near
and medl1n .tem. Also, there are considerable zisks in the economic reform program due to
the wide-ranging nature of the policy changes which are required, the difficult , nditions in the
economy, and particularly Albania's limitad institutiona capacity and lack of familiadty with
market economics. However, the Govetnment has affirmed its commitment to the program at
all levels. Substantial intenational support would be required to make the reform program
succeed, particularly in the early stages of the trnsition. The project proposed in this report
will be an important component of this support.
II TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. General
2.01        System and Infstructure. The transport system comprises (a) a road network
of about 18,000 km, including 2,900 km of paved roads and 4,900 km of unpaved roads
administered by the Ministry of Transport and Communication (MTC), and about 10,200 of low
level roads or tracks built by villages or enterprises, (b) a rail network of 120 km of single track
main lines, plus 300 km of other lines, (c) the main port of Durres with 4,)00 m of quays, and
secondary ports of Vlora, Saranda and Shengjini, (d) a national shipping fleet of 31 vessels
totaling 85,000 dead weight tons (dwt), and (e) an intenational airport at Tirana for aircraft up
to 150 tons. With some exceptions, the transport system is adequate in extent, but its condition
has deteriorated to the point where it impedes the development of a market economy. Some 70-
80 percent of tansportation equipment was fully depreciated at the beginning of 1992, resuting
in frequent disruptions of service, high operating and maintenance costs, and high energy
consumpdon. Each transport mode is descnbed further below.
2.02        Government Authorities. Under the previous regime, all transport services and
infrastruch re were controlled by the MTC. Although post-1991 llizon is now under
way, the MTC is still in charge of most transportation in Albania. There are four General
Directorates within the ministry which are responsible for highways, railways, ports, and
aviation, respwectively, as shown in Chart 1. Within the highways director, the National
Roads Department (NRD) is responsible for administraion of the main road network. The Sea
Transport Drectorate has under it a Port Authority for each of the four Albanian seaports, and
the most important of these is the Port of Dunes Authority (PDA), which is responsible for all
operations and maintenance of the country's main port. The Albanian Railways operate under
the control of the railways directorate, and civil aviation is the responsibility of Albtransport
within the aviation directorate.



-3-
2.03        Traffi. Like other Eastern European countres, under the previous regime
Albania was transport intensive. This was because of several fctors: the economy emphaimed
mining and heavy industry, there was a teatively low level of freign tade which resulted in
small scale domestic production and high intern transport costs, many industries were located
in remote areas for socia reasons, and transport services woe heavily subsidized. Freight
ustffic grew an averge eight pert per annum (p.a). durng the 1960s and 1970s, parleling
the growth of the mining industries (coal, chrome, copper and iron-nickel). F,ht traffic then
stagnated in the 1980s, reflecdng the introduction of concentration processes aar the chrome
and copper mines, and the closure of some heavy industries. Albania genated a peak 4.5
billion ton-kilometers (t-km) of inland freight taffic in 1988, or about 2.6 t-km/US$ of GDP,
compared to 1.7 in Hungary, 2.1 in Poland, and 0.3-0.7 in Wester Europe at about the same
time. Passenger traffic grew steadily at 5.7 percent p.a. in the 1970s, and S.1 percent p.a. in
the 1980s. Albania generated a peak 3.1 bilion passenger-lometers (p-kin) of inland passenger
taffic in 1989, or about 1.8 p-km1US$ of GDP, compared to 1.9 in Poland, 2.0 in Hungary,
and 0.7-1.1 in Western Europe. Freight taffic fell 22 percent fom 1988 to 1990 due to the
decline in economic activity, while passenger traffic has  mained roughly constant (i.e., 3.0
billion p-km in 1990) due primarily to the liberizatin of read tansport.  hirty-two percent
of ii.erurban goods traffic (t-krm), and 38 pct of interurban passenger traffic (p-k:m) was
carried by rail in 1990. Future traffic volumes will depend on the pace of economic reform and
the structure of the economy, which is difficult to predict eliably. However, it is expected that
the ongoing diversion of both freight and passenger traffic from rail to road and the growth of
pnvate car ownership will continue, following the pattern observed in other Easrn Eurepean
countries.
B. Transition to a Market Economy
2.04        Baound. Under the previous regime, with its centnlly planned economy,
the GOA adminis  all transport modes directly: it allocated trffic (primarily to the railway),
selected investments, set tariffs and prewribed transport regulations largely on the basis of social
crnteria Private cars were prohibited and trucks and buses were not allowed to serve routes
served by the railway. This restriction (which was lifted in 1991) supported the Government's
policy to give preference to rail service over ote modes of tansport, and investment in nonrail
infratutu  and services was neglected for many years for this rcason. Now the GOA intends
to introduce a market economy wherein the transport modes would be either privately owned or
commercially oriented state enterpses.  MTC's role would be limited to ensuing fair
competition within and between the transport modes, to regulating transport operators to ensure
safety and to pre  the environment, and to admistring cost based taxes or user charges to
pay for publicly owned transport inf    . The GOA has already take the firs steps
towards establishing a market-based tansport policy, including privatzing some transport
enterprises, initiating the r ation of MTC, and investigating the role of the railways.
However, much remains to be done, and a principal objective of the project would be to assist
the GOA with this transition. The main issues which need to be addressed are discussed below.



-4-
2.05        Iveets.    Albania iesed about Lek 241 (US$30.0) million p.a. In
transport and communications during 198&90. The railways reoeived about 40 percent of this
amnount, which enabled the leng of raiway lines to be doubled duming the 1980s. Tanspt
infrastricte is genrly adequwate in size and length, but much of It is in poor   fair condition.
Seveal major projects were sared but ner completd, such asthe Rreshen-Klos rail line (40
km), the Pushe Kruja-Lezha road (37 kin), a 1,000m jetty at the port of Durres, and vaious
investments at the port of Vioa Road investments wero neglected, and many villages remain
inaccesible by motor vehide today.  Emphasis was plaed an showcse investments,
constrivelon standards were low, infrur was not maintained, and equipment was not
replaced when it was wom out.
2.06        Given the past history of inadequate inestment fumding and thdir q nable
allocation m the past, it is partcularly important to assess proposals and m   vt
decisions on the basis of economdc criteria The    ational Deopment Association (IDA)
has assisted in this area, providing comments on proposals to bild the ELt-West and North-
South expressways, to continue the construcdon of the jetty at the port of Durres, and to
consu  a grin silo at the port of Dures. IMA is also assting the GOA to prep   a labor-
intensive feeder road project, which is a high prioity investment. The proposed TDnsport
Project (the project) inludes technical assistance to MTC to train staff in project evaluation
techniques, to papae a development master plan for the port of Durres, to decide what to do
with party completed investme  at the port of Viora, and to help determ  the role of the
railway and thereby detmine the scale of railway invesmnts. Recently, tanport investments
have been highly constrained due to the reducton in govenment eitures and bigh inflation,
amouning to only US$1.6 million equivalent for all transport enterprises in 1992. MTC
contnues to request Lager investment programs, but the probabilty that they will be carrled out
is low due to budget constraints. MTC coniders the following to be its highest invesmet
pr_orities:



-5-
T"ab 2.1 Propo   MOA Rnmin of Tmpost nastwaat, 1992.9 (US$ MUI*
raw      pem"            ?imwd  Fun0w14
CaW Comyeie 'at
_11/2      1993      1994       1995
MDA Trnpt Poect
(10% )o)ouA  fink)                    2.4           0         0        0.6       0.6
Dunes-F.nyboautTIal                    4.8         23        0.6       1.8        13
DuaWsdedig to 7.' mL
for l.yboas                           0.4           0        0.3       0.1         0
Dun_wWn blo (assmed 50 percet
cout.r-  finds)                       8.1           0        6.1         0       L0
Tubu wo/oics                           1.8        so        0.9          0         0
Usbun bfsea (ed                       6.0          0         2.0       2.0       2.0
Road Rebilibain                       6.0           0        2.0       2.0       2.0
Cowpl.  of Road Projecs               5.6           0        1.8       1.9        1.9
BMpCostuction                          0.6          0        0.2       0.2       0.2
mr  Read Wodar0s OA                               Q          0.3 1
TOWa                              36.1                  14.2        8.7      10.0
2.07        Each of the above proects appears to be economically jusgfied. For erample,
the Port of Durr  presently handles pasenger ferryboats via bulk cargo beths, which is
dangerous, so tht the constucdon of a pasenger ferry ermina and asociated dredging is
warranted. Lilwis, the port of Dur  will be aeected to handle about 300,000 tn of gain
p.a. in the future, so a silo is needed, although, the size and financing plan for the slo remains
to be determined. Urban trsport is poor in Thani, which justifie the imprton of used
buses and the cons<ton of a maiance workshop. There is a substantal backog of road
work which are needed to satis  growg traffic demand. The runway and quipme  at the
TIhna airport are in poor condition and need rehabilitation or rlacet.1  Ih  above pln
has not yet been approved by the Govenment, and it is likely that only a small proportion of
these projects will be crried out due to funding constaints. The GOA agreed at negoto
to review and agree on its trport investnent plan annually with the Asoation, and, in the
case of investments estmated to cost more than US$5.0 million, to only undertake ths which
bave an economic rate of return greater than 12 percent, and a first year return grr than 12
percent.
v The GOA urgently needs to invest some US$10-S15 million to keep the airport operational.
The GOA hopes to finance this off-budget, so that the expenditure is not included in Table
2.1.



2.08        Role of Albaan Railways. Albanian railways appears to be uneconic except
possibly for some mined taffic, and the project includes a stdy to assess what role rail
ta¢soxt shoud play in the future, as dicussed below.
2.09        Plvatizatlo of Trasport Enterprises.  The GOA is acdvely prvatizing
ransport enterpriss. Trucks in particular, are good candidates for early privatizaon. Of the
3,923 commcial truc  bWonging to MTC at January 1991, 953 have been privtzed as of
November 1992, 784 transferred to other ministries, and 491 scrawpped. Of the 845 interurban
bues belonging to MTC at January 1991, 288 have been privadzed as of November 1992, 241
transed to other minid, and 87 scrpped. Other minbtries are implementing  mir
progms. MTC inteds to complete its trucldng pivaizaton program as soon as possible, and
It was agreed at negotiaons to privatize its remaiing commercial truck fleet by June 30, 1994.
The road ransport industry is discussed further below.
2.10        The GOA passed the Geneal Law for State Enterises in August 1992, and most
transort opeai    have been accordingly             as autonomous enterprises, an
Intediate step to their possible privatzton. Transport consruction enterpres are forming
joint veura in  der to prequalify for road works finanoed under the project, which will help
stregen them for evntual pva     on. The technical assce and sudies for the port of
Dures Will condder what port  ons should be pnvatized. The railway study will consider
whete and to what extent railway opeaons should be privatzed. Tbese pon  are elabrated
bedow.
2.11                 I    of MTC. The tnsport sector was centalized under the previous
regime. Although MTC managed the entire sector, it did so with a staff of only 80 (now 68),
concentrating primarily on the preparation and monitorng of multi-year plans, and the issuing
and enforcement of various Government directives. The fact that MTC is relatively small augurs
well for discharging its role in a market economy.
2.12        The ongoing and proposed         I   of MTC includes sveral task: (a)
creation of a more autonomous central road otganizaton, (b) creation of autonomous,
ommercially oriented, railway, povt and airport ornitions, and the definition of their
rlbonship wit MTC, (c) pvao          ansport enterprises (pars. 2.09-2.10), (d) definition
of MTC's role, and rlated adopon of tansport regulations to ensure a 'level playing field*
between and witin  nsport modes, which would not interfere with commercial opeis, and
which woud promote GOA's interest in safety and environment, and (e) establishment of a
system of cost-based ta, user charges, and tariffs for publicly owned transport infrasuc
and enterprises. MTC is already investgating ways to establish a road department with
asdsan  from Denmark, and under this project would receive furer advisory assistance. The
project includes advion to heJp in establishng an autonomous port at Dures, to ceedite
pdiv   tn, and to help prepare makt-based transport regulations, increa  taxes and user
charges.  he GOA agreed at negotiaons to implement an action plan to adopt market-based
tnsport policies by June 30, 1994 that would be satisfactory to IDA, including establishing a



-7-
road vehicle Lhcendng systm, which assurs even competiton between the tansport modes and
permits the development of private road transport.
C. Highways
2.13        Road Network. The 18,000 km Albanian road network is classified into thr
categories: main, local, and "economic" roads. The 7,800-kIm main road network conects the
main cities with each other and with industrl and agriclual centers (Annex 2.1). The 8,200-
km local road network connects small urban centers with rurl communities. The 1,800Ikin
"economic" road network primarily serves indusial and mining centers. The main road
network is adequate in legth (e.g., about 850 kam of paved roads per million inhabitants,
compared to an average 300 kn for other counties at the same income level) but not in
technical characteistcs and quality. About 2,900 km of the main network are asphalted, half
of them in the north-south corridor (ftom Hana i Hotit at the Montenegro border to Kakvija at
the Greek border) and east-west coridor (from Dur  to Kapshtice and Cafasan at the
Macedonian border). The only major road activity in recent years was the constucn of the
Fushe Kruja-Lezha (37 kIn) road, which was intertupted at km 10 (Mamurasi) with the work
only 50 percent complete due to lack of funds. Completion of the first 10 km section, and
condnuation of the work to Milod (9 km), would be financed under the project. The local road
network requires significant improvement as there are about 400 vfllages with an estimated
popuation of 1.5 million people that are inaccessible to motorized vehies during at least part
of the year. This hinders the production and marketing of agcultural products and the
establishment of good social services (schools and health centrs). Access to  iese rural
communites may evenuly require the constuctio or upgrading of some 10,200 km of feeder
roads. A study to pre a program of labor intensive feeder road constructon with a view to
connecting villages to the main road network and gentng employment is being prepated by
MTC and consultants, in accordance with terms of reference which were agroed on with IDA,
with Swiss financing. This study would be the basis for a proposed IDA prqect in PY1994.
2.14        Over the last 40 years, much emphasis was put on rail traport, and road
infrstruchtre was neglected (para. 2.04). As a result, the condition of the road network
deteiorted, partiularly in the 1980s when the acquiition of bitumn became difficult due to
a shortage of foreign currenc. It is estmated that about 1,300 km of the main paved roads
need rehailitation and/  reconstruction, and most maui gravel roads require upgdg and
rehabilitation. In 1991, the budget was so limited that after routine maintenance editur,
only 100 km of periodic maintenance (rsrfadng) could be accomplihed. This implies a cycle
of 29 years for resurfacdng the 2,900-km asphalted network,, compared to an e lly
opimal cycle of 8-10 years. In addition, because of lack of bitumen, the use of domestc
bituninous sands with only 10 percent of bitumen content became inevitable, and this has
resulted in low quality pavements. The proposed proect would focus on the  ilitation of
the main road network, which ca    about 80 percent of total traffic.



-8-
2.15        Adminlstatlon and Organization. Adminision of the main road network is
the eplonsibility of the National Roads Department (NRD) in MTC.  However, road
adIhnistaII n Is effectively decentralized, since MMC employs only 68 persons to adminst
all trpt modes and enterprises, including the roads. In the past, NRD concentrated
prmarly on preprng and monitoring muld-year road epditure plans. NRD's organizon
is shown In Chart 2. NRD's field organan consists of 26 districts, which corepond to the
26 geograph  and adminive disticts in the country. Each distict has a workshop for
regubr repaand maintenance of equipment, but major overauls are performed at the cental
workshop in Tiraa. Every district is divided into dtee to five executive units (denominated
crews); each crew is directed by an engineer or technician, and is responsible for all routine and
winter maintenance. The district authority also plans and manages all investments (road
bridges, and new construction) in its network, which are in trn executed by
MTC's and the Ministry of Construction's (MOC) speidized enterpriss. The organization
stctr for each district is shown in Chart 3. The local and *economic" road networks are
directy administ  by the local govemment au:horities and the industal/mning
conglomerates, although NRD provides technical assistance, comments on their investment and
budget submissions, and in most cases, is also reponsible for supervision of works. NRD's
mnis o and accounting systems were reviewed and found satisfactory to process SOEs.
2.16        MTC wants to establish a western style road administion, and     sh
csultants are advising them conceming the possible creation of an autonomous Road
Directorate, which would be a satsfactory administrative arangement (a  2.12). MTC is
also in the process of drafting a "Road Code", based on Italian and French models, which will
cove lts topic, as well as establish a vehicle regstration system, road user taes, axle load
limiots, and other tpics connected with roads and vehicles. The project includes technical
assistn  to assist MTC and NRD to define and implement these adminisative changes.
2.17        Stffng and Tsiinhg. The ditcts and road enterpisesm         by MTC
employ 5,900 persons, including 450 engineers and technicians, 350 adminive staff, and
5,100 workDr.  Tbe work force, all Albanian, is competet in tradonal engineering
discipli     Howver, Albania was isolated for more than 40 years, and road pesnnel requre
traing i   nagement, economics, and recent techological devdoments. Financing of such
assta   has been included under the prqject.
2.18        Panin,  gineering, Constution, and Maince. MTC, through its
NRD, h reponsible for the planning of the main road network, subject to appval by the
Mintry of Eoonomy and Finance (MEF) and Parliament. The draft MTC 1993-95 road
Ivestment plan, which has not yet been submitted to the Govement for approval, emphaes
imprOvement and maintenance rather than new consbtrcon (paras. 2.06-2.07). A high priority
conmonea of this plan is the improvement of about 60 km of main roads radiating from Trna
and the last section of about 25 km of the road to the Macedonia border (Cafsan), which are
inuded in tie proosed project



-9-
2.19        NRD prepares all enginesing deidgn work with the coLlabon of fte Insitute
for Studies and Projects Nr.2 (I.S.P.2) which is part of the Transport Study Center (T.S.C.)
under thejurisdiction of the Ml. A trend is beginning among engineering and economics staff
in the Government to become private engineering oonsltants and tc compete with these
institutes. Road dedgns usually follow those apped in Italy, and are appropriate to forecast
traffic flows and physical charcteistics.
2.20        Constrwion is done exclusively by ftree state-owned speclized enteprises.
These are the National Road Asphaldtg Enterprise under the jurisdiction of the MITC, and the
Natonal Bridge Construction Enterprise and the Highway and Road Constructon Enterprise
under the jurisdiction of the MOC. The duee compaies have been establshed as autonomous
enterrs  under the Law on Entpises, and the GOA plans to privatie tiem. A joint venture
agreement for the Asphalfing Enterprs bas been adhieved with a well capiized and
exeienced forepgn constuction firm. The framework for joint ventu   is set out by the
General Law for Stae Enterpises of August 19922, and th Privatition Law of 1991.
2.21        Maintnance has always been canied out by NRD's own labor force. In the
future, NRD itends to give most peiodic mantena   and some routine mtenance work to
private contactors and it wil prepare a plan with spedfic targets for the next five years. The
proposed project would financ technical assstance and tainin to assist NRD in sifting work
to private contctors and to develop its capacity for  inin  the contracts, suprvising and
contml the qui of works. However, the shifting o maintance to contactors would be done
gadually over a number of years, and some operti would continue to be done by NRD.
Furthermore, NRD woud always retain a maintenance force not exceeding 40 percent of the
mintenance needs, mainly based in 1hana. This would enable NRD to perform those
maintenance operatons unattractive to private contactors, including winter emergncy (snow
and ice removal) maintenance, and to kep a signfiant leverage on the monitoring and control
of private cotactors' pries. On this basis, the project woud finance some equipment,
icluding snow and ice removal equipment, which would be mainly concentrated in the lrana
dist&it
2.22        The legal weight limit for single axle bads is 10 tons on the asphalted roads of
the main road network, and 6 tns on the rest of the newok No legal enforcement of weight
Limits is actually in effect. The opeing of Albania to foreign markt, particuarly the Euop
Community, may require Albania to change its limit to 11.5 ton loads per single axle, at least
on the asphalt roads. All new rifrcements and overays in the main road network are and
will be desgned for this type of loads. Technieal asit     woud be provided to survey the
consequences of inceased loads for the bridges, and to  cmmend measures to be taken.
2/ This law implementd a chage over the prvio  one of 1991, clarifying that the sate is
the owner of the state enterpriwe, not the employees.



-10-
2.23        Expenditures and Financing. Total road ewpenditur have been fairly constant
between 1980 and 1990, sli tly fluctuating around LekSO.0 million (US$10.0 million at the
official exchnge rate, which must be interpretd with caution; Ie5 million for mtenance
and LekO million for capital expenditures) per year. The distrbution of these expendiues
between the main and the other networks (emates for the Meconomuc" road network are
imprecise) have also been stable around 70-30 percent, i.e., considerably in favor of the main
road network. Most capital expenditures (about 35 percent of total expenditures) have gone to
improving and strengthening existing roads rather than to new constructon. Priority has been
given to basic maitenance (routine and periodic) for keepig the roads in passable condimon at
the least cost. In many years, funds allocated to investments in the budget were mostly utlized
for payment of basic maintenance.
2.24        The GOA allocated Le 235 milion for road maintnane in 1992, but with some
delays. This is equivalent to around US$3.5 million (assuming an average exchange rate of Lek
50 and 90 to the dollar during the first and second semester) or US$450/km for the 7,800- km
road network. This amount is below the minimum US$600/km/year which is currently esdmated
s being required to maintain the network, even when taking Albania's low wage costs into
account. A larger amount is typically allocated for this purpose in other low income countre.
Considering curent budgetary constraints, GOA agreed at negodations to guarantee to alocate
in a timely manner a minimum of US$3.7 million equivalent for road maintenance in 1993,
US$3.9 million in 1994, US$4.2 million in 1995, US$4.5 million in 1996, and US$4.8 million
in 1997 and terfter. The GOA also agreed to allocate road funds first to maintenanmce and
thereafter to other road editures.
2.25        Road expendtres are currently financed from the budget, and the GOA colects
no taxes from road users except vehicle import duties (not rigorously enforced) and vehide
license fees. MTC intends to introduce a system of road user charges to pay for road costs.
The most efficient way is to tax fuel and to a lesser extent, tires and lubricants. There should
be also some additional tax on heavy trucks to compenate for the additional damage they impose
on roads. This could be in the form of an annual license fee or a fee based on acta distance
and opraton. However road fuel is subsidized at present. The retail price of road fuel in
almost all wester counties is based on the cost of production and distribution, plus a tax to pay
road costs, plus other axes. In Albania, the price of diesel fuel was 12 leks (US$0.12) per liter,
and the pnce of category 2 gasoline (supposedly 70 octane, but more typically 55 octane) was
18 leks (US$0.18) per liter as of November 1992. The normal cost of production and
distribudon in other counties, not including taxes, is US$0.30/liter equivalent in the case of
diesel fuel and US$0.35/liter in the case of gasoline (86 octane).3 Cosidering that category
2 gasoline is of lower quality than 86 octane gasoline, its internationa price should be about
US$0.30/liter. Thus, in Albania there is a subsidy on diesel fuel of about US$0.18/Miter and on
categozy 2 gasoline of about US$0.12/liter, or around US$14 million based on total 1991 fuel
i/Although the cost of producdon is lower in oil producing counties, they have the opton of
seing their production at about this prie.



-11-
sales of 84 million liters. It represents an even larger subsidy if road costs are taken into
account. This is a substantial subsidy to automobile owners, who have relatively high incomes,
as well as to truck and bus owners, who should pay the true costs of their inputs in a market
economy. In addition, many foreign vehicles enter Albania to buy subsidized fuel.
2.26        In order to address this issue, GOA increased the average price of diesel fuel and
category 2 gasoline to US$0.24 equivalent per liter on January 16, 1993. The GJOA also agreed
at negotations (i) to increase the average price of these fuels to US$0.30 per liter as a condition
of credit effectiveness, (i) maintain or increase ftis average fuel price expressed in US dollar
equivalent, and (iii) submit a bill to Parliament by June 30, 1994 esablishing a tax on road fuel
(about US$0.15 equivalent per liter) which covers all road expenditures, and thereaftr, to
maintain or increase this level. Project advisors would assist in this task.
2.27        Traffic. There were 52,119 vehicles registered in Albania as of November 1992,
not including motorcycles, a signifiant non-motoized traffic fleet, and about 20,000 agricultural
ttors which also make frequent use of the road networL  This registered vehicular fleet
includes 18,942 automobiles, 1,700 microbuses, 2,119 buses, 4,019 snal trucks, and 25,339
medium and large trucls. The motorized fleet has increased considerably since early 1991,
when the GOA removed the prohibition against private ownership of automobiles, and allowed
fiee compedtion between road and railway transport (para. 2.04). For example, there were
13,000 private automobiles regstered in early 1991, and 18,942 a litde more than one year later.
The current ownership rate of one vehicle per 63 persons is till quite low by internonal
standards, and is expected to grow in the future. Traffic levels (1992) on the major roads are
shown on Chart 4. They are highest in the north-south axis, ranging from 9,000 passenger car
units equivalent (p.c.u.) north of Tina to 7,000 p.c.u. south towards Fieni. Since trucks and
buses account for 2 to 2.5 p.c.u. and constitute about 20 percent of the traffc, the average daily
tffic in the most trafficked roads is about 6,000 vehicles per day (v.p.d.). The existing two-
lane roads, if rehabilitated, are sufficient for traffic 3 times higher, although the large number
of slow moving vehicles (animal drawn carts, agricultural tactors, and bicycles) reduces
signficantly the flow and safety of traffic. The greatest traffic benefits can be obtained from
improving existing main roads (strengthening,  srfacng, minor alignments, city bypasses,
climbing lanes, good marling/ dgnalization, and asphalting of few main gravel roads), and from
building accesses to isolated villages.
2.28        Detailed   gin-desination (0-D) taffic surveys have never been conducted in
Albania. Manual trafc counts are performed irregularly, although they have been done more
often since the 1990 revolution. To improve the traffic counting system, the project includes
acquisition of automatic counters. The present traffic levels exceed 4,000 v.p.d. only in 500 km
of the main road network, and vary from 1,000 to 2,000 v.p.d. in the rest of the asphalted main
network. A few main gravel roads (about 400 kIn) support traffic between 500 and 1,000 v.p.d.
The remander of the road network carries taffic of less than 500 v.p.d.
2.29        Road Transport Industry. Road tansport is performed by MTC enterprises and
by other state enteris (mainly freight transport). Private tansport has been permitted since



-12-
the beginning of 1991 and is developing rapidly fom a low base. The civilian truck fleet now
totals about 15,000 vehicles, of which 1,700 belong to MTC enterpises (including most large
trucks), 12,000 belong to oher state enterprises (including trucks recendy tranferred from
MTC), and 1,000 are private owned.  Prior to the revolution, almost aUl truck  wer
manufactured by Skoda, Czechoslovaia, and most have a carrying capacity of 8 tons, plus a
S ton tailer. It is difficult to use  rr  truck becuse of the conditin of the roads. The
aveage age of MTC trucks, which are representative, is 17 years, and only 3540 percent were
operating at the end of 1991. MIC bus bodies are mostly Skoda desigs which were
manufactued locally. The Skoda buses are fully deprect  and uneconomic to rpair and
opate. The main problem with both the truck and the bus fleets is their age, high fuel and
maintnance costs, and the lack of foreign exchange to buy new or used vehicles or to import
spare parts and tools. Activity at most mines and industries has fallen aff to about half its 1989
level, and trucking demand has correspondingly fallen. However, the MTC truck fleet is
entiredy engaged at present with the importation of grain and other foodstuffs, and this demand
is expected to continue in the future, so they would not be available to transport the products
of mines or heavy industries when their output inces. The talian army currently assists with
the movement of gain and food imports with a fleet of 200 trucks (Operin Pdican), but this
cannot be expected to continue indefinitely. MTC and other Mnistries are seekng grant funds
to import used trucks and buses, and the Italian Government and the EC PHARE program are
consdering financing them. For example, MM has imported used uran buses from Euopean
cities since 1986 (150 Saviem, 40-50 MeedBenz, 60 Fiat) at an average cost of US$6,500,
most of which are generally nning isfactoily, with the older buses being cannilid for
spare pas. In order to help address this issue, the rcentdy apprved Critical Impors Project
(Credit 2404-ALB; US$41.1 million; June 1992) includes US$4.8 million for fires, batteries,
spa  parts and rilated workshop equipment for trucks and buses.
2.30       MMC and ot  ministries are also actvely privaizing their truck and intcity bus
fleets, and sapping old vehidles, with a view to incrasing their effidency (pa  2.09). MTC
has not imposed any restriction on private trucding, and it is believed to be growing rapidly.
MTC inWally did not impose restictions on intenruban buses, and many old buses have been
imported by privat operators. Recently, MTC imposed route restrictions and prcilings on
private interuban buses following complaints about inflatonary price increases, but tariffs are
kept low due to compettion. MTC does not plan to patze its urban bus sevices; competiton
is already pemitted but it is not currently profitable for private oeators due to low official
taiffs. EC PHARE intends to prvide technical astac to hdp  ommalize and improve
the eficiency of MTC's urban bus opeans in Tirana. MTC is also currenty draftng a 'Road
Code", to establish moder taffic regulaions (par 2.16). The main dity is lily to be
in the implementation of the new reguations rather than in their adoptdon, and also in avoiding
the tmpti  to introduce economic regutions for socia reasons or to protect the railway.
The adopton and implementaton of market-based road tansport relations iS ewxcted to
require some time, and the proect includes technica assistance and an action plan to help with
this task (pam 2.12).



-13-
2.31        Road Safety. Traffic acident have become a serious problem over the st few
years. There were 317 highway Ihties during the first ton months of 1992 compared to 145
in aU of 1990. This gives Albania by far the hghest road accident rate in Europe, e.g. about
20 times the death rate per vehicle-klometer in Italy. Reducing accident rates requires a multi-
disciplinary effort, includmg identfying and corecting un   places on the roads (black spots),
introducing and enforcing a vehice inspectm  system, establishing a stict anti-alcohol policy,
impwving the enforcement of traffic regulation (e.g., matory seat belts), improving access
to medical help, and educatiov and publcity cmpgns. A most importt first step is to put
someone in che of coordinadn and impoving road safety, possibly at the level of the Pime
Miiniste's office. Regarding the technical aspects of road safety which are within its control,
NID  is working, in colaboration with the police, oan the idifiation of black spots and on
channeliig non-motorized traffic and agiltrl tractors on the main wads. Due to lack of
funds and unavailability of modem  matedals, hoontal pavement markings such as
center/border lines, and fencing ins fic points where the cocoentration of cattle is high are
completely lacldng, and vertical signs are of b  quality even in the main road network. The
project would finance the sevie of a road safety specist, inity to prepare a bief study
and recommendations, and then through subsquent short visits to Albania to asist with their
implementtion. GOA agreed at negoaions to submit to Parlament for approval by December
31, 1994, a bill to improve road safety.
2.32        Environmental Aspects. The GOA has long recized the importance of
environmental issues, passing numerous laws and reglations during the last four decdes in this
atea. However, little has been done in prctoe, so that ivrs, lakes, the Adriatic Sea at river
outlets, and air at specfic locations are highly polluted. The main suroes of polluton are
mining (erosion and water pollution), heavy and bght Industry (water and air pollution), enry
(air pollution) and urban areas (sewage). Air pollution caused by vehicle emissions is not yet
a major issue due to the small size of the road vehicle fleet, although this may become a
problem in the future as the fleet grows. For eample, the GOA estimates that the trsport
wetor accounts for only about 9 percent of patclate pollution and 7 percent of SO 2 pollution
in urban areas (despie the 4-5 percet suf  contet of domeially refined fuel). Emissions
per vehicle are high, but this is likey to decline as the older vehicles are phased out. Ship
discharges are collcted at the port of Durr, so that wat pollution tere is not a major issue.
The MTC advisors financed under the project wold make pelimnry 
concerning vehicle emission standards and other envomen  matter.



-14-
D. Ports
Geneml
2.33        The port sector is under the authority of the Sea Transport Directorate, one of
MTC's four Generia Diectorates. Its authority includes every aspect of port activities:
inf6structre management, vessels calls manaement, handling, storge, and delivery of cargo.
The Navy carries out hydrograhic surveys in port access channels, and manages the navigtion
aids along the coastine and the beacons network for ports access.
2.34        There are four ports: Dres (located 40 km south of TIrna), Viora (90 km south
of Dunres), Saranda (160 km south of Durres), and Shengini (60 kn north of Dures). Durres
handles 85 percent of the country's internationa mariime traffic. It has 9/10 berths (2,000 m)
with a draught from 7 to 9.85 m. Its 2.5 km dredged entrance channel is 8.5 m deep, and the
tide never exceeds 0.30 m. With these conditions, the port can accommodate vessels up to
25,000 dead weight tons (dwt). Two/tdee berths are dicated to bulk taffic, the oth
seven/eight handle break-bulk and general cargo. The port operates 30 eectic quay canes (5
to 15 tons) and four 10-ton bridge cranes. The second port of the country, Vlora, offers three
berting places of 100 m long each and five to nine meters deep. One berth is equipped with
two electic quay cranes of 5-tons capacity, 40 years old, tned from the port of Durres
20 years ago. Vlora is also the most important fishing port of the country. Vlora received
heavy investments from the previous aministion to build a new port infras     a few
nmiles away from the ensting one, but these investments were discontiued before becoming
opeaonal. Roughly 1,700 m of new breakwates have already been built to date, and the area
devoted to fishing boats is now availale for sheltering. To complement this project, there are
plans to convert the existing port into a passenger terminal for ferries and a facility for leisure
boats and sea tourism. The future role of the new port at Vlora is yet to be defined, becase
of its closeness to Durres, and needs further investgation as new traffic patterns develop. This
point will be given due consideaon within the Port Mase Plan (Annex 3.9) to be carried out
under the project and completed by December 31, 1994, as agreed at negotatio. One
possibility would be to deveop petoleum products handling opertions at the port facilities at
Vloa  Currently, the handling of petroleum products imports i managed by the Mnistry of
Industry through a sea-line and a single buoy mooring to the north of the existng port of Vlora
(60,000 tons per year delivered by 5,000 ton capa   tankers). Sawnda and Shengjini do not
handle any significant amount of traffic.
Port of Durres
2.35        Corporate Structure and Manget.  In each port, the Port Authority
rerents the Sea Transport Dire  rate of the MTC, and manages all port activities, opeations,
and maintenance. The main activty, by far, is cargo handling and storage opaons, foLowed
by ship calls management. nfrast   n      ment appears clealy nected, mainly because
of lack of financial means, but also becaue all plaing decisons must be cleared at the central
ministeril level, causing  ideable delay. Stricdy speaking, port management lacks any



-15-
commerial function, since taff deci  were traditionally handled by the MTC. However,
after the 1990 revolution, and mainly becase of the weakening of the central adnirve
power, the port authotity had to establish case by case agreements with sevea port users that
were applying for specialiffs and in other matt. In January 1992, MTC established a new
company for handling and operation of floating equipment (dredgers,tgboats, pilot launches,
end a floating crane) which is to be eventualy privatzed. The Gena Law for State
Enterpises of August 1992 applies to the ports and provides for the eslishment of a Locd
Port Council responsible for port operational structure, development planning, and staff
management. However, further amendments should be wod out, in particular in the fields
of finance (independent port budget), staff mnt, ad instutdonal framework
(implentation of an acWal Board of Directon to replacecomplement the present Local Port
Council). The Government, at negotiations, agreed to implement an action plan diected at
establishing an autonomous port authrity in Dures, satisfctory to the Assocation, by June 30,
1994.
2.36        Staffing. Manpower in the port of Dunes amounts to 1,550 people, roughly
divided into 1,200 for handling actvities, 200 for workshop activities, and 150 aministrative
staff. The high level administrative staff includes 14 engineers, 13 accountants, and 12 port
officers. Consideing the strcture and average level of traffic (presently about 1.0 million tons
p.a.; 30 percent generl cargo) the port is ovetaffed. The average productivity per worker
stnds around 800 tons p.a., far below common raes of 10,000 tW  and over, depeng on the
taffic struct. An assessment of edsting staff abties, of actua sffing needs and of the
relted taning progm  will be carried out under the technical assistance progrm included in
the project. As a fiSt step, the port action plan agreed upon with GOA at negotiations makes
provisions for a signficant adaptation of the port staff structre, leading to a decreas of one
tird of the staff by 1995, and one half by 1997.
Budgetng and Accouing Functions
2.37        Port Cargo Servies. Tese activides include loading and unlading, storge and
delivery of cargo and are directly managed by the Pot of Durre Authoity (PDA). They have
their own   ng budget and an accounting system based on the accrual method. Being a state-
owned public enterprise, the PDA is required to operate within the budgetary control of the
Government. PDA's annual capit and opetng budgets are prepaed and preseted as part of
the budget of MTC. After approval, PDA administers the budget under the watchfil eye of the
finance division of MTC. Budget staus repos  are prepared every quarter and submitted to
MC for review.
2.38        Although it is under the budgetary control of the Government, PDA uses a
commercialy oriented accountig system for its cargo servces. It closes its accounts quarterly,
and prares its balance sheet, profit and loss accounts and assated schedules by comparing,
whever applicable, acbuals with the budget and with prior years' figures. The accounting
system permits PDA to invoice and collect direcdy from its clients and to use these resources
to finance its opeating expenses directly. PDA is also allowed to periodically update its tariffs



-16-
to keep In step with inflation. However, the use of  alyta tools such as cost infomation on
uit costs, or standard cogs, for pupo   of cot recovery through apropiate tariff structue
and levels is not much in evidence. Profit and loss acounts coud be futher ob-divided into
activity based profit or cost centers. Ihe balance shot accounts  are cluttered and
could do with a cetain amount of steamlining. The proposed prqject includes a tcnical
assistnce prog    for    ov   ts in this area, together with the suply of mic-computer
equipment to help in implementng the new process.
2.39        Port Ship Senkes. These acvities include proviion of access and bering
flfities for calling ships, pilotage, twae, and chnnel maintnance. Budgetuy and accoundng
funcions  tng  to these actvities are handled separat4y from those of the Port Cargo
Services. Howeer, their net results are consoldated in the quarterly sements that PDA
prpares for the Cargo Service. But in practice, shp calls services, sh as entrance and exit
from the port, are cred out by the Harbour Master's Office (HMO), and their fnancial
management is direcdy handled at the ministeridal lev    elated revenues, mainly from ship
taxes and channe dues, are direcdy tasfed  to the general budget; these funds went to the
MTC budget until 1990, but since 1991, they have gone to the Defen  Ministry, when it took
cre of these resonsilities. No dues are levied on cargo. As a consequence, and as far as
port nft          managem  is concrned, the port authority cannot manage its own opetng
and investment budget, and financial requint have to be submitted for apprval annually
to the MrC and MEF and thus vary, dependg on fiancing availability under the general
budget. The chronic shortage of funds in the general budget has implied chronic shortage of
fnds in the port and subsequent neglect of the maintenance and upadig of por in
and operang assets.
2.40        In this context, the poposed tecicd assistance program should ensure that the
financial, accounting, and informain systems are esablished in a manner that pays particular
attention to the need for maintining appropriate finacl profit and cost centers individually for
both the Pot Cargo Services acdvities and the Port Ship Service activities.
2.41        Audhing. At present, the port services budget, financial and accounting functions
and results are closely checkd by the Finance Division of MTC. The MTC itself is also under
the scrutiny of the lnspect  of the Ministry of Finance. As rgards investments the financing
and disbursements are contolled through a   tem of pre-audits and verificatons  niered
by the Bank of Albania, which also acts as the Gov ent's Treasury De    t. This
suation is currently being reviwed with a view to setdng up a separate Treay Department
within the Government.  he ccept and activities of ind    professonal auditing, that
is, the veification and certification of accounts by public or professional accountants or auditors
are virtuly non-exstent in Albania. The Govemment reli  at preent on the basic functions
of checlkng and inspection by desnated staff within each minisry. Under the circumstanc,
it would be usefil to engage from outsie an  t il firm of public accountants or auditors
to audit as appropriate the accounts of beneicar agencies under Bank Group financed projects
and to encourage those firms to establish affliated offices in Abania. In the case of PDA, such
an audit of its accounts and ccation  of its annual financial statements would be a good



-17-
stg point upon the completo of the technical assim program refered to earlier In pam
2.38. hurthemr, the intducton of accounting and discose standards and audiig
ractce in Abnia genely should be part of a concerted effort of the Bank Growup to organize
such introucton I an efficient manner, within the implmenttio framework of the proects
under onideaton.
Taffic, Operatlos and Manee
2.42        Albanian maritime taffic through the por of Dus increased from 2.0 milion
tons in 1970 to a peak 2.8 million sons in 1988, at an average annual growth of 1.9 percent.
The taffic in 1990 was 2.2 milion tons, which was 21 perce  les than in 1988. Thfic then
fell to 1.0 million tons in 1991, and to an esdmated 0.9 million tons in 1992. Bulk traffic was
by far the most Important, ompring 70 pert of total affic. It mainly  exports of
chromium, iron and nicke ores, chromium concenate and low quality coal, and imports of
frtilizers and high quality coal. Viually no tfc   is c nerized. A domestic traffic of
about 100,000 tons p.a  sts between Dure and the other three Albanian ports. The economy
is undergoing restrAucting which is expected to have a dgnificant influence on future port
traffic. Historical traffic stascs, are shown in Annex 2.3, and traffic fecasts in Annex 4.2.
2.43        The port of Durr  has not exprienced any real capacity problem, and Is not
lkly to run into any in the near future, as far as in u  is concerned, prided that basic
rehabilitatiand   ntena     ents are met. Shortcomings exst In handling equipment,
which has led to low producdvity in bulk handing. In addition, the equipment for geneal caro
haing is in very poor condition. The volume of dry bulk taffic xpectd to be hadled
trough Durres in the coming years would not require any addional berths. E1ven if lar
amounts materialize, port throughput can be easily increased. Moderniion of exsting
equipment could increase buk cargo anding capay (caulat in Annex 2.4) to more than
3 million tons p.a. The berths dedicatd to handling of gener cargo (7 berths; 1,400 Lm.)
allow for 1,4 million tons p.a. (agamt an all ime 1988 peak of 667,000 tons) under a
conwrvative estimate of 1,000 tons/l.m./ p.a.  The  is sgnificant room for additional
thuht provided the handling equipnt avaiale can cope with it. The exstn cranes (22
of 5 tons, and 8 of 1S tos) are unable to handle a fully loaded 20-ft container, which can weigh
up to 24 tons. It is thefoare advisable, that the port obtain at leag one piece of equipment
(inuded under the prqject) that would enable it to move loaded containers to or from si at
berth.  Due to deficient port equipment, ineffective worldng practice, and cumb
dminisrative procedures, ships often waste considerable time lying idle at the dodL
Operational indicatos' stistics show dth, over the last four years, on average, ships were idle
during 50 percent of their berthing time (Annex 2.5). As a  , incoming ship have
to bear an aveage wang rate of 40 percent, and even last year, when taffic fell off steeply,
the 1991 waidng rate was 52 percent (waitng rate   wdat  tme/tdme at berth; this rto is the
standard Indicator for port cogestion asssment). This i toty un   d, given the
existig port capacity.  The port acon plan (Annex 3.9), agreed upon with GOA at



-18-
negotiaons, with the help of the technical aistance included In the project, pecdfically address
these questons, in order to upgrde this situation by June 30, 1994.
2.44        Maintennce of infiastructure, apart fom dredging in the access channel, is
almost non-existent. The upper beams of most of the berths are d_maged, due mainly to the
wealmess of the quay defenses; if this problem remains unrepaired it will inevitably lead to
further degrdation. The pavement of most opeating are  is in such poor condition that it
would prevent any efficient use of new handling equipment, and likely lead to early breakdown
of the new machi. Repair of both items and iallation of new defenses are to be financed
under the projecL Mantenance of the handling equipment is carey carried out by the Port
Authority; as a result, it has been able to kwp the 30-year old canes in operation. The port
workshop built four bndge cranes ten years ago, which are also still oprtng. The main
impediment to efficient equipment maintenance is lack of spare parts, mainly for the old cranes
and for yard equipment. The port acdon plan (Annex 3.9) to be implemented will have to make
provisions for the establishment of a yearly maintenance schedule of the port infrastructure and
equipment, includi&g precise definitions of the related responsibilifies and of budget implica8ons,
to be set up first in December 1993, and thereaft in Septmber of each year. This was agreed
with GOA at negodations.
E. Railways
2.45        The Govenmet placed substantil emphasis on developing the railways during
the last 40 years. The first lines were opened after the Second World War, and the rail network
now totals 720 km. Lines were built mostly by youth work teams wtthout much equipment, and
their standards are low. There is no mechnized tack maintenance, and the quality of locally
produced wood ties is low. As a result, safe travel speeds are only 25 km/hr for freight trains,
and 40 km/hr for passenger trains.  Only 19 of 60 stafions have signalling, and
telecommunications are poor, causmng substantial delays in train operations. Motive power is
prvided by 83 locomotives, mosty from Czecholovakia, of which 62 are 13 years old arid
serviceable, and the balance are old and should probably be scrapped. Fifty eight locomotives
were recently mothballed due to lack of traffic. There are 2,100 freight wagons, 70 percent with
four axes, with an average age of 22 years; hes are, on the whole, serviceable. There are 114
passenger coaches, average age 24 years, whih are in poor condition. Most of these were
vandalized in 1991, and passenger service was subsequently suspended. Albanian railways
recently purchased 63 used coaches from Italy to help resolve this problem and passenger service
has resumed. Equipment uilization rates are lower tban in developed countries (e.g., 15.3
million tffic units per locomotive, 278,000 t-kn per freight car in 1990). With 8,435
employees, Abanian Railways was overstaffed, generating 162,000 traffic units (t-km+p4km)
of mostly bulk traffic per employee in 1990. Albanian railways has recendy taken the difficult
step of reducing its staff to about 5,000 in the face of declning taffic. In spite of the staff
reductons, Albanian Railways covered only about 30 percent of its ependitures from revenues
during the first half of 1992.



-19-
2.46        The crucial queson is to det ine future role of the railways in a
retuctred economy in whch traffic is determined by the market rar tan by government
direcdon. Traffic has fallen shaply in recent yeas, from a peak of 8.0 miion tons in 1989 to
an estimated 0.7 million tons in 1992, due to the closure of min  and heavy industry. Trffic
is unlikely to recover to anywhere near its peak level in the futre. Freight taffic is estimated
to total around 62 million t-hm for 1992, or 0.1 million t-km per main-line track-kldometer,
which is far below the lowest threshold for economic operation. The average length of haul is
only about 88 kn. Ninety percent of this traffic is bulk (mcluding 77 percent minerals) which
is normally suitable for rail transport. However, some of the mines appear to be uneconomic
(e.g., low quality coal and iron nickel ore for export) and there is unertanty about the future
of the chrome mines, including whether additional ore should be concentrated at the mine (which
reduces the transport volume by 2/3). In addition, the Government needs to decide whether to
complete the 40-kn Rreshen-Kos rail line which would serve two chrome mines and a forest
area, for which the tunnels, bridges and most inftastructure (except for rails) are complete. Ihe
Bank, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) are currently
assisting the Government to investigate the future prospects of the mining industry, including
asssing various joint venture proposals, which should provide the information needed to make
this investment decision.
2.47        Albanian Railways operated only seven passenger trains per day in 1991, which
carried only 11,908 passengers an average distance of 65 km at a commercial speed of about 40
km/hr due to the poor condition of the track. Competing bus sevice, which was prohibited by
the previous regme (para. 2.04), is already growing rapidly and is likely to take most of th
traffic in the medium term. Therefore, Albanian Railways appears to be essentially uneconomic,
except possibly for the transport of chrome ore and some other bulk goods. In this case, the
investments necessary to rehabilitate the required rail infrastructre and rolling stock and
possibly to complete the Rreshen-Klos line, (which are likely to amount to more than 50 percent
of the cost of constructing an entely new railway), should be borne by the mining industries.
The Institute for Transport, Post and Telecommunicatins (IMM  is undertaking a study on the
future prspects of the railways, while Albanian Railways is invesptigng the same question.
The project includes a study, which would be carried out by etnal consultants, to review the
work done to date in the light of railway reforms which are being carried out in other counutres
which also face declining taffic, and to make recommendations. The study would consider the
full range of policy options with a view to mizing the total cost of transportation and
subsidies in Albania, taling social considertions into account.
F. Civil Aviation
2.48        Organiation, Trafc and Infrstructur.  MTC has authority over the
organiztion of civil aviation but maagement and opration are the responsibility of
Albtransport. Albwasport is a state company with 140 employees, and is in charge of most
civil aviation matters ranging from ticket sales for foreign airlines to ground handling, airport
catering, air navigation services and aeronautical communications. The Defense Ministry,
responsible for all national military airfields, is also responsible for the security of Tirana's



-20-
atrport (ni), the only interatia aiot in A ia. Albania is now reguady sved by
sx foreign airlines (Switrlnd, Itay, Frnoe, Hugy, Rommnia, and Greece), resulting in
about two flights per day to lriana airpor  Taffc has been grwing considerebly from a steady
35,000 paSSengers p.a. in the 1980s to 155,000 passengers p.a in 1991. The GOA has
esblished a joi venture with Tyrlean Airines tD prvide aire sOvie to sever Euopean
ctes The GOA should be cautious about eapanding ths busnes p  ymay because it might
not be profitable. Once the touism and busines muakts deveap sufficiently, the ma  may
be   dered.
2.49        The 40-year old runway at Rinasi airport (2,700 m x 67 m, for airft of less
than 150 tons) is adequt in length, but is extremdy rough and in deloable condition for
opeation and sfety. It is urgently in need of rengting. The runway lighting sstem also
needs urgent attention, and consttes a afty-citical element since its operation from the
control twe is totally unreliable due to obsolete inlaion and frequent transomer short outs,
particularly in damp or rainy weather. Ihe navigationd equipment in the control to    is
obsolete and in bad condition, and it reqres immdiat replaent. The essential investment
required to guaantee safet and to avoid the threatened cloe of the airport thus includes: (i)
rehabilitation/reinforce t of the runway, (i) a new runway lighting system, and (iii) new
navigatonal equipment. This amounts to about US$11.0 million equivent, and can be
financed by airport earning (about US$3.0 million revenues per year) and bilatera asssance,
without Bank ivolvement. The present tminal may also need to be improwd in the medium
term.
m. TJlE PROJECT
A. Project Objectes.
3.01        The main objecives of the project aLe to:
(I)   assist MTC and trsport           to adopt market based transport policis;
(d)   ae   the epected gowth of road taffic by rehabilitating and
completing/eending main roads, and by imprving their mantenance and  fety;
(iii)  develop the domestic contracting industry and incrae  employment;
(iv)  imprv operatons, finances and afety at tie main port of Durres; and
(v)   prepare to detmine the future role of the Albanian railways.



-21-
B. Descdp
3.02        The proposed project is based on the priody needs included in the NRD 1993-95
Road Investment Plan (paa. 2.18), the program for replaement of quipment In the pot of
Durs, and the needs for assnce in tanitioning to a market economy, all of which wer
discussed and Wpeed with DA. Specifically, the project would include:
(1)   rehailation of about 65 kIn, and the compledon/eanion of about 19 km, of
main roads;
(ii)     ovement of road maintnance in the Tm9na disict through the poiion of
equipment and spare parts;
(Iii)  repair of quays and part sfac, and pvision of equipmnt and   re part for
the port of Dures;
(iv)  tchnical asstance (TA) and aning for (a) NRD to impemet the project, (b)
MTC to make Investment decisions on the basis oeonomic crita, to fuher
privatize the road tansport and consrci  industries, to eorgAze th
Ministry, and to adopt market-based regulation, ta  and user charges, and (c)
PDA to improve opeaons productivity and afety, establish an aonomous pot
authority, ime port finances, and develop a manpower plan; and
(v)   studies to (a) improve road safety, (b) prepare a Master Plan for the port of
Durres, and (c) detmine the fiture role of the Aba  Railways.
C. Status ofPk!qJeCt reparation
3.03        Road Component. (a) about 85 km of road works have been seleted fom a lst
of 500 km of main road sctins In need of rehabion (65 km) and  mpeti(onlextenion (19
kim), each secon with an economic retn of 18 percent or more. The road worlk consist of
the r abili   of four secions (rlana-Vara, 5.6 kn; lia-Fusbe Kruja, 9.0 km,; 1ha-
Masan up to Kmba, 27.0 km; and Cafasan, at the Macedonian border, to km 23 west on tie
road to Dures port), the completion of tie Fushe Kruja-Maisi section of the 7lrana-Leuba
road (10 km, 50 percent complete) and the etson of this road to Miloti (9.0 km). Updated
detl  engineering of the six sectons was completed in mid-1992 by NRD with the assistan
of the LS.P.2 of llrana. The deigns and cost esdmates were discussed and agreed on with the
appraisl and the negotations missions. Fnve sections belong to the mo traffickd roads linkin
the capa with the idustal and agriculurl centers of the coastal area, and of the ighlands
(lbasan). The Caasan secdon, including i-provements at border crossing, is impnt for
th high inna l   king traffic to and from the port of Dues. Ihe road secons wil be
bilt to a uniform 7.0 m wide paved caiageway with stabilized gravel shouldrs of 1.50 m, the
pavement o        of 20 cm of gravel sub-base, 20 cm of cruhed rock base coure, and 5 cm
of aspatic concrete wearing course. Te design standards for the roads are saisbcty (Annex



-n2-
sisfactory (Annex 3.1), (b)  TOR for consuction supervision of above road work by
consultants have been agreed on with NRD (Annex 3.2), (c) a list for po nentof road
maintenance equipment and spe pats (Annex 3.3) has been pepared on the basis of
requirements to achievig a sifactozy roudne maintenance program in the Tiraa ditt, and
Wdding documents are being finalzed by NRD, (d) TA to advise NRD on the implementon
of the proet (engineer, 12 mtm) and to asst MITC in all apectX of tnport policy iu
(policy aisor, 18 m/rn; facial advisor, 4 m/m) has been idendfied and the rlevnt TOR for
ConsAnts are included in Annex 3.4, (e) trining (100 m/m) of MTC/NRD staffs to improve
their institutional, maaeal, and technical capacity, and amiliaize them with project
evaluation  chniques, has been identified, and (f) TOR for the Road Safety Stdy (6 m/m) are
inluded in Annex 3.5.
3.04       Port Component. (a) urgent wors in the port of Du  comprising repair of
concre bem and intlon of quay defenses, and an asphaltic stegthening/overlay (10,000
square meters) on the most intensely operted areas have been identfied and engineering desgns
and bidding documents are being finalized by the PDA, (b) the lis of equipnment and spare parts
required for a sayscoy operation of the pot of Dues is provided in Annex 3.6, and
prepaon of bidding documents by the PDA is underway, (c) TA expertise required in the
fids with the most complex opertonal and istitutional imss, namely port management (12
m/r), port finance (6m/m), and cargo handling logistics (6 m/m.) has been identified, and TOR
e given in Annex 3.7, (d) training of port staff in mangement and tchnical aspects (50 n/m)
has been etmated, and (e) TOR for the Port Master Plan Study (12 m/m.), which is deignW
to define future deveopment of the port of Durres, and at the safe time of the secondary port
of Vlo, accoding to likey traffic patte  (e.g., unitized, con d and roll-on roll-off
taffic), have been discussed with the PDA and are included in Annex 3.8.
3.05       Railway Component. TOR for a Study on the Future Role of the Albanian
Railways (12 m/m) will be prepared on the basis of formation available about the fuure
prosects of the mining industry (par 2.46) and wold be included in Annex 3.10.
D. Cost Fstmates
3.06       The esmated cost of the project, including con    amount to US$27.0
mMilon equivalent, with a foreign component of about US$21.5 million equivalent, or 80 percent
of the total cost. The costs of the different project cornponents based on US$1 = Lek 100
exchnge rate, Mach 1992, arm given in Table 3.1 below.



-23-
ALUANJA TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table 1h t:j ct C         _mof and Cost Ps0am_
(aUS$ wAm
CO.OAENT                               LOCAL       POE  GN       WTAL .C .
A. ROAD StBSNCWRl
(a) Road Works
TM-Vorn (5.&im. u9s 0.7m);
Tim-Pudsh. ij. (9.ahn
US$0.7r);, 1i-Rlbma  up to KNuda
27k  US$2.4m); (Cdmn-ia 23 wet;
USS2.0m)
Fudo XKn&aM Ro:
lot Sectod (Km 0 to lO3ku.
znans; USS22m);
2nd Seco (Om 10 to                       3.9          9.1          13.0          70
km 19, MiIcti US$m.am)                   0.1          0.3          0.4           80
(!) S&pevM   of Road Waok
(o) Mdfumno. Eipnau tor                                  2.0          2.0          1t0
Tin  wo   ma diWs
(4) TA (Advisor to NRD for pt*ut
2g      _  12o; MMk
polIWY 1Wr md fila 4mrl                   -           0.6          06            100
)dbm
(°) Tigirq olfYCND Staff                                 0.2          0a            100
(100 r/m)                                -.Z.         JJ            J.   100
0g) Road Sfdy Stu  (6&rn)                                             ILl
B. Pon SUBSCTIOR                            0.6           14          2.0           70
(a) Woa                                      -           3.3          3.3           100
(b) Eip_it & Sp.u
(o) TA (Advlaom pat s agernu
1u./rn; pogt fiSan. 6/an. ad                          0.4          0.4           100
NWaohadln i   /in)                                    0.1          0.1          1t0
(d) Tulain (5(hu/rn                                                                 10J0to
(e) Mat Plan (12W)                          JU           IA           Ji
Suabtotal 2
C.  RAILWAY SIDSBCT'OR                      J-                       J10            100
Shady: %aar Rob) of Railwa
(12w/rn                                 -J.1                      J
SubAI*c 3
D.  CONTINOECB                              0.a          0.9          1.1
Physial (%)                                 AZ.          .1,2U
Pdw (14%)
TOTAL PROJBrCF OST



-24-
3.07        Construction cost estimates are based on quantities from final engineering deigns,
and on NRD/.S.P.2 estmates of Jwu 1992 unit costs, updaed in March 1993. The foreg
componen is estmated from a brakdown of cost elements. The local costs include taxes and
duties esmated at about 5 percent of total costs Th project is exempt from import taxes and
dui
3.08        Costs for the 88 man-months (m/m) of technical assistance and stuies are based
on an average cost of US$17,000 per m/m, while cosu for supision of road rabilion
works requiring 40 in/ at about US$10,000 per m/m are equivalent to a reasonale and usual
4 percen of the constuon costs, excluding contingencies. The coss are in line with thoe
of similar ongoing opations in ndghbor countis Costs of equipment and mateials are based
on the btst acquisitions under the Crtic Imports Projects (Crdt 2404-ALB) and on sar
deiveries in the region. Costs for taining MrTCNRD (100 m/m) and PDA (50 mlm) staffs are
estimated at US$2,000 per mim, tak  into account that most will be in-house training and that
the most expnsive item in inat al  ning, travelling, would mosdy take place inside
Burope and woud be relatively    ve. All tchical assistance, udies, Waining, mateials
and eqipme  costs are exmpt from taxes and dutXs
3.09        A physical contngency of 5 pct has been included for all compets to cover
pse  inreases in quanties. Thbis amount is arniate given the precse engineei
designs available for the road works. Price conting   have been applied to base costs,
expressed in US$ in acorac with Bank g     s, for each year 1992 though 1997, as
folows: 4.3, 3.8, 1.9, 2.7, 3.4 and 3.6 perce
E. Novject Thuancing
3.10        The Borower would be the RepubLic of Albania. 'Te Asociatin would povide
a credit of US$18.0 mion equivalent, the Kuwait Fund for Arab Ecoomic Delopment
(Kuwait Fund; KF.) on a panrllel basis woud prvide a US$6.4 million equialent lon
(xcusively for ful financing of Port of Durres' woar and equipment), and the Govemment
would cotribte about 10 percent of the tot prOject cost or US$2.6 milio euvalent This
cotribot  is consdered fte maximum compatible with the budgetay possiblities of the
Government, which in turnbas confirmed at negotatios, that it would meet these local costs,
as wel as, if the case arises, any cost over-nrns and/or short    in foreign exchange. A
proposed financing plan, based on the above assumpdons, and confirmed with the Gosvement
at negodatons, b shown in table 3.2 bdme :



-25-
ALBAA - TRANSPORT PROJECT
Tabe 3.2 - Jiancng Plan
ncluding co g        )
In US$ miion)
CON? NN*NT                           P*aFoet    Teal   GevS   IDA    Kawef P.
A. ROAD SUDSECTOR
(a) Road Wode                 4.6      11.1   15.7    2.5       13.2
(b) Suporvio of
Road Woks                   01       0.4    0.5      0.1      0.4
(c) Ma=L. qPt & Spaes          -        2.4    2.4 A             2.4
(d) TA                         -        0.7    0.7      -        0.7
(a) T=t                        -        03     03       -        03
( _Road Safe  fu                   _           u _
Subal 1                   4.7      15.0   19.7      2.6     17.1
S. PORT SUBSXCTOR
(a) Work                      0.8       1.6    2.4      -          -       2.4
(b) Bquipmcu&Spra=                      4.0    4.0      -          -       4.0
(o) TA                         -        0.4    0.4      -        0.4
(d4) Tinng                     -        0.1    0.1      -        0.1
(a) Mas    Siud y    _ l n __
SubIi u1                    0.8      63      7.1      -       0.7        6.4
C. RAILWAY SUISECTOR
Saudymt.ae Robw Ramy           -               J°-               u          -
TOTAL                          2       Z LQ MZA         L           OA
P. Imlmettinand  oitrn
3.11        The proposed IDA credit of SDR 13.0 milio (US$18.0 milon equivalent), and
the Kuwait Fund loan of US$6.4 million equiwvent (pa   3.10) woud be made to the
Government of the Republic of Albania. The MTC woud be sponsible for the oveill
management, administi-tion and coordinaton of the proect through a five-member Project
Management Unit (P1U) estabhd in MTC under the cirmanhp  of the Minister for
Ta ot. The mmbe of the PMU would  cluide the aformntioned Chaiman, the Director
of      tional Fimancing (rrnng the EF), NRD's Diror (MTC), Fance's Director



-26-
(MTC), and the Director of the PDA. The PMU would review and follow up on procurement
and bidding documents related to the project, monitor and wordinate project implementation in
evy subsector (including the Railway study), assemble in a quartedy report all information
rlated to project implemenan, and haise and establish direct contact with IDA's and
cofinanciers' superon missions. It would be asssted by an operative Secreuriate under a
Secretary (an NRD Engineer) responsible for the preparation of all pret documentation
assisted by an Economist (Financial MTC Department), ahe repm entative of the PDA in Tirana,
and a Prcuement Spelt (Consultant, part of NRD's TA). All PMU's fimctions are
compatible with and rlated to the unit members' currt funcions, and technical back up
(except Procurement Spedalist) and sectara services are available in MTC and would not
imply additional costs to the project. PMU's composition and oraniion (Annex 3.11) were
discussed with GOA during the api  mission in November 1992. During negotiations GOA
confirmed the establishment and stffig of the PMU (MC Order No. 51 dated December 28,
1992) on the above lines, which is sadsfary to the Association.
3.12       The NRD would be responsible for the execution of the road works by contract.
Consultants would be employed to asist N]-D in conuction supervision (TOR in Annex 3.2)
under terms and conditions aceptable to IDA. The port wors, of relatively small size and
complexity, would be camred out by contrcto under the direct supeision of the PDA technical
staff and an asphalt pavement expert from NRD. The p met of NRD and Port equipment,
the MTC/NRD/PDA  TA and tring, and the Road Safety, Port Master Plan and Railway
studies would be under the dir  responsbility of the related agency, followmg submissin to
the Assocn, for review and approval, of the evaluation of the proposed exts. During
negotiations agreement was reached with GOA on the terms of reference for (a) sueron of
road works, (b) MTC/NRD and port of Durrs TA expr, and (c) Road Safety, Port Master
Plan, and Raiway Stdies.
3.13       The iniiation of IDA trasport activity in Altnia implies lack of transport scr
implementaion proflaes in the country. However, on the basis of achivements on similar
projects and condions in Albania and the region, it is exeted that the road works starting in
the first and second year with a maimum construction period of two years (complented with
a guarntee main ce period of one year) would require a project implemation period
between ftree and four years. The port works would be imp d in two years. Acquisition
and delivery of NRD and port equipment would be completed during the first two years of
proect imntai    The technical assistance and training component would take place
throughout the entire four yea period in order to prvide steady advice to MTC, and to avoid
disuptins in proect m  e     n due to excesive staff absences resulting from  ast training.
The  re tudes on Road Safety, Port Master Plan, and the Future Role of the Albanian
Railways, woud be completed during the first two-year period of project implemean The
implementation schedue for project activities is shown in Annex 3.12. With credit effectiveness
expected in fot  quarter 1993, and start of project implementaton in January 1994, the project
would be completed on December 31, 1997, and the proposed credit would be closed six months
later on June 30, 1998. PMU would submit quarterly progress reports to the Association
detiling the in   of every project component acdvity on the basis of the monitoring



-27-
indicators detailed in Annex 3.13. During negodations, agreement was reached with the
Govemment on the project implementaton schedue, monitoring criteria, and repordng
arrangements.
G. Procurement
3.14        The project elements and their estimated costs, and the procurement arangements
for the components to be financed by IDA (i.e., all but port works and equipment), are
swnmarized in Table 3.3.  Each other cofinancier  will have its own requirements of
procurement; these costs are shown under N.B.F.



-28-
Ta   33 - Pe a33u-t Aranganent
(USS Mion)
P1czuwnE,a Method
P*je   eaaeU                                  ICB        Othrs       N.DEj      Toti Coot
A.    Road Subsaetor
(a)    Road wo                         1.5.7        -           -           1.7
(13.2)       -           -          (13.2)
(b)     u    on of Road Work             -         O.S*                     0.S
-        (0.4)         -(0.4)
()         ta Equipmnt                  2.3        0.1          -           2.4
(2.3)      (0.1)                    (2.4)
(d)    TA                                -          .r          -           0.7
-        (o0.7)                   (0.7)
(,)    Trinin                            -         03                       0.3
*        (0.3)         -           (0.3)
(f)    Rosa sfty study                   -0                                 0.1
*   Iw.1)         -(QV1
B.    Port Subsector
(a)    Wors                              -          -2.4                    2.4
*          *           -            (.-)
(b)    Equimet and spars                 -          -          4.0'         4.0
('^c)    TA                              -         0.4          -           0.4
-        (0.4)         -          (0.4)
(d)    Trg                               -          .1          -           0.1
(0-1)                    (0Q1)
(s)    Maer Plan                         -         0.2          -           0.2
(0.2)        -           (0.2)
C.    RailwaSectr
Study: Role of Raiway                    -         0            -           0.2
(0.2)        -           (0.2)
TOTAL                        18.0        2.6         6.4          27.0
(1S.5)     (2.5)        (-)         (18.0)
Noe:  Fiprc in bket are X  spctive amounts finced under he IDA crtedi
hINoi-IDA financed
IDirSe     actting (0%) and 1 (50%)
jIlha Fpd - financed
dCon80Wag swvie according to Bank 0udline



-29-
3.15        The road works contra  (sx separated contas rngg from US$ 0.7 million
to US$ 5.0 miLlion equivale  estimated costs, excluding conngencies; Table 3.1) would be
procd, in   dace with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBID Loans nd
IIDA Credits dated May 1992, by  tonal Competitive Bidding (1CB) procedures following
prequallificatn of contacs.  I is exected that recetly com alized staowned
companis, partcularly those forming joint ventr  with well experienced and capilized
forden firms, would quaiy and become highly compedtive with dtir coutry exprience, low
wage cos, and new financial status. Moreover, a 7.5 percent margin of preference for
domaetic contactor would be apWlied on bid evauation. Every contra for road works woud
be subject to prior review and pproval by IDA.
3.16         quipment, spare parts, tools and materals (Annex 3.3) would be procured under
ICB with post-qualificaton of biddes, and m accordance with the Bank's Guidelies for
Procurement under IBRD Lo=ns and IDA Credits dated May 1992. Goods manu        in
Albania would be granted a preference of 15 percent or related duties whichever is less prowvided
that the value added in Albania is more dtm 20 percent. Eowever, the propietary spare puats
(total esdmated at US$50,000; Table 3.3) would be procured directly from original supplis
Item  of equipment, spare parts, tools and mateials emated to cost less tan US$15,000
equivalt each (total esima   aggte cost US$50,000; Table 3.3) woud be procured by
Intnatioal Shopping (LS.) with a minimum of thee quOtations from thee diffnt suppliers
from three different countmes elgible under the Guidelines. AlU contracs esmated to cost
US$50,000 equivalent or more would be subject to IMA's prior review and apprwvl of
procue ment d   entaion. These imits would rest in prior viw of contracs representing
80 pcent of the credit component. Teother contracts woud be subje to ex-post review after
award of conuact.
3.17        Consultigservices for consucto supervisi   mated at some four percent
Of costrucioncosts, and for tchani  assistance, traning and sudies (paras. 3.03 through 3.05)
would be caried out by quaified and experienced conslwtants apponted in accrdance with the
Bank Guideines for the Use of Cmonsultans of August 1981. AlU douments related to
procument of Cosulng srvices woud be subject to prior review and approva by the
Associatio.
3.18        A Country Procumrent Assessment Report has not yet been completed.
However, for the DA-financed portion of the pqject, the Borrower will folow procedures
conistent with the flank's Procurement Guidines. The Project Implemention Schedule
(Annex 3.12) includes the schedule of major Prcureenut steps.
3.19        Procurement would be a main responsiblty of the PMU (param 3.11) and its
proureme  advisor (Annex 3.11) financed under the projecL  Pouexrlment informaion
provided to IIDA would include (a) prompt reporting of cconract award infrmation, and (b)
cernfehensive explanaion of revised costs esimates for individual contras and the total
project, revised timing of prcuremn rt aciomns, and compliance with aggregate lmits on



-30-
specfied methods of prcurment.  DuIng negodations, agement was reached with th
Government on all procurement arrangements.
H. Ds
3.20        Ihe proposed IDA credit, (SDR 13.0 million or US$18.0 million equivalent),
would be dibursed against fte project componenb, as follows:
CEaM   Be-tEem               VSA$(SDR)          f mmfm # b jww
Com              D"Otoa               W  q15
_~~~~~~~~~Aa ff b.
1.    Road Woks8                      12.7      80%
(9.2)
2.     Rom Eqdpwmt                     2.4      100% forap  apulum, 100% of
(1.7)    local dRpedium, (ofatoy oobs),
and 80%of loca xpoittur for dher
it mm -    locally
3.     Camunt
(a) Spwviso Road Wodk          0.4      100% of forin  eemdiue
(0.3)
(b) MTCND TA, Trererg          1.1      100% of freig oxuxitue
and Read Soft Study       (0.8)
(c) Pwrt of Dunes TA,                   100% of forp .pudilue
Traning and maste Plan              100% of foreign .xp.ndiuse
Study                      0.7
(0.5)
(d) Railway Study              0.3
(0.2)
4.      Unallocated                    0.4
(0.3)
18.0
1TrAL                     (13.0)
3.21        With the exception of contracts valued at US$50,000 or liess, all withdrawal
applcatonswill be fully docmented.  Wibreet  ginst contract valued at US$509,000
or less would be made on the basis of sbtatments of expenditur (SOB). During negotiation,
agreement was reached with the Goveranment that ocmnainto support expndures
financed under SOE's would be maintained by the Borower and made available for review by
IDA supervisio  mission, in addtion to being audited annually by auditors acceptable to the
Association.



-31-
3.22       Retroative fiancn up to a tota of US$100,000 is recommended for payments
made by the Borrower after Novemnber 30, 1992, but before the date of credit signature. This
will allow an early St on some critical projects items libe technical asstance services.
3.23       To fiitate disbursements, IDA's share of the proect would be financed through
a Specl Account (revolving fund) which would be opened by the Borrower in a commercia
bank acceptable to IDA. The authorized allocation for the Special Account would be US$1.3
milion, equivalent to about four months of projet expditues (financed by EDA) dunng the
four-and-one-half years disbursement period for the project Punds for equipment and spare
parts would be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Special Account after approval of the
ICB/IS or direct procedures and related conuct awards by the Association. Replenishment for
technical assistance and f consutants for construction superi on would be made on the bais
of appropxiate documentation. Replnisnt of the Special Account would follow IDA
procedures. The Specal Account would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptabl
to IDA. The audit report would be submitted to the Association for review and approval within
six months of the end of each fiscal year. During negodations, agreement was reached with the
Government on the establishment, operation and auditing of the Special Account.
3.24       A schedule of disbursements, based on the Project Implementation Schedule (par
3.13) is given in Annex 3.14. There are no sectoral disbursement profiles available, Albania
being a new IDA member and the prqect the first IDA transport operation in the country.
However, the limited range of the project, the urgency of the need for the works, equipment and
TA, and the interest demonstrated by the central Government and the responsible agencies on
processing fte project, should guantee a reasonable project implementation period of four years
(para 3.13). With a fourth quarter 1993 loan effectiveness date and a January 1994 - December
31 1997 project implemenion period (paa 3.13), the prposed credit would be fully disbursed
six months later or by June 30, 1998.
I. Invioument
3.25        The project has been classified as "B" for purposes of O.D. 4.01 on
Environmental Assessment, meaning that only limited environmental revew is required. Civil
works are confined to rehabilitng and completing/extending existing roads. This should lead
to a cleaner environment for the population living in settlements along the roads, as well as
improve the delivery of social services, i.e., health care (hospital, dispenaries), educaton
(schools), water supply (easier access), urban crossing (improvement of street and consuction
of sidewalk for pedestrians). The proect would try to protect the areas adjacent to the roads
from erosion through the construction of side-dains, cross drainage str s and retining
walls. No population resetement would be necssary since the right of way of the new roads
is clear of housing construction. Furthermore, al road improvement would take place within
the public right-of-way for which the Govemnment has fUll ownership. The project would not
affect any archaeological or historical sites. The port component would not affect any
enironmental fictor negatively. Furthemo, the asphalting of the worldng area would avoid
dust pollution and risks during the operation of handling equipment, the new equipment would



32-
be sa  than the esting equipment, and the port manaemn would co ue to prot the
harbor basin agait oil polluon. Under     in he biddg ocumen, (disposa Of asht
and solid waste matera at spedfic dumping places, storage of bitumen in adequate containers,
equipmnt complying with stridt air poludon regulations, adequate sanitary workng ondtions
and responsibility for any neglect in nearby ground water conmina), contractos are
rewponsible for keeing every worksite pollution-free and for retuning jobsites to their oiginal
condition. The prqject would genate significant employment in adjacent areas, with jobs
created estd to be equivalent to 3,000 man-years.
L. Acontn and Auditg
3.26       Sartg  in 1993, MTC, through its PMU, and in accordan    with sound
acounting prctces, will maintain separt proect accounts (i sufficient detil) covering
expenditues for the vadous elements of the project, and reflecting the different countbuiom
from the cofinmciers and the Gove=ment. MTC will submit to IDA a brief updte  of these
accunts on the quartedy reports (paa. 3.13). The PMU Seceay will have the prqect
accounts and the spedal account (para.3.23) audited by an indepedet auditor aceptabl to IDA
and will submit annually to IDA such audit accounts, within six months of the end of each fiscal
year. These  emen  we agd  on with GOA at negotiations.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
4.01       Albaia is at a crtical point in adopting mark-based transport poi   The
assistnce provided under the pitect m rationalizing investments, determining the future role
of Albani  Railways, privatizing tanpot enterprises,        MTC an  introducing
maret-based tsport policies, is epected to mak a significant contributon to reducing
tasport costs. Howeve, it i difficult to quant these benefit reliably. The eonomic
beneft of the road and port componet were, theefre, quanified on the traditional bais of
reductionsin road vehicle operting co   ships' waiting tme and damage to port cargo, as
dscibed below. This dsnificantly undestates the economic re    for the proect.
B. Road Component
4.02       Albania's main roads wer constucted to a low stadr to bandle the eight
truclk which were typcaly used during the preio  regmim to carry goods to the rail head.
These roads are inadequate to hande the heavy trucks which are now being imported, or the
gwwing number of inter-city buses and private automobiles which are now observed on the
roads. Road sections to be improved under the project were proposed by the NRD and reviewed
by the Bank, on the basis of their conon (detmined by visal survey) and their taffic
volume. The sectons to be improved are main roads radiating from Tirana which were



-33-
constrcted sone 30 yas ag and a  In poor codtio      rughns index,
esimatd to be about 7.0 m/kim). Cuaent (1992) tafffic on the six secto  slecd for the
pr4ect anges fom 5,300 to 6,800 vehes per day, including 18-23 pc   medum and heavy
vehcle  Trafcn the Cfaan - km 23 section Is estimated to be 2,500 vpd, icudIng 25
percn medum ad heavy vehices Eeavy goods trsffic iscu   y constrained by the close
of mines and heavy industrie, and all trffis affected by the shortage of foreg   ange to
impot additional fuel In spite of these conts, tfic has gown 25-SO percent on main
roads during the la  two yes, primaly due to the impoation of aumobis tuc  and
buses which is now permitted. Road taffic Is likely to grow at leas 6 peet  pa. for the next
twenty years due to the cunrnt low ae of moi on (1 veidcle per 63 pons; pa. 2.27),
a growth rate which was adopted for the economic evalutio
4.03        The economic retr for the road component wa estimated using the Ba's
Highway Dei  Model (HDM IM). The key asuwpdons used in te evaluatn are summaized
in Annex 4.1. The project includes the eabiliaon of four sec   t      64 km at an
averge cost of US$100,000 per km including supervion and physal           i The
wonomic  te of retun (ERR) is estmated to be 35 p n for ate  li  of the Thin-
Vera road, 57 percent for the iara-Fushe Kruna road, 52 percent for the lir5-Kmba troad
and 39 peet for the Cafan-kn 23 road. The proect includes the complto of the 10 kmi
Fushe Kruia-Mamudsi road (cuently about 50 perent compete) at a cost of about
US$240,000 per km. Tbis road will save about 6 km in compaiscn with the asting road,
which has many curves and pases through swveral built up areas. Tbe ERR for the com
of this secon Is etmated to be 61 pemen  The project also includes tie    of the
Fushe Kruja-Mamurasi road by the constructo of the 9 km mus-Miloti sec    at a cost
of about US$600,000 per km. Tbis road will save about one km in compson with the adsting
road, which pases th     bilt up are, and is estimaed to bave an ERR of 19 pcent
4.04       Ihe prov    of maintac  equimet for the T1ra District is expected to
significany incease thidr maintenance performance, and to have a high economic return based
on eperience in othr countre  Since the maintenance equipment amounts to ony ten peet
Of prjct costs, and in order to be consrvave, it was assumed that the maintenance wors
would have the same economic rtum as the rehabilition component.
C. Port Component
4.05       Tlafc tough the port of DuTes nged from 2.6 to 2.8 million tons p.a. dudng
the late 1980's (about 20 percent geneal argo), but thea declined to 1.0 million tons in 1991,
and an estmated 0.9 million ts in 1992 (31 percent general cargo). Albania was tasport
inteneive in the past (pa  2.03), aad the economy is undergoing sgificant     so
that past trafficp n do not prve a reiable guide to the future. Puture affic volumes
trugh the port of Durtres are expected to be detemined by the folowing pcipal facto



-34-
(a)   Chrome expo  are likely to decline from around 700,000 tons p.a. in tie late 1980s to
about half that amount in the 1990s due to the ehausto of high grade reserves, the
concentration of low grade reserves, and the productio of ferr-chrome.
(b)   Albania does not have a compartive advantage for producing wheat, and is likly to
import about half of its requirements in the futue, or about 300,000 tons p.a., either in
the form of food aid or purchased imports.
(c) The export of around 800,000 tons p.a. of low grade coal and iron-nickel in the late
1980s has ceased, and is not expected to resume because there are no markets for these
products.
(d)   Geneal cargo taffic has declined about 50 percent since its 1989 peak, compared to a
32 percent decline in GDP during the same period. The Bank anticipates that GDP will
grow 4-5 percent p.a. twough 2000 asming sasfactory implementaion of the
economic reform progrm. General cargo traffic is expected to be elastic relative to
GDP, and to grow about 7 percent p.a. during the same period.
Wbile there are possbilities for additional traffic (export of low gade nicel, sulfur, cement,
or pyrite; transit tfc to Macedonia), their viability has not been demonstated, and they have
not been included in the traffic forecasL Traffic through the port of Dures is expected to grow
from 0.9 million tons in 1992 to about 1.2 million tons in 1997 (26 percent general cargo), and
7.0 percent p.a. ther  through 2001, as elaborated in Annex 4.2.
4.06       Operations at the port of Dmrr, paricularly general cargo and break bulk
opeatos, are impeded by frequent breakdowns of cranes and other cargo handling equipment,
interference with grain handling apeions, and other operonal inefficiencie. In addition,
cargo losses are high, aicularly for bagged cargo, since contineon is virualy
nonexstent. Operations are expected to be improved and cargo losses reduced under the project
through the pron of cargo handling equipment, the rehabilitation of port surfaces and quays,
and operational and management improvements. The ERR for the port component was atimated
on the basis of reductons in ships waiting time and reductions in cargo losses resulting from
containerzation, as explained in Annex 4.1. Savings in labor cost were not kn  into account
due to the high unemployment rate in Albania. Savings in equipment opatng costs were also
not taken into account becuse present por. equipment can be considered to be fully depreciated.
Assuming that the improvements financed under the project have an average life of seven years,
and including all net of tax costs, the port component of the project is esmated to have an ERR
of 25 percent.



-35-
D. Conlsion and Risks
4.07       The weighted avepe ERR for the road component of the project is esimated to
be 38 percent. I benefits are 50 percent le than expected (a proxy for the old age and poor
maintennce of the vehicle fleet), the ERR is stll esimated to be a aifactory 21 pect If
road taffic grows only 4 peroent p.a., the ERR is estmated to be 35 percent. If the reduction
of cargo losses are not included in the estimate for the port component, the ERR would be 21
percent. IUe weighted average ERR for the proect, which covers 99 percent of project cost,
is estimated to be 31 percent.
4.08       Albania faces isk in mplementing its economic reform progam due to the
sgnfiant policy changes required, difficult economic conditions, and its lack of institonal
capacity and fmiliarity with market economics (par  1.03). However, as discussed, Albania
has no red choice other an to proceed with the eoonomic refrm program and the Government
has given its commitment to the program at all levels.
4.09       The main project risks are the posibiity that GOA might not have sufcient
counterpart funds for fte project, or that recunrent budgets might be inadequate to implement
a satsfctory road maintenance program. In order to reduce these rislk, GOA agreed at
negotations to budget sufficient countpart funds for the project, to charge border prices plus
an agreed tax for road fuel which covers all road ependit, and to allocate road funds fist
to mainteance and thrfter to other road expenditures (paras. 2.24 & 2.26). Project rwi  are
considered to be acceptable withese arrangemets.
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION: PORT OF DURRES
A. Present Situaon
5.01       The are twio separat grups of accountng enties at the Port of Durres under
the Minister of T1nsport and Communi   (ITC): the cargo handling opetion, which
is managed direcdy by the Port of Durres Authority (PDA), and the port ship services operations
(plotage, towage and dredging), which bas been hithet managed as a seprate entepris, but
which is now due to be merged with the PDA efetve Jamnary 1993. The Harbor Master's
Office (HMO), which collects entance and exit dues from the ships has been completely
wpaated fromthepport operaonsandtransfred to theNavy since 1991 (pam 2.39). Asunder
this ploject it is prposed to discontue transfewring PDA's profits to the GOA, it is
recommnded Xthat EMO revenue be paid directly to the Treasury. This was discussed during
negoatios.
5.02       The income staement given in Table 5.1 below summarizes the oeating results
of port activiies (cargo handling and ship services for years 1989 trough 1991) and Harbor
Master's Office (for years 1989 and 1990) as obtained from PDA's unaudited financial



-36-
satements. The unabridged version is so   in Anne S..1. Since the local aueny, the l.k6
is subject to high rates of inflaton whi is difficut to forecast, the fianial tables ae
expesed in U.S. DoDll equivan. The annual histor  figur for 1989 through 1991 arn
converted at the acul ehange rates pvaling at each year end, whle the proections for 1992
have been converd at te most recent rate of 100 Lek per U.S. dolla. The 1992 figures are
used as the base for building th forecasts in constant dolars for the yea  1993 Ough 1997.
Table 5.1: Icome Stateme Sumy - Actuas
_^_nd in Qwat U.& DdAM W
1m           9          1991
Cargo tramc - WO tons                    2,772       2,207        1,048
Fordn exchange rate US$1.00  Ldk             8           8          25
Opeiag Results
Operating revenues                       5,487       4551        2,124
Opeating amsa                            I=          24           60
Net operating income                     1,S48        1,056        519
Wording Ratio %                             50          54          64
Operatig rao %                              72          77          76
Port entranc and exit dues               3,354       3,028
Since the value of the local curecy feUll sawply in 1991, the operting figures also show
correspondn reductions in read (dollar) terms. In addito, the 20 percent reducti  in taffic
in 1990 followed by a 53 percent reduction in 1991 resuted in a  -detoion in the operating
ratio from 72 percent in 1989 to 76 percent in 1991.  his deradi  was low   ad  to
the loss in tffc due to the significant increase in arffs in real tem  (pam 5.03). The
operting rafios overstate PDA's financial resuts as repairs and maintnac of 1acilities wen
not undertke (pam 2.44). If adequate        at a cost of about US$ 500,000 p.a., wer
undertaken, the oprating ratios would increase to about 100 perent. Mi ce and capital
investment were neglcted mainly due to the requrement that PDA transfer its "profiWt to
Treasmury.



-37-
B. Port Cargo Handi  Tarffs
5.03       Pdor to 1992, the tariff system for cargo handling was bally a tdd atMe
per ton of caro  for loadis or unloadiug, transporaion of store accrdn  to cup
ictm. With a vew to   rving regina part antd                    KWm _     MC and PDA
co      a regmda revNiew of 1M at otWmrtport s   no       ey adopted Tfse' s
system u a model for in t  chages in the sure and lve of port tariffs at Durmos and
aordingly revisd taffs as of January 1, 1992. PDA has the auhot to rvise tlfo ieep
In tp with ifai, and it has a y ecisd ts authodty twice in 1992 by bntrucng
tadff increases of 50 percent in the frst half of 1992 and an addtio  25 percen in te sond
half of 1992. The affs are desgnated In the loa currency ad although the  n   bve
bee sbsuana - some 400 percent in tem  of local cuen  from 1991 to 1992 per torn of
caro handled - they resuled oy in an increae of 23 peren Inl atems per 01n  f cro
hndled. Accofing to PDA, a furtha increma of 25 percent is pnned fr only 1993. A
review of t Fh           of tariff structue and levels vis-a-vis reg ional_o  d
cost recovy will be udertake as part of the Technical Asstance P_   povided under
the proect (rOR - Annex 3.7).



-38-
C. FNr Nrospect
5.04        Income Statement. Given below is PDA's focast income satemt summary
for th yea  1992 trough 1997, exrssed in constant 1992 U.S. Dollars  The untabridged
version is shown in Amvf 5.1.
Table 5.2: Income Statement Summary - Forecat
AEFIU4in Co _ba 19 US. Ddel OQO0
(U.S a0 _  Ld0
1992      1993      1994       1995       1996       1997
Fomuo bg efi
000 t                   891       994      l,l1O       1,179     I,l9O       1,214
}amem  ftm-No.          1,S30     1,26       1,000       900       8So        700
WoekWMMa                 705       708      1,210      1,220      1,220      1,220
D-moimth                 250       250        250       390       1,375      1,375
O_qXf_ L40 L60    2 e95                      Lo         im    2     £     
Net cpeagt...           1,7       1527      1,310      1,318       364        421
L. - wa.    m                        -        21         70         101       101
- asciasx              -        4S8       387        374         79         96
Not ocoee               Lo        Lo06       gO          874        IU4       224
Wa*fr,..d%U               32       28         44         42         41         40
OpmlimgatioS             43        39         S3         55                    5 8
U Wbddg tdo - osadmgexpeam °X           coven
5.05        The above forecat is based on (i) proposed reductions in manpower (par. 2.36);
(i) proposed introduction of the infrastructr maintenance progmm as envisaged in the Action
Plan (pa. 2.44); and (OiR) cost of borowings on soft tems for the proposed project. In
addition it was assumed .that PDA would retain its profits less profit tax of 30 percent. Further
detais are given in the attached financial assumptions (Annex 5.4). Tbe working ratio shows
a faidy even perfomance, ranging from 44 percent in 1994 to 40 percent in 1997. The
opering  ratio shows substanti inueases in 1996 and 1997 becuse of the additional
depreaion rdatg to the new port filities.
5.06        Cash How. The frecast sources and applications of funds for 1992 through 1997
are summaized below. The unabridged version is shown in Annex 5.2.



-39-
Table 5.3: Sources and Applcaons of Funds - Forecast
Zrprwsd $in Comow    I= U1 . Domt    (,0))
(tLS Dolm $1.00 - Lk 103)
199        1993       1994       1996                    1997
Soure
Intemal genecatio                    1,525      1,319      1,152      1,264       1559         1,599
Psject financing - Kuwait Fund           -          -      2,200      4,200
Projeet financing - IDA                  -          -        700          -
Totl soumces                         __
Appleto
Iiwsmesnem":
pect                                   -          -      2,900      4,200           -            -
oer                                                                                200         300
-M uboatfflies                       -            90  _                              .
Subtotal                               -       900       4,800      5,00          200         300
Repayment of loal bank  as            478         270                           -     -           -
Reittan  to Govmt                     519           -          -          -           -
Woding capital incr
(cPludiogcash)                         I         9_                                          _11
Total appcations                      WZ                              L            -
Aual aurplu                           527          81      (72        (166)       1,054   1     jt8^
Opening baace - casb                  524       1,051      1,132        430         264        1,318
Clos  balance - cash                 1,051      1,132        430        264       1,318       2,06
The highlights are (1) The LF. Ln   and IDA Credit for the proposed pojet will be be an
the Govnme's and the PDA's books and identified as  Project Fund Loan?; and (ji) the
ferry boat    lities (1993 - 1995) and some routine investmen   (1996 - 1997) wil be sdf-
financed by the PDA.
5.07           Balnce Sheet. The balance sheet summay for the years 1989 ftrough 1997 is
summarized below. The unabridged version is shown in Annex 5.3.



-40-
Tabe 5.4 Balne Sheet Summary - Forecat
Ebzrnuwd                     Ewr'sEdhs
Crau U. DOU= O            CW&OW 192 U.& Dofla t
8   1990  1991  192   1993 I94  1995  1996  197
CuItAUM               3,893  4,62S  2,120  2,651  2,780  2,132  1,996  3,455  4,654
NO Fli AuJ            24,862 25,124  7,941  8,031  8,681 12,S31 11,781 16,4  15,411
DdSbN c                     I3I  341  -                       _ _2
Tab. Aas                                           a   a,si 1Lw
thW!Su & Iquk
CMdUt Usbilihs        1,214  1,754   617   620   600   700   600   3C0   200
LIS!d Boat Lem          402   411   748   270              -     -
hig* Paid LAM             -     -      -      -     -  2.900  7,100  7,100  7,100
Cidrm Paid            26,593 26,918  8,518  8,517  8,517  8,517  8,517  ,2Si7  8,517
3Iid bn Ebusinq   4pP11!  3.lt7   519  1275  2UMI    M   AM3   AM A4
bIod U   N & qt*y            AQ 
Lr  w*ko          (s)     -     -      -      -     -    20    36    36    36
PDA's long-Wm debtequty ratio is projected to risn frm      perce  in 1    to 36 percnt in
1995. Wie ts is a major ineas over a short peiod, it is sati       y as the annual det
serile on PDA's soft-term loans is is
D. ]PDA9s fnancial Autonomy and  nanal Perfo nce
5.08    I      e fecast finandcal siato  b prediated on the premise to the PDA wi
bccome fWuly         us, vested with the power to maintain, establish trf  and manage its
fina l d affas Ie financial tables gen i the eaier pagphs show that dufing teyeas
1994 though 1997, PDA conistently maintained a working ratio level rangig from 44 peaet
in 1994 to 40 perct in 1997 (ale 5.2). The intera cash genetion during this perod is
U.S. $5.6 millon equivalent (Table 5.3). Out of this amount, PDA wold fiac the fey boat
faiides tough 1995 and some routine investments in 1996 and 1997, leaving a cash holdnS
of U.S. $2.5 million equalt for futre use. To en   this leve of finds are geatd,
duitiaa           agreemet was reached with PDA and GOA to ensure tht annual revenue
is sufcent to cover an an annual basis: (1) port oprti  expenses, incuding adequat
_ahtemnc;  Oi) deeation or debt service, w iver is higher, and (t  a reasoable



-41-
contribuon of not less than 30 percent towards the annual average cost of port capital
investent on the basis of ree yea rolling investrent cycles. Reant meaues should be
deigned to achieve growth in port traffic, and should include the esblishment and maintenance
of a    on ship and cargo sewraes (adjustable for inflaton and deed to cover costs) startng
on January 1, 1994. The GOA agreed at negotatons to achieve an annual working rtio at the
Port of Durres of no more tan 45% begnning in 1994.
VI. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACIED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01        During nego tons, the following matters were agreed with the Borrower:
(a)   GOA will const with the Associatin on its transprt imvestment plan annually,
and will nly undetake tasport investments g  thae  US$5.0 million which
have an E1RR and PYR great than 12 percent (par. 2.07);
(b)   MTC wil privatiz its remaining commerial truck fleet by June 30, 1994 (pam.
2.09);
(c)   GOA will implement an action plan, Aisctory to IDA, to adopt market-based
tnsport policies by June 30, 1994, which asures even inteodal compeion
and  pemits the  development of pxivate  road  trnport, including
establishing/maintaining a road vehicle licensing systm (Pam 2.12);
(d)   G0A wil guarant that it will prove adequate annual maintenance funds from
1993 onward, and it will allocate road funds first to maintenance and thereafter
to otier road expendi (para. 2.24);
(e)   GOA will submit to Padiament for apal by June 30,1994, a bill establishing
a tax on road fuel covering all road expendit  (about US$0.15 equivalent per
lite) (pam. 2.26);
(f)   GOA will maintain the aveage retil prie (without fuel tax) of category 2
gasolie and diesel fuel at ow above US$0.30 equvalet per liter, and any fuel tax
whih is intoduced at or above US$0.15 equivalet per liter (pam. 2.26);
(g)   MTC will bmit to Padiarment for approval by Dwember 31, 1994, a bill to
improve road safety (parm 2.31);
(O)   GOA will implement an action plan for the Port of Durs, satiactory to IDA,
to: (i) establish an autonomous port autority in Durres by June 30, 1994 (pam.
2.35); (ii) improve operonal pero ce by June 30, 1994, by imple
effecdve working practices and stramlining administrative procedures (pa.
2.43); (iii) establish an annual maintenance schedule for port infastuc    and
equpment begning January 1,1 994 (paa. 2.44); (iv) establish taf at he Port



-42-
of Dumes by January 1, 1994, which generate sufficient revenues to cover
opeating expenses, depreciation or debt sevice, whichever is higher, and a
minimum 30 percent selffinmcing contribution to future investnents on a he
year cycle (pam 5.08); (v) achieve an annual workng ratio of not more than 45
percent atthePortofDurres, beginning in 1994 (para. 5.08); (vi) rationalizeport
staff so as to reduce their numbers by one-third by January 1, 1995, and one-half
by Januay 1, 1997 (par 2.36); and (vii) prepre a Port Master Plan covering
the future development of the ports of Dumes and Vlora by December 31, 1994
(pa. 2.34);
(i)  the project objectives and description (pas. 3.01 and 3.02);
0)   the project cost estimate and financing plan (paras. 3.06 and 3.10);
(k)   estblishment and staffing of PMU (para.3.11)
(I)   TOR for rad superion, TA epr, and studies (pam. 3.12);
(iM)  implemation schedule, repordng and auditing requirements (par. 3.13 and
3.26);
(n)   p met arangements (pama. 3.19); and
(o)   disbement  gements and schdule (pas. 3.21-3.22-3.23).
6.02       The IDA credit wil become effcMtive following icrease of the average price of
diese fuel and category 2 gasoline to at least US$0.30 equivalent per liter (pam. 2.26).
6.03       With the agreements reached above, the project is suitable for a SDR 13.0 million
(US$18.0 million equivalent) credit under the standard IMA terms, with 40 year maturity, to the
Govemment of Albania.
AgeS 16 UN3



ii [;W00i4Xqk
IS i*iurIEiii Pr[iEEirF[ 
IS -E  E -EEMH -              



An 2.2
Pap 1of3
TRANSPRT IRW
I_ Am Plu
L Rqedit i Tmwpd Jubmt Pu (parin .0
(a)    Employ _c8ulua to ant  in p_eaai  of          MC      Sepbmar 1,1 93
;od inwatwsut and fa        Pk& Pus
ould be bsd an raistic funning po     _ -bilitiu
and btulde oanow=laly jusife prect anbdm
in oner of piority(ie. wcomi.inutm > 12
ad fitat yawr tu  >12%).
(b)    Seod draft p   to IDA for comuL                T      O        of cb yea
dai 1993 - 196
(o)    Discs panwi* MA befoe mabultting to          MTC      NovUbr cofds
Governmentfor fin appal                               yeaw duds  19934996
I  }haFindom  f Trulu Enbpqi (par 2.09)
MTC       s 30, 1994
Co* m    do puivai  of dto rminin MTC
.Ad    Mah ilued Tr_at Ndes (par. 212)
(a)    Emply aont* to help ppm  =A*ted              MM       Octobe 1,199
WMaI o t policies and agulatioca. 7he Aimi
Ilbu  defini_   of MMC w*l. c ean of
--_ ra ansd dlpo   rIixDO
pte th mrvkomm  but do not htoefe wit
Coredaid hepodumo of opeaoRr or
diooug lnteinusds coptiin adcption of
ooct.bumd 1dS wsr cgso ad txes fad
velid. aiR load, reglatigons  d toad vehideb
- -|
(b)  Ouants submit poposalsan (a) to MC and         MC       Setbr 1, 94
IDA flbror mm_.
(c)    Submit to P_lianmd a requ      or to adopt   KM       O     to31 
t    tfpot polcis ad rulios
bmdaa oa.lab  ntos       aadn
(*)    Imhmm owpolllsudz d egltlo..                 bATC      PoiowlqS doptia
L.sba        d u Z.I        w5  -.p*SuIt.Ie a  ~kp aiIaiS   ~.s
.u~iIepu aida .1ue  u es auvmio  a n~  n dwrmy
0 



Amex 12
P*V20f3
ALBAMIA
TRANSPORT P!tOJECT
Trunpost Action Pkaz
Action                                       RopomMoy                Dnt
(e)    Establish and maintain a safty    mm         Octbe 31, 1994
oriened roeLd vehile licnsig                 and dwmthoufe
4. Road User Charge (par& 2.26)
(a)    Employ consultansb to assist in   MTC        October 1, 1993
eadabing a cost-based system
of road user chag
(b)    Ppose to Padi_at to               (JOA        um 30, 1994
esablis a tax on road fad
(about US$0.15 equvale pet
liter) which cov8s all road
(c)    Maintain the aeage tail prc       GOA        al times
(wiot fld tax) of category 2
paoline and dies fuel at or
above US$0.30 equivalt per
lte.
(d)    Maintain th fiel tax at or above  (bA        Followingadion
US$0.15 equivale per liter.
£  Rad Safe  (paa 2.31)
(s)    pBuq&yo_stoaw to belp             MTC        October 11993
ppareommen  to
impmve mid sadty.
O)    Appoint a GOA official at level     OA        Jaay 1, 1994
Of Pdm Minisw Office to
¢ordinat rd saft and cir
d c_omite conwrifg
staff frm MTC, Polic Hea
ad Justice  Minstie
(e)    Sed daft  d sdly progam           GOA        Ocober 1, 1994
to IDA for conuit
(4)    Submit a bill to Paia&mt to        a         December 31, 1994
improv rd sfety bosd on
roa sdafty pogum.
(4)    Implemet road safey program.      M.TC       Following adaption



Annex 2.2
Pap 3 of 3
TRANSPORT PROJECT
Tanspoit  ton Plan
Action                                             Raposibk                 Date
6. Detwmine Fat=r Role of Albanian Railways
(Pama.2.47)
(a)    Employ consultants to sudy ftue         MTC          October 1, 1993
role of Albaia_n Raiways.
(b)    Submit draft final port to MTC and    cotats         Auut  1, 1994
IDA for conmuL
(c)    Submit a bfll to Paliam, basod on       MTC          Deee 31, 1994
study findings, on t  futr role of
Alban Railways.
(d)    IWhmmt milway rfom                      GOA          Following adopti
GAIM     MMTAMUSVGCOCA
u27, tM99B



Anne= 2.3
ALBANA
TRANSPORT PROJECr
Port of Dunes
Global Mam  Tmaffic
(Mn tons)
Year    Totd Thfik       Exports       Inwors       Domesdc
1956      445,849           -                              -
1960     1,106,757       692,034       357,543        57,180
1965     1,557,145      1,056,687      442,466        57,792
1970     2,069,826      1,458,755      569,723        41,258
1975     2,535,325      1,622,713      874,703        37,909
1980     2,227,054      1,469,965      722,265        34,833
1985     2,181,297      1,495,389      601,274        84,634
1986     2,625,092      1,874,407      636,063        104,622
1987     2,579,816      1,813,796      657,741        108,279
1988     2,823,718      1,901,813      813,819        108,086
1989     2,811,525      1,752,834      968,187        90,504
1990     2,207,000
1991     1,048,000
1992      891,000
a.wVRA~gnS1cAGA23



Annex 2.4
ALBANIA
TRANSPORT PROJECT
Port of Durres
Bulk Trff Operaio
In spite of the ecnomic untainties, we can reasonably assess that the dry bulk taffic
ex pected to be handled thrugh Dures port in the next sevea years is not likely to require the
Constractio n of additional berths. Should future tff  exceed the level roorded in the past,
there is a large amount of room left for increasing port thmroug t usng the extg equipment.
The fares are as follows:
- camne handling capacity: 15 tons
for assesment purposes: 12 tons
-     two cranes workng togete on oe ship
-     crane moves per hour: 12 moves/h
-     handling rate for a dngle ship: 12x12x2 = 288 t/h
rounded to 280 t/h
-     port woring hours: 24 hours/day (3 shifts), 365 da
for assessment putposes: 18 hours/day, 300 dayWycar
-     berths dedicate to bulk handing: 2
-     average idle time at berth: 20%
-     annual opating hours: I8x300x2x0.8 = 8640 h
-     basic thoughput capacity: 8640x280 = 2,419,200 t
rounded to 2,400,00t
The peak reoorded in 1988 rached 2,100,000 t. Furtherm, this caulation    quite
consevaive, and it must be stressed tht 280 t/h is a low handling rate, espeay for ang
ships. if we can only assume the can  wll operte with thir maximum 15 tons capacty, the
bac toghput will go beyond 3 million tons a year. If necessary, mon ti n of bandg
equipment could bring the average handling rate up to at least 500 t/h, or more than 4 mMiin
tos per year.
t._,     NSo W     W
-, U. -



AJz 2.
ALBANIA
TRANSPORT lPROJECT
Port of Dunes
Operaonal I cator
* TOWtal ffin (loot)                                  211                                  10"                 4"
* bulk                                 2140                1689               76                 365
* sc       p                            671                 318               2X                 1S2
Swp Coin (u)                                         354                 552                                  i 128
* buk.                                  237                 236               107                41
* gemid cr caimm                       317                 316               166                87
r- AVans  call duieon                                  26                 167               43 _
- A ag   l waeis                                        91                 39                156 60
E m               _                                                                                .._ __  _
- Avi. ti  at berth (bowu)                             16a                128               296                307
w a*  w gtirn                         7i                   73                123               10
- 1t am                                87                  53                175               152
- AV_rpwallng ma (S5)                                   53                 30                 52                20
(iig dmI          at b__            _
-Avae l&         bathbe(%)                              S2                 43        S9                         49
(ii    E    a $ t   b ath)                __ _  _ _  __      .__     _   _  _  _   _   _ _   _      _   _  _   _
-- .    o-OPTaff 96%                                                     81S%               93S                90*
- Annua fto     tM. of beh OM)
* bul                                               3088               2437               1154                52
e * mlc MP                                           613                382                193                 97
. PzoduotrvlL7(Q
*    Istaip lhowlnPht                                 20                 24                  8                 1t
* per liphouratbeah                                   31                  31                13                 13
* perasipn wig   bowr                                 65                  33                31                 25
- AVerag  4ahipr (1)
* bulk                                              9030               7157               7346                92
*seweac MP                                          2123                1639               578               1517
ol3BUWzAUM NS1WCWAMMAM
iait~~~~~~~~~~.i .. ._



Annex 3.1
ALBANIA
TRANSPORT PROJECT
Road Desg Standards
Design Elmmen                               Type of Teffain
FIN      HUly    Mountain
Design speed                            km/h      100       70        SO
Width of criageway                       m         7        7          7
Width of shoulder                        m        1.50     1.50       1.00
Min. horizontal radius                   m        250       150       100
Min. horizontal tangent                  m        200       150       50
Crossfall                                f        2.5       2.5       2.5
Max. rate of supelevation                %         6         8         10
Mmi. parameter of clotoide               m        150       80        50
Mmi. radius, without tansition curve     m       2,000     1,500      800
Max. gade                                %         4         8         12
Min. radius of crest curve               m       5,000     3,000      800
Min. radius of sag curve                 m       4,000     1,500      500
Min. length of vertcal curve             m        320       240       120
Stopping sight distance                  m        150       100       50
G:UMTMIRAMIUMARWAC.1
FM it, 199



Annex 3.2
Page 1 of 5
ALBANIA
TRANSPORT PROJECT
Road R    i      Program
Supervsion of Works
Terms of Reference
A. SCOPE OF WORKS
1.          The Govemment of Albania (GOA) has requested assstance from the World
Bank, ntnational Development Association (IDA), for a program  of rehabilitation,
strengthening, and completion of unacieved works of selected prionty sections of e National
Road Network  The National Roads Deparment RD) of the Mnistry of T sansport and
Communications (ITC) would be responsible for he upervison of the works to be carried out
by prequaifi contractors selected through ICtonal Competitve Bidding ([CB) procedures.
2.          The works to be caried out include road improvements such as pavement
reconstruction, pavement overlays, widening, shoulder strenging, drainage stuctres,
retining walls, new base and sub-base, in the six road secdons speified in the Attachment 1
to these Terms of Reference (r.O,R.). The reconstucted pavement consist of gravel sub-base,
crushed rock base course, binder and asphalt concrete wearing course. IDA is financing 80
perenet of the five works contract. Tne length, estmated cost, sarting construction year, and
period of consauction are detailed in the Attachment 1. The t iw plementation period of the
whole program would be forty eight (48) months with individual contractu  periods varyng
between twelve (12) and eighteen (18) months. The maintenmce period for each contract would
be twelve (12) months.
3.          On behalf of the GOA, the NRD proses to invite technical and financial
poposals from shortisted Conultants to asist the central and regonal uiits of NRD in bid
evaluation, construction supervision and maintenance sevces of the works on the basis of the
availale designs and bidding documents prepared by NRD. Only one firm would be selected
to cary out the supervision of the five works contracts. Details of the invitation/evaluation of
proposals are given in Attachment 2 to these T.O.R.
4.          The supeision team and man-months for every contract woud be proposed by
the Consultants on the basis of the contracts' charactistics and construction periods and would
include at least a Resident (Highway) Engineer, a Matals Engineer, and an
Insector/Surveyor. The invited Consultants should submit their offers for all and only the
works contracts mentioned in the ltter of invitation.



Annex 3.2
Pae 2 of S
B.   DUTIES AND RESPONSIBLITIES OF THE SUVISIN  CONSULTANT.
5.          The Supevision Consultant w ill a nisterthe Wors Conacts and ensure that
cotctu auses, weheer rated toqwity or quaneowork, a   pctd. It wi ma
the necessary         th and control the quai of wors, ad wll male an engineering
decisions reqired for the good implemetin of th contmt  Hower, the Supevision
Conslnt wi seek pdor aoval of the NRD to:
(a)   issue any variionrde  with financial             , except in an
emergency sitation, as reasonably            by the Sup ;visio
C-
(b)   iss  variaous in work quantities;
(c)   sacti  addtiona items, swm or costs;
(d)   ave the sbletting of any part of the woh; and
(e)   apprve any extsion of the Time for Comptn
6.          Mme Supevision Consultant will carry out the folowing utass
(a)    iue the ordr to commence ;t  works;
0O)   admnister the cvil works conftacts approv tmaris ad qualiy of
the Wor  in accordae with the x 
(c)   approve the Conactor's worc program and the source of matal;
(d)   approve  e Contactors woidng drawing indluding vacato  tbereof,
appre the setg-out of th  Work  ad, gie instoctons to the
contator in this regad;
(e)    atain and deermin  by             te vale  of the Work  in
accordance with the Contact;
(M   isse inrim ceficates for monthy payments, nd cerf complion of
parts or the otality of tie Wor;
(g)   order test of materis and of compled work, and ordr the rmoval o
imprper or substadard works;



Annex 3.2
Page 3 of 5
(h)   ensure tha traffic operational safety is met before comnigthe Works
and ise any work plan or drawing in that resect;
(1)   inWse  the Work  during the maintance period, and iue the
maintenance certificate in consultaion with NRD;
(j)   provide on-the-job traning to all seconded NRD persoend; and
(k)   advise NRD on all mate  related to the executon of the contrat
induding procesing of the Contactor's daim.
C.   DUTIES AND  MESPONSIBILITI   OF THE RESIDENT ENGIER AND m
STAFF
7.          The Resident Engneer and his staff are under the ovall owAol of the
Spervision Consltat (the Engineer's Repreentative), and shall carTy out such dods ad
e ise authrt as may be delegated to him by the Engineer. The main   ss  o£*e
Resdent Engineer are to:
(a)   inpet performance of works in compliance with     ,      order
supervise or perfom test on materials and approve or disppwove the
cntractrs plant and equipment;
b)   check the progress of the work sy    clly examine and attend dhe
measurement of any work that is about to be coverd, and order, if
required, uncoveing of unsatisfactory works and its        y
reostuton;
(c)   check Contactor's invoices, claims and other staements with rspect to
arithmetical errors and compliance with the contct;
(d)   SUprise the Contr  in all matts conening sft  and cme of the
works; direct operations in case of an emergency sion  adfetg the
safet of life, of the work or of adjoining pmperty;
(e)   verify and get corrected the  as built" drawing  suppled by the
contwacto,
(t)   canry out at least three maintenance inspection visits duing the Ddeft
Liability Period (equivalent to the one-year con   maintena
period); and



Annex 3.2
Page 4 of S
(g) cary out such duties under the terms of the contact as may by delegated
in writing from the Consultant
D.   ADD[ONAL CLAUSE
8.          The Consutant, in the person of the Resident (Hfighway) Engineer should advise
and help NRD in the evaluation of bids for each of the fve contract. He will, if and when
required by NRD, vit Tana for as many days as required, and advise the
procurmetselection team establied for the evaluation of bids. He would tae an active and
importnt role in the preparaon of the bids evaluation report. The fees for this service should
be spedfied in the Consltant's offer duly sepaated from those of supervision of works (for
which these T.O.R. are mainly meant) on the base of daily fees. Therefore, the Resident
(Highway) Enginee (or, as an exception, any other member of the team and/or the firm) shoud
have gnificnt exeience in prcmet under LC.B. according to World Bank procedures.
B.   RIEPORTS AND DOCUMENTS
9.          The Consultants shafurnish to the NRD the following reports and documents
in Engish:
(a)   Monthly Progress Reports (5 copies) commencing at the end of the month
following the date of agreement signed between the Contractor and NRD
for constction of works, and ending at the end of the month in which the
issue of the provisional compledon cerficate, i.e., the staring date of the
one-year contractual maintenance period, taes place;
0)   Completon Report (10 copies) at the time of the final completion of
works (Final Completon Cetficate the end of the contraual
maintenance period);
(c) Built drawings (one original and five copies) of the project as soon as
possible after completion of the project; and
(d)   Maintenance Inspecdon reports (10 copies) after each maitenance
Inseon.
10.         The Consultant should carry out at least three maintenance vispectio vsts durng
the  e-ye  maintenanc contu period to be established for the maintenance of works after
completio.
11.         The Contractor shall provide the Consultant furnished office and residential space
and t     tation free of charge as per bidding documents. The Contactor shall also provide



Annex 3.2
Page 5 of S
adtional tehnical services duly jusfied.
12.         The Consultant and its expaiate staff shall be exempt from payment of inoome
tax. The NRD shall asst the Consultant i obaiig any entry/exit visa, etc. However, the
cost of the same shall be borne by the Consultant.
13.         Any available informaton, repot, documents, drawings, etc., red  to the
design and execudon of the works shall be made avalble by the NRD to the Consultant.
14.         All documentation reated to works is, and will rmain after completon of worms,
NRD's property. The Consultant can not use or dispose of this documentation without prvious
writte consent.
.U ZxS
PEB t19 5



Annex 3.2
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 2
ALBANIA
PROPOSED TRANSPORT PROJECT
List of Roads for the Project
CONTRACT N. 1.-         Thana-Voaa Road. Rehabiliion of about 5.0 km includig
mainly an asphalt concre  (4-cm) overa  and daiae
ovements.  Fla  teain.  Esmated cost US$690,000.
Estimated taffic: 6,000 v.p.d. Year of staring co struci
1994. Con on period: 12 months. Conactu  maint
period: 12 months.
CONTIRACr Nr.2.-         irana-Fushe Krija. Rehabi   of about 9.0 km incblu
mainly an asphalt concret  (4-cm) overlay.  Flat teain.
Estimated cost: US$730,000. Estimated taffic: 5,000 v.p.d.
Year of staring consatcto: 1995. Cononperiod: 12
months. Contractalmatenanceperiod: 12m       .
CONTRACT Nt.3.-         Trana-Embasan (up to Krraba). RehabiL   of about 27km,
mainly asphalt concret (4-cm) overlay, i v   of drinae
structures and reaning walls. Muntoustei   Estimated
cost: US$2,425,000. Esimated traffic: 4,000 v.p.d. Year of
sart   construction: 1995. Contuin period: 18 months
Contractualmaintene perod: 12 months.
CONTRACT Nr.4.-           fasan-km 23 west Rehablitat  of about 23 k[M (icluin
improvemnt of Cafisn border crossing) with a 5 cm ashl
concrete overlay, improvement of drainage and some bridge and
ning wall repair. Mountais terain (10 km), th  rot
slghtly undulated. Estmated cost US$2,500,000. Estmated
taffic 2,500 v.p.d. with high incidence (25%) of truck. Stg
constructin:  1994. Con     period: 18 months. Contactual
maintenaneperdod: 12 months.
CONTRAC  NM.S.-         Fushe Kruja-Mamumsi (10 km). Compledon of a road stared but
work  nerupted due to lack of funds. Flt teain. About 50
percent of the work and stuctes are completed.        road
secton (first phase of Fushe Kruja-Lwzia, 37 kn) is very
imptant, bypasse twns and villages, and avoids a dangerous
level intrsecton with a road and railway through an overps 70
peet complete. Estimated cost: US$2,242,000. Esimated
:t.  7,000 v.p.d. Year of stg    constion: 1994.
Construction period; 18 nths. Contractual maIntenance period.
18 months. Contactu  maintenance perod: 18 monthL



Ane 3.2
AUa lment 1
Page 2 of 2
CONTRACT Nr.6.-              a-Miloti 9m; second phase of the Fush. KRuja-Luha
rid).             hadly taled and nerptd due to lack
ofmds. Impoat toad secobypang import  and dangerous
crossin  through towns and viage. Plat terain. Togeer with
the fit phase it saves 7 km in th Tlana-Le ha itnemy (37 kh).
Canstructio  consists moly of eart movenme  ad pavemen
construcon.Estmated cost: US$5,000,000.    mated trffic:
5,500 v.p.d. Year of statng constructo: 1995. Construon
perod: two yea. Contract  mn          period: 12 months.



Annex 3.2
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 3
ALBANIA
TRANSPOR PROJECT
Road Rehablilitaton Program
Supervson of Works
Invitation and Evaluation of Consultant Firms
Sample Letter
Dear Sirs:
We are pleased to inform you that your firm of Consultants has been shored
by us for submission of Technical and Financial proposals for construction supervi on of (names
of the contas of Attachment 1), approximately  (Number) kIn. Terms of reference for
constrction supervision services are enclosed herewith for your study and inomation.
The bids for constructton works are being isued to the interested prequalified contracwtos
and shall be opened on (Opening Date). The prqject has been designed by the National Roads
Department NR).
Tecinical and financial proposals are required to be submitted in separate covers (three
copies to NRD and one copy to World Bank, IDA). The technical proposal should include
names and CVs of the proposed members of the supevion team. Tne financial proposal shall
contan all inclusive man-month rates for each category. Man-month rates are paid according
to the actua presence at site. The financal proposal shall be split into two paru  viz.,
Consucto Superion and Maintenance period sAvice.
Evaluation of the technical proposals of the firms invited (maimum of six firms to be
invited) wiU take into considemtion (a) the firm's general eeience in the field of the
assignment, (b) the adequacy of the proposed work plan and approach in responding to the
Terms of Reference, and (c) very specifically, the qualifications and competence of the pwsonnel
proposed for the assignment.
Price will also be used as a selection factor but it should never undermine the quality of
the Technical Proposal. The tecical evaluaton will be undertakn indepedently and free from
the influence of price; a two-stage procedure will, therefore, be adopted with the technical and
financidal pwposals submitted separaly in sealed envelopes as mentiond above. The technical
evaluation will be completed before the price proposals are reviewed.



Annex 3.2
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 3
Technical evaluation sal have 100 points consisting of Experiece in the relevant field
15, Technical Proposal 35, and CVs of Supervision team 50. Finmcial proposal should be given
20 percent. To that effect, results of technical evaluation should be converted into 80 points by
multiplying by a factor of 0.80 to which results of financial evaluation should be added to arrive
at final figures. Only firms scoring 64 points or more will be taken into price consideration and
final selection. Maximum of 20 points should be given to lowest pnce offered and zero for
highest. The selected Consultant shall be one which has highest added score from Technical and
Fmancial Evaluation.
The time allowed for submission of proposals is (minimum 45 days) after the date of this
letter of invitation.
The period for which each Consultant's proosal will be held valid and during which the
Consultant will undertake to maintain without charge the proposed staffig (including named
Personnel) and the proposed price is 120 days after the above closing date for submission of
proposals. If contract award is delayed beyond the otiginal bid validity period, the succesful
bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of delay by two correcdon factor (to be
discussed with and acceptable to IlDA), the first one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the second one to the local component of the bid price.
The contract to be signed with the selected Consultant firm will be a time-based rSte
(man-month) contract. The time-based rate, which is the man-month, includes salary, social
costs, firm's overhead, travel costs, fee or profit, and an overseas allowance.
In principle, the esdmated day by which the selected Consultant is expected to commence
the assignment, is (Day, Month and Year).
The Technical and Financial Proposals marked on the envelope as proposals for
Consultancy Services (Name of the Road Contract) shall be submitted on or before (Hour, Day,
Month and Year of Submission Deadline) to the following addrs:
1. National Road Department
Director
Address (Number and Street or P.O. Box Nr.)
TIRANA, Albania
Telex (Nr.); Phone (Nr.); Fax (Nr.)
(Tree copies to be sent)
2. Interational Development Association
The World Bank
Attention: (Name) Division
Addre  (Number and Street)
City, Code, Country
(One copy to be sent)



Annex 3.2
Attachment 2
Page 3 of 3
Tender documents can be seen in the NRD Design Department during office hours, if
desired. They can also be acquired through mail after payment of US$ (number), if otherwise
desird.
Plral, adaowledge rebipt of this leta of plvisate and staoe woefd smOt yhoul wbl
bmta pxapoul and, when submiting a proposal, dfi date and mode of sbpment should be
given.
Sinceey,
RD Dirctor)
c.c.: ILE. Minister of Transp  and Commumicaions
c.c.: mhe Wodd Bank
=Ulm
G".ULMU31CSACAi



Annex 3.3
ALBANIA
TRANSPORT ]PROJECT
Road Maintenance Equipment
UMTPRICE            TOTAL
flEm                                                UNIT           (US)            Um)
A.    EQUMETl, TOOLS & MATERIAS
FOR TIRANA WORKSHOP                           L.S.        250,000         250,000
BI    ROAD GENERAL EQUIPMENT
1.    Roller (8-10 tonsvbrato)                         1          30,000          30,000
2.    Roller (1 lon/static)                            2           2,000           4,00
3.    Pick-p Trucks                                    6          12,000          72,000
4.    Dumps (7 tons)                                   3          30,000          90,000
S.    Auto Trwk Cmne (12 tons)                         1          45,000          45,000
6.    Ardculated Leader (1,25 cu/r)                    1          40,00           40,000
7.    Snow Plow Tncto                                  1          70,000          70,000
8.    Snow Blower Tracto                               2         125,000         2S0,000
9.    Asphalt Cocet Cutt                               2          18,000          36,000
10.   Srvic Cas (4W/D) for NRD                         4          15,000          60,000
SUb-otal                                                    697,000
C      ASPEIALT EQUIPMENT
1.    Asphalt Concrde Mbing Plant                      1         500,000         S00,OOO
2.    Cusbiag CssfierP                                 1          120,000        120,000
3.    Filler Classifier Set                            1          30,000          30,000
4.    Self-repeled Paver (S0ton/h)                     1          !0,000          90,000
S.    Ditum Spreader Tnick (2tons)                     1           15,000         15,000
6.    Bitumen Distnbuor (S tons)                       1           15,000         15,000
Subotal                                                     770,00
D.    LABORATORY, PAINTING AND
TUSNG EQUIPMENT
1.    Mobile Labtory                                   1         100,000         100,000
2.    Mobi4l Weight Sles                               4          20,000          80,000
3.    Traffic Counters                                10           5,000          50,000
4.     Computer                                        4           5,000          20,000
S.    Road Pang Machines                               2           lS,000         30,000
6.    HAnd Painig Set                                  1           7,000           7,000
Sub-total                                                   287,000
TOrAL                                                      2,004,000
0A     N5VUNXA%7AXS1WCdARWA$



Annex 3.4
Page 1 of 2
ALBANIA
TRANSPORT PROJECT
Technical Aesistance to NRD and MTC
Terms of Reference
1.          Advisor to NRD for Project Implementati.
This expert in the National Roads Department (NRD) should have a
comprehensive exeince in development work. He/she will assist NRD on the overall
implementation of the project and will advise NRD's Director and senior staff at
headquarters, and the directors at district level on the following:
(a)   implementation and organiztional adjustments;
(b) in-house management;
(c)   financial and adminisative management systems;
(d)   peonnel development tasks;
(e)   introduction of standard tender documents and contract negotation prooedures;
(f)   improvement of mainteace c'pabilities; and
(g)   pavement management systems.
The assignment duration of the expert, prefrably a civil engineer with a
maser's degree and extensive expeience in public (roads) adlminist   is twelve (12)
months in the field.
2.          Tansport Policy Advisor to MTC.
The advisor's overall task wil be to asist the Minister and staff of the
Ministry of Trnsport and Communications (MTC) to adopt market-based tanport poLcies,
laws and reglations. Using his knowledge of how the transport sector is organzed in
westen counties, the advisor wnll assess cunrent praces ad make recommdation  assist
MTC to draft appropriat legislation ad reguons, ad train MTC staff in the following
areas:
(a)   define MTC's role, policy objectives, relationsi with transport opeators,
organiatin and staffing;



Annex 3.4
Page 2 of 2
(b)   adopt tport regulaons, pariulaly for road transport, which do not
interfere with the commercial independence of opeators or discourage
inte¢nodal compedtion, but which promote the Govenments interest in safety
and the environment;
(c)   establish a system of cost-based road user charges;
(d)   establish and implement a safety-oriend road vehicle lcensing system;
(e)   prepare annual trspot investment and financing plans based on realiic
financig possibilides which include economically justified projects ranked in
order of economic priority (i.e., economic return > 12% and first year retn
> 12%); and
(k)   if required, as  MTC to private its rmaining commercial truclkng fleet.
The duration of the advisors assignment, preferably a tansport conomist or
public aministration specialist with more than ten yeas eperience, is eighteen (18) months
in the field. The advisor will coordinate his activities with those of other advisors financed
under the projecL
3.          E1Ianda Advisor.
The purpose of the consutncy services is the introducion of a well accepted
financial management system. The expert will:
(a)   review the existing practices in the areas of finmcial accounting, costing,
pricng policies, and depreciation (mainly equipment) methods;
(b)   make recommendns on (a) above in order to bring exisng prctces to the
level of generally accep  internaional nanci magement and accting
prinxcipe, standards and procedures;
(c)   advise MTC on the implementation of above recommendations and prepare an
action plan scheduling activities required; and
(d)   supervise implementaton of the  mmendations.
The assinment duraton of the exper, prefer-ably a financial analyst with a
master degree and exsive erence in public administiosn, i four (4) months in the
fild.
WE 25. 19



Annex 3.S
Page 1 of 5
ALBANIA
TRANSPORT PROJECT
Study and Pepartio of a Road Safety Progrm in Albania
Terms of Referen
L    oduon.
L.    The Govemment of Albania is concerned about the level of acddents on the road
network  It intends to camy out a study to invesigate the curent tffic safety and
accdent sun  and on the basis of this study to prepae and implement a safety
program aimed at the grdual reduction in the number and severity of the road accidents
in Albania. The Mnistry of Tnnsport and Communicaons (M) through the National
Roads DVpartment (NRD), in cwrdination with the main ageces concerned, will be
;esponsible for the study and will ange for a naional adon progam of road saft
to be    ed  or for furtier investigation, as may be necessry. NRD will form a
team of aional and for    experts to carry out the study.
IL    Objecies.
2.    The main objectives of the study are to:
(i)   povide an ovevw of the curent nationwide road afety situation, fom
the effectveness of exsting policies, analytical tools and plufidi
coondinato  to the analysis of national accident rates both in absolute
tms and in trued tem;
(u)   evabae cost and effectiveness of current road safety acto  and propose,
in a context of limited availabiliy of funds, conistent piority action
progrms for improvem   of present situat;
(ii)  demonstrate to nationad, reona and local authoAities that imprved and
well coordiated action progams are urgent and feasible; and
(iv)  prar  specific proposals for project          on road safety,
including financial and key policy changes requirements.



AIne 3.5
Page 2 of 5
m.   Scope of Study.
3.    The study will focus on road afety as a multdisciblinary   involving seva
ministries, including:
(i)   road infra       and trffic mement;
(i)   rad  ng, maring and other safety equipment;
OR)  vehces;
(iv)  traffic reguato and legisatin, and licensing of dnver;
(v)   enforcement and sancto;
(v)  insurance;
(vii) training and education of drivers, polie, pedestrians and school cbfldren;
(viii) publi infmato;
(ix)  emageny assstance; and
(x)   inter-agency    n ,       dent rpotg and stic data base.
IV.  Manpower and Schdule
4.   It is proposed to form a team coting  of two highway engineers and one
computer analyst under the overall guidance of one senior engieer of MrC (NRD).
This team will wodc under the consultancy advice and guidance of one eading
internional expert in te field for a limited durion, in view of the impotanc of the
study. For obvious reasons of fnding, isttonal and manpower limitio, the study
is concerned, initally, with taffic afton the main highway network in the country
covering a length of about 8,000 In,, and spcifically on the 3,000 kn of paved rads.
Howve, the mu       ln     analysis shud by nationwide.
S.    The above road safety study is expcted to be completed in a pedod of 12 months
spread over three phases. The first phase lastng four months will be udlized for
collection of the rleva  data needed for the study. The second phase lasting six months
will be utilized for analysis of the colec  data.  he last phase lasting two months wil
be utilized for frmulation of the needed safety chemes and finizatn of study teos.



Annex 3.5
Page 3 of S
V.   Consultancy Services
6.   It is proposed to utiliz the consultancy services of the intnatonal road safet
specialis for a total of six months spread over the study perod at the rate of two months
at the commencement of each of the tree stages of the proposed study. The details of
the consultancy services to be provided by the intenional road safety specialist during
the different phases are as follows below.
7.    Phase I: During this phase, the consultant will provide specialist advice on the
general approach to the study including allocation of functions for the various team
members, details of data to be collectd, coding and analysis system to be adopted for
compilation of traffic accidents, methodology for identification of black spot locations,
procedure for evaluation of accident costs, and a general appraisl of the accident
situation vis-a-vis the existing geometric, traffic, road surface and the safety features on
the main road network taken up for study.
8.    Phase II: During this phase, the consultant will review the coding and analysis
of accident data colected already, road inventory made and the data collected for
determination of accident costs. The consultant will also (a) review the black spot
location and identify the needed safety measures, besides establishing a methodology for
the systematic economic evaluation of these black spot improemet schemes, (b) identify
the modifications needed for the accident data collection system to facilitate purposeful
analysis in the light of a Microcomputer Accident Analysis Package, e.g., the one
developed by TRRL or similar, (c) make an indepth study of the existing taffic system
including driver education and training, vehicle inspectio and testing, road user
education with prcular reference to childr  education, highway design practices
adopted including provison of traffic safety measures, and the prevailing road
construction and maintenance standards, insurance industry operation in the country and
the post accident medical fcilities, (d) identify deficiencies in the existing system of
traffic engineering, traffic education, traffic enforcement and traffic administraton, and
propose measures for their improvement, (e) organize training courses and lectures to
the senior officials of the various departments and organizations concemned with traffic
engineerng, taffic education, traffic enforcement and trc   adnsion and
management to drive home the importance of the study and the various findings and
proposals emanatir; therefrom.
9.    Phase HI: During this phase, the consultant will review the analysis so far done,
scrutinize improvements proposed with particular emphasis on the economic crteria and
review the system of traffic signing and road markings suggesting suitable modifications.
The Consultant will also (a) finalize modifications needed in the eisting accident data
collection system and a computerizd system for purposeful analysis of the accident data,
(b) finalize the recommendations in the fields of traffic engineering, traffic education,



Annex 3.5
Page 4 of 5
traffic enforcement, admini on and conduct detailed discossions and seminars, both
individually and in groups, regarding these ecom ans and their implications both
short range and long range, (c) propose any modifications considered necessary in the
esting legislative measures concerning road traffic for iniating further action in this
regard, and (d) finalize draft reports on all aspects of he study indluding illustrative
guidelines and wodring manuals in all fields connected with road safety such as tafflc
engineering, traffic education and trffic enforcement. A very impotant task of the
Consultant will be to prepare and advise on the establishment of a Road Safety
Committee, chaired at the level of the Prime Minister's office and with members of
every road-safety related agency for the coordination of all agencies functions and
actvities.
VI.  Equipment and Services.
10.  It is proposed to procure one 4 WAD vehicle for the exclusive use of the study
team and also ctain equipment such as speed measuring devices, sid resstanc tst
devices, magnetic amber flashing lights for car roof, road measuring wheels and the like.
The consultant can also suggest any other essenrtal equpment needed to conduct the
study. In addition, the infa        ties available with MTC (NRD and LS.P.2)
such as cll astnce, computer, typing and photocopy facilities will be utilized for
compilaion and analysis of data and for preparing the reports on the findings of the
study. The NRD/I.S.P.2 will provide office space and funiture for use of the consultant
during te study period.
VIL   Co-ordinafion and Guidance.
11.   The consultant shal prie detailed advice and guidance to the study team of
NRD/IS.P.2 and shall maintain close co-rdinat  with the NRD during all stages of
the study. All data and information already available with NRD/ILS.P.2 will be made
available for carrying out the study. Where co-operation is required from other
government deparmets and agencies, NRD will provide necssary liaison.
Vm. Reporing
12.  The original report will be in English. Trnatons into Albanian will be
provided by NRD/I.P.S.2. A report will be prepared for each phase followed by a Fimal
Summary Report. Every report, paticularly the Fmal Report, would include (a) an
executive summary for high level decision makers, and (b) a genera report describing
the results and recommendations of the study.



C        I1.         II.I         , . 



AMs3.6
ALBANIA
TRANSIPORT ]PROJECT
Port Equipment
rEM                              UAiT    UMWTPMCE    I TAL
(US)         (us)
1. Spare pas                               L.S.      130,000        130,000
2. Workshop equipment and materials        L.S.      130,000        130,000
3. Rubber-tyred mobile ce                   1        800,000        800,000
35 ton (for 40 ft cotaine)
4. Contne forkift:
Heavy duty - 25 tons                   1        250,000        5,0
35 tons                        1       35,000         35000
S. Excavators for s dln (oe)                2         25,000        50,000
6. Excavators for ore-handling (berh)       2         50,00O        100,0oo
7. Forklft for warehouses                   20        50,000      1,000,000
8. Tctors                                   10        25,000       250,000
9. Trailers                                 20        10,000       200,000
10. Office Compus                           10        4,000
TOTAL                                          3
inn, m



Annex 3.7
Page 1 of 3
ALBANIA
TRANSPORT PROJECT
Port of Durre
Technical Asistae Program
Terms of Reference
Port Management and Adminiio Ept
This expert will be responsible for asdstng the General Manager of the Port of
Durres in the following fields:
(a)  implementation of the new  Port Authority framework based on
adminitatve  autonomy,  definition  of  the  new  relatonhip
with  central  ministies  and  of the  new  port  mangeen
patten, including the role and composition of the Board of
Directors;
(b)   opaonal mt of port activities;
(c)   manpower adaptation to the new  port services requiment  in
both staff number and technical skills; and
(d)   definition of staff training progams.
The assignment duraion is extd to be 12 months in the field.
2.          Cargo H    ing and Logsts Expert
This expert will be responsible for poiding guidance and on-tefield taining
to the port staff in cre  of cargo transit opertons, with Specific co on towards the
following matters:
(a)   handling  of  unitzed  cargo:  container  operons,  handling
and  storage  management,  customs  clearance  arngements,
implementation of efficient working patterns;



Annex 3.7
Page 2 of 3
(b)   handling  of  roll-on/roll-off  traffic:  transit  management,
intermodal arrangements; and
(c)   improvement  in  techniques  and  productvity  of  coneonal
cargo handling.
The assgnment dration is expected to be 6 months in the field.
3.          Port Financial and Accounting Expert
OBJECTIVE
The purpose of the consultancy services is to:
(a)   carry out a diagnostic review and make   ommet     of new and
imprved methods to bring the exsting practics at h Pot of Duwrr to
the level of generally accepted inional financial mt  and
accounting principles, standards and procedures. This would apply to
ara  of genal financial accounting,  osting, pricg poicies,
depreciation methods, and detenain of profitability.
(b)   design and implement new sytem  and pocedures on the basis of the
above recommendations in consultation with the Government, the Port of
Dures Authority and the World Bank.
(c)   rew  the apopratens of the strucue and leve of the port tariff
schedWe vis-a-vis regional co i       and cost rcovery.
(d)   advise the Government and the Port of Drmes Authorty on the
desrabiity and on the steps to be taken for the tansfer of the rveues
accring from ships dues presently collected by the Harbor Masers
Office to the contol of the Port of Diaros Authoty for its use especially
for the maintenance, expnsion and/or replacement of the port's
infrastruct.
WORIK ]PROGRAM
in the work progm  ained at hieving the above objetves the co t shall
pay special atttion to:
(a)   General Accountg Plan-Chart of Accounts for Balance Sheet and Profit
and Loss Accounts Classifiions; and Cost Aeconting Plan - Chart of



Annex 3.7
Page 3 of 3
Accounts for Fuwdonal Accounts, DPtmental  ccounts, Cost
Centers/Profit Center Acoounts asi    .  tegating the two plans.
(b)   Dercainmethods, mainteanc pracice and inventory control and
pricig methods;
(c)   Analydcal techniques for assessing the fnancial situationP,perforce
levels, productivity, cost recovey and pofitablity of funtonal units
poviding each tpe of port sevice,     inaton of apprpriate port
tari, etc.
(4)   Soure o       a     and accounting acons such as prepgaton,
processing, veification, appra ewt;
(C)    nternal control, checks and balnce and Lmi of authorty;
(f)   Stndard foms for recording and cont       all transaco;
(g)   Preparation of an accounting manual setfing forth a coded cat of
accots with descrpo  of both gener and cost acoount; and
(S)   Use of counterpa  firom the Port of Durres Authrity at all stages of the
consutats work program.
h assgnment duaion is epcted to be 12 months in the field.
FUJ



Annex 3.8
Page 1 of 8
ALBANU
TRANSPORT PROJECT
Port Master Plan Study
Terms of Refence
I.      Genral Baund
1.        TM  Albanian economy is now being tansformed from a central planning system
to a maket eoonomy. In this context, the Goverment is revising its port development policy
in order to adapt te sector to the new economic pattern. While the new insuional fmnework
will be designed with the genfeflral view to enhance the autnomous adminve and fincial
management of te port authorities, there is an immediate need for a compdehensive assessment
of the present and futre potei of the exsting port faciites.
2.          The Albnian port sector is made up of four ports distributed along the shorelne
accorin to th foloig patr
-     Durs, locaed 40 km from TImna, handles 85% of the country's
internatiol matme traffic;
-     Vlora,90 km south of Durres;
-     Saranda, 160 kin south of Durres;
-     Sheini, 60 ka north of Durres.
3.          The pot of Dures offers 9/10 berths, with a tot length of 2000 m, and an
available drught angin from 7 m to 9.85 m. The entrance channel of 2.5 kn long is now
dredged to 8.5 m depth. The tide does noteeed 0.30 m. These cnditions allow the port to
accommodate ships upto 25,000 wt fuly loaded. The port of Vloa used to be the second port
of the country, and despite its loseness to Dures, heavy investmets have been made by the
previous Adminisi  In te last years in new port foacities. However, the project undng
has not been completed: the infraructue is only partally built, and no equipent has been
acqured. Ihe possible role of Vloa within the Albanian port sector is not blar yet and as for
fuer in       i     ng into amcount the new traffic pats likely to arise. The two other
Albanian pors do not handle igificat amounts of traffic.



Annex 3.8
Page 2 of 8
IL. Objectives of the Study
4.          The purpose of the present Port Master Plan Study is to provide a development
pepectve for the main port of Durres, together with revant considans as how to take
advantage in the future of the exisdng new port infrAstrucure in Vlora.
5.          The port of Durres is the main commarcial port of Albania, handling 85% of fte
country's maritime traffic. Up to 1990, the port taffic amounted between 2.4 and 2.8 million
tons, 70 % of which in bulL The  on   of the country's economy is now upsetting the
former outside trade pattn of Albania, making therefore difficult the worldng out of reliable
port traffic forcs for the years ahead. However, as far as the port facilites themselves are
concerned, a first overall rview has to be carried out in order to:
(a)   assess the technical rUliability of the present infastrucure and equipment
of the port of Durfes;
(b) estimate the port operations productv.ity and consequently, the port
hougbput capacit at the present stage;
(c)   detene the ways to improve the port producvity up to a reasonable
level according to modern woring standards, and therefore to increase
port throughput capaity without building new i  nrtrucr facilities;
(d)   conside how the overall port of Dura area should be managed in the
future, in order to be able to cope in the most efficient possible way with
the different kdnds of traffic expected: industrial bulk, grain, genera
cargo, containers; and
(e)   consider the role, if any, to be possbly played by the new port
infrac    parally completed in Vloa.



Annex 3.8
Page 3 of 8
m. Scope of Conun Sevies
6.          The Consultants shall perform all engineering work, the collection and analysis
of every technical and operanl data, as required to attain the objectives set forth in Section
Il above. The Consultants sball conduct these studies in consultation wit the MTC, through the
involvement of the Sea Transport Directorat and the Durres Port Authority. The Consultants
shall, however, be solely responsible fot the analysis and interpretation of all data received and
for the findings, conclusions and recommendations contained in their reports.
7.          The services shall be cariet out in four ste, as follows:
Step 1:     Technical Assesmt of Present Port Faclties
Infrsrcture
(a)   Channe: the adequacy of the entance channel chaac ics (depth,
width and general layout) will be reviewed taldng into account the
dging mantenance management and the accommodation capacity of the
port basin.
(b)   Berths: the soundne of the berths stuctr will be checlkd by lookdng
for any subsidence behind the quaywalls and vual inspection of the
concrete blocks and piles.
Bidbn
(a)   Warehouses: the need for refurbishment or rehabiliton of the existing
warehouses will be assessed, together with the necessity of dismantling
those which are built in a way that could prevent the efficient use of up-
to-date handling equipmeat.
(b)   Other buldins: rehabiliaon of the workshop building will hame to be
considered, and an aleatve location will likely have to be found for the
port ade building.
Equ_met
(a)   Quay cranes: the 30 canes now opeatng in Durres port are between 10
and 30 years old. Their nominal lifting capacity ranges from S tons (22)
to 15 tons (8). The technical review will have to provide the folowing
dat on their operational cqaity:



Annex 3.8
Page 4 of 8
0I) define what is now the actual opat ali*fing capacity of the
diffemt pic  of equipment compared to the nomnal one;
(ii)  according to tir overall mechanical condiion, assess the level of
performance that can be reasonably expected from each cane;
(iii)  point out the cases, if any, where it woudd be advisable to remove
a crane from operations because of too poor productivity or of
safety reasons.
(b)   Yardhug equpment: the port operates mainly forklifts, tactr and
tsUm, and 4 bridge cranes man     d by the port wokshop itself.
Operonal conditions and potential productivity of these piece of
equipment will have to be assessed togete with teir expected remaining
woring lifeime.
Step 2:     Port Operations Survey
The purpos of this survey is to point out the lmting fctor in present port
produc y and to suggest ways for impvng it wnthout binngng major chang  in port
inraucu   The port productivity can be assessed from difrnt viewpts, all refring to
th same basic set of dat The minimum folowing information will have to be brought tOgethr,
Complmented as far as the Consultant may find necessay, in order to prvie a complete
picture of the port wordng condidons and efficiency, and to allow identfying present or
po_ttil botleneck'
(a)   Ship       i t
Ths is mainly the shipowner's concern. As far as possible, the following data
wi have to be collected:
-     tonn    handled per hour spent in port
-     tnnage hanod  per working hour in port (excluding waiting ime and idle
ime at berth)
-     ship working time/ship total tme in port
-     waitng ratio (ship waiting tme before berthing/time at berth)



Annex 3.8
Page 5 of 8
These figures must be produced sepaately for buk  and genr cargo carriers.
(b)   Berth productiity
The following information will be looked for.
berth occupancy rate (per berth or group of berths)
-     berth uthzation rate (referring to period of tme where beted  ips are
actually working)
-     annual throughput per unit of length of quay
These figures must be produced sepaltely for bulk and geneal cargo berths.
(c)   Labor productit
The following data will have to be disphyed:
-     gross throughput per gang/shift (or man/hour) in tons
-     ne thoughput per ganglsft (or man/u) in ton  (xluding idle time)
-     idle timettotal official workdng ime
-     average tonnage handled per port worker per year
Thes figur  must be produced separtely for bulk and geneal cargo trffic.
(d)   Cargo trait time
The aveage cargo dwelling ime in port area should be assessed for import and
export traffic, as far as possible according to the avilable data
Step 3:     Assmmnt of Port Thrughput Capacity
(a)   Based on the above information, and on the urent prmcdtes in port work
organition (working schedule, shift system, woridng and non-workng
days), a com    veassment of the pet pot throughput capcy
in Dumes will be caried out. For the ppose of the assessment, and due
to the u     i   on fiure taffic disbution, we will assume the
present distibution of bert between bulk and general cargo traffic will
be maintained.  The reslt of ths asessment, togeter with the
operonal data gatred above, will be comae to c rrespodnratios
and figures in other Eropean ports wid similar tac level, in oder to
higight the fidds deserving impr   ts or adapt_on.



Annex 3.8
Page 6 of 8
(b)   The maximum possible port throughput capacity in the prest physcal
infastbucture configuration will be assessed by assuming the
implementation of the measures suggested by the opeaional review,
which can encompass, but may not be limited to, the following items:
-     upgrding the handling equipment capacity, either by  biliting
existing cranes or, more liklWy, by operating new ones and by
renewing yard equipment;
-     improving the work ornization pattern, the compoin  of
workers gangs, the availability of port and admirive   I;
and
upgrading the port maintenance capability in order to ensure the
-maximum equipment availability.
Step 4:     Port Development  ster Plan
In pite of the significant unceainties about the port taffic forecast we have to
rely on to assess the futre of the Albanian port activity, it is possible to assume it will have to
deal, in any case, with three major commodity types: bulk cargoes, break bulk and convenional
general cargo, and containers. The traffic forecasts established by the World Bank will be made
available to the Consultants as a worldng basis, and should be updated by the Conslnts in the
light of recent developments.
Taling this into account, it is therefore neceLary to prepare furher port
development planming by setting out the main frame of land distribution between the main port
taffics within the port opewatio  area. The areas of interest in this respect ae the folowing:
For the Port of Durres
(a)  to define the adequate area for acommodaing bulk traffic, including
specific commodities which can require dedicated handling faciities, like
grpin;
(b)  to determine the future locaion of a container yard, for both the short and
the medium term;



Annex 3.8
Page 7 of 8
(c)   considering the development possibilities of the port trafics in the future,
the locations proposed should as far as possible allow for furte extension
phased acoording to possible trafc evolution;
(d)   based upon the results of the technical assessment caried out in step 1
above, the disntding of some warehouses can be considered in order to
increase the availability of working and open stacking areas near the
watefont;
(e) the present port administrative building is located within the port
operational zone: its removal from this place could clear the way for
tansfer operations and enhance port security by limiting access to the
customs zone; a new location will have to be proposed by the Consultant;
and
(f)   based on the results of the inveigations caried out as descibed in step
2 above, the need for a possible imprvement of the port informatn
system will be assessed; this task will include a review of the satistcal
tables and of their issuing schedule, and any proposal to upgrde the
rdevance and suitability of the port operational and financial satistics will
be made with the aim to provide the Port Authority with a monthly
management board summing up the main dgnificant results of the port
acivity for the considered period.
For the Port of Vlora
(g)  the possible future use of the partially completed new port inhfat e
in Vlora will be invesgated, with a particular concern about the possibly
needed improvement of the unloading conditions of petroleum products
through the existing sea-line near the new port location.
The Master Plan Report will include identfication of land and water areas
requirements, indicate the general dimensions and locations of the pwposed fcilities to be
implemntedo, and will provide an order of magnitude of the related investments needed over the
pero



Anex 3.8
Page 8 of 8
IV. lime Schedule and Reportig 
8.          Ibe Consultants will complete the work program in no longer than seven working
months, acordig to the folowing reporting schedule:
Progre Report No 1 :          2 months after swta   date
(after completion of Step 1)
Prgress Report No 2:          4 months after staring date
(after completion of Steps 2 and 3)
Draft Master Plan Report:     6 months after starting date
(after completion of Step 4)
Final Mast Plan Report:       1 month after reception of comments from
the Albanian Authorities
9.          The Final Master Plan Report wil include an Executive Summary suming UP
the main findings and In         s of the Consultn. Floppy disk and a rdule
copy shall be provided for the purpoe of reproducing the text of the study.
10.        It is expected that the total work input should be within 12 man-months and will
include the involvement of a port engineer, a port equipment expert and a port opeation expert
FE 11. 1993



Amn  3.9
Page 1 of 3
ALBANIA
TRANSPORT PROJECT
Port of Durres
Acdon Plan
Adion             R.pe  b.                      Do
1.  hImprove        soal Status
(a)   Employ Consultants to asist in       PDA        October 1,1993
estblisbing autonomous port
authaoity and rlated legal
documentaton
(b)   Adopt a status of administative and  MTC       June 30, 1994
financidal autonomy for the Port of
Duffes Authority
2.   Improve Opeational Peformae
(a)   Employ Conmultants to tain port      PDA        October 1, 1993
staff to improve working prcce
(b)   Change the opera l pate  by          PDA        June 30, 1994
giving up the direct transfer
process and implementing efficient
ship-to-shore and transit soage
oprations (and reverse)
(c)   Improve the adminve                  MTC        June 30, 1994
rocedures applied to the
management of ship calls in order to
reduce the ships' idle time at berth



Annex 3.9
Page 2 of 3
ALBANIA
TRANSPORT PROJECT
Port of Durr
Action Plan
Action                    Resonsible            Date
3.   Improve Maiace Manaeme
(a)   Employ Consultants to assist in      PDA        October 1, 1993
implementing a comprehensive
maintenance management policy
(b)   Esblish a yearly maintenance         PDA        Septmber 30 each
schedule of the port infiastructu,             year, stating in
with precise definitions of the                December 1993
related accountabilities and budget
expenditures
(c)   Implement an effective inventory     PDA        December 31, 1994
management system for spare parts
and their supply
(d)   Define and implement a systematic    PDA        December 31, 1994
policy for preventive and preictive
maintenance of port equipment
4.   improve Fnancial Performance
(a)   Employ Consultants to help           PDA        October 1, 1993
establishing sound accounting and
financial standards for autonomous
port management
(b)   EstabLish tariffs for cargo services to  PDA    January 1 each year,
provide sufficient revenues to cover            sarting in 1994
anmual operting expeses,
depreciation or debt service,
whichever is higher, and a minimum
30% self-financing contribution to
average annual future port
investment on a three year rolling
cycle
(c)   Achieve an annual worldng ratio of   PDA       Annually, startng
no more ta 45%                                  1994



Anmex 3.9
Page 3 of 3
ALBANIA
TRANSPORT PROJT
Port of Durres
Action Plan
Acdion                    Respnsible            Dabe
S.   Improve Manpower Management
(a)   Employ Consultats to review staff    PDA        October 1, 1993
functions and skill mix
(b)   Define and imlement a training       PDA        June 30, 1994
program in order to update the
technical nowledge of port staff and
to meet the objectives of a sound
opeatio   managmnlt
(C)   Rationaize port staff so as to reduce  PDA
their numbers to a reasonable level
referring to traffic expectations, i.e.
-     byonethird                               January 1, 1995
-     by one half                              January 1, 1997
6.          Improve   spe e 
With the assstance of Consutants,    MTC       December 31, 1994
prepare a Part Development and
master Plan for Durres and Vlora
ports, tadng into account the new
taffic patter likely to arise
Abbreviations:    GOA: Government of Albania
MIC: Ministry of Transpot and Communications
PDA: Port of Durres Authodity
=uw=s
152,9



Annex 3.10
Page 1 of S
ALBANIA
TRANSPORT PROJECT
STUDY OF TIHE FUTURE ROLE OF ALBANIAN RAILWAYS
Terms of Reference
I.          Background
1.          The Govenment placed substantial emphasis on developing the railways durng
the lat 40 years. The first lines were opened after the Second World War, and the rail network
now totals 720 km. Lines wer built mosdy by youth work teams without much equpment, and
their standard are low. There is no mechanized track maintenance, and the qualit of locally
produced wood ties is low. Only 19 of 60 stions have sgnalling, and teecommunictions are
poor, causing substanial delays in train operatons. As a result, safe travel speeds are only 25
km/hr for feigh tains, and 40 km/hr for passenger train. Motive power is provided by 83
locomotives, mosdy from Czechoslovakia, of which 62 are 13 years old or less and serviceable,
and the balance are old and should probably be scapped. Fifty eight locomotives were recently
mothballed due to lack of taffic. There are 2,100 freight wagons, 70 percent with four axles,
with an average age of 22 year; these are, on the whole, se.vieb   There are 114 passenger
coaches, average age 24 years, which are in poor condition. Most of these were vandalized in
1991, and passenger service was subsequendy suspended. Albanian Railways (AR) recendy
purchased 63 used coaches from Italy to help resolve this prblem and passengservice has
resumed. Equipment uiliztion rates are lower than in developed countries (e.g., 15.3 million
traffic units per locomotive, 278,000 tkm prx freight car in 1990). With 8,435 employees, AR
was oversaffed, gentng 162,000 traffic units (tkm+pkm) of mostly bulk Waffic per employee
in 1990. AR has recently tW   the difficult step of reducing its staff to about 5,000 in the face
of declining traffic. In spite of the staff reductions, AR covered only about 30 percent of its
expitures from revenues during the first half of 1992.
2.          The crdal quesion is to determine the future role of the railways in a
restructured economy in which traffic iS determined by the market rather than by govemnment
directio. Traffic has fllen shaiply in recent years, from a peak of 8.0 million tons in 1989 to
an esfimated 0.7 million tons in 1992, due to the closure of mines and heavy industry. Traffic
is unlikely to recover to anywhere near its peak level in the future. Freight traffic is estimated
to total around 62 million tkm for 1992, or 0.1 million tkm per main-line track-kilometer, which



Annex 3.10
Page 2 of 5
is below the thrsld for economic operation. The avenage length of had is only about 88 mn.
Nnety percent of this traffic is bulk (including n7 percent minerals) which is nomaly suitable
for rail tasport However, some of the mines appear to be ueconomic (e.g., low quality coal
and iron nickel ore for export) and there is unceranty about the future of the chrome mines,
incng whether additional ore should be concentated at the mine which would reduce the
transot volume. In addition, the Govemment needs to decide whethe to complete the 40-km
Rreshen-KIos rail line which would serve two chrome mins and a foret area, for which the
tunnels, bridges and most infrstcture (except for rails) are complete.   e Bak, and the
Buropean Bank for Reconstucion and Development (EBRD) ae curently asssting the
Govemment to invesgate the future prospects of the mining industry, including asessig
variou joint ventur proposals, which should provide the information needed to make this
investment decision,
3.          AR operated only seven passenger trains per day in 1991, which carried only
11,908 passengers an average distance of 65 kn at a commercial speed of about 40 km/hr due
to the poor condition of the tack. Compeig bus service, which was proibited by the previous
reime, is growing rapdly. However, passenger traffic has recendy recovered to a reported
10,000 passengers per day following the purhase of additiond aoaches (pam 1).
If Objecties
4.          The Government desires to know whether it is economic to coinue to opeate
AR, or whetier part or al of the railway should be closed or its form of buiness changed. One
possibility is that the railway is only economic for the tranport of mining products, in which
case the dgnificant investments required to rehabilibte infraructure and rolling stock, and
possbly to complete the Rreshen-Klos line, should be borne by te mining industies. The
Insitute for Trnsport, Post and Telecommunications (lTPI) is undeaking a study on the fuure
prospec  of the railways, while AR is investigatig the same question. The purpose of tie
study, which would be carried out by  ternal constnts, is to revimew the work done to date
in the light of railway reforms which are being carried out in other countries which also face
declining trafc, and to mak rommendations. lbe study would consder the fil range of
policy opons with a view to minimig the total cost of tansportation in Albania, ang socal
consderons into account.



Annes 3.10
Page 3 of 5
m. Scope of Work
S.          In partiula, the conultnts will:
(a)         Review railway studies prepared by ITPT and AR.
(b)         Discuss theprospects for the chrome and copper mines, stel comple at Elbasan,
and other major taffic generators with Government officials and outside
specialist investigating these industries. Prepare aistic traffic forecass through
2005 for major commodity groupings and interuban and suburban pseger
services for the existing railway, taking into account these discussions, the
probable impact of economic restructuring, the costs and quality of service which
AR and competing road tnsport can provide, the war in ex-Yugoslavia, and
tariff and quality of service levels under altenative scenarios discussed below.
(c)         Define the various lines and sub-lin  of business of the railway, and relate the
types and levels of  ffic to speific line segments and statons. Conider the
ution of line capacity, locomotives and rolling stock, the role of any
mrshalling yards, and the potent  for caryng longer and heavier block trains.
Pay partcular attention to interurban and suburban passenger services.
(d)         Assess the various oganizaional forms which are possible for AR, e.g. line of
bimness, operation of the mining railway by franchise, sparate operator for
passenger services, etc.
(e)         Brfly assess the economic and financial profitability of possible infrase
nvestments (completon of the Rreshen-Klos line', new line to Former Yugoslav
Republic (FYR) Macedonia, new line to Greece).
(f)         Eimate the costs of rehabilitaing infsuc     and rolling stock required to
handle each line of business defined in (c).
(g)         Assess the Govemment's current transport policy with respect to AR. This
assesment should include the extent to which there is politcal commitment to
managerial autonomy, partcularly in the key areas of tariff setting, staffing and
wage policy, and the range of servies to be provided.
I/PT has prpated a study on this investment.



An    3.1
Page 4 of 5
(I)         Define altewnative scenarios for future railway operations, including continuins
as at present, closing the railway, creating a "mining railway" to be opated by
a mining company franchise, or continuing with various lines of business defined
in (c).
(1)         Project the revenues, costs, asset required, labor force needed, tarffs,
Government and railway investments, and opang subsidies required for each
of the altenative scenarios defined in (h). The analysis should be based on
generally accepted western accountingpracice. Prepae an economic evauation
of the alternative scenaios, taking into account the ecnomic costs and
investments required to serve the trffic demand by alternative modes. Comment
on the social implications of each of the alteatives.
(J)         Recommend a course of action, or alternatives if apprpiate, with a view to
minimizing the total economic cost of transport in Albania, aking soa
considatons into account.  Include a dicussion of the advantges and
disadvantages of the poposed course of action, and the issues which would need
to be addressed to implement the plan. Propose a pracdcal, phased plan of acton
for achieving the recommended objective.
IV. lime Schedule and Repordng  e
6.          The client will be the Mnistry of Transport and Communic  (MTC). Ihe
consulnt will be responsible for aU analyses and recoendas. The consultant wil povide
ailway magent spealst (11 mm), a financial analyst (4 m1m) and a tansport economist
(3 m/m)n, or such other staffing as MMC and the consultant agree. MTC wil provide aU
information requred to carry out the study. MTC will assign two of its staff to act as
counterparts to the foreig consultants, as well as office space, a drver and secretarial service.
MTC wil provide one 386 personal computer and peripheras, one photocopy maine and all
rqured office supplies (alternavely to be fianced under the fori  conultants cont).
7.                The duration of the study, will be twelve months from the oder of
commencing work to the delivery of the final report
8.                The following reports shall be submitted: seven copies of the Incepton
and Draft Final Reports (hree for MTC in Albanian, two for MTC in English, two for IDA in
nglish), and twenty copies of the Final Report (ten for MTC in Albanian, five for MTC in
inglish, five for IDA in English) should be provided.



Annex 3.10
Page S of S
(a)  Ilncepion Report. This will elaborte as necesay the progam of
work, and identify se for frther invegaton. The rveport
should be provided within two months of commencement.
(b) Draft Final Report. Tbis will describe thie study findings and
recommendations in detail, and should be submitted ten months
after the commencement of work.
(c)   Final Report. MTC and IDA should provide comments to the
consultant on the draft final report within one month of its receipt.
The consultants shoud modify the report as required to incorporate
comments and submit the Final Report one month thereafter.
Ff\UWBTW\THANS\GC\NWMC"O
FeWbu 3 IM



Annex 3.11
Page 1 of 3
ALBANIA
TRANSPORT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Management Unit
1.          The prposed Transport Project (the project) is fnacing the execution of
imporant civil works (roads and port) as well as the proison of urgently needed and diversified
goods (mainly equipment), and serces including technical astnce C(A), training and studies
for the MTC, the National Roads Department (NRD) and the Authorty of the Port of Durr.
The project also finances one Study on the Future Role of the Albania Railways. In order to
achieve two major importnt targets of the project, namely to simplify project adminitative
arrangements, and to epedite and improve project implementaton, he foLowing implementation
rangements have boen agreed upon.
2.          A Proiect Management Unit (PMU) would be establid  in the Mistry of
Transport and Communicatons (C). The PMU would be responsible for the  anagement,
adminitain and coordinatin of the project. The PMU wold be composed of the following
five inter-departmental members:
(i)        MTC's Minister, acting as Chairman of the PMU and rprenting
the MTC;
00)         Director of ntnaional Financing of the Mhintry of Economy
and Finance, resenting the Minisry of cwnomy and Finance;
(iii)       NRD's Director, MTC;
(IV)        Finance Director, MTC; and
(v)         Director of the Authority of the Port of Durrs.
The Director of the Albanian Railways would also report to the PMU on
everyting rlated to the preparation of the Study on the Fuue Role of the Albaian Railways.
3.          The pMU would be assisted by an opetive Setdate, under a Secrtay
(Engine  from NRD), resonsible for the prepraion of all project documentation and
composed of:



Annex 3.11
Page 2 of 3
(')   An accountant, Financi MOT Department;
(i)   A Dunes Port ep tive in Tiana; and
(iii)  A procurement s     (Consutant).
The SectaraXt typing service ruim     would be povided by NID. Design
and graphs  rvices would be provided by an MTC graphs spealist
4.          All PMU's opaional needs, including office materials,, computer, phone, and
fax, as well as 40 square meters of office space would be provided by the MTC under MTC
budget and in MIC prims .
5.         TMe Chainman and the members of the PMU can deegate their fucions,
temporarly, in other person(s) of their departments when duly justified reasons eit.
6.   The main functions of the PMU would be:
(a) monitor and woordinate the activities of the project until its completion,
includig the one-year guarantee maintenance period of civil works;
@b)  liaise with the Bank in all mattrs coneing proect implen    and
supervision;
(c)   pvide advice and assitce to project bneficiary dVpartments on
procurement maters, and clear p ent documents in order to ensue
that they meet Bank (IDA) pc urement Gideines;
(4)   finalize argements for the technical assstance advisors;
(e)   submit to the Bank dbuements applications on behalf of the beneficary
agencies or depArtments;
(f)   monitor and supervise the project accounts;
(g)   preare (and submit to the Bank) quartedy progress reports dcibing (
accrdance with the progess im     tai    indiatos pviouly
established and agreed between the Governt and the Bank) project
implementation and comphance with the schedule, anididentfyin isu
ariing during the project impleenation and soludons proposed,as
oudined in the legal documents;



Anniex 3.11
Page 3 of 3
(h) submit to the Bank annual project audit reports, prepared by indWependent
auditors, as described in the legal documents; and
(i)   contribute to the prepration of a project completon report (PCR) based
on the progress reports, coresondence with the Bank, and acual t
completed compared with thosc established and scheduled at apprasa.
7.          Each department would nominate a person responsible for its own part of the
project (sub-project). These persons, who can be the resetve members of the PMU, would
just act as coordinators of department project activities with the PMU.
8.          The functions and responsibilities of these sub-project implementon coordinas
would be to:
(a)   enur the timely and proper implementation of their sub-projects;
(b)  liaise with the PMU and seek pr   nt advice and/or other advice
from the PMU to perform (a) above;
(c)   pfep  all detailed and tchnical speifications and documents for the
ptouremnnt of works and goods, and submit them to the procum
sVpecalist in the PMU for clearance;
(d)   prepae term  of reference and draft contra  for all consats and
submit them to the PMU for approval and fur    processing;
(e)   submit to the PMU related contbution to the quarterly project progr
reports, as apicable; and
(f    at the coletion of their respective project component submit to the
PMU previously specified information for the project compledon report.
PEB 12 1993



-R-SPOTPRJC
N   hi mmlCdmai em1
(000Yu*                 1  2  S  4  5 
Cmti
A. ROW~
CompboidmI                                            54 4.2 4.0 5.00.
UNINO-)  ~~~I--II--I,11.7                                                                              -m
(b) SuapevhmoE                                          0.05 0.  0.2 0.  0.05
beA VAeb                                            i----ii0
(} Ma_ 1_1_1                                         VA  L0 1.4
1O- I-I4 2.4
0.2 0.2 0.2 0.                                                 Oabd
(4) TA                                                                                                     0.?         (Mae)
0.1 0.05 o.0s 0.1
( -)Te                                                I-I-I-I-1--                                        1.S5         ls
3M  0.1
dSofIt SI.-I                                                                                             0.1
1.0  1.4                                                       cad
} |_ |_l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.4                                                                p3)
3M  1.0 2.0 1.0                                                    c~dw
(b a**=                                            I...       I-                                           4.0          K)
3W 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
(.) TlA                                                                                                    0.4
3M  LOS0 LO
(d)Tb                                              I... -I-      I                                         0.1
3M 0.2
_iR                                                I ,                                                     4
3eRJ                                                   1-I-                                               024           P
IUITAIS                                                  M  7.Sl 1 S.ZSIS.4I10.9S517.
(441(.0)2(4.0 1C40.7)j 
is.                                               1----III4.                                                           L.
A   4* 1Sv1- 1X
a                                                     1"Q



Ahe3.13
AII3AMA
TIANSIORT PRQOICT
MoitrngIdinats fwr Prmle  Activitie
(to be coverd in proges reports)
?aoJ.  Co"Utpw                                     Ewbnazed    Acras       Acftua % o      R,se  WVaxy)       AcmIS  to
Eabuated      Prn Dbemmec          be &Ame
L.      Works
(i)   Contrac award (daft)
(ii)  Eartvwork completed (m3)
Ciii)  Drainage strucuns a,vcule  (unit)
(iv) Sub4baa and base completed (m3)
(V) Shoulders completed (kmn)
(vi) Reinfore cemient concret (in3)
(vd) Reeln (kin)
(viii Aspal concret paving (kin)
(ix)  Signs (units)
(K)  PanM _g (n)
(xi)  Contuction work cmpled (date)
(xii) Maitnn  work completed (date)
(xii) Completin ertfilat (dt)
ML      Supervision of C;onstruction
(v)   Number of epe      )
(ii)  rilm for each export
(ii)  Fia  cst
III     Procreret of Equipment
Equipment, tool, spam part (NED PDA)
TV.     TA and Training (MC, NRD, PDA)
(    ExpeCts by sk, ml and agency attached to
(iHi)  Abanians ountepa  by sl min and
(noi Albanians under training by skil in Albania
(IV)  Albanians w    undrtaning ovesasm by skil
V.      Studie (NRD. PDA and Rslwavs)
0    Study start and completio (date)
(ii)  Follow-up mini, skil and agaic
(         S) Coa of fonow-up
(iv)  Fmal cost of sty
Me quately pge  reports wi giv, for NRD, PDA and Raway          p m andot absftboavemonorinldaor: (a)
sFtmae  of al work perforAe  and pTgrs made im tp                       durig de perid, (b) sNhedul of t  work prga  fo
the nes rePortin period, (a) forecast Completion stage of the work progrms woining th mpemcA of apprved nOCMIG
(d list of prposals,pla,sprogamnsand  -, mdti' awaitin  ppoval, nd(e)summaryof Inerm findings
OV bAy1AN1Om/m ARCAJ13o
lRcwb ,mlzm s



Annec 3.14
ALBANIA
TRANSPORT ]PROJECT
Disbursement ro1Fcast*
(USS miin)
IDA PY                    Eaed            Disbwrsent           S&kdul
(Qwld  %)            Qaae              *ua~
March 31,1994                7                 1.3              1.3
June 30, 1994
FY 1"5
Sptember 30, 1994            16                1.6               2.9
December 31, 1994            25                1.6               4.5
=arch 31, 1995               33                1.6               6.1
June, 30, 1995               43                1.6               7.7
FT 1996
September 30, 1994           51                1.4               9.1
December 31, 1994            58                1.4              10.5
March31, 1995                64                1.1              11.6
June 30, 1995                71                1.1               12.7
FY 1997
September 30, 1996           77                1.1              13.8
December 31, 1996            82                1.0              14.8
March 31, 1997               86                0.7              15.5
June 30, 1997                89                0.6              18.1
FY 198
September 30, 1997           93                0.6              16.7
Decmber 30, 1997             96                0.6              17.3
March 31, 1998               99                0.5              17.8
June 30, 1998               100                0.2              18.0
*    Credit efectiveness esmated in fourh quaer 1993 (par 3.13)
*   Initl deposit of US$1.3 million to a Special Acoount (par 3.23).
API  1993



Annex 4.1
Page 1 of 2
ALBANIA
TRANSPORT PROJECT
Details of the Economic Evaluation
A. Road Component
1.   The evaluation of the road component was based on the Bank's Highway Design Model
(HDM HI. Model inputs included the net-of-tax cost of ostruction and mntenance
(mcluding supervision and physical contingencies) and vebicle opeations with' and withouth
the improvement durng a twenty-year period. The analysm was based on inteanal pri
in the case of vehiles, spare parts and fuel, and domestic prices in the case of labor. The
without case assumes that only routine riaten  wil be peformed as in the past, and the
model esmates that the II wil deteriorate to 11.0 m/km in about eight years, flowing which
drivers would be forced to acteapt very high vehicle opeating costs or the road would have to
be            at high cost. The "with case assumes the improved road would be resealed
after five years and reabilitated again when the IRI had deterioated to 7.0 m/km. Computer
printouts showing the deai of the alculatio  are retained in the project file.
B. Pot Component 
2.   General cargo handling productvity at the port ofDures currently amounts to about 600
tosber/day (S tons/ctrane x 6 moves/hour/crne x 2 cranes/shIp x 10 effiient worldng
hours/day). This will quire 390 berthing days to handle 234,000 tons exected in 1995 (the
fit ful year of prtqect benefits), or about 650 berthing days assuming the ships are not worked
40 percent of their time at berth as at present, as explained in par 2.43 of SAR. Considering
that the equivent of swen general cargo berfts are expcted to be avable an average 300
days p.a., the berth ocupancy rate is expcted to be about 31 pernt This impLes that there
is no ship waiting time based on queung thoy and assuming random arrival times. It is
estimated that generl cargo productty will imwove to about 960 tonsbert/day under the
proect (5 tons/e x 8 moves/hour/crane x 2 cranes/ship x 12 efficient working hours/day).
This would  quire 244 bething days, or say 305 days assuming  eros are disrupted 20
percet of the time. The project would, therefore, reduce ships berthing time by 345 days.
Assuming that ships running costs avage $5,000/day, ship optng costs would be reduced
by $1.73 miion in 1995. It was assumed that 60 percent of these beneits would accrue to the
banian economy, equivalet to the proportion of benefits to fOreign ships capred through
port charges and/or fte additiona productivity of domestic ship gained by addition  tading.



Annex 4.1
Page 2 of 2
This benefit was aumed to be proportional to the volume of genea cargo (including break-
bulk) taffic for eah year of project benefits, 1995-2001.
3.         The contaierization of geneal cargo is expected to increase under the proect,
due to the provision of handlig equipmt and opeaional imprvements, from close to zero
at present to about 20 percent of genea  cargo by 2001 (the las year of project benefits).
General cargo (including break-bulk) losses are beved to be beween five and ten parAet at
present. Assuming the average value of break-bulk tfic is at least US$300/ton, and other
gener  cgo US$1,500/ton, these los would amoumt to about US$15.6 miion in 2001
Without the prject. Assuming that los  to the 20 percent of continezed taffic are two
pement, losses under the proect would be reduced to about US$14.4 million in 2001. Assuming
tat half of ths are tu  losses to the economy, equivalet to damaged goods plus pifeed
goods which are used less productively, the project would generte a benefit of US$0.62 milion
in 2001 due to reduced losses. This benefit was asumed to grow linearly from zero in 1995
to US$0.62 mllion in 2001.
.~UEVUBL1RNV.CSANSA.4
I,EB m 



-  -             -a
w~~~~~~~M                                IS       M       -        MU      53        3      19        N      3M      3         f
_bmew                       414     43       40       A       a        a        f      no      no 110           nS       n
_b,o=Cw&                    04      in       to               m        d                i      S        MD      l        555
_za_1100.11~                9       23       5       I        n       a       a        15      a 
bo-q~               ~451     55       45       D                         0       0        0       0        0       0
Cd                          a    ma   s               -                a        o                        o                o
a"                          in       5       go                        a        0       5*   25        23        2       23
_~~~~~~i                     M       us                                 in      in               so               so" 
_ddm                                                 s      ass                               i -  1S  5       17       i       V       X
a5     73    *           -                                          7        1 *             9
Tdd  .W                                    nm     1        no        7       a                        2D      34       i                 S
u1                                  os       so                                a       no Sli6          t        Wo     la
i                           n, is   u                                          47 *     S       2as     2                so 
-VAid                       3f      4        so               a               45       45     5so       N0      5s      s1
hai                          3       55       1       a                        4        75      75      75       75      Is
-d                          IN       so      11t      -                        55       21 n    55 n             5 
_si                         173      6111  Mt        2 1               a      uS M96   D                la      1        1
_4 m             IN    a    a    a                         96 w             am    U    £0
!RANS?                                     U       du       I"                                        on      in      71        M       75
.nAim                                     a        In       m      am            ..s1,       0    72         1       1         1      53
0 Ckwo                                                       9        0     .1       -3  U     S -12          a121 
M.I11*                                     7us     46       S       on      si       ina    Sig       t9i       *      21 4    so       s oh
OC&42.W    _         .



Annex 4.2
page 2 of 2
notes on taffic freasts:
(1)   1992 Zmtc: estimated from January to Sepmber dat.
(2)   Chrome exports: forecast based on study by Albanian Tansport Institute which is
considerd reasonable. High grade chrome ore is largely depleted, so Xt future
production will be mosdy based on low gade ore which would be concentrated, and
mainly used for the production of ferro-chome which woud be e .
(3)   Iron-nickel exports: low grade ore was traditionally oed to Czechoslovaia. There
is a possibility of future eort to Macedonia, but this would not pass though the por
There is also a posbility of producing low grade nicke for export at the Elbasan steel
complex, but the economic feasibility of this proposal has not been demonsd so that
futwe ex        are speculative at this stage. No other exports are aepected.
(4)   Coal exports: very low kdlo-calone coal was prvously exported to RomanP L   No
extral markets ex;pected to be found in the future.
(5)   Other bulk exports: in the past included pyrite, bioxide and sufir. It is not clear that
these exports are economic, and it was assumed that only a smal volume of ftese
products would be exorted in the futre.
(6)   General cargo and break bulk trafc: 1992 taffic was about 50% lower than its
1988-89 peak, compared to an estmated 32% decine In OPP during the same period.
GDP is forecast to grow around 4-5% p.a. from 1992 through 1997 assuming satisfctory
iplementation of the economic reforn progam. Genera cargo and break bulk taffic
(except food, see below), which is expected to be elastic relative to GDP, is forecast to
grow an average of 7% p.a during the same period.
(7)   Coal hIports: The import of high quality coal depends on the resumption of producdon
at the Elbasan stel comple. The Bank has recomnded starng up the electric arc
furnaces, producing up to 54,000 tons p.a. of sel products for domestdc  nsumption.
The economic feasibility of higher level production has not been demonstrated, and was
not taken into account in the traffic forecast.
(8) Grain Inports: Future grain imports depend on domestic grain prices, domestic
production, future food aid progams, and a number of other variables which are difficlt
to predict. It was assumed tat about 50% of domestc consumption would be imported
in the future, either in the form of food aid or purchased imports.
(9)   FertUizer hIports: The domestic production of fertlizers has resumed, and it was
amed that only fertilizers not produced in Albania would be imported.
(10)  Other food hnports: These imports, mainly food aid, we  assumed to decine to 50%
of 1992 levels in the future.



^ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~m A3                            SM B     ww         "N        WV_                             "
.a                                          _
1T        w         g    w              w         w         rRl                 q                     1
isa                                     a ii                a          m        Zs                    ---
a        am        uss"      amel                gWl       015       am'sI  a  a                    inL-.m q  m_
as       15                            iU                   Ur        UT
5.      3t  .3               3         3         3         V         S   __                                 .inqts
WI        W U;r                                   I U  I  V  3        -                           _
a"       ps         p         *         *         *         P         0         0                      _ q
on        m                                                           "O "   ""   a   #lF                  W     _W
0  K        S         P~~~ol    II                  U£1U                                           "qeNSP UA,1
*1             as             pa       am         on.       lap                1.0qu
V         to        V                             w                   w         a              uusauC
*                *a  s     an        us         si                  ma
an                  N         5S                  13        15w       no        Su%                       pp-$
.                                                    _m mrs  isis  ow.  mel  amel    P.
-  TNt  mr  mr      u         as        wr        U,        mv             u.sisps
. a                         P                             05        a                                         sum__
_~~ -                                          -r 
_        _-                   -         -              . -    -       am       _e_                        _
am  ama            V         V         V
_                                        PuPP
5WOW



P*tdolwm
I                 boWA p,ewmd  htouWu*12UDmCS
FvT.u.   Dusmbintll  PIiJP.d    7,amo.i~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                                i
TOdSOMMe                           im   ~ ~ Jil!                                                in in 
fwSdMtt-
mmOd-maIAm          1                                                  -            *64.3600 
(MM' , I                       '                I                                                    - I I
___1,                                                              gm t 414 
T"  ams  I11LU                                                      L              Sa a  m
01                              tS               1             Slt            1S4            uw             lF!!t~~~~elIM4III
Pr*d-TinImIsdA.d .llt                                   -       4                                    -              -            I
3.MdU                                               -              -            7*60            am            _*               _
-_tE3ggj                                                -              -                              -            MO"           -U-
lu-                                   ~       ~      ~      ~    ~~~~~-  -  4AOO  4,200           16             U
Olh i..Gm.~  Puma -u rl                                1               -              -               -              -6           3
R~~~~~~~~~~~~3                                           at_| 70)(q164                                             1.1
Op.ulagms                                              3             1.661          1.11            434            34            1.t310
doing Delum                                           1.16           1,1#            4              MOt           1.1       _     .
'sm-ma
A 



tADOUAMS0"I
OUR                           an~~~~~u    184            34          I.es         1.11,m                       4          A
01 'SPIN01'   -      i      n Iay              414      1     5           40           4,             g                           
a ".~~~~W _ll    131  1P3 r1F                                                                             w_IF                       "
Ik-'m                                  LM           UK           inU . _i _i                                          i. 1-                      La.
_      _gMg Aai                        46v         4dU           14*76         4116         16.1         Ism$         Is"          15.411       16.10
LeeK~' Mm~eu s                              fLO tZff                                                                       W
LOW Ao_Wdat DernW                                             zm              n   r mzzm                           us           PZM         an
Us ad bdmeet                          14*68        Sk13          7."1          "a88          MI5         T.68         7.51        11.146        14*11
Wdh l t t24                                     -Sa E4tM 2S t64$                                                                   z            z
m                                          _ftq  ,u                  .            _                      s30          4.100          no           in
T4*dM NiadAied                                                                              olls am                 iLFI          lug          m
OsedClw                                4.867        88             341            -            -            00          m            42           10
ANOWINFOymbb                 lam          JiZEli 
LOUp  ook Lm                          153            9141          Z6s6676676*?61                                                   *731
CpisIutFkmd                           "An           am$          $mg           Sm           $ANT         $7l *A
%O)WAmd                                                                                        rim l~f  lig  f  TIMMoT."
Po     EaW_                            Am1         1                                                     L0.4o .3  1  22t    Z
CA
ls.util e14t74ep                                                                               °            LPS



Annex 5.4
Pae 1 of 3
ALBAMTA
TRANSPORT PROJWr
Port of Dunes
Financial
Curfent Dola
Finaal tbls for year 1989 though 1991 ae based on curet U.S. dollar equ:vlents of
locl currecy at the  chage rtes prevailing at year end, i.e. U.S. $1.00O  Lek 8 in 1989 and
1990, and Lk 25 in 1991.
Constmt Do8a
Financial tables for yea  1992 through 1997 are based on constant 1992 U.S. doall equivalents
of local curncy at the most recent  cange mate in 1992 i.e. U.S. $1.00 - LAk 100.
Operating Revenues
Projectdo are based on taffic  cat developed for the conomic evution i.e. In tusads
of tos, 891 for 1992, 994 for 1993, 1,109 for 1994, 1,179 for 1995 1,190 for 1996 and
1,208 for 1997.
Projecto  ar based on th folowing assump:ons:
Personnel Costs:        As per reducions proposed in the Atio Plan from
theprasent 1,S3Oto 1,OOOin 1994 and 700 in 1997.
Matris and Supplies:   Increased usage of operting supplies based on
taffic growth rate.
Contacted          :   Based on annua epni   of U.S. $0.5 miion
equivalent (0.5% of reewa  vale  of fixed asets).
Ile  are amed to be mainly for infte
faciButes.
General and Amnsrtv:Basd on modest increase.



Annex 5.4
Pae 2 of 3
Dqeprcation:    For existing fixed assets deprecition charges
coniue at the xistng leeL
For new additions
-     Improvements to infrastructure 10% p.s
Equipment 15% p.a.
Ferry boat facilities 5% p.a.
These additons becom  opaal stg
1996 when depreatdon would also st.
Techial Asstce is considered a  a
Deferedf Ch        and wrtten off In fi
years Le. 20%  uanualy st    199.
Net home
erto they have been remitted in full to the Goverment in the folowing year. Istead, PDA
wold pay Income - tax at the rate of 30% per annum st     1993.
BMVA andnf
The US$0.7 million quival  share of IDA Credit wil be recorded in PDA's book as equty.
The coitons of the Kuwait Fund Loan (US$6.4 million equivat) wi be disused duing
negotations and the corresponding funds will be conidered as equty or long-tem debt
depending on the  a mn    to be worked out then Foecast PDA acounts will be updated
accorigy.
Sef- F1naed
They include the Perry Boat facilities completd during 1993-1995 at a cost of U.S. $4.1 million
equivn and routn investments costing a tot of U.S. $0.5 miion equivat in 1996 and
1997.
Accounts Receivabk
at year end are calculated n the basis of two months' ava geopeat  revenues



Anmex 5.4
Page 3 of 3
Accounts Payable
They reflect fluctuating levels during the construction priod and then wil be reduced to a
normal level in 1997 at about two montbs'aopeting expenses excluding payrol and decan.
Cleaning up 1991 Balance Sheet
In setting up PDA's financil autonomy the Deferred Charges and Local Bank Loan brought
forward from 1991 are being extinguished over 1992 and 1993.
PI v2 1993



Annex 6.1
Page 1 of 2
ALBANA
TRANSPORT PROJECT
Documents in the Project File
1. Ra
Rhabilation of Tirna-Vora Road (gineeig Desns by NTD/ISP2; July
1992)
Rhabilitation of Tiuna-Fush Kruja Road (E. Degns by NTD/lSP2; July
1992)
Rehabiliton of Tirana-K aba-Ebaa (E. Desin by NRD/lSP2; July 1992)
consrcon of Push Krwoa-Mamurasi-Mlloti-ea Road (E. Designs by
NRD/ISP2; July 1992)
Computer Printouts of HDM  I eonomic evuaton for project rehabiliton
work.
Collegamento Autstrbdae Est.Ovest (East-West Expresway, 200 kn,
Feasility Study of October 1991 by Italian Developmen Agency/LS.P.2)
Collegamento Autosdale Nord-Sud (Norh-South Expressway, 350 km;
Feaibility Study of November 1991 by Italian Deveopmet Agency/I.S.P.2)
UNADESD. Project INT-86-1227. Report on the Advisory Mission on Road
Infiastucture Management in Albania, June 1992.
- Danish Road Directorate-Proposal on Rerniatn of NRD, Summer 1992.
2. M
Law of Harbor Taxes (1991)
Port of Dufres Cargo Handling Tarff (1992)
Port of Du      Traffic Sttsi (19561989 global figures; 1990-1992 detailed
data).
Ampliamento e Modernizazione del Porto di Durazzo (Feasibility Study by
Italian Dev aopment Agcy/Cosac-Efimpld



Ane 6.1
Page 2 of 2
Oppo ity Cost Analysis of theast Dock Extension and of the Construction
ofa Grain Silo in the Port ofDurr  (L.P.S.2, 1991)
3.        t
-     Deoavbpment Persecve of Ralway Transport in the Trnsition  wards a
Marbet Economy. Study by the Ministry of Transport and Comm
Study Center of Tnport, December 1991.
4. 1
Piano Geneale di Tanspor del'Albania alian Deveopment
Agency/S.I.LC.I.- S.T.C.; June 1992).
Staistical Yearbook of Albania (1991).
List of Poties in Tiana Ait, ICAO Report, Novemnber 18-21, 1991.
m2s.i.u



ALBANIA
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
MTC OrganizaUon Structure
UMMM OF 7RANMXT~~                ~Gavt                            onr,
MND COtUCASION8
Slee-leter                       Vlce~~~YIo-Yldder w                      Dfeoter I             DIrcorate
of PrT             of Reiwa
Depertp t otDepeot ot  Derortment
_Munommle             oftatenationl
Pereossel     - PrIV Attairs              Relations
_Tec -        o              of        tofI                       taetut ot
oat ~     ~        ~        o Afar                      tr,~r  Ii1ghwat Irtopo
Pf                          Pod-teleeom.
|ore    Lel_Mb  ooet_                        F1ec
133 ~      ~ 12.e 199                                                 .
- 8tatlau"
n   Dlsidoo   |   -    ftxnlonet  |            |efer lt Dlr. |   o lDl.   ofteral Dlr |
- Seloce     ot eebi-t |ot sea            °          of MrI
e t Ateln| |  w^aprt                7 |Slan ||  tI
source: Wm
G:UELMTA\TANj\L9B
M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 13 1. .



Chart 2
ALBANIA
TRANSPORT PROJECT
NRD Organization Structure
(Central Level)
snE
Tr"sp"lt                  ~~~~Road and Knvastment              MR4IZ;TRY OW CON4STUCTION
Stu<04                                  Deperaat                           PbnMASn Department
cenlter                                                                    Design Deparkment,
_________             Be"a" andailway    L
Direetorate ot                       Desi g  flute 
National R*ad     Ihi toce a"d
1     s      t                Manqement ot Road
fttnvri"              ~~and Uuidge (NED)                   N
sistrbu                Nat~~~~iownal  out
EnterpreeD
yad  Road
Conafruotlon
Interprbe
Construction
Teobnoloa and
SpeeUicton
Source  WYC                                                                           Sntitute
1:\RZYURLTA\RASIS3
FE 12, 1093



Chart 3
ALANIA
TRANSPORT PROJECT
NRD Organi:zation Structure
(District Level)
DIRECTOR
_ I_                     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
To5hut1l                  Planning                 AeouDt1g                 Transport ad
I____*_____                      OM*.                      Oaot |rl*17
a"w NO.                                                              raf
Ditoot lZi(sx) to Kmn) 
2.
3.
Sout..: MTC
Cs.\VUVrW\WRAN1N 3
JEU 12. 1993



ALBANA
TRANSPORT PROJECT
Average Daily Traffic (1992) on Major Roads
\        /  /t                                 /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~PESKOPI
t"LORB   <3y   _   FlER-VloRl   M                                                                      S
2. Koteroycie U ~ ~   ~        ~       ~       PM  op
6,500 P.C.U.         FMUR
be;     .IKO rcueece
0.°°°    NOTE8 p.e.u. *passenger ear unit equlvalet                          ORI
Eu  CeROSUt5R 1. One Car a I                                p.e.u.
GS 0 r.J- ~~~~~~~~2. BUJ  2.6 p.O.".
C:VARUND3                                      S.? Ifetreyel a p.o.u.
4. Agrkultura Veblele a 3 p.e.u. 
739 13, 1903                                                  S. Up to l Tones (vehiele) a 2 p.e.u.
7. Over IO Tones (vehIcle) a 2.5 p.e.u.                                      ,



FED.  RER  OF   YUGOSLAVIA                                         21-
.... TIA                        rotoJ
.   - .L 0  tV ms   w      1          ?-2tiu                   t      rO~~~~~L HA
42  ADRIATIC ;C
SEA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
TRANSPORT PROJECT
LOCATION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS                                                            F Y. R.
.   0 -PROJEa ROWS                                                 M    j3             F 
Selrm TOVtS AND CMiES,
AACEDONIA
e + MRPORaAT>#t Eg
,. . . 4|<\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To Skopjeo 
"1Poff                                              Kras
DUR                                                 T ESf
-41-OA                              ~Crrk4
ELBASA
t ]~~~~~~~~~ A: %               2 % 
t . .. , . , . ', ' ' a / > 0                                            ONI
40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'7                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~190                                                         1
2  i '  0.  >-  .  01.  .    .   X    <  -    <                          2io   ct W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
<)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



IBRD 2446
ALBANIA
TRANSPORT PRQJECT
PORT OF DURRES
ROADS
7                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS
:.PRINCIPAL PORTS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
o      100    200    300       4010
~~~~~MTR
Bo,.hGpop~ Th.d~op.Lo~c  Do.d4 o.doi M.  .
Adriatic
Sea
41             ~~ALBANIA41
40f-
Ion ian Sea
19'                   2~~~~~~INJY199



