Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15486
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Loan A: 2584-CK and Loan B: 018-CM)
March 1, 1996
Infrastructure Division
Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                CFA Franc (CFAF)
At appraisal  US$1    =                    490
1985         US$1    =                    454
1986         US$1    =                    342
1987         US$1    =                    297
1988        US$1    =                     309
1989        US$1    =                     336
1990        US$1    =                     285
1991         US$1    =                    275
1992         US$1    =                    289
1993         US$1    =                    280
1994         US$1    =                    540
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB         =     African Development Bank
CIDA         =     Canadian International Development Agency
CAA          =     Caisse Autonome d' Amortissement (Debt Management
Agency)
DGTC         =     Direction Generale des Grands Travaux du Cameroun
(General Directorate for Large Scale Works)
ERR          =     Economic Rate of Return
EU           =     European Union
GDP          =     Gross Domestic Product
ICR          =     Implementation Completion Report
LABOGENIE =        Laboratoire de Genie Civil (National Road Laboratory)
MATGENIE  =        Parc National de Materiel de Genie Civil
(National Equipment Pool)
MINEQ        =     Ministere de I' Equipement ( Ministry of Equipment)
MINT         =     Ministere des Transports (Ministry of Transport)
MINTP        =     Ministry of Public Works (Minist6re des Travaux Publics)
SAR          =     Staff Appraisal Report



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Preface ..............i
Evaluation summary ............. ui
PART I.            PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT  ......................... 1..... 
Background .......................................1I
A                  Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ...................................I
B                  Achievement of Objectives ........................................4
C                  Major Factors Affecting the Project ...................................6
D                  Sustainability ........................................7
E                  Bank Performance .......................................8
F                  Borrower Performance .......................................9
G                  Assessment of Outcome .......................................            10
H                  Future Operations .............              .......................... 11
I                  Key Lessons Learned ..................             ..................... 12
PART II.   STATISTICAL ANNEXES .................... 14
Table 1:           Summary of Assessments ......................................             14
Table 2:           Related Bank Loans/Credits ......................................   16
Table 3:           Project Timetable .......................................                17
Table 4:           Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated &  Actual ..... 18
Table 5:           Key Indicators for Project Implementation &  Operation.. 19
Table 6:           Studies Included in Project .......................          ............ 20
Table 7A:          Project Costs ...................................                        21
Table 7B:          Project Financing ...................................                    22
Table 8:           Status of Legal Covenants             ................................... 23
Table 9:           Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ............ 26
Table 10:          Bank Resources: Staff Inputs               ................................... 27
Table 11:          Bank Resources: Missions ....................             ............... 28
Appendixes:  A.                       Borrower contribution to the ICR ................................... 31
B.                 Map ................................... 32
Tlis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|officW  duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.






)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Loan A: 2584-CM and Loan B: 018-CM)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Sixth Highway
Project in Cameroon, for which Loan 2584-CM in the amount of US$125 million
equivalent was approved on June 18, 1985, and made effective on April 8, 1986, and Loan
B018-CM in the amount equivalent of US$20 million equivalent was approved on January
14, 1987, and made effective on January 16, 1987.
Loan 2584-CM was closed on October 31, 1993, 28 months after the original
Closing Date. Final disbursement took place on May 5, 1994, at which time a balance of
US$ 587,946.68 was canceled.
Funds from Loan B018-CM were deposited in an account at the Central Bank of
Cameroon after effectiveness, and managed by Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA),
the Cameroonian debt management agency, to provide counterpart funds to Loan 2584-
CM.
Cofinancing for the Project was provided by the African Development Bank
(AfDB), the European Union (EU) and the Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA).
The ICR was prepared by Jean Noel Guiflossou, Infrastructure Division, Central
Africa and Indian Ocean Department of the Africa Region, and reviewed by Ms.
Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard, Division Chief, AF3IN, and Mr. P. Hari Prasad, Operations
Adviser, AF3DR.
This ICR is based on materials in the Project file. The Borrower contributed to the
preparation of the ICR by carrying out its own evaluation of the Project execution.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Loan A: 2584-CM and Loan B: 018-CM)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The project being evaluated is the fourteenth Bank-financed project in the
transport sector in Cameroon. The preceding Bank loans in this sector totaled about
US$349 rnillion, including US$218.5 million for five highway projects.
Project Objectives
2.    At Appraisal As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR, Report No. 5371-
CM, May 1985), the objectives of the Project were: (a) to increase road transport capacity
while reducing transport costs and protecting existing investment in the paved road
network; (b) to consolidate and build upon institutional developments regarding transport
planning, road safety, highway planning, maintenance planning and execution; and training
begun under previous highway projects; (c) to strengthen the management system of the
national equipment pool (MATGENIE), increase its productivity and improve its control
of resource utilization; and (d) to strengthen operational and research capacity of the
national road laboratory's (LABOGENEE).  The Project originated in a Transport
Strategy Paper (Report No. 4975-CM, February 29, 1984).
3.    Revised Objectives. Soon after effectiveness, the Government began facing severe
budget constraints.  In a November 1987 joint Bank-Government meeting, project
objectives were re-oriented in line with the recommendations of a Transport Plan prepared
under the Fifth Highway Project, with: (a) restructuring of public enterprises
(MATGENIE and LABOGENIE); (b) cost recovery improvement; (c) priority for road
maintenance, to preserve existing road investments; and (d) priority for financing
uncompleted ongoing road projects. The revised objectives were only recorded in an
aide-memoire, but not in the 1988 amendment to the Loan Agreement, which only listed
roads to be built under the Project..
4.    Evaluation of Objectives. The objectives, as stated in the SAR, appeared realistic
amid the optimism prevailing at appraisal on the macro-economic prospects. However,
the economic and financial crisis revealed that the optimism was not justified. The revised
objectives took that conclusion into account. The project as appraised appeared neither
too complex nor too risky and could have been reasonably well implemented despite the
economic crisis. However, three risks out of four identified in the SAR occurred: (a) high



iif
construction costs; (b) negative traffic growth; and (c) MATGENEE's failure to improve
its performance. In addition, the SAR mentioned the weakness of sector institutions but
did not consider such weakness as a risk for the Project. The risk of bankruptcy for
LABOGENIE was not identified but occurred. The Borrower was not committed to
restructuring public enterprises, giving priority to road maintenance, or improving sector
management.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Achievement of Objectives. The Project failed to achieve most of its objectives:
(a)   Sector policies: The achievement is negligible. Cost recovery improved,
but additional resources thus created were not allocated to road
maintenance.  At the end of the Project, a new strategy for road
maintenance was defined but has still to be implemented.
(b)   Financial objectives: The achievement is negligible.  The Government
provided only 30 percent of counterpart funds estimated in the SAR.
Financial targets for MATGENIE and LABOGENIE were not met. The
Government provided only 40 percent of the budget for road maintenance
targeted in the SAR during the 1987-1992 period.
(c)   Institutional development: The achievement is negligible. MATGENIE and
LABOGENIE were not restructured and were bankrupt at the end of the
Project. The management capacity in the sector did not improve.
(d)   Physical objectives: The achievement is partial. 217 km of roads were built,
against a target of 156 km at appraisal and 265 km in the 1988 amendment
to the Project description. Out of a 600 km program identified in the SAR,
166 km of roads were strengthened.
6.    Because the project as appraised was a straightforward investment project with
some institutional development activities, its design was appropriate to achieve its
objectives. However, after the objectives were revised, the project developed in such
manner during execution that it failed to achieve these objectives. Although criteria were
defined to monitor the achievement of SAR objectives, no criteria were defined to monitor
the revised objectives.
7.    Assessment of Sustainability. The project is unsustainable because the roads built
or strengthened under the Project have not been maintained, and the institutional
development component of the Project was not implemented or improvements based on
provision of long-term assistance disappeared when the technical assistants left.
8.    Costs and Delays. Changes in exchange rates from CFAF 490 for one US dollar
at project appraisal to CFAF 275 for one US dollar in 1991 reduced significantly the



iv
amount in CFAF of resources available under the Project while the cost of works, goods
and services remained constant. Shortage of counterpart funds, poor detailed engineering
studies, slow procurement procedures related to centralized authorization at top levels,
political interference and political strife were the major reasons for implementation delays.
The project start-up was delayed by two years. The Closing Date was extended twice.
The Loan Account was closed 28 months behind schedule.
9.    Key factors which affected achievement of the major objectives were the economic
crisis and the Government's inability to face it; lack of Government commitment to
institutional reform; political and bureaucratic interference with project execution; conflict
of responsibilities among institutions; lack of leadership at the helm of the Civil Works and
Transport institutions; poor human resource management; and the high turnover of Bank
Task Managers or supervision team members.
10.   Bank and Borrower Performance. The Bank performance is rated deficient. The
Bank assessment on the capacity of the Administration to manage, finance and execute
road maintenance was too optimistic. However, this optimism reflected the general
optimism vis-a-vis Cameroon economic management and performance shared at that time
among all donors as well as among private banks and investors. Therefore, the wrong
judgment cannot be attributed only to the team which prepared the project.The quality of
preliminary studies was poor. Task managers spent considerable time on implementation
issues without addressing the causes of the issues. Although the Bank realized that the
approach used under the Project was inadequate, it did not restructure the Project to
reflect changes in the macroeconomic situation and in the sector institutions, and revised
objectives. However, on the basis of the sector analysis carried out in 1988 and 1993
(Transport Sector Memorandum, Report No. 11430, 06/061/93), the Bank decided to put
its lending program in the transport sector on hold until the Government showed enough
commitment to implementation of a sector-wide reform.
11.   The Borrower's performance is rated deficient. It was not committed to the
revised project objectives. Insufficient funds were allocated to road maintenance. The
weak institutional framework resulted in conflicts among institutions. Project management
was poor. The Borrower complied with legal covenants with considerable delays. Poor
human resource management resulted in weak motivation and loss of benefits gained from
foreign experts and training provided under the Project.
12.   Assessment of Outcome. The outcome is rated highly unsatisfactory.
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
13.   Future Operations. IDA would assist the Government to implement an overall
sector reform program through both adjustment and investment operations.  State
divestiture from transport operations is on-going in the urban transport, air, maritime and
rail subsectors, and would be supported by the proposed Enterprise Reform and
Divestiture Credit (FY98). Revision of the regulatory framework for maritime transport is



v
included in the proposed Structural Adjustment Credit (FY96). Implementation of the
subsequent phases of the transport sector reform program (revision of the regulatory
framework for air and urban transport, restructuring of MINT and MINTP, divestiture
from MATGENIE, downsizing of the port authority) would be supported by the proposed
Transport Sector Project (TSP, FY96).
14.   Key Lessons Learned.
(a)   Project Context: Bank assistance strategy and operations should be based
on a sector-wide analysis to determine priorities and reforms which would
prevent some sub-sectors from undermining efforts elsewhere, especially in
a deteriorating or weak economy, when resources are scarce. The
commitment of the Government, consistency of investment programs with
the macro-economic situation, and donors' coordination, are key factors
towards the achievement of sector reform.
(b)   Road Maintenance Organization: When the sector lacks strong leadership
and commitment to efficiency and accountability, the role of the institution
in charge of road maintenance needs to be concentrated on planning,
programming, budgeting and supervising road maintenance works. Work
execution should be contracted-out to achieve better efficiency and
adequacy between the program of works and available resources.
Financing of inputs as done under the Project should definitely be
discarded.
(c)   Project Design and Supervision: To continue in a direction which has
become inappropriate is likely to result in poor implementation and
performance and lack of achievement of the Project objectives. In such a
case, the Project ought to be adjusted or restructured where necessary.
Investing time on implementation issues without addressing their root
causes is useless.
(d)   Technical Assistance,  Capacity  Building  and  Human  Resource
Development: Technical assistance should not substitute for local staff, and
should be provided in an environment which is committed to building on
the expertise thus provided. This requires a strong leadership capable of
developing and implementing a human resource development strategy.
Capacity building has to be considered on a long-term basis and monitored
and evaluated against objective achievement targets. Training is most
useful when immediately applicable in the day-to-day work environment.



I
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK PERSPECTIVE
BACKGROUND
1.    The project being evaluated is the fourteenth Bank-financed project in the
transport sector in Cameroon. The preceding Bank loans in this sector totaled about
US$349 million, including US$218.5 million for five highway projects. In comparison,
Bank financing for this project alone reached US$165 million.
2.    While the Project was prepared in 1984-1985 with an ambitious vision, at the peak
of a long (20-year) period of economic prosperity that was characterized by a 7 percent
growth in average, its implementation occurred amid an exceptionally severe and
prolonged economic crisis whose end is not yet in sight. Several structural problems
developed during this period of growth. The traditional growth sectors, agriculture in
particular, were neglected and their productivity declined. The multitude of public
enterprises created during this period were inefficient and eventually became bankrupt
while draining huge resources from the State budget. The banking sector practiced
imprudent lending by becoming overly dependent on oil revenues and large government
deposits. The investment in public infrastructure was not selected to respond to economic
priorities or social needs and was not followed by proper maintenance. The long-term
debt increased from less than 20 percent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 1976,
to about 50 percent in 1992. In addition, Cameroon suffered from two major shocks.
First, as a result of a sharp decline in export prices of petroleum in 1986, followed by
declines in cocoa and coffee export prices, the external terms of trade fell by more than 55
percent from 1985 to 1989. Second, the real effective exchange rate started to appreciate
following the US dollar and Nigerian Naira depreciation in 1985-1986, and continued to
appreciate as Cameroon's inflation rate consistently remained above the inflation rates of
its main trading partners.
3.    The Project overlapped with two Bank-financed highway projects in Cameroon.
The Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1723-CM, US$40 million, closed on 06/30/87),
focused on the maintenance of unpaved roads, with a pilot operation of road maintenance
by contract, management improvement through provision of technical assistance, and
equipment renewal. The Fifth Highway Project (Loan 2180-CM, US$70 million, closed
on 06/30/89) included expansion of the paved road network and a study of its
strengthening; a new building for the national road laboratory (LABOGENIE); and
technical assistance to the Ministry of Transport and LABOGENIE.
A.   STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
A.1   Objectives
4.    At AppraisaL As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR, Report No. 5371-
CM, May 1985), the objectives of the Project were: (a) to increase road transport capacity
while reducing transport costs and protecting existing investment in the paved road



2
network; (b) to consolidate and build upon institutional developments, regarding transport
planning, road safety, highway planning; maintenance planning and execution; and training
begun under previous highway projects; (c) to strengthen the management system of the
national equipment pool (MATGENIE), increase its productivity and improve its control
of resource utilization; and (d) to strengthen the national road laboratory's
(LABOGENIE) operational and research capacity. The Project originated in a Transport
Strategy Paper (Report No. 4975-CM, February 29, 1984).
5.    Project components included: (a) a Road Development Program comprising: (i) a
600 km four-year road strengthening program; (ii) construction of the Mbalmayo-
Ebolowa road (107 km) and Kumba-Bakundo-Mfaitok II (50 km) road sections; and (iii)
studies; (b) an institutional development program comprising long-term and short-term
technical assistance and training provided to the four executing agencies: (i) the Ministry
of Equipment (MINEQ); (ii) the national equipment pool (MATGENIE); (iii) the national
road laboratory (LABOGENIE); and (iv) the Ministry of Transport (MINT); and (c)
facilities and equipment.
6.    Revised Objectives. Soon after effectiveness, the Government began facing severe
budget constraints.  In a November 1987 joint Bank-Government meeting, project
objectives were re-oriented in line with the recommendations of the Transport Plan
prepared under the Fifth Highway Project: (a) restructuring of public enterprises
(MATGENIE and LABOGENIE); (b) cost recovery improvement; (c) priority to road
maintenance, to preserve existing road investments; and (d) priority for financing
uncompleted ongoing road projects.  However, the 1988 amendment to the Loan
Agreement did not translate these new objectives but only listed roads to be built under
the Project. The revised objectives were only recorded in an aide-memoire.
A.2   Evaluation of Objectives and Risks
7.    The objectives, as stated in the SAR, appeared realistic amid the optimism
prevailing at appraisal on the macro-economic prospects. However, the economical and
financial crisis revealed that the optimism was not justified. The revised objectives took
that conclusion into account.
8.    The project at appraisal appeared neither too complex nor too risky, and could
have been reasonably well implemented despite the economic crisis. However, three risks
out of four identified in the SAR, occurred:
(a)   Project Costs: The expectation that strong competition among contractors
would keep construction costs at reasonable levels was not met.
Construction costs remained high because the financial crisis resulted in the
departure of several foreign contractors from Cameroon and reduction in
competition, and arrears from the Government to contractors lead those
contractors to cover the risk of additional arrears by increasing the share of



3
the contract paid by external donors by the equivalent of the share to be
paid by the Government.
(b)   Traffic Growth: There again, the expectation that economic growth would
continue strongly and result in rapid traffic growth was not met because of
the economic crisis.
(c)   A 17GENIE's Failure to Improve its Performance: Although the causes
for MATGENIE's weak performance were clearly identified in the SAR,
the measures consisting in provision of substantial technical assistance and
monitoring of MATGENIE's and consultants' performance were unable to
prevent this risk to occur.
(d)   Insufficient External Financing: Fortunately, external financing was
sufficient. Should there have been insufficient funds, the Government
would have been unable to finance the gap as expected in the SAR.
9.    Two risks were not identified:
(a)   Weak Performance of Sector Institutions: Although the lack of experienced
intermediate level managers was identified in the SAR as a main weakness,
it was not considered as a risk for the Project. The organizational set up
was qualified as adequate. Technical assistance and training provided
under the Project were expected to overcome this weakness, but did not
meet this expectation.
(b)   LABOGEN7E's Bankruptcy: The financial forecasts were based on the
optimistic assumptions that the civil works market would continue to grow
and LABOGENIE would continue to benefit from its monopoly in the
sector. The economic crisis resulted in a collapse of the market as well as
in accumulation of State arrears to the enterprise. Under Bank's pressure,
LABOGENIE had to decrease its tariffs because they did not reflect actual
costs, and the market was eventually open to the competition at the end of
the Project.
10.   The project, as reflected in the revised objectives, was too demanding for the
Borrower which was not committed to restructuring LABOGENIE and MATGENIE,
giving priority to road maintenance, and improving sector management. The reason for
this lack of commitment was that the Borrower had not realized that its economy was
collapsing and did not feel any need to implement the actions necessary to achieve these
objectives, under the impression that large State resources would continue to be available
and compensate for poor management and weak performance.



4
B.    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
B.1.  Degree of Achievement of Objectives
11.   Macroeconomic Policies. Not applicable.
12.   Sector Policies. The achievement is negligible. Although cost recovery improved
by increasing taxes on petroleum products and creating an axle load tax, the impact on the
sector was minimum, resources being not allocated to road maintenance. No other sector
policy issues were addressed under the Project although they were identified in a
Transport Sector Strategy Note prepared by the Bank in 1988.
13.   Financial Objectives. The achievement is negligible. As a result of the economic
crisis, the Government failed to meet SAR targets for road maintenance budget allocation.
Only 40 percent of the targeted budget was provided during the 1987-1992 period. For
this reason, actual revenues for MATGENIE and LABOGENIE were far below SAR
targets. The Government provided only 30 percent of proposed counterpart funds to the
Project.
14.   Institutional Development The achievement was negligible.
(a)   MATGENIE and LABOGENIE were not restructured. At the end of the
Project, both  companies were overstaffed  and bankrupt.   Only
LABOGENIE reduced its number of staff, although insufficiently.
MATGENIE did it only at the end of 1994 after a new general manager
was appointed. Their management information system remained deficient.
However, LABOGENIE's  management was more  committed  to
restructuring and the achievement in this particular case is assessed as
partial.
(b)   The Government did not, in practice, give priority to road maintenance.
Extemal resources provided under the Project for road maintenance were
much higher than expected, but were insufficient to compensate for the
drastic decrease of resources allocated to road maintenance in the
Government's budget. Other externally-financed projects which began
during the same period included almost only new road construction and
nothing for road maintenance.
(c)   The management capacity in transport planning and road safety, highway
planning, road maintenance capacity and execution was not strengthened
because of too much reliance on long-term technical assistance without
ensuring a sustainable transfer of know-how.  Poor human resource
management in the sectoral ministries did not provide the incentives or the
adequate framework to ensure such sustainability.



5
15.   Physical Objectives. The achievement is partial.
(a)   217 km of new roads were built under the Project against 156 km targeted
in the SAR and 265 km in the 1988 amendment to project description. 166
km were strengthened or rehabilitated out of a 600 km program identified
in the SAR.
(b)   Although the Project funds were used to complete previously uncompleted
projects, either Bank or Government-financed, two project-financed civil
works contracts were uncompleted because of lack of funds, and the
Project financed two sections in the middle of a road, with Government-
financed works remaining uncompleted on the section giving access to the
Project-financed sections for the same reason.
16.   Because the project as appraised was a straightforward investment project with
some institutional development activities, its design was appropriate to achieve its
objectives. However, after the objectives were revised, the project developed in such
manner during execution that it failed to achieve these objectives:
(a)   It relied on force account to execute road maintenance, although the
Fourth Highway Project had included a pilot operation to develop the use
of small and medium contractors. Force account was inefficient. Its
management was weak and unaccountable.
(b)   It relied on long-term technical assistance as a substitute for local staff.
This was unsustainable and all improvements disappeared when the
technical assistance ended.
17.   Criteria were sufficiently quantified in the SAR to monitor the achievement of
objectives.  However, when new  objectives were established soon after project
effectiveness, they were not translated into an amendment to the Project and no criteria
were established to monitor their achievement.
B.2. Economic Evaluation
18.   At AppraisaL The SAR provided an economic evaluation for the construction of
two roads: Mbalmayo-Ebolowa Road (the Bank eventually financed only 6% of the
construction cost), and Kumba-Bakundo-Mfaitok (lot 3). The rate of return ranged
between 13% and 16% for the former, and between 12% and 15% for the latter. The rate
of return of Kumba-Bakundo-Mfaitok Qot 1) was calculated together with lot 2 which
was to be financed by the Government. The rates of return of new projects included in the
1988 amendment to project description were estimated at 20.8 percent for Yaounde-
Mfou, and 20.7 percent for Obala-Sa'a-Monatele.



6
19.   A preliminary economic evaluation of the road strengthening program had been
carried out during project preparation. Rates of return ranged between 15 and 40 percent.
The Government and the Bank agreed during negotiations that the results of the economic
justification underway at the time of negotiations would be reviewed jointly, and that the
economic rate of return of sections to be retained under the Project would not be less than
12%.
20.   After Project Completion. The economic evaluation could not be undertaken in
the absence of reliable and updated data on road conditions, traffic, and road user costs.
Actual maintenance costs are unknown, as a cost accounting system is still absent despite
costly efforts to create one under the Project.
21.   Actual rates of return are expected to be much lower than estimated in the SAR.
Because of the economic crisis, traffic volume decreased, contrary to an estimated 10
percent annual traffic growth rate assumed in the SAR. Actual construction costs
exceeded significantly bid amounts mainly because of poor supervision and poor contract
management. Furthermore, post-project road user and maintenance costs are likely to be
far higher than anticipated, because of lack of maintenance. In the case of the Kumba-
Bakundo-Mfaitok road, the Government-financed contract for the construction of the first
50 km was not completed because of lack of funds, so that road users do not have full
access and therefore do not benefit from the Bank-financed works on the following two
sections of the road.
C.   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
C.1   Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
22.   The major factor that dominated project outcome was the severe economic crisis.
It was essentially triggered, in 1986, by the fall of raw materials and oil product prices on
the world market, combined with a simultaneous drop of the US dollar rate of exchange
versus the CFA Franc. Intemal political strife also affected the Project.
23.   From the Bank side's, the Project suffered from the high tumover of task
managers, as well as the inexperience of task managers or members of supervision teams
during the last three years of project execution. One task manager was severely ill during
three years while continuing to supervise the Project, and died in 1991.
C.2   Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
24.   The Government did not acknowledge the economic crisis and did not take the
actions necessary to mitigate the adverse impact on sectors. Lack of Government
commitment to institutional reform and understanding of the implications of neglecting
road maintenance caused a shortfall in performance and delays throughout Project
implementation. The economic crisis also resulted in shortages of counterpart funding and
chronic inability to pay civil servants' salaries on time.



7
25.   Considerable Central Government control over road organization and strong
political interference in technical decision-making, procurement and staff appointments
also hampered the functioning of the road system and made it highly unproductive.
26.   The transfer of responsibility for large road works from the Ministry of Public
Works to a new procurement agency (DGTC), reporting initially directly to the
Presidency, then to the Prime Minister, and ambiguities in the responsibility for road
management, caused delays and conflicts between the institutions, while not improving
sector and contract management.
C.3   Factors Subject to Implementing Agency Control
27.   The major factor negatively affecting the Project was the absence of leadership that
was competent, responsible, accountable and committed to reform at the helm of the Civil
Works and Transport institutions in their three functions: planning, design and execution,
and monitoring and evaluation.
28.   Other factors too played a role: (i) lack of incentives and reluctance to take
sanctions; (ii) poor management skills; (iii) lack of rigor in bookkeeping, associated with
poor financial management skills; (iv) poor adherence to Bank guidelines; and (v)
inadequate design and cost estimate of works at the preparation stage.
C.4   Cost Changes
29.   Changes in exchange rates had a major impact on the Project. The exchange rate
fell from CFAF 490 for one US dollar at project appraisal to CFAF 275 for one US dollar
in 1991. The average rate during project execution was 291. This reduced significantly
the amount in CFAF of resources available under the Project while the cost of works,
goods and services remained constant.
C.5  Implementation Delays
30.   Shortage of counterpart funds, poor detailed engineering  studies, slow
procurement procedures related to centralized authorization at top levels, political
interference and political strife were the major reasons for implementation delays. The
project start-up was delayed by about two years and accordingly, disbursements were
behind schedule. Following two extension of the Closing Date, Loan 2584-CM was
closed on October 31, 1993, against an initial Closing Date of June 30, 1991, in the SAR.
D.   SUSTAINABILITY
31.   The project is unsustainable because its objectives were not achieved:



8
(a)   The physical component of the Project is unsustainable because the roads
built or strengthened under the Project have not been maintained resulting
in steady deterioration.
(b)   The institutional development of the Project was either not implemented
(restructuring of MATGENIE and LABOGENIE) or unsustainable
because of poor commitment of sector institutions to good management
and reliance on long-term technical assistance with no strengthening of
local capacity.
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE
32.   Overall Bank performance is rated deficient:
(a)   The Bank assessment on the capacity of the Administration to manage,
finance and execute road maintenance was too optimistic. However, this
optimism reflected the general optimism vis-a-vis Cameroon economic
management and performance shared at that time among all donors as well
as among private banks and investors. Therefore, the wrong judgment
cannot be attributed only to the team which prepared the project.
(b)   Preliminary studies used for project appraisal were of poor quality and
were not updated before execution of works, resulting in delays and cost
overruns.
(c)   Although the Bank realized one year after effectiveness that the project
objectives had to be revised to take into account the deteriorating
economic situation, the amendment to the project did not reflect those
changes.
(d)   During supervision, the Bank focused on procurement, let aside monitoring
of technical assistance, was unsuccessful to obtain from the Borrower a
satisfactory project management which resulted in unreliable information
regarding the Project's financial execution. The first project audit was
produced only in 1992, six years after effectiveness, without any corrective
actions being taken by the Bank other than letters sent to request the
audits. The Project was not amended to reflect changes in institutions,
which had resulted in conflict between institutions and confusion in project
management. The high number of task managers, the lack of experience of
team members or task managers during the last three years of project
execution, and the serious illness of a task manager during three years were
responsible for lack of consistency in Bank project management, delays in
the decision-making process, lack of decisions on project restructuring.
Overall, the Bank failed to apply remedies against poor project
management. Missions did not visit the field enough.



9
(e)   The Bank realized in 1988 after having prepared a Transport Sector
Strategy Note that a new strategy was necessary for the transport sector,
but did not apply this conclusion to the Project by discussing with the
Government its restructuring. Although a Feeder Roads Project had been
under preparation since 1987 and a Transport Sector Public Enterprise
Restructuring Project since 1989, the Bank decided in 1991 to put its
lending program in the transport sector on hold until the Government
showed enough commitment to implementation of a sector-wide reform.
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
33.   The Borrower's performance is rated deficient:
(a)   The Government did not recognize in time that its macro-economic
situation was quickly deteriorating, and lacked commitment to implement a
new strategy in the public works sector to give priority to road
maintenance and restructuring of the equipment pool or the road
laboratory.   The Borrower was mostly interested in the physical
components of the Project, especially the construction of new roads.
(b)   Project management was poor. Sector institutions lacked coordination.
The Project lacked strong leadership dedicated to its objectives and their
achievement.
(c)   When the macro-economic situation deteriorated soon after effectiveness,
the Borrower did not make counterpart funds available, resulting in delays
in the Project's launch. The Borrower did not allocate adequate funds to
road maintenance, resulting in a bankrupt equipment pool and road
laboratory, and in a road network in poor condition requiring costly
rehabilitation.
(d)   The Borrower complied with the Project's legal covenants with
considerable delays. Poor management and lack of compliance with
procurement procedures also resulted in delays, unsatisfactory execution of
works, and claims. Two civil works contracts were not completed because
of unpaid claims.
(e)   The Borrower did not seek to improve sector policies.
(f)   The use of technical assistance was unsatisfactory. Strengthening of the
highway department, an objective of one large contract, was unsustainable
as local counterparts to foreign technical experts lacked incentives and
almost all department staff moved to other services after the departure of
technical experts. Another large technical assistance contract had no result



lo
other than a pilot operation for computerization of vehicle certification
implemented with what funds remained at the end of the contract.
G.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
34.   The assessment of the Project's outcome is rated highly unsatisfactory as the
Project failed to achieve most of its objectives, and has not, and is not expected to yield
worthwhile development results.  The assessment with regard to the initial project
objectives is as follows:
(a)   Road capacity did not increase as expected because roads have
deteriorated since their construction due to a lack of maintenance, some
works have not been completed, and, in a specific case, works were
executed on a central section without working on the sections on either
end, making the investment less economic.
(b)   Reduction in transport costs and protection of existing investments on the
paved road network were not achieved because of the lack of maintenance.
(c)   Institutional development regarding transport planning, road safety,
highway planning, maintenance planning and execution was not
consolidated. This objective was expected to be achieved through a large
program  of technical assistance.  In the transport sector, technical
assistance had no impact because of its poor performance, the complacency
of the administration and the lack of supervision of the contract when an
incompetent new mission chief of the technical assistance team was
appointed.  In the public works sector, the impact of the technical
assistance was unsustainable and became null when the contract was
completed and the technical assistants left.
(d)   The management system of MATGENIE was not strengthened.  The
improvements disappeared when the technical assistance provided under
the Project ended. MATGENIE initially refused, and eventually accepted
but only at the end of the Project, assistance to overhaul its accounting
system. Productivity did not increase due to poor management of the
equipment and the lack of resources because of accumulated arrears from
the Government.
35.   The assessment with regard to the revised objectives is as follows:
(a)   Restructuring of MATGENIE and LABOGENIE: Restructuring studies
were carried out for both companies, but were discarded because of the
inadequacy of their recommendations with regard to the bankruptcy of
both companies, and the lack of strategy for road maintenance to make the
companies financially viable.



11
(b)   Cost Recovery Improvement: Some recommendations of the studies carried
out during the Project were implemented but additional resources thus
created were not allocated to road maintenance. Road tolls were created in
1993. Axle loads of trucks started to be controlled in 1995.
(c)   Preservation of Road Investment Capital: Once the Project ended, all
efforts stopped and past efforts became vain.
H.   FUTURE OPERATIONS
36.   The Government, with the support of donors involved in the transport sector, has
developed an overall transport sector reform program to adjust the sector institutions and
address the financial issues in the sector. The program seeks to enable the sector to
resume its contribution to development rather than being a constraint to the country's
economic growth. It is aimed at improving mobilization and allocation of resources,
maintenance of transport infrastructure and the overall efficiency of the sector. These
objectives would be achieved through State divestiture from transport operations,
increased competition, more focused institutions to improve their effectiveness, and an
improved regulatory framework. The program would be implemented in three phases
over a three-year period. The first phase of the program would privatize or liquidate five
major transport Public Enterprises (PEs) with most impact on the Treasury, i.e., the
national airline, railways, shipping line, urban bus company and container transport and
freight forwarder company. The Ministry of Transport (MINT) 's role would be revised to
focus on planning, regulation and policy. The regulatory framework for air, maritime and
urban transport would be revised to develop competition and entry of private operators in
the subsectors. The subsequent phases would downsize the port authority and implement
an efficiency-driven organization for dredging execution, reorganize road maintenance,
and improvement in customs procedures for local and international transit. The role of the
Ministry of Public Works (MINTP) would be revised to shift from carrying out road
maintenance by force account to management of road maintenance by contract. The State
would divest from MATGENIE in parallel with the progressive contracting-out of road
maintenance.  Investment in the sector, with an initial focus on maintenance and
rehabilitation, would resume once implementation of the reforms has begun.
37.   IDA would assist the Government through both adjustment and investment
operations:
(a)   State divestiture from  transport operations is on-going and will be
completed under the proposed Enterprise Reform and Divestiture Credit
(FY98). Revision of the regulatory framework for maritime transport is
included in the proposed Structural Adjustment Credits (FY96). The
Infrastructure Division will assist other divisions in the Department who
will manage these two adjustment operations.



12
(b)   Implementation of the subsequent phases of the transport sector reform
progran, as well as revision of the regulatory framework for urban and air
transport, and restructuring of the Ministry of Transport included in the
first phase will be supported by the proposed Transport Sector Project
(TSP, FY96). The TSP will also finance a portion of the Public Investment
Program in the sector.
(c)   The Transport Sector Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 2703-CM,
approved on April 11, 1995), cofinanced by IDA, the European Union
(EU), the French Ministry of Cooperation, and the German Ministry for
Cooperation will provide the necessary expertise in institutional
development to assist in the implementation of the transport reform
program.
38.   The institutional setup was defined during the preparation of the sector reform to
ensure effective implementation of the reform. An Interministerial Committee was created
which prepared the new strategy for the sector. In addition, the reform program was
discussed with all stakeholders, public and private, in the sector. Several meetings and
seminars were organized to discuss the new strategy for road maintenance, the regulatory
framework in the maritime sector, the liquidation of the urban bus company and the
privatization of the other priority PEs in the sector. Several donor meetings have been
held in Cameroon. Sensitization has been strengthened by the intervention of the Minister
of Transport in the media and discussions with the employees of the PEs to be
privatized/liquidated. The institutional framework for privatization is being strengthened
as part of the proposed Structural Adjustment Credit (FY96).
39.   MINT and MINTP would be responsible, in their relative subsectors, for the
preparation of subsequent phases of the reform program--including investments--in close
collaboration with other interested Government agencies.  The existing Transport
Interministerial Coordination Unit, which has diligently assisted the Government in the
preparation of the reform program, will continue to assist MINT and MINTP. Almost all
technical assistance to be provided under the proposed IDA operations is of a short-term
nature and is designed to strengthen national capacity to manage the transport sector.
Technical assistance will not, therefore, be a long-term substitute for local staff.
40.   Clear indicators and detailed timetables were agreed by the Government during the
negotiations of the Transport Sector Technical Assistance Project. They will be used to
closely monitor the implementation of transport reform.
I.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
41.   Key lessons learned are related to:
(a)   Project Context: Bank assistance strategy and operations should be based
on a sector-wide analysis to determine priorities and reforms which would
prevent some sub-sectors from undermining efforts in others, especially in a



13
deteriorating or weak economy, when resources are scarce. The
commitment of the Government, consistency of investment programs with
the macro-economic situation, and donors' coordination, are key factors
towards the achievement of sector reform.
(b)   Road Maintenance Organization: When the sector lacks strong leadership
and commitment to efficiency and accountability, the role of the institution
in charge of road maintenance needs to be concentrated on planning,
programming, budgeting and supervising road maintenance works. Work
execution should be contracted-out to achieve better efficiency and
adequacy between the program of works and available resources.
Financing of road maintenance inputs (gasoil, spare parts) as done under
the Project should definitely be discarded.
(c)   Project Design and Implementdtion: To continue in a direction which has
become inappropriate is likely to result in poor implementation and
performance and lack of achievement of the Project objectives. In such a
case, the Project ought to be adjusted or restructured where necessary.
(d)   Technical Assistance,  Capacity  Building  and  Human  Resource
Development: Technical assistance should be provided in an environment
which is committed to building on the expertise thus provided. This
requires a strong leadership capable of developing and implementing a
human resource development strategy.  Capacity building has to be
considered on a long-term basis. Training is most useful when immediately
applicable in the day-to-day work environment.



14
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Obiectives Substantial  Partial   Neglifible   Not Applicable
Macro Policies                                                       x
Sector Policies                                         x
Financial Objectives                                    x
Institutional Development                               x
Physical Objectives                          x
Poverty Reduction                                                    x
Gender Issues                                                        X
Other Social Objectives                                              x
Environmental Objectives                                              x
Public Sector Management                                x
Private Sector Development                              x
Other (specify)                                                      x
B. Proiect Sustainability  Likely     Unlikely     Uncertain
x



15
C. Bank Performance          Highly       Satisfactory   Deficient   Highly
Satisfactory                           Unsatisfactory
Identification                               x
Preparation Assistance                       x
Appraisal                                    x
Supervision                                                x
D. Borrower Rerformance    Highly         Satisfactorv  Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation                                                x
Implementation                                             x
Covenant Compliance                                        x
E. Assessment of outcome     Highly       Satisfactory   Deficient   Highly
Satisfactory                           Unsatisfactory
x



16
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title     Purpose                                             Year of    Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
1. Feeder Roads Project  Establish an efficient institutional framework for planning,  1977  Disbursed
developing and maintaining feeder roads.
2. Fourth Highway     Improve the Government's capacity to maintain roads; to   1979  Disbursed
Project               promote small- and medium-scale contractors; to control
vehicle load and improve road maintenance planning.
3. Fifth Highway      Construction of the Douala-Yaounde road; technical  1982       Disbursed
Project               assistance to the Ministry of Public Works and Transport;
strengthening of the National Road Laboratory;
preinvestment studies.
Following Operations
Transport Sector      Launch the transport sector reform program, which would   1995  Approved
Technical Assistance    result in the creation of a new private civil aviation
Project               company, private operation of rail services, liquidation of
the urban bus company, sale of public shares in the
national shipping line, restructuring of the Ministry of
Transport and reform of the regulatory framework for air,
urban and maritime transport.
Continue preparation of the subsequent phases of the
reform program, which would result in: (a) restructuring of
the Ministry of Public Works, execution by contract of
most of the road maintenance work program, and
implementation of a sustainable financing mechanism for
road maintenance; (b) restructuring and down-sizing of the
port authority, and implementation of an efficiency-driven
organization for dredging; and (c) an improved customs
institutional framework, overhaul of the customs
computerized information system, and implementation of a
new international transit system.



17
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle       Date Planned                  Date actual
Identification
Preparation                                                November 14, 1983
Appraisal                    June 19841                    May 28, 1984
Negotiations                 February 1985 1               April 22, 1985
Board presentation           June 1985 2                   June 18, 1985
Signing                                                    November 19, 1985
Effectiveness                October 31, 19852             April 8, 1986
Project completion           June 30, 19902                October 31, 1993
Loan closing                 June 30, 1991 2               May 5, 1994
' in final project brief (April 24, 1984)
2 in SAR



18
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94
Appraisal     6.0   29.0  65.00   99.00  120.00  125.00  125.00  125.00  125.00
estimate
Actual        0.0     1.7  15.03   33.81   57.38   95.86  112.96  122.42  124.41
Actual as      0       6      23      34      48       77      90       98     100
% of
estimate
The data above does not include US$20 million disbursed in January 1987 from the Loan Account
B018-CM.



19
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
Key Indicators in SAR        Estimated           Actual
Road Maintenance Budget'
1985                             21,774            27,095
1986                             23,063            26,795
1987                             24,421            14,843
1988                             25,843             8,399
1989                             26,968             9,645
1990                             28,103            12,658
1991                             29,253            11,298
1992                             30,428             9,900
Road Construction (km)             116 2              217
265 3
'The road maintenance budget is given in million CFAF. The estimated budget is in constant 1984 prices.
The actual budget is in current prices.
2At appraisal.
3 1988 amendment.
MATGENIE
Key Indicators in SAR        Estimated            Actual
Working Ratio
1986                               35%
1987 and thereafter                30%               84%
Return on Fixed Assets             10%                 <0
Equipment Availability
1986                               70%
1987 and thereafter                80%               64%
LABOGENIE
Key Indicators in SAR        Estimated            Actual
Accounts Receivables/Gross
Operating Revenue
1988 and thereafter                67%              384%
Ratio of Profitability on Sales    15%                 <0



20
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study         Purpose as Defined at    Status                 Impact of Study
Appraisal/ Redefined
Road Kumba-Mamfe  Update of tender         Completed    Negligible. Funds were not available to
(lot 2)             documents                            execute the works. Study is now outdated.
Road Ebolowa-Kribi  Feasibility and detailed   Completed  Partial. Funds were not available to
engineering design                  execute the works, the study will need to be
updated.
Road Febadi-        Feasibility and detailed   Completed  Partial. Funds were not available to
Ngaoundere          engineering design                   execute the works, the study will need to be
updated.
Road Obala-Nanga   Feasibility and detailed   Completed  Partial. Funds were not available to
Eboko-Bouam         engineering design                   execute the works, the study will need to be
updated.
Road taxation and    Improve cost recovery    Completed'   Provided the basis for an increase in
cost recovery       from road users                     taxation of petroleum products and creation
of a tax on axle load.
Data base on        Monitoring of transport  Completed   Provided data to discuss a new strategy for
transport           sector performance     for 1991 '    the transport sector, but was not maintained
after 1991.
Feeder roads        Update of the study    Completed'   Provided the basis for the definition of a
development plan    financed under the Fifth            rehabilitation and maintenance program
Highway Project                     using small and medium-scale enterprises
(SMEs) and labor-based methods.
Road component of   Preparation of a road    Completed'   Provided the basis for the definition of a
the Transport Sector  maintenance program                new strategy for road maintenance executed
Project                                                  by contract instead of force account.
Small- and medium-  Identification of SMEs   Completed'   Established the potential of using SMEs for
scale enterprises  in Cameroon                           road maintenance.
MATGENIE            Restructuring study    Completed'   Negligible. The study did not take into
account the impact of the economic crisis
on the availability of funds for road
maintenance, and the shift toward road
maintenance execution by contract.
LABOGENIE           Restructuring study    Completed'   Partial. Labogenie's management team
used the study to implement some
restructuring actions. The study did not
take into account the opening of the market
to the competition.
LABOGENIE           Data base              Uncompleted'
' Studies carried out as part of technical assistance contracts.



21
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 7A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$ '000)    Actual
(USS '000)
Institution     Item       Local      Foreign      Total      Total
Costs      Costs
Ministry of   Civil Works   64,825.0   125,675.0   190,500.0  225,359.4
Public Works
Equipment        30.6       275.4      306.0    55,733.5
Consultant    2,990.0    14,950.4    17,940.4    24,230.4
Services
Fellowships       0.0       120.0      120.0       536.5
MATGENIE    Civil Works        360.0      440.0       800.0         9.4
Equipment       513.0     4,617.0     5,130.0    3,170.5
Consultant      734.2     2,937.0     3,671.2    8,891.9
Services
Fellowships       0.0       210.0      210.0       161.7
LABOGENIE   Civil Works        180.0      220.0       400.0     1,622.4
Equipment        70.0       630.0      700.0      1,395.7
Consultant      273.6     1,094.4     1,368.0    1,945.9
Services
Fellowships       0.0       150.0      150.0        43.0
Ministry of   Civil Works      135.0      165.0       300.0        0.0
Transport
Equipment       110.0       990.0     1,100.0      171.4
Consultant      762.1     3,048.5     3,810.6    5,570.0
Services
Fellowships       0.0       120.0      120.0       131.6
Sub-total                   70,983.6   152,652.6   223,636.2   329,055.2
Contingencies               24,026.0    47,327.2    71,353.1       0.0
Total                       95,009.6   199,979.8   294,989.3   329,055.2
Distribution of actual costs between foreign and local costs is unavailable.



22
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 7B: Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source                        Appraisal Estimate             Actual
Local Costs   Foreign Costs   Total    Total
IBRD                                      0.0          125.0    125.0   144.4
Private   Banks   and   other
cofinanciers
- Private Banks                                                          100.0
- AfDB                                                                    48.9
-EU                                                                        6.9
-CIDA                                                                      0.2
Sub-total                                               75.0      75.0   156.0
Government                               95.0            0.0      95.0    28.7
Total                                    95.0          200.0    295.0   329.1



23
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section   Covenant   Status        Original     Revised          Description            Comments
Type               Fulfillment   Fulfillment       of Covenant
Date         Date
Loan        3.01      4           NC        General                    Borrower to cause     Arrears from the
MATGENIE to           Government have been
perform in accordance   accumulating and total
with the Project      about CFAF 13.5 M
Agreement, to take all  Loan.
action, including
provision of funds,
facilities, services and
other resources to
enable MATGENIE to
perform such
obligations.
3.04      12         C         Not later                  Government to furnish   Completed.
than three                 such annual program
months                    to the Bank for review
before                     and approval.
inviting                   Rehabilitation works
tenders for                included in such
works under                program to have an
road                       economic rate of return
strengthenin               not less than 12%.
g programn
3.05      9          C         Before                      Review by the Bank of  Completed.
undertaking                terms of reference, and
studies                    concurrence
under Parts
A(c) and
B(cXiii) of
the Project.
3.06      13         C         12/31/86 or                 Selection for training    Training activities were
such other                 of MINEQ staff with    stopped at the end of the
date that the              qualifications and    Project because of a lack
Bank may                   proposed training     of adequacy between the
agree                      programs satisfactory   training program and the
to the Bank.          training requirements, as
well as between the
training program and the
qualification of staff
proposed to be trained
3.07      9          C         03/31/86 or                Review by the Bank of  Completed.
such other                list and cost of
date that the              equipment to be
Bank may                   purchased under Part
agree                      B of the Project.



24
Agreement  Section   Covenant   Status       Original     Revised        Description             Comments
Type               Fulfillment  Fulfillment      of Covenant
Date         Date
4.01 (a)   9         CP        Continuous                Borrower to maintain   Maintenance was poor at
separate records and    the start of the project
accounts adequate to   because of lack of
reflect in accordance    coordination between the
with sound accounting  executing agencies;
practices the        deteriorated when MINTP
operations, resources   was split between two
and expenditures in  ministries and DGTC was
respect of the Project   created, and improved at
the end of the project
when it was centralized in
a single unit.
4.01      1          CD        Not later                 Audit of the Project    The furst audit was
than sixth               Accounts              carried out in 1992. All
months after                                   audits were unqualified.
the end of
each fiscal
year
4.02 (a)   9         CP        Continuous                LABOGENIE to         Records and accounts
maintain separate    were not maintained in
records and accounts   accordance with sound
adequate to reflect in   accounting practices (see
accordance with sound  clause on audits below)
accounting practices
the operations, and
financial condition of
LABOGENIE.
4.02 (b)   1         CD        Not later                 Audit of LABOGENIE  All audits were qualified.
than sixth
months after
the end of
each fiscal
year
4.03 (a)   2         C         Every fiscal              LABOGENIE to         Completed.
year                     include fixed assets in
use other than those
presently included at
their current value in
its balance sheets.
4.03 (b)  2          NC                                  Ratio of profitability    LABOGENIE became
on sales exceeding or   unprofitable due to
FY86                      equal to:            accumulating Government
FY87 and                  10%;                 arrears
after                     15%                  _
4.04 (a)   12        C         03131/86 or                MINEQ to            Exchange of views were
such other                exchange views      not followed by actions.
date that the              with the Bank on   Restructuring of MINEQ
Bank may                   institutional      is part of the new project
agree                      measures           under preparation.
with a view to
strengthen transport
planning and
coordination.



25
Agreement  Secton   Covenant   Status    Original        Revied         Description            Comments
Type              Fulfillment  Fulfillment     of Covenant
Date        Date
4.04 (b)   12        CD        November                  MINEQ to exchange  Recommendations aimed
30 of each               views with the Bank  at improving force account
year                     on:                 failed because of the
(a) technical      budget collapse, high
assistance provided   turnover of Ministiy staff
and to be provided,   and lack of comnitment
and actions taken or  from the Ministry.
proposed to be taken
on the basis of
conwltants'
recomunendations;
(b) its investment
program in the
transport sector
4.04 (b)   12        CD        Beginning                 MINEQ to exchange  The survey became
March 31,                 views with the Bank  obsolete due to the
1986 or                  on the              economic crisis.
such other               recommendations
date as the              included in the
banlc may                nationlal transport
agree                     survey carried out
underth&e Fifth
IHighway Project;
4.05      9          CP        Not later                 Borrower to        Borrower sent its annual
than April               exchange views with  budget for road
30 of each               the Bank on its draft  maintenance.
year, until              annual road         Implementation reports
two years                maintenance         were no more prepared and
after project            program.            furnished when the
completion               Bortower to furnish  technical assistance left.
to the Bank a report
on the
implementation of
its road maintenance
program for the
preding fiscal
Project     4.01      1          CD        Not later                 Audit of           All audits were qualified.
than sixth               MATGENIE
months
after the
end of each
fial vear
Schedule  2          NC       Continuous                MATGENE will    Never complied with due
follow a financial    to Governments arrears.
policy enabling it to
finance an
equipment and
acquisition program



26
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 9: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title       Description and Comment on Lack of Compliance
OD1 1.00: Procurement            Loan B018-CM financed rental of equipment by
MATGENIE, the national equipment pool, which should
not have been eligible because of lack of managerial
autonomy. Contracts were awarded without competition.
OD1O.60: Accounting, financial   No corrective action was taken to make the Borrower
reporting, and auditing          comply with the Loan Agreement regarding the timely
OD13. 10: Borrower compliance with  provision of project audits, and improve financial
audit covenants                  accounting and control systems as recommended in the
audits during the first six years of project execution.
OD 13.05: Project supervision    Legal documents were not amended to reflect changes in
priorities (road maintenance versus road construction),
circumstances surrounding the project (the economic
crisis), and organizational and managerial arrangements
(split of MINEQ into two ministries and creation of
DGTC).
OD4.01: Environmental assessment   The environmental impact of the project was not assessed.



27
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
DIPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cyde            Planned                     Actual
Prepuation to Appraisal             N.A.                       64.9
Negotiations through                N.A.                       13.2
Board Approval
Supervision                        N.A.                       143.1
Completion                          NA.                         2.4
Total                               N.A.                      223.6
Ibc staff inputs arm expressed in staff-weeks. Number in USS are not available.
N.A.: Not Available in SAR



28
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of project   Month   No. of   Days  Specialized  Implemen  Develop-      Types of Problems
cycle        /year   persons  in the  staff skills   -tation   ment
field  represented    status    objectives
Through appraisal  12/83   3        21     HE, TE,
FA
03/84   3        14     HE, TE,          -          -
ES
06/84   5        21      HE, FA,         -          -
TE, ES, TS
Appraisal through  12/84   1        9      HE
Board approval
03/85   2        15      HE, TE          -          -
Supervision       10/85   3         12     HE, TE,    N.A.        N.A.       Loan signature pending
FA
03/86  3         16     HE, TE,      1          1         Delays in the institutional
FA                                development program
06/86  2         6      HE, FA      N.A.       N.A.
10/86   3        14     HE, TE,     I          I          Project start-up delayed by
FA                                one year. Institutional
development program
remains to be defined for
MINT and LABOGENIE.
03/87   1        5      HE           1          1         Project start-up delayed by
one year and expected to
be delayed by one addition
year due to delays in
completion of engineering
studies and slow
procurement. More delays
expected for the
institutional development
program (MINT and
LABOGENIE)
11/87  4         18     HE, TE,    3           3          Only 3% of funds
FA, TS                            disbursed and 10%
committed due to slow
procurement. Government
reluctant to hire
consultants agreed during
negotiations.



29
Performance Rating
Stage of project    Month   No. of  Days  Specialized  Implemen  Develop-    Types of Problems
cycle            /year  persons  in the  staff skills   -tation   ment
field  represented   status   objectives
07/88  3         21   HBE, TE,    2           2         Government arrears on
PS                              contracts financed by the
project; and insufficient
funds for road
maintenance
03/89   1        15    TE          2          2         Delay in the road
maintenance component.
Deterioration of the
financial situation of
MATGENIE and
LABOGENIE
06/89   2        10    TE, FA      N.A.       N.A.      N.A.
12/89   3       14     TE, HE,    2           2         Slow procurement
ES                              procedures; inadequate
management in the Road
Directorate; aggravating
financial situation of
LABOGENIE and
MATGENIE due to
financial constraints of
the State.
03/90   2        14     TE, FA,    N.A.       N.A.      Ambiguities in the role of
HE                              sector institutions due to
creation of DGTC
02/91   1        13     TE         2          2          Serious financial
problems for MATGENIE
and LABOGENIE
06/91   3       7       TE, PO,    N.A.       N.A.      N.A.
HE
10/91   2       5      TE, PO      3          2         Lack of coordination
between implementing
agencies; lack of
compliance with Loan
covenants regarding
audits; lack of compliance
with Bank procurement
guidelines.
02/92   1        5      TE         2          2          Serious financial
problems for MATGENIE
and LABOGENIE; lack of
compliance with Bank
procurement guidelines;
lack of funds to complete
civil works contracts;
draft project audit
qualified; LABOGENIE
and MATGENIE audits
still unavailable.



30
Performance Rating
Stage of project    Month   No. of  Days  Specialized  Implemen  Develop-    Types of Problems
cycle             /year  persons  in the  staff skills   -tation  ment
field  represented   status   objectives
06/92   1       7      CS            N.A.       N.A.   N.A.
12/92   1       5      TE              2         2      Final audit reports not yet
available
03/93                                  2         2      FY91 and FY92 final
audit reports for
MATGENIE and
LABOGENEE not yet
available
Completion       06/94-  1        42     TE             -          -
11/94
Almost all supervision missions were carried out in parallel with the supervision or the preparation
of other Bank projects.
The project was not supervised in the field in 1993 because 12 categories had been closed in June
1992, and project activities consisted in completion of two civil works contracts, and contracts
with project auditors.
HE: Highway Engineer
TE: Transport Economist
PS: Procurement Specialist
ES: Civil Works Equipment Specialist
FA: Financial Analyst
TS: Training Specialist
PO: Project Officer
CS: Computer Specialist



31
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Loans A: 2584-CM and B: 018-CM
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
INTRODUCTION
Cameroon prepared the Sixth Highway Project in 1984-85 at the peak of a long (20-year)
period of economic prosperity characterized by 7-percent average growth and the construction of
major basic infrastructures works, particularly in the transportation sector (roads, airports, etc.).
Its implementation, on the other hand, was to take place in the midst of a prolonged and
exceptionally severe economic cfisis.
The Sixth Highway Project followed:
- the Fourth Highway Project, which focused on institutional development and road
maintenance personnel training and improvement of the road network by means of a major
unpaved roads maintenance and rehabilitation program;
- the Fifth Highway Project, which comprised construction of the Yaounde-Douala
highway, of which the World Bank helped finance the works of the Edea-Yaounde section,
construction of the new headquarters building of the National Road Laboratory (LABOGENIE),
study of the transportation plan, study of strengthening of the 2,400 km of paved roads, and
technical assistance to the Ministry of Equipment (MINEQ).
The objectives of the Sixth Highway Project as defined at appraisal in 1985 were:
- to boost road transport capacity while reducing transport costs and protecting existing
investment;
- to achieve institutional strengthening by consolidating or pursuing the activities
undertaken in the areas of road safety, road and transportation planning and road maintenance;
- to strengthen the management system of the National Equipment Pool (MATGENIE);
- to upgrade LABOGENIE'S operational and research capacities.
These objectives were to be pursued through the following operations:
(1) Roads
-  a program of strengthening of 600 km of priority-ranked asphalted roads;



32
-  construction of the Mbalmayo-Ebolowa road (107 km) and the Kumba-Mfaitok section
(50 Iam), representing lot 3 of the Kumba-Mamfe highway;
-  feasibility studies of other roads.
(2) Institutional Strengthening
MINEQ:
- upgrading of the Ministry's planning and monitoring capacities;
- improvement of its management information, budget preparation and cost accounting
systems;
- a technical training and study fellowships program.
MATGENIE:
- upgrading of operations management capacity, including technical personnel training;
- granting of training fellowships;
- construction of training and workshop facilities.
Ministry of Transport (MINT):
- upgrading of transportation planning and coordination capacity;
- setting up of a road safety and vehicle approval system;
- personnel training and fellowships;
- computerization of vehicle certification, etc.
(3) Strengthening of LABOGENIE'S Operational and Research Capacities
- technical personnel training, granting of fellowships;
- construction works, supplies, training and research.
The cost of this project was estimated at appraisal completion at US$295 million, i.e. more
than 85 percent of the aggregate volume of the Bank's previous transportation-sector lending to
Cameroon.
Financing of this project was provided by the following donors:



33
 the World Bank, through:
- Loan A ( 2584-CM), for US$125 million, signed on June 18, 1985 and supplemented,
owing to the financial difficulties encountered, by
- Loan B (018-CM), for CFAF 35,980,622,400, signed on January 16, 1987.
 ADB, which contributed CFAF 15.1 billion for the Mbalmayo-Ebolowa road works.
 The Government, which granted a CFAF 10 billion commitment under the Public
Investment Budget.
L EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Revised Objectives
In November 1987, i.e. after the loan had entered into effect, Cameroon and the Bank,
responding to the adverse effects of the economic crisis on the public finances, jointly reoriented
the project objectives to take account of the recommendations of the Transport Plan study carried
out under the Fifth Highway Project, as follows:
- restructuring of MATGENIE and LABOGENIE;
- improvement of cost recovery;
- giving priority to road maintenance in order to preserve existing investment;
- assignment of priority to uncompleted projects.
While these revisions did not entail any changes in the loan agreement, they did require
amendment of project contents to:
- place limits on construction works;
-  reduce the 600-km rehabilitation program to 150 km, comprising 100 km of strengthening
works and 50 km of curative maintenance of the Mora-Waza section;
- take account of certain operations carried out under the Fourth and Fifth highway
projects.
Sector Policies
The results are practically negligible. Cost recovery improved, but owing to the decrease in
governmental resources the resulting incremental resources were not applied to road maintenance.



34
Institutionally, the creation of the DGTC in 1988 and the transfer to it of the functions of the
New Works Subdirectorate led the latter to pursue a program until then followed by another
agency, with a completely different approach (different project management approaches: force
account/contracting).
Financial Objectives
Management of the project was weakened by financial problems of various kinds:
 The fall in the US dollar/CFA franc exchange rate. The parity of the US dollar, CFAF 490
at project appraisal, had fallen to CFAF 275 by 1991. This situation substantially reduced the
available local currency resources whereas works, goods and services costs remained at least
constant.
 The Government failed to honor its financial commitments promptly, as a consequence of
the reduction in the Public Investment Budget, combined with the adverse effects of the economic
crisis. This explains the moderate rate of disbursement of counterpart funds.
 To enable it to honor part of its commitments, the Borrower had to resort to EDF support
in the amount of CFAF 2 billion.
 The untimely stoppages caused by the repeated suspension of disbursements by the Bank
disrupted the normal progress of the works and generated incremental costs.
Institutional Strengthening
Achievement was negligible. MATGENIE and LABOGENIE were not restructured, and at
the end of the project are still bankrupt. The sector's management capacity has not been
strengthened.
Technical Objectives
 New and rehabilitation works.
In quantitative terms, the overall outcome is positive: of the 255 km provided for in the 1988
amendment, 85% was implemented. As regards strengthening works, 166 km of road was paved,
against the scheduled 150 km, an execution rate of 1 11 percent.
In terms of quality, deficiencies are noted, connected with failure to update the basic studies,
particularly concerning rehabilitation operations, as in the case of the Bekoko-Tiko-Limbe and
Mora-Waza highways.



35
 Road maintenance.
Here, the outcome is generally negative, evidence that real priority was not given to road
maintenance, in terms either of public finances disbursement priorities or of internal management
of the technical agencies. Concerning road maintenance operations, we note:
- lack of continuity with the Fourth Highway Project: none of the recommendations
contained in its Completion Report were implemented;
- poor inputs management (fuel and bitumen) and low equipment utilization productivity;
- inadequate budget allocations in light of the works program;
- delays in awarding contracts;
- the operating difficulties experienced by MATGENEE.
E. EVALUATION OF THE GOVERNMENT'S PERFORMANCE
- The financial resources allocated to road maintenance continued to fall short of its needs
even though road maintenance is listed among the Government's priorities. Moreover, following
the reduction in the public agencies' operating resources the productivity of the road maintenance
subsector fell sharply.
- The weaknesses of the institutional framework led to conflicts between different executing
agencies, highlighting the need to set up a single road authority.
- Human resource management was not conducted with an eye to preserving the gains
obtained with the know-how transfer generated by the technical assistance, training activities and
other technical benefits generated by the project.
- There were long delays in awarding contracts.
m. EVALUATION OF THE BANK'S PERFORMANCE
- The project was not put together in a spirit inspired by the lessons of the previous
projects, which were implemented in a calm economic environment.
- The bidding studies were not updated to take account of the parameters of the new
economic environment, changes in factor costs and technical developments. The Bank ought to
have committed itself to monitoring not only the works but also the quality of the studies, as some
donors do.
- The repeated disbursement suspensions during execution of the works inevitably inflated
the project cost. The Bank needs to review its procedures with the object of minimizing these
cost changes.



36
- As a consequence of the large turnover of project chiefs at the Bank:
- there were frequent monitoring holdups which affected the duration of the operations;
- the Bank expressed only few opinions on the studies and works during execution,
opinions that were even sometimes contradictory.
- Technical assistance was completely nonexistent during execution of new construction
works or rehabilitation works supervised by a local agency. It was confined to road maintenance
works.
- Audits were rare; moreover, the first did not take place until 6 years after the effective
date of the loan.
In light of the above, the Bank's performance appears to have been unsatisfactory.
IV. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
4.1 Project Framework
Sector financing strategy ought to take account of:
- a global macroeconomic framework that determines the economy's absorption capacity
and setting up of the counterpart funds to finance the local portion;
- the institutional and management framework of the project, including the development of
project planning, programming and supervision capacities;
- the need for proper coordination of executing agencies and the donors.
In this connection, the operations programming system ought to be decided on after appraisal
of the activities, as a flexible system, and reviewed annually to take account of short-term changes
in the macroeconomic situation and a system of regular audit should be installed.
4.2 Studies and Works
- The poor quality of the studies had a major financial impact on the execution of the works.
It had the effect generally of increasing the original quantities and prolonging the completion
deadlines, the  subjects of numerous financial amendments to the basic contracts.  These
amendments resulted in cost increases, the magnitude of which ranged from 15 to 26 percent.
- Adequate account needs to be taken henceforth of experience acquired in works execution
in a tropical environment in selecting foreign enterprises that are to carry out the works.



37
4.3 Road Maintenance
The current organization of road maintenance is out of step with the need for efficient use of
the resources to be mobilized and the low productivity of the public agencies in comparison with
an increasingly efficient private sector.
Priority should be given in this organization to creating a system of competition by integrating
private operators into road maintenance. Under this set-up, the institution currently responsible
for road maintenance would confine itself to planning, programming, budgeting and supervision
tasks. Separating the two groups of tasks would make it possible to enhance efficiency of capital
in road maintenance.
4.4 Technical Assistance
For the capitalizing effects of the projects to penetrate the entire sector, they need to be
internalized to the maximum possible degree. The technical assistance missions ought therefore
to aim at permanence of the system beyond the contract period.
V. RECOMMENDATIONS
 Undisbursed balance of US$587,946.68.
Considering first that the Bank's performance in the putting together and conduct of this
project was mutually rated as unsatisfactory and second that the large turnover of Bank project
chiefs created constant hold-ups, the Bank's responsibility would appear to be obvious,
notwithstanding the poor [or] mediocre performance of the Government, to justify failure to
disburse the entire loan allocated to this project.
It would hence be wise, for the purpose of sharing responsibility in this situation, to regard
this residue as applied to amortization of the pertinent loan or allocated to completion of the other
uncompleted projects.
 Monitoring of studies: The need is clearer than in the past to update the studies before
putting together the tender documentation.
 It would be advisable to draw up and communicate to the executing agencies the terms of
reference between the technical assistant and the borrower and the donor and draw up a contract,
preferably of short duration and providing for closely specified assistance, clearly defining the
evaluation criteria for each expert, particularly with respect to know-how and knowledge transfer,
that can be called into question prior to its expiration when any serious deficiency becomes
apparent.
 In the case of new construction and rehabilitation works, special attention should be paid
to the prior studies; this could be reflected in an increase in the services to be performed
(geotechnical tests, structural calculations, technical variants, and so on) in order to achieve better
control of works deadlines.



38
  In order to avoid execution holdups and slowdowns, the institutional and nmanagem
fiamework of the project should be agreed on prior to its entry into effect; idllarly, to settle the
problem of availability of counterpart finds, agreement should be reached on a panent
mechanism for financing the local portion through user cost recovery.
 Finally, to avoid slippages, a regular reporting and auditing procedure should be set up,
together with a system of regular consltation and discussion meetings.



MAP SECTION






IBRD 27082
MALI                                                                                                                       .    u
. -'    NIGER         /La ke .ChadsO 
SUDAN                                                 \      ;
BIJRKINL              !       -         CHAD                                  The boundaries, colors. ,
FASO'IV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x ~~~denominahons andc on,y
7~~~~~~(\IN) ~~~~~~~~~~~~other in,formotron shown
NIGERIA                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~On this nmap  do  ofl
) NIGERIA                         r\_ g/ \ imply, on the part of
I The World Bank Group.
cCENTRAL AFRICAN                      any udgment on the legal
J        71 1-I                     f         REPUBLIC .                      status of ony territory
GulTot  ~~- -XAMEROONX                                              0, .,,ay e,,do,sement                              K    u         CH D             -
(Gulf                                                                   or acceptance of such                                             CHADs&
I          ~~~~bo,,ndarie's.                                                  C A
EQLtWOU..41, 
GLINEA      i                     ZAIRE                                                                                   0
ATLANTIC CCEAN, GABON   GO3NG1  LOETER0 0 7060  610 12010 160 .                                                                                          . 16*
- MILES 0    20   40   60   85   100 IMor                          -
Mooo  Bog.
tMROUA
CAMEROON                                                              .                '-  K ,
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
SELECTED TOWNS                                            GR'-
S PROVINCE CAPITALS                                   be          GAR U
PAVED ROADS                                           )            |    '
UNPAVED ROADS                                       j |'
RAILROADS                                      _4                   Guib[ib_
RIVERS                                      JPl
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                        Tch1 I,rA
_   INTERNATIONAL                               I   -                     I
_ r                                 BOUNDARIES
j 4   T gnere         M;ourguel
, )NGAOUNDERE
rJ       9      aD~~~~6Nk-be,         B.,o   Mlra                                ~        eloW 
NIGERIA                     WM Wumt   Assons
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~o.I6 IAs' 
Nbengnc \AM@EIDA                    '                         -    A
Mfe *                         Lbk            b                                                                                    CENTRAL
Ngo.,      Dschong                                                                                                        AFRICAN
| Ngt;, ,                                                               .REPUBLIC
K, Mundeba                                                       EoNkongsor3o         I    bERTOUA
k   JX  ,   ,  r f   '-  R UA.  \  Batouri
_    enoddo\ BU                                      r'a a   g.t                                         N     d        l        >         
K  AUNDE          t- A     -      Mbar,g
Akonol,nga         .ok\d,un \                                      \
--\\0IKO               \/                            --       (    <                              aiE                          b,              <    (
\            fKr ~~~~b,      EBOLOWA1 )   sg ema                            '-          /
EQUATORIAL
GUINEA
ATLANTIC           \
OCEAN \   >_5-'-                                                                                                 M  
N oso
RIO t1 -JNI  GAON                                                       CONGO                         5-
JUNE 1995






I



IMAGING
Report No:       15486
Type: ICR



