Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
i                           0<tod ~~~~~~~~-2zYY C e9
Report No. P-4072-CM
a
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN OF US$ 125 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR THE
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 10, 1985
.-Tis document hE a restricted distribuon sad may be ued by recipients only in the peronmance of
J  their official duthes. Its contets may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit -  CFAP
U$1.00 - CPAP 490
CFAP 1 mUillon -US$ 2,040
'WEIGHTS ANiD MEAURES
Decimal Met3ric,               us Euvl
1 mete-r (an)                 3.28 feet (ft.)
1 kLiometer (kmn)-                0.62 wiles (mi.)
1 metric ton (t)                   2,205 pounds (lb.)
ABBREVIATIONS AIND ACR0NY1S
DCX               Direction Centrale des Marcheis (Central Tender Board)
ERR               Economic Rate of Return
Laboginle         LaboratoiLre de Ciinie Civil (National CiviJl Woiks'
Laboratory)
"MINQ             Minis t5re de 1' Eq7iipement (MiniLstry of Equipment)
KmN               Miuistgre des Transports (Min-istry of Transport)
PN?1GC            Pare NatiLonal do Mateiriel de G;enie Civil (National
EquiLpment Pool)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1    June 30



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CAHMROON
SIXT'  HIGHWAY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUH&RY
Borrower:             Republic of Cameroon.
-eneficiaries:        Ministry of Equipment 0MINEQ), Ministry of Trans-
port (MMIT), National Equipment Pool (PNMIGC), and
National Civil Works Laboratory (Labogenie).
Amount:               US$125 million equivalent, including Bank's
participation in a B-loan.
Terms:                20 years, including five years' grace, at the
standard variable rate.
Co-Financing:         Public agencies, commercial banks and export
credit agencies for anount, terms and conditions
not yet determined.
On-Lending Terms:     Bank rate for operational equipment.  Exchange
risk borne by the Government.
Project !escription:  The main objectives of the project are:
(a) to increase road transport capacity, while
reducing transport cost and protecting past
investments in the paved highway network;
(b) to consolidate past efforts in institutional
development for the transport sector;
(c) to strengthen the management system of PNMGC
to improve its productivity and its control
of resource utilization; and
(d) to strengthen Labogenie's operational and
research capacity.
To reach these objectives the project consists of:
(a) physical development of the paved highway
network, containing the following elements:
This document has a restricted distnibution and may be used by rcipients only in the performance
-:o:ef theu official dutie Its contents may not othewne be dised whout World Bank authorization.



W~~~~~~~~~~~~ ii -
(i)  a four-year pavement strengthening
program (about 600 km) through bitu-
minous overlays and partial realign-
ment where necessary;
(ii)  the upgrading of about 150 km of
gravel roads to paved standards; and
(iii)  consultant services for the super-
vision of (i) and (ii) above and the
preparation of feasibility studies and
detailed engineering of future road
upgrading projects;
(b) institutional development in the transport
sector, containing the following elements:
(i) technical assistance to MINEQ to
improve road investment planning and
maintenance planning and execution;
(ii)  technical assistance to MINT to
improve sector planning and road
safety, including buildings and
equipment for vehicle inspection;
(iii) technical assistance to PNMGC to
improve its management and operations;
(iv)  training for MINEQ, MINT, PNKGC, and
Labogenie personnel together with
selected fellowships; and
(v)  improvement of operational and train-
ing facilities in MINEQ, PNMGC and
Labogenie, including buildings,
equipment and teaching aids.
Benefits and Risks:   The principal benefits expected from the project
would be increased transport capacity, reduced
transport costs and protection of previous invest-
ment in the sector. A major non-quantifiable
benefit would be the improvement of the sector's
planning and management capabilities expected from
project training and institution-building activi-
ties. Other non-quantifiable benefits would be
savings of time, lower road maintenance costs, and
increased net value of agricultural produce. The
principal risks associated with the project
concern financing, costs, institutional develop-
ment and traffic growth. Despite interest from
public agencies and private banks in cofinancing
this project, external financing may not be



.,' ,._ - Li. -ii
sufficient to cover all foreign exchange costs.
In this case, the Government has agreed either to
reduce the scope of the road strengthening compo-
nent or to finance the gap from its own resources.
Continued strong competition among contractors is
expected to keep construction costs within reason-
able bounds. The institutional risk that PNMGC
would fail to improve its performance is slim as
measures to implement its action plan are already
underway.  The momentum of Cameroon's economic
growth minxImises the risk of any significant
slow-down in recent rapid growth of traffic
volume.
Summary Project Cost Estinate
(net of taxes and duties)
Categories                       Local     Foreign      Total
-(S$ million)
A.  Buildings                                0.9          1.1        2.0
B. Pavement Strengthening                   44.2         85.8      130.0
C.  Road Upgrading                          20.4         39.6       60.0
D.  Equipment                                0.7          6.5        7.2
E. Consulting Services for:
1.  Supervision of Construction          2.4          9.6       12.0
2. Studies for Future Project
Preparation                        0.7          2.7        3.4
3. Technical Assistance
and Training                       1.7         6.7         8.4
F.  Fellowships                              0.0          0.6        0.6
Total Base Cost                         71.0        152.6      223.6
Physical Contingencies                   7.1         15.3       22.4
Price Contingencies                     16.9         32.1       49.0
Total Project Cost                  95.0       200.0       295.0



- iv -
Financing Plan
Local      Foreign      Total
Organization                                        (tUS$ imfio)on)   -
iBR                                      -         125.0       125.0
Private Banks and other                             75.0        75.0
possible cofinanciers
Government                             95.0          -          95.0
Total                              95.0      200.0        295.0
Estimated Disbursement
(Bank Loan)
IBRD Fiscal Year
1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
(US$ million)
Annual              6.0    23.0    36.0    34.0       21.0     5.0
Cumulative          6.0    29.0    65.0    99.0    120.0   125.0
Economic Rate of Return: 151
NAPS: IBRD 18425-R
IBRD 18545
WAPT2
May 1985



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMHEDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR A SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Cameroon for the equivalent of US$125 million to
help finance a Sixth Highway project. The loan would have a term of 20
years, including five years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate. Part of the loan proceeds would be made available to PNMGC, a public
agency responsible for the maintenance of road equipment. B-loan co-
financing would be sGught for this project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "United Republic of Cameroon-Economic Memoran-
dum" (Report No. 2877-ACM), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
April 30, 1980. Since then, several economic and sector missions have
visited Cameroon. Their major findings are incorporated in the following
paragraphs. Annex I provides basic country data.
Background
3.        Cameroon is one of Africa's most diverse countries, with a wide
variety of climatic and ecological zones, ethnic groups languages, and
traditional cultures. It has an estimated population of 9.3 million (1983)
and covers an area of 475.000 km2, about the same as Spain. The overall
population density is low, but there are several densely-populated regions
in the west and the extreme north, for example. The main centers of
population and economic activity are widely separated, making the develop-
ment and maintenance of an adequate transportation network vital but also
costly. Cameroon's main opportunities for development lie in the expansion
of agricultural, livestock and forestry production; the exploitation of
energy and mineral resources; and the processing of agricultural, forestry
and mineral products for domestic consumption and export. Cameroon became
an oil producer in 1978 and total production is estimated at 7.6 million
tons in 1984. Most of the oil is exported as crude; only about 1.2 million
tons are refined in Cameroon, to meet domestic demand.
4.        Basically an agricultural economy at independence in 1960,
Cameroon has experienced rapid rural-urban migration, and over one third of
the population now lives in cities or towns. Douala, the major industrial
center and port city, has an estimated population of about one million;
YaoundE, the capital, is the second-largest city, with an estimated 500,000
residents. Apart from these two large cities, hovever, there are several
other urban areas of significant size; these s condary centers play impor-
tant roles in the economies of the various regions.



-2
5.        The stated development philosophy of the Government of Cameroon
is "planned liberalism"', characterized by five-year indicative investment
plans and a mixture of private and public ownership. Market forces are
tempered by extensive Government regulation in areas such as price control,
investment incentives, interest rates and credit allocation. In general,
the Government's macroeconomic policies have been prudent and Cameroon's
GNP per capita (US$800 in 1983) is one of the highest in sub-Saharan
Africa. In addition, the country has enjoyed exceptional economic and
social stability, in line with the Government's emphasis on balanced
regional development and strong central authority.
6.        The past few years have been a period of transition.  In November
1982, after almost 25 years in power, President Ahmadou Ahidjo resigned and
his constitutional successor, Prime Minister Paul Biya, became President.
President Biya consolidated his power in September 1983 when he was elected
president of the sole political party and in January 1984 when he was con-
firmed as President of Cameroon in a national election. However, the
country was shaken in April 1984 when a group of soldiers launched an
unsuccessful coup attempt. Over this past year, Mr. Biya has promised a
more democratic style of government, more rigor in the management of public
funds and greater social justice. The new Government is committed to
economic liberalization, although still within the context of "planned
liberalism". It has also endorsed the objectives of preserving a strong
agricultural base, maintaining a high degree of food self-sufficiency, and
building up social and transport infrastructure, via a moderately enlarged
investment program. It has expressed strong interest in improving the
efficiency of state enterprises, including, in some cases, through priva-
tization.
Economic and Social Developments
7.        Over the past two decades the Government has managed to establish
favorable conditions for accelerated economic growth and fiscal stability.
Average growth was sluggish in the 1960s and early 1970s at 3.7 percent per
annum, but accelerated to 8.6 percent per annum in the second half of the
1970s and is estimated at about 7 percent for the first half of the 1980s.
Investment, which was at a low 10 percent of GDP in the early 1960s, grew
to an average of about 20 percent in the second half of the 1970s and to 26
percent in 1983. This growth in investment was made possible by the
gradual easing of constraints to absorptive capacity, the increase in
domestic savings and more recently, oil resources. Before the beginning of
oil exports in 1978-79, Cameroon registered small trade deficits, though
modest surpluses were recorded in 1973-74 and 1977-78. The small deficits
on the current account were amply offset by capital account flows, mainly
public borrowing. However, despite a tenfold increase in public indebted-
ness in current terms during the past decade, the debt service ratio has
consistently remained under 15 percent.
8.        Prior to 1978, Cameroon's economy, apart from a small manufactur-
ing sector concentrated in heavily protected import substitution activi-
ties, was based essentially on agriculture. Agricultural products account



-3-
for 71 percent of 1978 export earnings, coffee and cocoa alone accounted
for 53 percent. However, oil production began in 1978 and it rapidly
assumed a dominant position in total merchandise exports (63 percent in
1983) as well as representing an important fraction of total GDP (13
percent in 1983). The vast majority of the labor force, however, remains
in agriculture: 75 percent according to the most recent estimate.
9.        Although steady progress has been made in the-well-being of the
population over the past two decades, much remains to be done in the social
sectors. Enrollments increased considerably at all levels of the educa-
tional system, but its quality and efficiency deteriorated. Health-related
indicators are on the low side, considering Cameroon's overall level of
economic development. Life expectancy at birth is a low 53 years. the
result of a still high infant mortality rate. Inadequate health coverage,
poor access to water supply, lack of sanitation services in crowded urban
areas, poor nutrition and health practices are the main reasons for this
high rate.
10.       In 1981, about 40 percent of the rural population was considered
to live in absolute poverty, i.e., with an annual per capita income of less
than US$105 (1981). This may in part explain the heavy rural out-migration
to the cities of Yaoundt and Douala, where average incomes are considerably
higher than in the countryside, in part fueled by the expenditure of
increasing oil revenues giving rise to expectations of formal sector
employment under favorable conditions. In actual fact, however, conditions
in these cities are not much more favorable, with one quarter of their
population classified as absolutely poor.
Development Prospects and Issues
11.       The basic issue for Cameroon is to adjust to the oil and post-oil
eras.  Despite a variety of other mineral resources, it is unlikely that
their exploitation will make up for the expected decline of oil production
beginning in the late 1980s. Oil revenues offer a window of opportunity to
finance needed investments and introduce policies aimed at preparing the
economy for the post-oil era for example, measures aimed at increasing
productivity in agriculture. On the other hand, lack of caution in using
oil revenues could have highly disruptive effects on the economic and
social fabric of the country. So far caution has prevailed. However,
pressures for an accelerated improvement of living conditions are mounting.
12.       In the longer term, the major issue is to cope with a fast-
expanding population. Although its growth rate, currently estimated at 3.2
percent p.a. is not uncommon in the regional context, it is accelerating,
and Cameroon's population is expected to double in 22 years. The urban
population would triple to 9 million. Providing meaningful employment
opportunities to a sharply expanding urban labor force is and will remain a
major challenge for the Cameroonian authorities.  At present only 25
percent of the labor force is employed outside agriculture, 10 percent in
industry and 15 percent in services. If large-scale unemployment is to be



-4-
avoided in cities, by the year 2000 about 2 million jobs would have to be
added to the existing 750,000 outside agriculture.
13.       The Government's major objectives in the Fifth Plan period
(1981-86) are to maintain food self-sufficiency, improve income and living
conditions in rural areas as a means of slowing down migration to cities,
provide health services and adequate drinking water to a vastly expanded
portion of the population and greatly increase the supply of well-trained
Cameroonians. These objectives are consistent with Cameroon's present
requirements.  The projected annual GDP growth rate of 7 percent over the
Fifth Plan period appears comfortably attainable.
External Borrowing and Creditworthiness
14.       Total public external debt outstanding and disbursed rose from
US$371 million at the end of 1976 to US$1.9 billion at the end of 1983.
Debt service payments rose from US$39 million in 1976 to US$219 million in
1983, while exports increased from US$700 million in 1976. to about US$1.7
billion in 1983. However, Cameroon's traditionally modest reliance on
external financing has been followed, during the oil era of increased
financial independence, by diminished recourse to external borrowing and
some prepayment of foreign loans. Gross disbursements against public and
publicly guaranteed external borrowing have declined sharply from a peak of
US$564 million in 1980 to US$163 million in 1983. Net transfers have
fallen from a peak of US$389 millions in 1979 to minus US$57 million in
1983, when debt service payments exceeded gross disbursements. Rising
interest rates, a hardening of average loan terms and the appreciation of
the dollar have increased Cameroon's debt service ratio somewhat since
1980. However, the debt service ratio appears likely to remain below 15
percent for the rest of the decade, even allowing for a continued decline
in external lending to Cameroon on concessional terms. Cameroon is basi-
cally creditworthy.
15.       The public enterprise sector is becoming a major burden for the
Government, and financial support of weak or failing enterprises now
amounts to at least CFAF 100 billion, well over one-third of Cameroon's net
oil revenues. It has become clear to the Government that this situation
could not be alloved to continue, and the Government has now embarked with
the Bank on what will probably be a major effort in the rehabilitation of
the sector, concentrating both on the economic policy environment ultimate-
ly responsible for the difficulties of the sector as well as on rehaLil-
itating. liquidating or divesting individual enterprises.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CAMEROON
16.       Bank/IDA Commitments in Cameroon as of March 31, 1985, amounted
to US$793.4 million equivalent and covered 44 projects: 21 in agriculture,
13 in transportation, three in education, three in public utilities, one
small and medium-scale enterprise project, two technical assistance
projects and one urban project. Transport and agriculture account for
about 44 and 43 percent respectively of these commitments. IFC had



-5-
Invested in raven enterprises, with total net loan /equity commitments of
US$12.4 million.
17.       Performance in project implementation is, on average, good in the
transport sector, mixed in agriculture and mediocre in other sectors. The
Government has generally shown willingness to collaborate with'the Banik in
finding solutions, but implementation delays and setbacks have occurred,
notably over the last year in the wake of recent political changes. In
particular, the overall disbursement rate. which used to compare favorably
with that of most other counLtries, has slowed down due to administrative
bottlenecks, notably in the central procurement agency. Technical assis-
tance to help streamline procurement procedures is being arranged.
18.       The Bank's initial investment strategy in Cameroon was to support
the Government's development efforts in three main directions: Wi
strengthening and extending the road and rail trunk system  and improving
the port of Douala; (ii) raising agricultural output and exports; and (iii)
improving education. Until 1975, apart from one water supply project, Bank
lending was coucentrated entirely in the transport, agriculture and educa-
tion sectors. Since 1975. Bank lending has diversified into forestry.
small- and medium-scale industry, urban development, technical assistance
and telecommunications. For the immediate future, projects are being
prepared in agriculture to support the Government's objectives of increas-
ing smallholders' productivity and improving the quality of rural life, in
transport to upgrade, expand and maintain the network, in urban development
to build up the local government" capabilities to cope with fast growth,
in education / manpower training to support the demands of increasing
public and private investment, and in health for the under-serviced rural
areas.
19.       In view of the expected decline of oil revenues in the late
19EOs, the Government of Camneroon would like the Bank to maintain an active
assistance program as: (i) a way of ensuring a smooth and continued flow of
resources for development; (ii) a vehicle for technical assistance in
project design and implementation; (iii) a guarantee of impartiality in
providing guidance; and (iv) a source of advice for policy reform. The
rationale for maintaining a sizeable Bank program lies in the need to meet
the country's increased and more complex requirements for development
assistance. In order to ensure productive use of its oil revenues and to
prepare for the post-oil era, the Government must make critical decisions
concerning the size and composition of the domestic investment program and
the removal of the major development bottlenecks. The Bank's major objec-
tives are to strengthen the Government's policy making, investment planning
and implementing capabilities, promote private initiatives and reduce the
role of the parapublic sector in the economy, develop the country's human
resource base and improve the living conditions of lower income groups.
20.       The Bank's objectives will increasingly be pursued through
sectoral approaches combining lending, intensified economic and sector work
and technical assistance to the central and technical ministries. The Bank
is in the process of prepa-ring and discussing with the GovernmLent strategy



-6-
papers for the major sectors with a view to reaching broad agreement on a
macroeconomic and sectoral policy framework. This dialogue is expected to
pave the way toward a more sectoral approach to lending in support of well-
defined Government programs. Key topics for discussion will be the role of
the public enterprise sector, trade liberalization and pricing policies,
the pace and pattern of resource development. skilled manpower constraints
and needs, and administrative reform. Although the Government is keen on
moving towards sectoral approaches, differences of opinion on their content
might delay their formulation and implementation. Nevertheless, for the
years ahead, the nature of the Bank's involvement is expected to shift
towards fewer but larger sectoral operations.
21.       Disbursements of official development assistance during the
second half of the 1960s amounted to about US$45 million a year, mostly in
the form of grants. France provided most of the assistance. In the 1970s,
foreign aid increased to about US$90 million a year, with only one-fifth in
the form of grants. Bank and IDA financing amounted to about 23 percent of
total disbursements and the Bank Group became the major source of public
assistance. Cofinancing has been featured in 22 of the 44 Bank-financed
projects and is being actively sought for several projects under considera-
tion to improve aid coordination and support a gradual shift to private
financing.
22.       Cameroon's borrowing from private sources accounted for 31.5
percent exterral financing in 1982, from only 11 percent in 1967-69.
Public external debt outstanding and disbursed as of December 31, 1982,
amounued to US$1.9 billion, 8.2 percent of which was in the form of Bank
loans and 8.5 percent in IDA credits. Bank loans in 1982 accounted for 6.4
percent of public external debt service and IDA credits for 0.7 percent.
By 1985, Bank loans and IDA credits are projected to account for about 26
percent of debt outstanding and about 14 percent of debt service.
PART III - THE SECTOR
23.       The Network.  The transport network is organized along a
South/North axis originating in Douala which is the main port and economic
center of the country, providing access to the sea for the capital,
Yaounde, the interior and Cameroon's land-locked neighbors (Chad and the
Central African Republic). In all, there are about 65,000 km of highway,
giving Cameroon an overall road density in keeping with the regional
average. However, fully half are unclassified earth roads and tracks and
only 4 percent are paved, well below the 15 percent average for the region.
The railways network is comprised of two principal lines: the
Transcameroon, from Douala to Yaounde and Ngaoundere (943 km); and the
Western, from Douala ta Nkongsamba (200 km). Apart from Douala, there are
four other minor ports. Cameroon has two international airports, at Douala
and Garoua, and there are about a dozen smaller domestic airports. There
is a need to upgrade parts of this network, including the paved roads
network, to handle the rapidly increasing traffic volume economically.



. _    ,,   l   _ ., ~ ~ ~ .-  . *.
'.Z   ;-v;   - ---
7-
24.       Government Strategy and Policies.  While the transport sector was
greatly extended during The Third and Fourth Plan periods to provide a
basic infrastructure for the economy, it remains rather rudimentary for a
country of Cameroon's size and prospects. Parts of the country remain
isolated and there is need to upgrade the highway network to meet existing
and anticipated future needs efficiently. Traffic volume has increased
significantly in recent years and is likely to continue to do so. The
Government recognizes this need and the Fifth Plan (1982-86) emphasizes
development of the highways subsector, particularly with regard to making
border and remote areas accessible, improving the existing network through
maintenance and reinforcement, resurfacing major roads, and developing a
coherent highways program. This priority for highways is appropriate but
achievement of the Government's goals in the subsector will depend to a
large extent on improvement in the project planning and implementation
capacities of the responsible institutions.
25.       The Roads Subsector.  The road network is most developed around
Douala, Yaounde and Garoua. The condition of the roads varies; national,
provincial and departmental gravel roads are being improved under the
Fourth Highway Project but many of the earth tracks are impassable for part
of the year. The condition of the paved roads is deteriorating, because of
age, excessive vehicle loads, and a rapid increase in traffic volumes over
recent years in line with economic expansion.
26.       The national vehicle fleet grew at an average annual rate of 7
percent over the past decade to about 100,000 vehicles in 1982. In 1984,
some 12,250 vehicles, operated by about 7,400 registered individuals or
companies (55 of whom had more than ten vehicles), were engaged in road
transport. The regulatory framework is liberal. A draft decree containing
modest requirements for licensing, registration, safety and insurance is
under discussion. It provides an appropriate framework for the future
development of the subsector. The axle load limit of 10 tons was not
strictly enforced in the past but with new weighing stations being in-
stalled, the Government is launching a major program to see that it is
respected in the future.
27.       Planning and Policy FormuJation.   Two basic problems affect the
efficiency of the institutions in the subsector: shortage of qualified
economists, engineers and technicians, and lack of consistent staff plan-
ning and on-the-joL training.  Government is actively addressing this issue
and it is expected that by the end of this decade most of the vacancies
will be filled with competent staff.
28.       Although sector planning and policy formulation have improved in
recent years, much remains to be done to better coordinate subsectoral
development programs. The Ministrv of Transport is responsible for such
coordination while the Ministry of Equipment is more specifically respon-
sible for the highway subsector.  Because of its inability to attract and
retain motivated and qualified staff, the Ministry of Transport has until
recently been unable to discharge its responsibilities for planning and
coordination of sector activities. Its technical, analytical, and policy-



-8-
making capacities were limited. It was also constrained by the lack of a
data base on transport supply, demand and operating performance.  However,
several measures are underway to strengthen sector planning. Under the
Fifth Highway Project (Ln.2180-CM). rechnical assistance was made available
for initial operation of a planning function in the Ministry of Transport.
After much delay, consultants were hired in the second half of 1984 and in
early 1985, a Transport Planning and Coordination Unit with a staff of nine
was set up in the Office of the Secretary General. Proposals have been
made to seek Presidential approval for its establishment as a separate
division. A Planning Division was established in the Highways Department
of the Ministry of Equipment in mid-1982 with technical assistance provided
under the Fourth Highway Project (Ln. 1273-CM, Cr.926-CM).  At negotia-
tions, the Government agreed to review with the Bank by ena Nove-mber 1985
specific proposals for further strengthening transport planning and coordi-
nation. The work program of tbe technical assistance team would be re-
viewed annually with special emphasis on gradually developing a local
planning capability (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
29.       A national transport survey also included in the Fifth Highway
Project is expected to provide a data bank on which to base sector policy
decisions, operations and investment and lead into recommendations for a
sector policy package and investmeut p-o-ram. It was agreed at negotia-
tions that the Government would review the recommendations arising from
both the technical assistance to the Ministry of Transport and the trans-
port survey with the Bank and consult with the Bank on follow-up action.
It was also agreed -hat Government would consult the Bank annually on its
transport sector program. (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
30.       Administration and Management. The Ministry of Equipment is
responsible for construction and maintenance of public buildings and
highways. It supervises two autonomous entities, the National Equipment
Pool CPNMGC) which is responsible for the maintenance of road equipment,
and Labogenie, the National Civil Works Laboratory. The Highways Depart-
ment prepares studies for, constructs and maintains the classified road
network. Its central office, with a planning division and sub-directorates
for new construction, maintenance and feeder roads, is in Yaounde. The
Ministry has also ten provincial offices with maintenance and feeder roads
services. In common with other Government agencies, the Department is
constrained by inability to attract and maintain qualified engineers and
other specialists. Coasideration has therefore recently been given to
transforming it into an independent Highway Authority or, as a first step,
to establishing an autonomous administration for the paved network. A
study of this question is being prepared under the Fifth Highway Project
and the results are expected to be available in the second half or ±985.
31.       PNMGC  procures, maintains and manages a pool of road maintenance
equipment which it rents to other government agencies. The Ministry of
Equipment rents most of the equipment it uses from PNMCC but some is also
rented from private firms. The existing equipment pool is extensive (about
700 units in 1984), PNMGC having acquired large amounts over the period
1982-84 from various sources and in particular through the Fourth Highway



9
Project. Until 1983, PNNGC's revenues essentially served to cover operat-
ing expenditures. However, delivery of the new equipment remwoed a previ-
ous capacity constraiut and revenues increased by more than 100 percent in
two years while working expenditures increased by only 35 percent. This
enabled PNMGC to accumulate CFAF 1.7 billion (about US$ 3.4 million) in an
escrow account opened under the Fourth Highvay Project for future equipment
replacement.
32.       Despite this favorable financiO] position, PNMGC operations
suffer from serious constraints which, if not addressed, are likely to make
it a major bottleneck in road maintenance. Equipment maintenance is poor
and there is a danger that the proportion of PNMGC's equipment available
for use at a given time, presently about 65 percent, may drop further.
PNMGC's management information system is inadequate, its organization is
poorly adapted to its operations, and upper level staff, recruited on
temporary assignment from the civil service, have little management experi-
ence. Reward and motivation systems are inadequate at all staff levels.
Finally, PNMGC's accounting procedures are unsatisfactory and were rejected
by the private auditor but they are presently being reviewed and it is
expected that the accounts for FY85 onward will be auditable.
33.       The Government is aware of these problems and has taken a first
step to resolve them with the recent appointment of a new and capable
general manager.   Furthermore, during negotiations, an action plan to turn
PNMGC into an efficiently run agency was agreed with Government and PNMGC
(Sections 3.01(b) and 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement and 2.01(b) of the
draft Project Agreement). More specifical y, the plan's objectives would
be to: (i) increase productivity through staff motivation and training;
(ii) raise and maintain the proportion of equipment available for use at a
given time at 80 percent; (iii) enhance managerial autonomy and efficiency
through a revision of its internal organization; (iv) achieve specific
financial targets; (v)improve financial autonomy and cost recovery through
tariff adjustment; and (vi) transfer maintenance of specific road equipment
to the private sector. The plan would be backed by a large technical
assistance component under the project. Consultants are being selected and
are expected to begin work by August 1985.
34.       Labogenie is in charge of materials testing and soil investiga-
tion for building and roads construction. Its organization, management,
accounting and financial situation are satisfactory and it delivers a good
quality service.  However, in order to maintain a suitable profitability to
finance future growth, it was agreed at negotiations that Labogenie would
take all necessary measures, including working capital control and tariff
adjustment to maintain a ratio of profitability on sales of at least 10
percent in FY86 and and 15 percent from FY87 on and that it would reduce
receivables from their present level of 13 months revenue to a maximum of
eight months in FY86 (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
35.       Engineering and Construction.  The Highways Department is respon-
sible for road design and construction. Labogenie is associated with the
design and construction quality control activities; construction design and



- 10 -
supervision are normally contracted out to consultants. So far these works
have been done to French specifications and scandards, with adaptations
being made by the consultants for specific cases. There is a need to
establish Cameroonian specifications and standards, given the wide variety
of climate, topography and geotechnical conditions encountered in the
country: efforts are underway to do this and would be supported under the
project.
36.       Most major contracts for civil works go to local subsidiaries of
European firms. Prices are competitive. Small and medium-sized domestic
contractors have so far participated only marginally in major civil works
since they are severely hampered by lack of access to capital, staff and
equipment constraints. This question is being addressed under the Fourth
Highway Project through the design of work lots suited to domestic contrac-
tors' capabilities. Further Bank assistance may be required in the future.
37.       Procurement is handled by the Highways Department which prepares
the prequalification and tender documents, and the Central Tender Board
(DCM), which reviews and finalizes the documents, prequalifies contractors,
invites tenders and makes recommendations on contract awards. The legiti-
mate technical interests of the Ministry of Equipment are not always given
sufficient weight by the Board. This, together with staff constraints and
a lack of appropriate procedures within DCM, has led to delays in procure-
ment. The recent reorganization of DCM and technical assistance in the
form of consultant services to be provided under the Second Technical
Cooperation Project (Cr.1168-CM) should help alleviate this situation.
38.       Road Maintenance has improved considerably in recent years.
Funding has sharply increased, in line with the absorptive capacity of the
Ministry of Equipment. Kaintenance of classified roads is the responsibil-
ity of the Highways Department.  Maintenance and construction activities
are planned and monitored at the central level, by the Sub-directorate of
Maintenance for national, provincial and departmental roads, and by the
Sub-directorate of Feeder Roads for rural roads. Works are executed at the
provincial level in the case of mechanized activities such as gravelling
and grading, and at the subdivision level for manual tasks such as pothole
filling and ditch draining. The provincial services for feeder roads,
created in M4ay 1984, are not yet sufficiently staffed to be fully opera-
tional. This situation would be addressed under a possible follow-up to
the ongoing feeder roads project. In the meantime, agricultural project
units will continue to maintain feeder roads in their project areas.
Unclassified roads maintenance is the responsibility of the local authcr-
itie_ and is dependent, therefore, on the initiatives of individual pre-
fects and village chiefs.
39.       Road Financing and Cost Recovery.  Road investment and mainte-
nance expenditures have increased rapidly in recent years and totaled about
CFAF 95 billion for FY1984 (about US$190 million equivalent). The share of
construction expenditures financed from the investment budget and special
accounts (mostly oil revenues) has increased from 47 percent in FY1979 to
77 percent in FY1984; the share of foreign financing has declined



- 11 -
correspondingly. Allocations for road maintenance have been reasonable and
in line with the absorptive capacity of the Highways Department. It was
agreed at negotiations that the Covernment would discuss with the Bank the
annual maintenance program for the following year in order to keep the
costs of maintaining transport capacity at appropriate levels (Section
4.05(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
40.       Domestic prices fer petroleum products exceed border prices and
are not subsidized. Revenue from import duties, taxes on vehicles, fuel
and other taxes and fees more than offsets expenditures for maintenance,
strengthening and administration of highways. To further strengthen cost
recovery for the future, the Government recently introduced a special tax
on gasoline. The question of road user charges is being studied as part of
the ongoing transport survey (para. 29).
41.       Training.  A successful training effort initiated under the
Fourth Highway Project would be amplified under the proposed project. A
training center for road foremen, truck drivers, mechanics and equipment
operators established at Akonolinga was initially intended to be temporary
but has had noteworthy success in attracting trainees from all provinces
and from the private sector. About 500 staff have been trained there since
the center's inception and the establishment of a permanent installation is
envisaged under the proposed project. The training division of the Minis-
try of Equipment has tended to concentrate on the preparation of civil
service promotion examination papers and other ad hoc tasks to the detri-
ment of more crucial staff planning and development.  This would be
corrected under the project. The training division would in particular be
responsible for ensuring that appropriate on-the-job training was provided
by technical assistance included under this ploject. Finally,training
efforts launched under the Fifth Highway Project for Labogeiie and PNMGC
staff would be continued and expanded.
Bank Involvement in the Sector
42.       Bank strategy for Cameroon's transport sector has emphasized
expansioa of the transport network and capacity in line with the rapid
expansion of domestic, and to a lesser extent, international transit
traffic. The focus has been on institutional development, particularly at
subsector level. Project implementation experience has been generally good
in tbe ports subsector, reasonably good in the railways subsector and mixed
but clearly improving in the highways subsector. Transport policy and
investment plannirg mechanisms remain weak but the trend in the highways
subsector has nevertheless been positive and measures are underway to
further improve the situation.
43.       The Bank has invested substantially in Cameroon's transport
sector. lt will continue and intensify its past efforts towards a staged
development approach to expansion of the transport sector and the building
up of a systematic and efficient highway maintenance program. In line with
Government priorities and with its own strategy for Cameroon, Bank support
to the sector will emphasize the development of local capabilities and



- 12 -
skills and the strengthening of sectoral planning and implementing institu-
tions. Emphasis will be put on the highways subsector vhere investment
requirements are considerable and, to a lesser extent, on ports develop-
ment.
PART - IV THE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Description
44.       The proposed project would build upon previous involvement in the
sector. In keeping with the findings of project performance audit reports
on the First Highway Project (Report No.1574 dated April 29, 1977) and th2
Second and Third Highway Projects (Report No. 3934 dated May 24 1984), the
proposed project would continue and broaden the development of institutions
with particular emphasis on planning, management and staff development. It
would also develop and reinforce the paved highway network. The project
was appraised in June 1984. Negotiations were held in Yaounde from April
24 to 26, 1985. The Cameroonian delegation was led by Mr. Adama Modi,
Director, Department of Economic and Technical Cooperation, Ministry of
Planning. The details of the project are contained in the Staff Appraisal
Repor: which is beiri  circulated separately and its main features are
highlighted in the Loan and Project Summary supplemented by Annex III.
45.       Project implementation is expected to begin in the second half of
1985 and to be completed in mid-1990. Implementation of the road strength-
ening and upgrading components would be the responsibility of the Highways
Department in the Ministry of Equipment assisted by consultants.  Other
components would be implemented by MINT, PNMGC and Labogenie.
46.       Highway Network Development.  The pavement survey financed under
the Fifth Highway Project identified about 600 km of road which should be
strengthened to accommodate fast growing t-raffic. Works to be done under
the project would range from bituminous overlay to reconstruction of
certain pavement sections and in some instances, partial realignment. Two
existing gravel roads, the Ebolowa - Mbalmayo road (107 km) and a part of
the Kumba - Mamfe road would be upgraded to paved standards. The other
parts of this road are currently under construction with French supplier
financing. Both roads have high priority in the Government's current
investment program, the first because it would provide an all-weather link
between Yaounde, the capital city, and Ebolowa, the major urban center of
Southern Province and the second because it would complete a vital axis 3n
South Western Province. Both roads are also of importance to two Bank-
financed agricultural projects.  Design standards for each section of road
construction and strengthening were agreed during negotiations (Anney I to
Schedule 2 of the draft Loan Agreement).   Consultants would be financed
under the project to supervise road strengthening and construction and to
prepare feasibility and detailed engineering studies for roads identified
as needing upgrading under the ongoing transport survey. It was agreed
during negotiations that the Government would propose tbe terms of



- 13 -
reference for these studies to be financed under the project to the Bank
for its reviev and concurrence (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
47.       lasLitutional Development.  Project activities would include the
continuation of technical assistance for maintenance planning and monitor-
ing started under the Fourth Highway Project, the services of one engineer
in the Ministry of Equipment for project coordination and 36 man-months of
technical assistance together with provision of certain equipment to
support the operations of the road pavement management unit within the
Highways Department as a follow up to the pavement survey. The services of
a highway economist recruited under the Fourth Highway Project for the
Planning Division would continue to be financed under the proposed project
with the objective of training young Cameroonian professional counterparts.
Finally, provision would be made for several short term management and
accounting consultancies to assist in setting up an adequate management
information system and improved budgeting and cost accounting procedures.
48.       PNHGC requires a considerable short term input of expert assis-
tance to prevent its becoming a bottleneck in road maintenance efforts
(para. 32). About 300 man-months of on-line technical expert services
would be recruited under the project as would about 60 man-months of off-
line advisory consultancies for long-term institution building.  Technical
assistance for operations would comprise an emergency intervention by a
small technical team to prevent further deterioration of equipment mainte-
nance. This would be followed by a technical and administrative reorgan-
ization of operations to be carried out by a consultant with the assistance
of a Cameroonian counterpart. Together, they would set up all the systems
necessary for controlling staff productivity, efficiency of operations and
monitoring of costs. Technical assistance for management would involve the
revision of FNMGC's organization, the establishment of a management infor-
mation system the design of a staff motivation plan and the draving up of
key job descriptions and a procedural manual.
49.       PNMGC is establishing provincial offices and workshops for
equipment maintenance. Strategically, the most important of these would be
the workshop at Kumba: the project would include provision for establishing
this facility.
50.       Project activitles would include technical assistance to the
Ministry of Transport to reinforce and complement transport planning and
road safety efforts being made under the Fiftb Highway Project. Buildings
and equipment would also be provided for a vehicle inspection and certi-
fication system and seminars would be organised for the road transport
industry.
51.       Training.  The project contains provision for substantial train-
ing activities, including improving staff planning and development. Four
graduate staff of the Ministry of Equipment and one each from the Ministry
of Transport, PNMGC and Labogenie would be selected for this specific
purpose. The training would be done by a consultant who would make short-
term visits over a one-year period. The most suitable trainees would



- 14 -
subsequently receive fellowships in an appropriate overseas institution.
It was agreed at negotiations that the Government would, by December 31,
1986, communicate the names, qualifications and curricula vitae of the
candidates for training and fellowships (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan
Agreement). A training plan for PNMGC technical and managerial personnel
would be designed and implemented using consultant services as part of
project activities. A total of some 44 fellowships would be provided for
Labogenie engineers and technicians (ten) and selected staff from Ministry
of Equipment (fifteen), the Ministry of Transport (five) and PNMGC (four-
teen). Training equipment would be provided to the Ministry of Equipment,
Labogenie and PNMGC and construction of training facilities undertaken, in
particular for the Akonolinga training center and Laboginie. Training at
these facilities would be carried out partly by a training expert provided
under the project and partly by Cameroonian staff and consultants financed
by the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France).
Costs and Financing
N2.       Project costs have been estimated at end-1984 prices as follows:
for civil works, on preliminary engineering and recent bid prices; for
equipment, on a preliminary equipment list and suppliers quotes; and for
consultants, on the basis of ongoing contracts. On these bases, the total
cost of the project is estimated at US$295 million equivalent. Of this,
approximately US$200 million (68 percent) would be foreign exchange costs.
Taxes would be negligible since all construction, consultant and technical
assistance contracts would be exempted. Base cost for road construction
and upgrading would amount ro US$190 million equivalent; for the PIMOGC,
Labogenie and Ministrv of Transport components, to approximately US$11
million, US$3 million and US$2 million equivalent respectively. A 10
percent allowance was included for physical contingencies; price contin-
gencies were calculated on the basis of an average rate of inflation of 8.0
percent for FY86 and 9.0 percent annually thereafter.
53.       Total external financing would amount to US$200 million and cover
all foreign costs. The Government of Cameroon would finance the local
costs (approximately US$95 million equivalent). The Bank would provide a
loan of US$125 million. Major civil works are divided into a dozen or so
lots of about US$20 million equivalent each: the specific financing of
these lots would be decided when other financing was in place.
54.       Cofinancing.  Official aid agencies have expressed their inten-
tion of participating in the financing of this project. In addition, a
number of private banks have indicated strong interest in participating by
means of a B-Loan.  Such a loan, if well put together, would contribute to
improving Cameroon's access to commercial markets at a time when the
country should be gearing itself to maintaining a sizeable investment
program despite declining revenues from oil. No firm arrangements have
been made as yet since contracts for major civil works under the project,
to which private cofinancing would be applied, would be let in 1986 only.



- 15 -
The Bank Loan would finance all items which did not attract private financ-
ing, including equipment, tools, teaching aids, buildings and technical
assistance. If the response of the  5iavate and other cofinanciers went
beyond present expectations, proceeds of the Bank loan could be used to
finance an extension of the road strengthening program, provided investment
criteria set forth below were met.
55.       Onlending Arrangementc.  The 1'NMGC and Labogenie components
would include equipment and technical assistance (!'.GC), training equip-
ment and building construction (Labogenie). Proceeds of the Bank Loan for
the purchase of operational equipment would be onlent to PNMGC at not less
than the variable Bank rate for a six-year period with a one year grace.
These terms v-ould be in conformity with th expected life of the equipment.
The GcVerraLent would bear the foreign exchange risk. All other items would
be financed out of the proceeds of the proposed loan and passed on to the
concerned institution in the form of a grant. The signature of a subsidi-
ary loan agreement between the Government and PNMGC and submission of an
acceptable legal opinion concerning the validity of the Project Agreement
wouRi be conditions of disbursement for the PNMGC component (Schedule 1,
para. 2(b), to the draft Loan Agreement).



- 16 -
Procurement and Disbursement
56.       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
a/
Amounts and Kethods of Procurement -
(US$ million)
ICB                LCB b          Other     Total
A. Buildings                                    2.6                      2.6
(0.8)                   (0.8)
B. Pavement                171.5 c/                                    171.5
Strengthening       (66.9)                                       (66.9)
C.  Road Upgrading         79.2!-/                                      79.2
(23.5)                                      (23.5)
D.  Equipment                4.6                2.4            2.5       9.5
(4.0)              (1.8)          (2.1)     (7.9)
E. Consultant Services                                        31.4      31.4
(25.1)    (25.1)
P.  Fellowships                                                0.8       0.8
__________  __________      (0.8)     (0.8)
Total Project Cost    255.3                 5.0           34.7     295.0
(94.4)              (2.6)         (28.0)   (125.0)
aI  Amounts include contingencies.  Amounts in parentheses indicate amount
of Bank participation.
b/  Local competitive bidding procedures are acceptable to the Bank.
c/   Procurement method and Bank participation may change according to
cofinancing available.
Technical assistance and consultancy services would be procured in accor-
dance with Bank guidelines. Procurement decisions in excess of US$300,000
equivalent would be subject to the Bank's prior review. All contracts
financed with proceeds of the Bank loan would be awarded in compliance with
Bank guidelines.  The first road strengthening package would be financed by
the Bank to give a reference for further tendering. For remaining lots of
the road strengthening and c-onstruction components, the process allows
institutions interested in cofinancing to apply their own procurement
procedures. Bidders would be requested to submit price quotations on a
cash basis with the option of separate financing offers. The bid documents
would make it clear that for those packages for which the Govercment
decided not to use Bank funds, it would have the option of taking financing
terms into account when evaluating the offers. By contrast, for those



- 17 -
packages to which the Government decided it would allocate Bank funds, bids
would be evaluated on a cash basis alone in accordance with the Bank's
procurement gaidelines.  On receipt and evaluation of bids, the Government,
in consultation with the Bank, would decide which packages should be
financed by cofinanciers and which by Bank funds. Even a negotiated
contract with supplier finAncing (as in the Fifth Highway Project) would be
possible as long as the negotiated prices were in line with prices obtained
through competitive bidding. Regarding items to be financed by the Bank,
contracts for items costing less than US$50,000 and not exceeding a cumula-
tive total of US$2.5 million would be procured through international
shopping, with price quotations from at least three potential suppliers.
Items costing more than US$50,000 and less than US$500,CO, and not exceed-
ing a cumulative total of US$5.0 million would be procured following local
competitive bidding procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
57.       The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed as follows: for
civil works, 66 percent of total cost; for consultant services and equip-
ment, 80 percent of total cost; and for fellowships, 100 percent of total
cost. All disbursement applications would be fully documented.
Reporting and Auditing
58.        The Ministries of Equipment and of Transport, PN[GC and
Labogenie would submit quarterly repirts to the Bank on project expendi-
tures and progress and a final report on the implementation and experience
of the project within six months of the Loan Closing Date. The accounts of
PNMGC, Labog&nie and project accounts of the Ministries of Equipment and of
Transport would be audited annually by auditors acceptable to the Bank and
submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year
(Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 4.01 of the
draft Project Agreement).
Project Risks and Benefits
59.       The main risks associated with the project ccncern costs and
traffic growth. Continued strong competition among contractors is expected
to keep construction costs within reasonable bounds. The generally sound
economic policies of the Government, the availability of significant oil
revenue and the continuing emphasis on development of the agriculture and
infrastructure sectors are all expected to maintain the momentum of
Cameroon's recent rapid traffic growth into the future.
60.       There is an institutional risk that PNMGC would fail to improve
its performance which would have serious repercussions on future road
maintenance. The plan of action for PNMGC is designed tc minimize this
risk. The development of PNMGC's managerial and operational capacities
would be carefully monitored and PNMGC's and the consultants' performance
would be reviewed periodically.
61.       Despite indications of interest in cofinancing this project from
public agencies and private banks, external financing may not be made



available in sufficient amounts to cover total project foreign exchange
costs. During negotiations, it was understood that if the financing plan
had not been completed by the end of March 1986, the Government, in agree-
ment with the Barnk, would either finance the gap out of its own resources
or reduce the program of road strengthening.
62.       The quantifiable benefits expected from the project would relate
to the civil works components and would take the form of increased road
transport capacity, reduced transport costs and protection of previous
sector investments. The economic rates of return (ERR) 'Io= the upgrading
of the Mbalmayo - Ebolowa and part of the Kumba - Mamfe roads have been
estimated at 16 percent and 15 percent respectively. With a 10 percent
increase over the costs used in the calculation and a 10 percent reduction
in the benefits, the ERR would still be 12 percent. Since the economic
evaluation and detailed engineering for most of the proposed four vear road
pavement strengthening program were not available, it was agreed during
negotiations that the economic evaluation for each road section would be
reviewed jointly by the Government and the Bank and that no section of road
would he included in the component to be carried out with Bank assistance
which did not show an ERR of at least 12 percent (Section 3.04 of the draft
Loan Agreement). It can be prudently assumed that the average rate for
this component would be at least 15 percent. Preliminary analysis for four
roads indicated ERRs ranging from 15 to 40 percent.
63.       No attempt has been made to quantify benefits accruing fron
potential time savings, savings in road maintenance costs, or potential
increases in the net value of agricultural produce. It seems reasonable,
however, to expect that the combined benefits from these components would
be significant.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Cameroon and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Parc National de
Materiel de Genie Civil (PNMGC), and the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article IIJ, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement. are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
65.       Special conditions of the Project are referred to in this report
and in Annex III Special conditions of disbursement for the FNMGC compo-
nent would be: (i) the signature of a subsidiary loan agreement between
PNMGC and the Government: and (ii) the submission of an acceptable legal
opinion concerning the validity of the Project Agreement and the subsidiary
loan agreement (Schedule 1, para. 2(b), to the draft Loan Agreement).



19 -
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
Attachme-ats



ANNEX I
20-                                            Page 1 of 7
';C'Me^suRoDe         - SOCIAL XICAtU DATA 
:~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~AIAO -                 w                                   umncsou OUP CHIUI AK ) jb
--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HS                                                         CMS DROS SUTNZ)k
igGaL       graLb   KTINLb  AFRMCA S. Or ISlM         P. AtCA & mN  RUT
nAMU (iMM sq. aR)
: -.TOTAL                                                475.4        475.4       475.4
SCULTURAZL                        143.9        142.3       152.4
-F ML CUI?A CO")                     160.0        240.0       690.0        1112.9                  1149.6
:~~~~ n     ooc aDn c
*  ILOGwm  or OIL EQaALZufr        61.0         a4.0       122.0         529.0                   622.1
POPULATI,l.lD-WA  (THOUSAN)    5332.0         b506.0      9266.0
URN  POPIAlTIOt CZ  0 TOTAL)       13.9         20.3        37.3          29.7                    48.2
OPOMAIUN soCaIOaS
POPUlATON I A  2000 CHiLL)                                17.2
STATIONAR P1PULATION CHIL)                                64.6
POPULAToN lOSUN                                            1.9
roiATnon  mnsm
PM SQ. Di.                       11.2         13.7        18.9          55.8                    36.3
RR SQ. DI. AGRI. LAND            37.0         45.6        58.9         111.5                   461.7
*  POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (X)
0-14 IRS                        38.9         40.5        41.4          45.4                    43.6
15-64 TS                         57.0         55.5        54.3          51.7                    53.1
65 AtD ABOVE                      4.1          4.1         4.4           2.9                     3.3
POPULATION GOwY RATE (C)
TOrAL                             1.3          2.0         2.9           2.8                     2.8
URBA                              5.0          5.6         6.0           5.2                     4.5
CRUE BIRTH RATE (PEU 7f3S)         38.2         43.0        46.3          42.0                    40.4
ORDE DEA  RATE (PEE THO)           21.2         16.5        14.7          15.2                    11.5
GROSS REPRODUCTIDN RATE             2.4          2.8         2.8           3.2                     2.6
FAULY PLANNING
ACCEFORS. ANNUAL (TNOUS)           ..           ..
SE  CZ oF MR        W)             .            ..       -    2.0 c       ..                    22.2
LADER OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      39.0        101.0       102.0          91.6                    97.3
PEt cAPrrA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 oF REMIREENT)        97.0         97.0       102.0          98.2                   110.8
P.ROTNS (CRAMS PER DAY)          52.0         55.0        58.0          56.7                    70.1
OF EICH ANIAL AND PULSE        12.0         15.0        16.0 /d       17.0                    17.8
CHUIM (ACS 1-4) DEATH RAUE         28.0         23.0        16.0          18.7                    14.6
SLUS
LIFE WECI. AT 811;ll (TEARS)       43.0         47.5        53.3          51.7                    57.5
INFANT 1S. RAIL (PER MINUS)       134.0        117.0        9Z.0         102.7                   101.5
ACCSS To SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                              ..           ..        26.0 1e       35.6                    59.7
URAN                               __.                    35.0 7;       54.1                    84.5
RURAL                              ..           ..        22.0 7;       27.3                    36.4
ACESS TO  CReA DISOSAL
(Z Of POPMLATIONU
TOTAL                              ..           ..          ..            .
URBAN.......
ItORAL                             ..           ..          .              ..
POPULATION PER PSICXAM          45230.0      28920.0     13990.0 If    11948.3                  4345.1
POP. PER NURSING PERSON          3080.0 Ip.b  2610.0      195O.0 7i     2248.9                  1831.1
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           500.0        540.0 II    370.0 Id      986.9                   632.9
URBAN                           480.0 Ia.b   300.0 7?-   200. 07d      368.7                   545.5
RURAL                           500.0 I      b.b   650.0o7  610.077r    4012.1                2513.5
ADHISSISIS PER HOSPITAL RED          -.            .           _            _                     26.2
AVERAGE SIZ OF HOUSUOLD
TOTAL                              ..           ..         5.21 
URUA                               ..           ..         5.1 71          ..
RURAL                              ..           ..         5.2 7
AVERaG NO. OF PERSONISIROU
TOTAL                              .            ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (C OF DWELLINCS)
TOTAL                              *-           *-         6.7 It         *-                    46.2
URBAN DR                           ..           ..        252.67Z         ..                    77.7
RURAL                              .            .          0.577          .                     16.1
-~~ r;                                                                  **- 



X- ~  ~     ~      *   .:.                                *
-21-                                           ANNEX I
Page  2  of 7
CAMENONC              - SOCIL XNOICATO8 DATA S
: -  E c e                         URseENCE GROUP (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) Is
-NUT               CHOST R1N ISIMAZT) b
-;,: .IDEZ --uUNR                 MIDnLE INCOME
1960Lk      19701k   ZSgiiT0   APRICA S. OF SUM    I. ARICA A KID EAST
ADJUSTED ENOLLUEET RATIOS
PLIIIA-T:  TOTAL                 65.0         91.0       107.0           91.0                    80.3
-:'                    87.0        106.0  -   117.0            90.5                   102.5
vuLe~                  43.0         77.0       97.0            73.6                    73.6
SEC0WAR: ToL                      2.0          8.0        19.0           17.4                    43.0
MU412.                  4.0         11.0       25.0            23.7                    52.3
FEMALE                  1.0          4.0        13.0           14.8                    33.0
VOCATONL CR OF SECONDARY)           23.0         22.8       26.9 jf         5.3                     10.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
P.IZIAt                                      48.0        52.0 /f        38.6                    30.3
SECONDARY                          ..         21.0        25.0 I         24.3                    23.1
ADULT LTERACI RIATE (Z)             18.9 lb     12.0        40.5  e        35.6                    43.5
*          R~~OUSOUPTIOP
PASSEsN   CARS/THOUSAD POP          1.8          5.1         9.0 /c        20.7                    17.8
RADIO RECEIVERSDIHOUSANID POP        1.9        32.6        87.3          100.8                    138.6
TV RECEIVERSTHOSAND PCP              ..           ..          ..           18.5                    46.1
IEWSPAPR ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATIOIl
PER THOUSAND POPULATIOR            1.3         2.6         3.3 /f        17.2                    31.2
CINDIA ANNUAL ATTENDANCEWCPITA      0.1          0.9 JI       ..            0.3                      1.7
LAD= FOCE
TOTAL tLAOR FORCE (THOUS)         2728.0       3165.0     4173.0
IDKALe (PERMtET)                 43.0         42.7        41.2           33.8                    10.9
;MUCULTURE (PERCENT)             87.0         85.0        83.0           57.1                    42.4
XNODSIRY (PERCENT)                5.0          6.0         7.0           17.4                    27.9
PAW-CIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TUFAL                             51.2        48.7        45.0           36.3                   .26.2
MALE                              59.9        57.0        53.8           47.6                    46.4
-uALE                             42.9        40.6        36.5           25.1                     5.8
ECOXOIIC DEPENDENCr RATIO           0.8          0.9         1.0            1.4                     1.8
:              lEOQE Dim
PERCENr OF PRIVAlt INCIIE
RECEIVED BT
RICHEST 5Z OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..           ..
HIGHEST 20Z OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..
LWIEST 20Z OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..
LOtEST 40t OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..
POUT TRC  4
ESTDIMAT  ABSI PVEE roVE lE n 1CKE
LEVEL CUISS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..           ..       238.0 /c       525.3                   274.8
RURAL                              ..           ..       105.0 7T       249.0                    177.2
ESIKAXED RELATIVE PWVERTY INCQ!E
LEVEL CUSS PeR CaPIT.'
-               URBANU                              ..           ..         ..          477.4                    402.6
RURAL                              ..           ..          ..          186.0                   284.9
ESTDIATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY IUNME LEVEL (R)
g U. .m                                                   15.0/c
RURAL                               .            .        40.0 7;.
MNO AVAILABLE
-NO APPLICABLE
N O T E
/a  ibe group averapg for each indicator are populotw-elghted aritbmtlc means. Coverage of countrie  among the
-ndicAtors depends on availability of data and is not unifor_.
/b   Unless otberwis noted, "Data for 1960' -afer to any yer  betwse  1959 end 1961; "Dta for 1970" betwsen 1969 and
1971; and data for "Hbet Receat Eatiute" batween 1980 and 1982.
/c  1978; /d 1977; /e 1976; If 1979;   Including ex-South Cameroon under British adlinitrcation; /h 1962; /I 1968;
~~..  . -.
, we~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                                                     .,_ _
Li IM .,.-- -e-
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JN 1 9 :



3-sI,li .34143114  -             o           p-.4.0   ` = f 4 
ls.3 3  4431   9333   (1113101-a W-41 143AV 1135
ol--     p     Ala   41 sMos, S        -      T 4 .q1  --s41t 
w As1 111    m145   sollow 2-M  -1* 5-1w 414 A1) .- - sl
-    au14    q3 13-14 P141              as -1l-a-IIS  $TW       *44
143  3   11.    cim Iw ble '34 -n p.t 4.   41"4   -
343 -t                                                      3-  3311.41  11341119. 9-312-3i -z 319.1 - 4`  31i   51113
Ma*1.       ~.  l l.  I- 9.3   -al 31£1 P-Sol -54 -P-
-id. MA &-  pa".  III-11  -1 ft~~~~~~~~                           --P  333  -           ,3 no35  3459 1.11, 3-41(  314  "asss1
on1    .133                   1 *    t4       .-         %--ol (-I33 MM731)
31.5   =fl   33313 I    3331334 - 51  1                     4tWa13       a.  42031-19   I    3133
1433 - 3433313144 043 33334313t~Z                                                          -.P4 -t" .144  9-3-tl*I3  s-f31.o WB
31  :11 M43 4   = 3 143345 -P3 = = 3~9  44  g3A3-t ." J14                                                           M.--          I-a
en   ~34.11. - 4311-414 t... -                                           --S...  t.Eltes.4. -1 ..",~a,  T ie) St 113-34.t -- 41 -314l
-  -   3111.333-343 311111.1134311 114   4t31351             553      - 355  p9.-34   MM,~ A.11155   -131.4     .11. 3-53l,-ala*
33.3.    14314  41w4111 £1 1  9.l3      31111  133443-34 5431-1s5d ~- 313  A3-    -~l 11S3  d3-l431   1
- 11333 31433 - 513-1331   t 11111  315 *23113 12-133 9-aflIll             4155 11? 5- fts  -  i-t, 't4-t    p.i M   P
as  -   - to  - u   1.1,Idad 1.51   I   4P314113-p11                               . I-     Sj Is-4.3  P14t3s-is -1 2-3    au A P.u-.si 
-rIIIIAS am. ft-I P_a-      -40. ftST_II3 13w . j* 1-113    3I- 54 2-i 32 aft                         34 41 -M.% PM sotI
4 5.     -Sm44   3.541     M- *301IL1141 *31"31 it 3q33  *1l11334                   33  *14 -  - 3-MIS Il 3.--0d   Ati. 4    *54 d -  3-3 4 =3    -&
t4435ssa-      tw113  - (9-ti 3-      ~ S-3 9.11  441 *- As  .IfL..               *34-  aI 9.-0    M115I -             ( d5-15I 411311313   331111IIIM`    i*
113533313513 F443                             e3'I-Iat  -p . -4 d 3- VIs WSO Ms     - p- 311 54111
--v3 los.3     091 3- call43  111-341 -   134-  J.31                             .93 3-1)31415193111111  - p-1  -A Sq 9-3    1n  11
313333111.3  W  31 3. 3313414  413   -   =d:=l.13l1e1333 --3.I                        1 £53-1411  133.1   110  3-I. -id I  14.31.33
v-  ftimilss    131    -11   11       34                .aS.ze41p11-ma                                   '--S, 1i53    31 1AI1 313331  4 -ft 1 ftrl 91 53
3-134.30  1.13n41S1i I)4.  3et--4n4   3111                                       I         d)4133 4411i 3-- 11111   1.  34   3311   1114 
13543-05  31l -sr51 -J11  3e11 M   sdMI113i-141  111* 5_l3"P.S.I.  1 3                                       .11  31.5I-s    31-113  1  -I 3-'
P  3.. 4ST14 1333151  *111I13      ..3334 A.-Sa P.~3-W     3?W3I    431-21-5                                       14    -   t3  131113
1-,   33V 311       11..   1135 11 M-  ~U~*                                         133i.. 36 nelb 13.3  1 - 0(I-3-,33  *n.c   All-333en~9.  1 3
I....B A                         p-~~          ..   a  .,,31i...   -  ..-t                a
-~ ~~~~~~ 1 11.1119                                                                         --d43.....t T-1l *    414is*P-Ie-d3341        an
_   113   43IIe                 3 3  S 35   1                   la33131 1M=3 31A-pp   3*31    41-P43   3311-W  4513131    - 316-j dt3-i.
313-34. -l .1. fts   MI 3144-4            -  ..P 41   " 54. 1 141-133                   -  O3   01   "3413  ;114.131.134t                 11  333
*i1133 134131. ~     ll)311*t)la114 ICI  3-  115A0  3311         -P, 4131 I-lnP444 133411151   115  314-11 -1-fs
*11t-1t3    4341 3135104                             31315~~~~~~~~~~~~~-P906 p  a
3311411 4911144441W   3311  41£ 53 315 13334 II 31              .5  51 911.4)334 4331  1)3 3114 -(9-1341 £3) 3141313d39-3
4511    31t41e14313-3133 II3- 11144  e .33te113P13131131                             tfr4I,I 3-                9. -  31531M
--m-la -Mr. M                                  ~~~~~~~-*    4.130 (a333.3155_    -g.113  .1n3311   13e31
.3I- 339 @334it p   11-*I    ArzS rf5 -3  .131a -P                                         3 *£4  -T-  ***n   Ip&   -
414  144t 13 -~~~    ~ ,       *3t1...                                        .::I-133  I  (11134013114139 131.1 saumsa11101 omw - 
It 1133131  33J.-1443t J3Al-13i.1MS3.IIow   -t .                                                            Ms;=      Td   l31554 
41t343  4134 1131411343                     11111  3-413.34)13131                               -;11 913 d1 49.331  4   53t 111.34   - 9-1.3
-&  -1-3 P A.-ma a       01  3    1I o- i% 13 £11111 434                     339.3-3-311  114 s 143.11--41          q-111114  141-
14313-1411t-g     v  41 43 -3,313311154133114 41 11   -I,
441   1  -M-  Som1s-    14111SI33   3111444    -   131 11"t                              "t413  4134 i1ll   *l313 P34 4al slo31 n3-
313 3.3411 43.)33      414 3 31133311911(   3113116VE313 9.-131 4) 411313-L-$                           34 I M 1  4-DM   ql(331  1111341ft
313 o3   04111.43     momps- 4313 0 111  1   I  n--Oz-                       313313131341p9 "II41w -M*31 4P-  351 Po               31,319 111
Immaim l~~ p- --%M Ti- -n                              431343-  = 3)341-     3-13d  434sM  13lsq -  4-   1    11
.0-.=    '-s-soload 1-11-42-N Ml                              ..41.4  431(112-313nI 133)3I  3-41%.311                 431"I4
so pwm"  ft  " A- - 4- jar"  v                                  .3.1119-41-I3 MM  S1   333-9-1g4)413314 411.1
41Z3343             _S1     3454    33314  13441                    
W;;Pa;q;-T-1Wa1314.  03334 345 3    31.9   11)I                                       911  344   111.3433-1 W 611131   113
0t34  1 .3144  43334 P        3.113.933.M   p114311141                          1.33 w113              3*1  311433   31   1313
.44041 3113       W     3I I11M1 v
spow-1 lasass 1l1I341Sam       313  TI4M1  45.                               I               1533  -03  34   11411
II 5p  44344 1 41 31 4113.493, Um    3444 5    34M      31A 34 3pIl - zM5333411 S.13A51413                                           4  ml    4131m     M
-  43Il1~ .1  4-i-'r-' ~  '   r ~    339.                     31      a-Nhel I1. 4-IS W""a    -         *"                    -I-
V$"" pwn""" Pas twu-w -Mud v- SI,                               4~~~~~~~1.0m 1WAj 133. 31 39II .1"Am4
.3543134441 ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 it P  u
.19.34.35 2-el 4133.31-I9- 13 344 3"So  INFA    Mo  " P3"%
11133333113 315111 13 14.5 13)  M3 1 433334                          Is33 31 3111=  1     Jo3333r.oom"      13  3
43111 Sq 14) 11311.49   ~~~~~~~    %3i411"at PM4  341 3-& do   somm
43MS91         ,sl m   -03.34             t$-a.  "om 4                lwafg     %    "Wass M )4  341.,so Sq 3-o19,1341.1        as 3e13a4m*
all1~  moss -14  %a1t111                                        p-"  asssapp-3     334119, sap0tslas S. a    5334e all    94311 -samopa  541 anI "W3) Me 
4d1l11 =131       . 41113 I-    1.3  OM3-  I 034  " Is -3113413T4'd431   63311.1-I3 low   1144105P all10          Mal4331       M"439-  31.53  3341443ow
10   1644   34391   4£11343   3-934933333   31l343   1334434414    1   13313314 



23-                                     ANNEX I
Page 4 of 7
Population:  9.3 million  (mid-1983)
GDP per Capita:  US$810 - (1983)
UIID  REPUILIC OF CARRODN
ECONOMC INDICATOES
(MIon. Us Uat current prices)
Calendar Years
,                                   tSr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~95   t976  1977  1979  1979  t9E10  t98t  t982
ZIMMAL PUIIC A ID PUDICLY
GUARANUE BORROWING An DEN! a
aroo disbursements
Official gratS                           20    24      23    11   18    na.  U..   6.s.
Oouoweugmi.al Loann                      49    56    123   135  178   1"    127          86
DA                                    17    32       40    53   83    70    68        51
OPl                                    6      3      13     6   20    24       2       I
IDA                                   16    18      21    19   20    19    32         32
Other                                 10      3     49    57   54    20    24         2
boa-con.ueigna. loans                77   122    183   171  344   43    234          95
Officil export credits                 1     7      19   - 12   75    82   1O2        21
nEw                                   17      8      15    35   27    24    14        17 .
Other multilateral                     4      1      3    21   11    18    14         10
Primate                                6   105    146   104  232   309   104          47
rternal Debt
Debt omtstanding and disbursed          372   513    824  1136 1636  1999  2021    1912
Official                             293   345    510   725 1018  1188  1294    1310
of which.z IRED                    50    57      72   102  130   152   167         182
IDA                       50    68      88  -10Q  127   146   173        204
Private                               79   168    314   411  618   811   727         602
Undlaburzed debt                        321   496    544   787 1072   612   544         680
Debt Service
Total service payents                    36    39      57   104  133   183   20D        264
TIterest                              15    19      28    42   60   103   215        121
Payzest an % of exports b/               5.8   5.6    6.8   8.4  9.2   9.3   8.6  11.6 c/
Average lntrerat rateon mmw oA s)          4.5   6.3    5.6   6.8  9.2   6.0   6.4    9.2
Offlcial                          2.5   3.9    4.6   4.3  6.4   4.9   5.1    9.2
Private                           9.2   7.6    7.5  10.3  12.5  16.4   9.3    8.5
Avrarge *aturity of new loans (years)     25.3  17.0   17.6  21.5  16.2  24.9  20.9   184
OffLcial                                32.0  32.5   23.0  28.9 21.0  26.6  26.3   19.3
Private                                 10.1   9.0    6.9  11.1  10.6   8.3   8.5    9.0
As % of Debt Ontatanding
*t Zal of Most Recent
Year (1983)
Maturity structare of doubt outstndig
Naturitle due within 5 years                    35.7
Maturitles due within 10 Tears                    63.3
Interest structmre of debt outstandig
Iaterest due mithin first year                    4.2
a/ In-period or end-of-period figures are asown
-b Export data on fiscal year basis
a/ 1ime in debt serrice ratio part27 reflects dteOlne ia the value of the Fremnh  ranc vie-a-vie the US dolsar which
depresase 0    on!z expors earning. expressed it US dollars.
West Africa CE2
01/24185



-24-                                                ANNEX I
Page 5 of 7
UNKIB REPJIUC OF CffERfh
ECONOHIC INDCATUU(1M /a
1975     1976     1977     1978     17Y9    190        1I1      19       1993
NAflIAL 6CE19
(IN ISRW CFW BIILLIOS)
DIS  at Nakt PrIcs              579.9    657.2    789.8    96.1  l'132.3  1'366.2  1,749.3  2e168.3 :SU.1
Smos Domestc Swings             103.8    101.1    162.6    278.6    271.3    360.2    595.1    76.8    938.5
Irss National Svings             S1.4     91.4    154.7    262.9    253.6    335.2    53.9    662.4    878.4
Currnt kaunt Daimxs lb          -30.2   -31.1    -26.4    231.1   -15.6        40.0     45.0    114.1    n.a.
Exports of loads mnd IFS        145.6    150.5    202.6    296.1    308.3    449.6      m3.5    706.8    813.9
Imrts of o    and IFS          -162.5   -171.1   -221.9  -256.3   -310.1   -3B6.4   -462.1   -3.2    560.5
(ks 3 o P at  arket Price)
mDP at market Prrices           10.0   lCO.O   1oo.a    100-0 o      ao.0   i@.        100.0    100.0 l.  O.o
Srm  Domesic Swirms              17.9      15.4     20.6     28.8     24.0     26.4     33.4     33.5     36.6
ars Ehtaul Sbvius                15.6      13.9     19.6     27.2      2.4     24.5     30.5     30.5     34.3
Current AcuAt Balma              -5.2     -4.7      -3.3      2.9    -1.6       2.9      2.6      5.3    n.a.
Exorts at loads and WfS          25.1       .9      25.7     30.6     27.3    32.9      31.6     32.6     32.0
l.mrts at loads and IFS         -29.0    -26.0    -23.1   -26.5   -27.4   -2B.3   -26.4   -24.5   -21.9
CAsual Real Ra   ar Irouth)
GDP at atrket Prices             -1.9      2.4       9.9     10.6      4.3      7.7     10.3      5.3      4.4
mo  vats OD   By SITOR
tIn Current CFP  Millions)
Agriculture incl.Livestock etc  193.7    220.8    259.7    305.3    359.2    404.4    488.1   586.7    607.1
Minirm                            2.3      2.0       3.2      5.2     19.5     61.9    154.5   259.5    343.6
Nanfaturirn                      56.2     67.5      74.7     96.7    101.9    124.1    173.7    247.0    290.9
CBnstritia                       21.6      29.6     42.2     40.7    68.0      84.4    103.3     5.D    145.8
Electricity. 6ast Hater           5.7      6.7      10.1     11.0     14.3     16.8     17.5     2.2      30.1
Tranort and CoummcatiLcs         49.3     55.1      57.7     75.6    77.6    90.0    103.6    119.3    128.8
Trade                            93.9    107.1    126.9    154.6    193.5    202.3    232.3    249.3    310.7
Ps*Ic Admnistratzcn              43.6     45.1      56.3     74.3     84.9    99.8    110.3    135.3    171.8
Othr Services                    85.3     91.4    115.8    141.9    159.0    206.1    263.4      9.6    315.5
Imprt Duties                     29.3     32.9      43.1     70-8     64.4     76.5    102.6    126.4    146.8
(As 2 of Total)
Asriculture incl.L±vestack etc   33.4     33.6      32.?     31.6     31.7     29.6    27.9      27.1     23.7
tlining                           0.4      0.3       0.4      D.5      1.7      4.5      9.8    11.9    13.4
Nw acturins                       9.7      10.3      9.5      D.0      9.0      9.1      9.9     11.4     11.4
Canstnrtaan                       3.7      4.4       5.3      4.2      6.0      6.2      5.9      5.8      5.7
Uectricttsy Gas nd Hater          1.0      1.0       1.3      1.1      1.3      1.2      1.0      1.0      1.2
Transport ad Camnicatiorns        9.5      9.4       7.3      7.9      6.9      6.6      5.9      5.5      5.0
Trade                            16.2     16.3      16.1     16.0     16.2     14.8    13.3      11.5     12.1
Pt*lic  inistratian               7.5      6.9       7.1      7.7      7.5      7.3      6.3      6.2      6.7
Otr Services                     14.7     13.9    lt.7       14.7     14.0    15.1    15.1    13.9        15.1
Imprt Dutis                       4.9      5.0      5.5       7.3      5.7      5.6      5.9      5.8      5.7
t* Si.O= CFAr                   222.4    225.1    247.8    238.6    216.6    209.2    235.3    296.7    354.7
(Periad Average)
5UICE:Camermian auhorities. Bank staff estimates.
/a Fiscai 7ar WMY 1- Jkm 30) is usd with End Year shan in the table.
lb D h u an current accwAt balac cme fr  the Uinistn
at Finance UP data.
,~ ~ ~ ~~m .MF n
01124.



-25                                            AN;EX I
Page 6 of 7
ECUIDHC I!DIrATUS(2)
1I5      1'76     1w77      1973     1??'      1I90     1931      1982     1983
-M-I Fr:AC -9- J.:          le
Iln CFW Billion)
Current nrnirts,                       73,9     99,6    121.1    164.1    15.2    210.1.    279.3    349.9    416.6
Curret Ewenditme                       73.4     77.7      95.9    124.4    133.9    151.7    223.6       M 64    351.3
Current surplus                         5.5     21.9      35.2     39.7      19.3     SP.9    3547       92.5      63.3
Capital Exrediutue                     23.9     44J9    46.3       4lLS     15.1      73.2    153.?    139.1    196.5
Externl Dormenis (Net                   7.9      903    -19.41      9.2     -5.2      30.7     27.7      13.3      19.9
(AS Perce-tae of GNP
Curret Receirts                        13.6     15.2      15.3     17.0     13.4      15.4      16.9     56.1      16.2
Current Ezeeniture                     12.7     11.3      12.1     12.9     11.9o    11.1       12.3     11.3     13.7
Current Surrius tar drficit)            0.?      3.3       3.2      4.1      1.6       4.3      3.7       4.3      2.5
Carital Enenditwre                      5.0      6.4       5.9      5.1      4.9       5.4      9.3       9.7      7.7
Externa hrruins (Net)                   1.3      1.4      -7.5      0.0     -0.5       2.2       1.6      0.3      0.4
.hY  OM  be P.:I  /a
(la CF5 Ni lies-end Period)
tNeN an  uamsi-une-                  94020  11770    15:70  19496   271,03    2989    WOOD  445.600  477,200
Ai Cret to  aerentI                   5510    65         9lX.     l4.14?    12731   21:249   29500    40,380   50.760
Rart Credit to thm Eca              101,510   12199   169740  736502 m,ns   32:647  47:400  603YR90 Y7   .50  74
Saumra t dewits with bats             9,99    19,50    NA         42A3     55.93    73.320  126:10    5337000  19.430
Percunaftus or Pvx N;ieeers
bman I tmi-mnus as Z of UP lb          16.3     I7.9      19.      17.9     19.3      20.7     20.4      20.4      18.6
Tamunde Cursmu Price latex la
(1963=20)              163.5    185.0    206.9    237.4    259.1    279.1    306.6    346.9    39.1
&mwt Percmabe COAsain'.
Taoend Carsme Price Index             ?17.6      9.8      11.9     14.9      9.1       7.7       .       13.1      13.5
Ri Curedit to Gwmmsl   t               42.7     18.9i    50.4      43.6      19.2     26.4     34.9      41.7      25.7
Da*d Credit to the Erwee               28.6     19.2      41.56    39.3     26.0      21.4     32.1      25.9     23.6
Gaveruet deosts vith bafts              2.9    141.3      55.9     39.6     41.2      22.3     72.1      21.3      27.2
SCIRWCaerommr n autorities; DNAr staff esutiats.
a Fiscal Tecr (Jid   1-e 30) i used. Tear indicates  te end weer for each
fiscal gar.
/b  UP is for Fiscl Tear.
IC PaSic financ fibres for 1992 arc from Uwt budge.
MMT WRI CP2S
t /n2
-n ~      ~      ~       . tredl  .t .s n   w1  r3 qB3 1g4 1gA             2st        RS       e3e S9
idi~~~~t-t   --                            Eo  lS-O   1X..?                                       . 7 4 - 3 ,@ -,873M -7tC 1t5e7!.



::   ':                                                                     :     ~26-
-26- -                                        ANNEX I
Page 7 of 7
UlD EEPULC aF CAIC
ECWUIUC 1N1ICATIERS3)
1m       1976     197      197C     1979      190      1        1992     1983                    -
DALME I PATENTS
ffl BILISWIT!
Erarts of hods and  FS               145,600  150,0   202.600  296.100  308900  4499O00  549t900  715.0   8139O00
lmarts or Goods us IS               -1u25Oo  -171n100 -m2lOO  -256.300 -3101O0O -386.400 -2.O -511400  s5e.SOO
Reour  6w (dficit  4- -16.900  -20M600  -19,200   3900   -1.3C0    63.500   87?90   184,600  25.400
Interst Pants Cst)                    4.572.  -10196   -92m   -13.319  -18.594  -21.993  47,161  -57,019         - -
Workers' Reittacs                     -79606   -7.31    -64709   -3.257   -1 69    -2.345    1.915       -405    - -
Net Transfers                          2.48    7,103    9.761    4.93S    3.011        692    2,537  -13.033    - -
blaes of Curent Accost              -30.229  -31.074  -26440    89.082  -18,564   40.023   44U9   114,142    - -
Not Direct roreisn Intmet              5.443    5.718    1.503    3.09      9.7s   14.165   29.24   29.160    - _
Total Nst Hlediu and LoD-
Tern Barriins                       13978   28,613   32,016   24.773   3s5928   49.575   94.576  S0238    _ 
:Disbursewents                   20.s    36.459   43.093   515T    583180    65.704  149.O60  131.886   _  _
:artizatiai                      -7.010   -7.945  -11.073  -26.02  -22.22  -16.129  -54.485  -1614          -
Trade Credit (net)                     3768    2,290   -3.532    2.99        610   -1.902  -10.971   3046u    -
Other Shtrt Term Capital              -4494   -1.200   -2.287   -20789  -11P225   -7.204   -3.902   13.421   -
Othr Capital n.0.i.                   -3.75    -5.677   -3936S   -I.92B      -215     -569      919   -3.l1     _    -
tros Official Irternational Reseres    11.116   11406   13M793   75.358   18.235   41.279   12.9s       8,527   49.85B
Net FreiJm Asets                       8.110    6.680     -160   14.890   4.300   22.760   10.230  -23.150   59.280
US 61.00= CFE  (Peried Awr-a)         222.4    225.1    247.8    233.6    216.6    209.2    235.3    296.7    354.7
S 1.00  CFW  (Period Arase)           271.4    263.4    296.3    286.1    277.6    272.2    214.5    337.7    393.8
Mu Cmmeronian authrities. Bank staff estimates.
Fiscal ear (Julu-Jumw) is used sith end war sn. in table.
Nuts:  -  sea   *not availeble'.
IIES ARUC CP28
01/29/85
,-~ ,...-.                                                                                         .~ -
:    0        -         -                   , ,,                 -0                                     ;               ;:   -



-_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~.                                                 - .--  
27                       -
ANNEX II
P&vge 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1985)
Loan or
Credit                                                                Amount (less cancellations)
Number        Year   Borrower    Purpose                            Bank        IDA    Undisbursed
- USS million --
Twenty-two Credits and aineteen Loans have been fully disbursed    182.42      215.28
1245T-CM      1976   Cameroon    Education III                       17.0                   2.35
673-CM       1977   Cameroon    Technical Assistance                            4.5        0.42
1494-CM       1977   Cameroon     Feeder Roads                        4.6                   2.46
776-CM       1978   Cameroon     Zapi East Integrated
Agriculture                                 8.5        1.23
1723-CM       1979  Cameroon    Highway IV                           38.0                   8.84
1734-CM       1979   Regifercam   Railway IV                         27.0                  13.17
1753-CM       1979   Cameroon     Second Water Supply                21.0                  12.44
1791-CM       1950   Cameroon    Hevecam 11                         16.5                    2.82
1010-CM       1980   Cameroon     Livestock II                                  16.0        9.05
1919-CM       1981   Cameroon    Northern Province Rural
Development                     25.0                   19.33
1168-C        1981   Cameroon    Technical Cooperation 1I                       10.00 a/    7.08 bI
2073-CM      1982   Cameroon      Post and Telecommunication
Assistance                       7.5                   5.49
2092-CM       1982   Cameroon     Forestry                           7.0                    5.69
2160-C0       1982   Cameroon    Oil Palm/Rubber Consolidation      50.8                   42.59
2180-CM      1982   Cameroon    Highway V                           70.0                   46.65
2244-CK       1983   Cameroon     Urban Development                 20.0                   19.51
2259-CM       1983   NPAC         Third Douala Port                  22.5                  18.33
2406-CM c/   1984   Cameroon    Western Province Rural               21.5                  21.50
Development II
2485-CM ci   1985   Hevecam       Third Hevecam Rubber               8.3                    8.30
TOTAL                                                 539.12     254.28     247.25
of which has been repaid                            48.66        8.12
TOMAL now outstanding                                490.46      246.16
*                              Anount sold                  12.72
of which has been repaid   12.72               -           -
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA b/                    490.46      246.16
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                                    229.47       17.78     247.25
a/ Ccoputed at the rate of the approval dates.
fb Beginning with Credit 1075-0C, credits have been denominated in Special Drawing Rigbts.  The
dollar amounts in these colums represent the dollar equivalent at the time of credit
negotiations for the IDA amounts and the dollar equivalent as of March 31, 1985, for the
undisbursed amounts.
c/ Not yet effective.
~~~~~~~~~-        X';. -. ->-



- 28 -
ANNE   II
Page 2 ot 2
B.  STAIZHENI OF IPC UELTIMS (as of March 31. 1985)
Investment      Fiscal
Number          Year         Obligor           Type of Business              Loan  E- ultly   Total
----US$ million ------
3U1-CM           1975         hAIA              Shoe Factory                    -        0.13      0.13
355-CM            1977        SAFACAM I         Rubber Plantation               -        0.81      0.81
430-CM           1979         SAFACAU  II       Rubber Plantation               -        0.41      0.41
452-CM           1979         ALUCAM            Non-Ferrous Metal              7.00      0.93      7.93
551-CN           1981         SCm               Food & Food Processing         1.12      0.19      1.31
578-CM            1981        SDCAVER           Glass Bottle Factory            -        0.12      0.12
579-CM           1981         SAFACAM III       Rubber Plantation               -        0.17      0.17
633-CM           1982         SOSUCAM           Food & Food Processing         1.50       -        1.50
681-CM           1984         SAPICAM           Food & Food Processing         0.87      0.34      1.21
1985 a/     SPFS              Food & Foot' Processing        1.62      0.56      2.18
TOIAL gross comnitments                                                      12.11       3.66    15.77
Less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales                      0.87       0.34     1.21
TOTAL commitments now beld by IPC                                             1.1.24     3.32    14.56
TOTAL MNDISBURSED                                                              1.62      0.56      2.18
aI got yet signed.
: .:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-<--                                - ~~~~~~~~~~29--
-   Annex III
page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: nine months.
(b Project prepared by: Government and consultants.
(c) Date of first Bank mission to consider project: October 1983.
(d) Date of completion of negotiations: April 26 1985.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: October 1 1985.
Section II: Special Conditions
I.   The Government would provide assurances on the following principal
conditions:
(a) the Government will review the recommendations arising from both
technical assistance to the Ministry of Transport and the transport
survey with the Bank and consult with the Bank on any follow-up action
(para. 29);
(b) the Government will implement an action plan to turn PNMGC into an
efficiently run agency (para. 33);
(c) the Government will discuss with the Bank the annual maintenance
program for the following year to keep the cost of maintaining
transport capacity at appropriate levels (para 39);
(d) the Government will propose terms of reference for studies to be
financed under the project to the Bank for its review and concurrence
(para. 46); and
(e) no section of road would be included in the road strengthening
component to be carried out with Bank assistance that did not have an
economic rate of return of at least 12 percent (para. 32).
II. Signature of the subsidiary loan agreement between Government and
PNMGC and submission of an acceptable legal opinion concerning the
validity of the Project Agreement and the subsidiary loan agreement
would be conditions of disbursement for the PNMGC component (para.
55).



..r,   W -NIGERI   /        D
z aIc*s..oo-N  I G  E  R  IA    C
EROOhk ~    UDA
: - z        ON IRCAME R  O
SIXTH HIGHWAI PROJEa * aIRE
___   t  Sh-Ohr -                                                            _ b 
Rn& 1 per _ o  *n        I _S
ntetu_  X o" o 9pJl ^
SXh HIGHWA'm PROJECT*
____                      ' -             BC               A,        8s 
Preslocid ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                 RIC     
Oepts~~~~~~~~~~~EMI  MILES ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~        BL   
-     RI_sers- \ 
3IntancJimul d                                   |pal't, 
._._.lnd boedmls W  
Kwbl
-4 ~    - 
- . .rrtE4NbcCEA N _. ^
CtAN -L  ATO  UI)EA E~                G A B '0 N        iPEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
;-.' INEA ! 3 . z /         OF THE CONGO



MALI      NIGEIR 
ldCA.d    wSON       ~      .m
i         <               rN   I I _ -__-                                  w                    v~~F(.u A r
CHAD             ikbiW
NIGERIA   /        _       _        l                                T
S;~~~~~~~~~~~~cao                         0    30  de  do  so  J 0  NoM
4 I;<5CCN a rt-                             .   . .                     d / _ Q 1   CHAD
c--                          aImO  21  4D  to *0 a 
,.1 4 -       /5 ZAIRE
AFIANFIICO .... f,>,; . :-ABO   .........NIGERIA O  _AB
CAME ROO N
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ROAD TRAFFIC FLOW  1982                                               i0  
N_ Idapwrd.          *  NI q mdmpt                                         g         ' 
hmginil0        UNkiMImpbh
.1002           0 Swawbban
'-________-_    _b  wSOarn-rn--o
_--___       4DW*IO  4,          Pub
t          4~~~ INGAOLINMERE
NIGERIAA           
EQUATORIAL GUINEA I           S A B   N            pEOPWS IXFU9UC OF ThE CENTO
NIGERIA   1/          ;                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~ARIA
J   /   ,   *    y                ;    0                    tlt  <                      ,~~~~~~REPBLI
<; ';_- ' % £;s.^ g2t CENTREAA
--EC     -  ;/   QATRA  GNA                            B N        jPPOt£REPBCOFTE  OG
GLME'' ''''''@'S                                                                  f 'f 
v~~~~~~~~~~~N
.~~~        TIANrr
-} ,, ;.CEAN
=~~~~~~~EUTRA   G_=NE                                         N           PEPE  REUBI  .O_






