Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14871
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN A:  2584-CM AND LOAN B:  018-CM)
JUNE 30, 1995
Infrastructure Division
Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =      CFA Franc (CFAF)
At appraisal  US$1    =                    490
1985         US$1    =                     454
1986         US$1    =                     342
1987         US$1    =                     297
1988         US$1    =                     309
1989         US$1    =                     336
1990         US$1    =                     285
1991         US$1                          275
1992         US$1    =                     289
1993         US$1    =                     280
1994         US$1    =                     540
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB         =     African Development Bank
CIDA         =     Canadian International Development Agency
CAA                Caisse Autonome d' Amortissement (Debt Management
Agency)
DGTC         =     Direction Generale des Grands Travaux du Cameroun
(General Directorate for Large Scale Works)
ERR          =     Economic Rate of Return
EU                 European Union
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
ICR                Implementation Completion Report
LABOGENIE =        Laboratoire de Genie Civil ( National Road Laboratory)
MATGENIE  =        Parc National de Materiel de Genie Civil
(National Equipment Pool)
MINEQ        =     Ministere de P Equipement ( Ministry of Equipment)
MINT         =     Ministere des Transports (Ministry of Transport)
MINTP        =     Ministry of Public Works (Ministere des Travaux Publics)
SAR          =     Staff Appraisal Report



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Preface .............i
Evaluation summary ............                                                                                    ii
PART  I.           PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT  ..............................1
B ackground .....................................1I
A                  Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ...................................1
B                  Achievement of Objectives ........................................4
C                 Major Factors Affecting the Project ...................................6
D                  Sustainability   ........................................7
E                 Bank Performance ........................................8
F                  Borrower Performance ........................................9
G                 Assessment of Outcome .......................................              10
H                  Future Operations ..............               ......................... 11
I                 Key Lessons Learned ...................               .................... 12
PART II.   STATISTICAL ANNEXES ................... 14
Table 1:           Summary of Assessments ................................ ....... 14
Table 2:          Related Bank Loans/Credits .......................................   16
Table 3:          Project Timetable .............               .......................... 17
Table 4:          Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated &  Actual ..... 18
Table 5:          Key Indicators for Project Implementation &  Operation.. 19
Table 6:           Studies Included in Project .......................................   20
Table 7A:         Project Costs .......................................                     21
Table 7B:         Project Financing .......................................                 22
Table 8:           Status of Legal Covenants    ....................................... 23
Table 9:           Compliance with Operational Manual Statements   ............ 26
Table 10:         Bank Resources: Staff Inputs   ....................................... 27
Table 11:         Bank Resources: Missions .................................... ... 28
Appendixes:  A.                       Borrower contribution to the ICR .................................... 31
B.                 Map ....................................... 32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
ofricial dutics. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Loan A: 2584-CM and Loan B: 018-CM)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Sixth Highway
Project in Cameroon, for which Loan 2584-CM in the amount of US$125 million
equivalent was approved on June 18, 1985, and made effective on April 8, 1986, and Loan
B018-CM in the amount equivalent of US$20 million equivalent was approved on January
14, 1987, and made effective on January 16, 1987.
Loan 2584-CM was closed on October 31, 1993, 28 months after the original
Closing Date. Final disbursement took place on May 5, 1994, at which time a balance of
US$ 587,946.68 was canceled.
Funds from Loan B018-CM were deposited in an account at the Central Bank of
Cameroon after effectiveness, and managed by Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA),
the Cameroonian debt management agency, to provide counterpart funds to Loan 2584-
CM.
Cofinancing for the Project was provided by the African Development Bank
(AfDB), the European Union (EU) and the Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA).
The ICR was prepared by Jean Noel Guillossou, Infrastructure Division, Central
Africa and Indian Ocean Department of the Africa Region, and reviewed by Ms.
Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard, Division Chief, AF3IN, and Mr. P. Hari Prasad, Operations
Adviser, AF3DR.
This ICR is based on materials in the Project file. The Borrower contributed to the
preparation of the ICR by carrying out its own evaluation of the Project execution.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Loan A: 2584-CM and Loan B: 018-CM)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The project being evaluated is the fourteenth Bank-financed project in the
transport sector in Cameroon. The preceding Bank loans in this sector totaled about
US$349 million, including US$218.5 million for five highway projects.
Project Objectives
2.    At AppraisaL  As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR, Report No. 5371 -
CM, May 1985), the objectives of the Project were: (a) to increase road transport capacity
while reducing transport costs and protecting existing investment in the paved road
network; (b) to consolidate and build upon institutional developments regarding transport
planning, road safety, highway planning, maintenance planning and execution; and training
begun under previous highway projects; (c) to strengthen the management system of the
national equipment pool (MATGENIE), increase its productivity and improve its control
of resource utilization; and (d) to strengthen operational and research capacity of the
national road laboratory (LABOGENIE). The Project originated in a Transport Strategy
Paper (Report No. 4975-CM, February 29, 1984).
3.    Revised Objectives. Soon after effectiveness, the Government began facing severe
budget constraints.  In a November 1987 joint Bank-Government meeting, project
objectives were re-oriented in line with the recommendations of a Transport Plan prepared
under the Fifth Highway Project, with: (a) restructuring of public enterprises
(MATGENIE and LABOGENEE); (b) cost recovery improvement; (c) priority for road
maintenance, to preserve existing road investments; and (d) priority for financing
uncompleted ongoing road projects.  However, the 1988 amendment to the Loan
Agreement did not mention these new objectives, but only listed roads to be built under
the Project. The revised objectives were only recorded in an aide-memoire.
4.    Evaluation of objectives. The objectives, as stated in the SAR, appeared realistic
amid the assessment prevailing at appraisal on the macro-econornic prospects, i.e.
regarding availability of counterpart funds. However, the economic and financial crisis
revealed that this assessment was not justified.  The revised objectives took that
conclusion into account. The project as appraised appeared neither too complex nor too
risky and could have been reasonably well implemented despite the economic crisis.



iii
However, three risks out of four identified in the SAR occurred: (a) high construction
costs; (b) negative traffic growth; and (c) MATGENIE's failure to improve its
performance. In addition, the SAR mentioned the weakness of sector institutions but did
not consider such weakness as a risk for the Project.  The risk of bankruptcy for
LABOGENIE was not identified but occurred. The Borrower was not committed to
restructuring public enterprises, giving priority to road maintenance, or improving sector
management.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Achievement of Objectives. The Project failed to achieve most of its objectives:
(a)   Sector policies: The achievement is negligible. Cost recovery improved,
but additional resources thus created were not allocated to road
maintenance.  At the end of the Project, a new  strategy for road
maintenance was defined but has still to be implemented.
(b)   Financial objectives: The achievement is negligible.  The Government
provided only 30 percent of counterpart funds estimated in the SAR.
Financial targets for MATGENTE and LABOGENIE were not met. The
Government provided only 40 percent of the budget for road maintenance
targeted in the SAR during the 1987-1992 period.
(c)   Institutional development: The achievement is negligible. MATGENIE and
LABOGENIE were not restructured and were bankrupt at the end of the
Project. The management capacity in the sector did not improve.
(d)   Physical objectives: The achievement is partial. 217 km of roads were built,
against a target of 156 km at appraisal and 265 km in the 1988 amendment
to the Project description. Out of a 600 km program identified in the SAR,
166 km of roads were strengthened.
6.    Because the project as appraised was a straightforward investment project with
some institutional development activities, its design was appropriate to achieve its
objectives. However, after the objectives were revised, the project developed in such
manner during execution that it failed to achieve these objectives. Although criteria were
defined to monitor the achievement of SAR objectives, no criteria were defined to monitor
the revised objectives.
7.    Assessment of Sustainability. The project is unsustainable because the roads built
or strengthened under the Project have not been maintained, and the institutional
development component of the Project was not implemented or improvements based on
provision of long-term assistance disappeared when the expatriate technical assistants left.



iv
8.    Costs and Delays. Changes in exchange rates from CFAF 490 for one US dollar
at project appraisal to CFAF 275 for one US dollar in 1991 reduced significantly the
amount in CFAF of resources available under the Project, while the cost of works, goods
and services remained constant. Shortage of counterpart funds, poor detailed engineering
studies, slow procurement procedures related to centralized authorization at top levels,
political interference and political strife were the major reasons for implementation delays.
The project start-up was delayed by two years. The Closing Date was extended twice.
The Loan Account was closed 28 months behind schedule.
9.    Keyfactors which affected achievement of the major objectives were the economic
crisis and the Government's inadequate response to it; lack of Government commitment to
institutional reform; political and bureaucratic interference with project execution; conflict
of responsibilities among institutions; lack of leadership at the helm of the Civil Works and
Transport institutions; poor human resource management; and the high turnover of Bank
Task Managers or supervision team members.
10.   Bank and Borrower Performance. The Bank's performance is rated deficient.
The Bank's assessment of the capacity of the Administration to manage, finance and
execute road maintenance was too optimistic. However, this assessment reflected the
general view of Cameroon economic management and performance shared at that time
among all donors as well as among private banks and investors and cannot be attributed
only to the team which prepared the project. The quality of preliminary studies was poor.
Task managers spent considerable time on implementation issues without addressing the
causes of the issues. Although the Bank realized that the approach used under the Project
was inadequate, it did not restructure the Project to reflect changes in the macroeconomic
situation and in the sector institutions, and revised objectives. However, on the basis of the
sector analysis carried out in 1988 and 1993 (Transport Sector Memorandum, Report No.
11430, 06/061/93), the Bank decided to put its lending program in the transport sector on
hold until the Government showed enough commitment to implementation of a sector-
wide reform.
11.   The Borrower's performance is rated deficient. It was not committed to the
revised project objectives. Insufficient funds were allocated to road maintenance. The
weak institutional framework resulted in conflicts among institutions. Project management
was poor. The Borrower complied with legal covenants with considerable delays. Poor
human resource management resulted in weak motivation and loss of benefits gained from
foreign experts and training provided under the Project.
12.   Assessment of Outcome. The outcome is rated highly unsatisfactory.
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
13.   Future Operations. IDA would assist the Government to implement an overall
sector reform  program through both adjustment and investment operations.  State
divestiture from transport operations is on-going in the urban transport, air, maritime and



v
rail subsectors, and would be supported by the proposed Enterprise Reform and
Divestiture Credit (FY98). Revision of the regulatory framework for maritime transport is
to be supported under the proposed Structural Adjustment Credit (FY96).
Implementation of the subsequent phases of the transport sector reform program (revision
of the regulatory framework for air and urban transport, restructuring of MINT and
MINTP, divestiture from MATGENIE, downsizing of the port authority) would be
supported by the proposed Transport Sector Project (TSP, FY96).
14.   Key Lessons Learned.
(a)   Project Context: Bank assistance strategy and operations should be based
on a sector-wide analysis to determine priorities and reforms which would
prevent some sub-sectors from undermining efforts elsewhere, especially in
a deteriorating or weak economy, when resources are scarce. The
comrnitment of the Government, consistency of investment programs with
the macro-economic situation, and donors' coordination, are key factors
towards the achievement of sector reform.
(b)   Road Maintenance Organization: When the sector lacks strong leadership
and commitment to efficiency and accountability, the role of the institution
in charge of road maintenance needs to be concentrated on planning,
programming, budgeting and supervising road maintenance works. Work
execution should be contracted-out to achieve better efficiency and
adequacy between the program of works and available resources. Reliance
on a weak state apparatus for execution, with financing of recurrent
expenditures, as done under the Project, is unlikely to lead to the expected
results.
(c)   Project Design and Implementation: To continue in a direction which has
become inappropriate is likely to result in poor implementation and
performance and lack of achievement of the Project objectives. In such a
case, the Project ought to be restructured expeditiously, with consistent
follow-up on the key areas of weakness.
(d)   Technical Assistance,  Capacity  Building  and  Human  Resource
Development: Technical assistance should not substitute for local staff, and
should be provided in an environment which is committed to building on
the expertise thus provided. This requires a strong leadership capable of
developing and implementing a human resource development strategy.
Capacity building has to be considered on a long-term basis and monitored
and evaluated against objective achievement targets. Training is most
useful when immediately applicable in the day-to-day work environment.



I
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK PERSPECTIVE
BACKGROUND
1.    The project being evaluated is the fourteenth Bank-financed project in the
transport sector in Cameroon. The preceding Bank loans in this sector totaled about
US$349 million, including US$218.5 million for five highway projects. In comparison,
Bank financing for this project alone reached US$165 million.
2.    While the Project was prepared in 1984-1985 with an ambitious vision, at the peak
of a long (20-year) period of economic prosperity that was characterized by 7 percent
average annual growth of GDP, its implementation occurred amid an exceptionally severe
and prolonged economic crisis whose end is not yet in sight. Several structural problems
developed during this period of growth. The traditional growth sectors, agriculture in
particular, were neglected and their productivity declined.  The multitude of public
enterprises created during this period were inefficient and eventually became bankrupt
while draining huge resources from the State budget.  The banking sector practiced
imprudent lending by becoming overly dependent on oil revenues and large government
deposits. The investment in public infrastructure was not selected to respond to economic
priorities or social needs and was not followed by proper maintenance. The long-term
debt increased from less than 20 percent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 1976,
to about 50 percent in 1992. In addition, Cameroon suffered from two major shocks.
First, as a result of a sharp decline in export prices of petroleum in 1986, followed by
declines in cocoa and coffee export prices, the external terms of trade fell by more than 55
percent from 1985 to 1989. Second, the real effective exchange rate started to appreciate
following the US dollar and Nigerian Naira depreciation in 1985-1986, and continued to
appreciate as Cameroon's inflation rate consistently remained above the inflation rates of
its main trading partners.
3.    The Project overlapped with two Bank-financed highway projects in Cameroon.
The Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1723-CM, US$40 million, closed on 06/30/87),
focused on the maintenance of unpaved roads, with a pilot operation of road maintenance
by contract, management improvement through provision of technical assistance, and
equipment renewal. The Fifth Highway Project (Loan 2180-CM, US$70 million, closed
on 06/30/89) included expansion of the paved road network and a study of its
strengthening; a new building for the national road laboratory (LABOGENIE); and
technical assistance to the Ministry of Transport and LABOGENIE.
A.    STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
A. I   Objectives
4.    At AppraisaL As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR, Report No. 537 1-
CM, May 1985), the objectives of the Project were: (a) to increase road transport capacity
while reducing transport costs and protecting existing investment in the paved road



2
network; (b) to consolidate and build upon institutional developments, regarding transport
planning, road safety, highway planning; maintenance planning and execution; and training
begun under previous highway projects; (c) to strengthen the management system of the
national equipment pool (MATGENE), increase its productivity and improve its control
of resource utilization; and (d) to strengthen the national road laboratory's
(LABOGENIE) operational and research capacity. The Project originated in a Transport
Strategy Paper (Report No. 4975-CM, February 29, 1984).
5.    Project components included: (a) a Road Development Program comprising: (i) a
600 km four-year road strengthening program; (ii) construction of the Mbalmayo-
Ebolowa road (107 km) and Kumba-Bakundo-Mfaitok II (50 km) road sections; and (iii)
studies; (b) an institutional development program comprising long-term and short-term
technical assistance and training provided to the four executing agencies: (i) the Ministry
of Equipment (MINEQ); (ii) the national equipment pool (MATGENIE); (iii) the national
road laboratory (LABOGENEE); and (iv) the Ministry of Transport (MINT); and (c)
facilities and equipment.
6.    Revised Objectives. Soon after effectiveness, the Government began facing severe
budget constraints.  In a November 1987 joint Bank-Government meeting, project
objectives were re-oriented in line with the recommendations of the Transport Plan
prepared under the Fifth Highway Project: (a) restructuring of public enterprises
(MATGENIE and LABOGENIE); (b) cost recovery improvement; (c) priority to road
maintenance, to preserve existing road investments; and (d) priority for financing
uncompleted ongoing road projects. The 1988 amendment to the Loan Agreement did
not mention these new objectives but only listed roads to be built under the Project. The
revised objectives were recorded in an aide-memoire, but subsequent implementation did
not show government commitment to these objectives. The Bank's follow-up should have
been more forceful, as Government commitment to the revised objectives was not shown
in practice.
A.2   Evaluation of Objectives and Risks
7.    The objectives, as stated in the SAR, appeared realistic amid the optimism
prevailing at appraisal on the macro-economic prospects. However, the economic and
financial crisis revealed that the optimism was not justified. The revised objectives took
that conclusion into account.
8.    The project at appraisal appeared neither too complex nor too risky, and could
have been reasonably well implemented despite the economic crisis. However, three risks
out of four identified in the SAR, occurred:
(a)   Project Costs: The expectation that strong competition among contractors
would keep construction costs at reasonable levels was not met.
Construction costs remained high because the financial crisis resulted in the
departure of several foreign contractors from Cameroon and reduction in



3
competition, and arrears from the Government to contractors led those
contractors to cover the risk of additional arrears by increased higher
charges, with a share of the contract paid by external donors.
(b)   Traffic Growth: The expectation that robust economic growth would result
in rapid traffic growth was not met because of the economic crisis.
(c)   MA TGENIE's Failure to Improve its Performance: Although the causes
for MATGENIE's weak performance were clearly identified in the SAR,
the measures consisting in provision of substantial technical assistance and
monitoring of MATGENIE's and consultants' performance were unable to
prevent the occurrence of this risk.
(d)   Insufficient External Financing: External financing was sufficient. Should
there have been insufficient funds, the Government would have been unable
to finance the gap as expected in the SAR.
9.    Two risks were not identified:
(a)    Weak Performance of Sector Institutions: Although the lack of experienced
intermediate level managers was identified in the SAR as a main weakness,
it was not considered a risk for the Project. The organizational set up was
considered adequate. Technical assistance and training provided under the
Project were expected to overcome this weakness, but did not meet this
expectation.
(b)   LABOGENIE's Bankruptcy: The financial forecasts were based on the
optimistic assumptions that the civil works market would continue to grow
and LABOGENIE would continue to benefit from its monopoly in the
sector. The economic crisis resulted in a collapse of the market as well as
an accumulation of State arrears to the enterprise. With Bank follow-up,
LABOGENIE had to decrease its tariffs because they did not reflect actual
costs, and the market was eventually opened to competition at the end of
the Project. However, with overinvestment in buildings and equipment and
heavy overhead costs, LABOGENIE was hampered in its ability to
compete.
10.   The project, as reflected in the revised objectives, was too demanding for the
Borrower which was not conmmitted to restructuring LABOGENIE and MATGENIE,
giving priority to road maintenance, and improving sector management. The reason for
this lack of commitment was that the Borrower had not realized that its economy was
collapsing and did not feel any need to implement the actions necessary to achieve these
objectives, under the impression that large State resources would continue to be available
and compensate for poor management and weak performance.



4
B.    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
B.1.  Degree of Achievement of Objectives
11.   Macroeconomic Policies. Not applicable.
12.   Sector Policies. The achievement is negligible.  Although cost recovery was
improved by increasing taxes on petroleum products and creating an axle load tax, the
impact on the sector was minimal, resources not being allocated to road maintenance. No
other sector policy issues were addressed under the Project although they were identified
in a Transport Sector Strategy Note prepared by the Bank in 1988.
13.   Financial Objectives. The achievement is negligible. As a result of the economic
crisis, the Government failed to meet SAR targets for road maintenance budget allocation.
Only 40 percent of the targeted budget was provided during the 1987-1992 period. For
this reason, actual revenues for MATGENIE and LABOGENIE were far below SAR
targets. The Government provided only 30 percent of proposed counterpart funds to the
Project.
14.   Institutional Development The achievement was negligible.
(a)   MATGENIE and LABOGENIE were not restructured. At the end of the
Project, both  companies were  overstaffed  and  bankrupt.   Only
LABOGENIE reduced its number of staff, although not sufficiently.
MATGENIE did this only at the end of 1994 after a new general manager
was appointed. The management information system remained deficient.
However, LABOGENIE's management was more committed to
restructuring than MATAGENIE's as demonstrated by the abandonment of
the public monopoly and the reduction of staff. Therefore, the achievement
in this particular case is assessed as partial.
(b)   The Government did not, in practice, give priority to road maintenance.
External resources provided under the Project for road maintenance were
much higher than expected, but were insufficient to compensate for the
drastic decrease of resources allocated to road maintenance in the
Government's budget. Other externally-financed projects which began
during the same period included almost only new road construction and
nothing for road maintenance.
(c)   The management capacity in transport planning and road safety, highway
planning, road maintenance capacity and execution was not strengthened
because of too much reliance on long-term technical assistance without
ensuring a sustainable transfer of know-how.  Poor human resource
management in the sectoral ministries did not provide the incentives or an
adequate framework to ensure such sustainability.



S
15.   Physical Objectives. The achievement is partial.
(a)   217 km of new roads were built under the Project against 156 km targeted
in the SAR and 265 km in the 1988 amendment to the project description.
166 km were strengthened or rehabilitated out of a 600 km program
identified in the SAR.
(b)   Although the Project funds were used to complete previously uncompleted
projects, either Bank or Government-financed, two project-financed civil
works contracts were uncompleted because of lack of funds, and the
Project financed two sections in the middle of a road, with Government-
financed works remaining uncompleted on the section giving access to the
Project-financed sections, also because of insufficient Government funding.
16.   Because the project as appraised was a straightforward investment project with
some institutional development activities, its design was appropriate to achieve its
objectives. However, after the objectives were revised, the project developed in such
manner during execution that it failed to achieve these objectives:
(a)   It relied on force account to execute road maintenance, although the
Fourth Highway Project had included a pilot operation to develop the use
of small and medium contractors.  Force account was inefficient. Its
management was weak and unaccountable.
(b)   It relied on long-term  expatriate technical assistance.   This was
unsustainable and all improvements disappeared when the technical
assistance ended.
17.   Criteria were sufficiently quantified in the SAR to monitor the achievement of
objectives. However, when new objectives (cf para 6) were established soon after project
effectiveness, no criteria were established to monitor their achievement. This explains, in
part, why the Bank's follow-up was not forceful enough.
B.2. Economic Evaluation
18.   At AppraisaL  The SAR provided an economnic evaluation for the construction of
two roads: Mbalmayo-Ebolowa Road (the Bank eventually financed only 6% of the
construction cost), and Kumba-Bakundo-Mfaitok. The rate of return ranged between
13% and 16% for the former, and between 12% and 15% for the latter. The rates of
return of new projects included in the 1988 amendment to project description were
estimated at 20.8 percent for Yaounde-Mfou, and 20.7 percent for Obala-Sa'a-Monatele.
19.   A preliminary economic evaluation of the road strengthening program was carried
out during project preparation. Rates of return ranged between 15 and 40 percent. The
Government and the Bank agreed during negotiations that the results of the economic



6
analysis underway at the time of negotiations would be reviewed jointly, and that the
economic rate of return of sections to be retained under the Project would not be less than
12%.
20.   After Project Completion. The economic evaluation could not be undertaken in
the absence of reliable and updated data on road conditions, traffic, and road user costs.
Actual maintenance costs are unknown, as a cost accounting system is still absent despite
costly efforts to create one under the Project.
21.   Actual rates of return are expected to be much lower than estimated in the SAR.
Because of the economic crisis, traffic volume decreased, contrary to an estimated 10
percent annual traffic growth rate assumed in the SAR.  Actual construction costs
exceeded significantly bid amounts mainly because of poor supervision of works and poor
contract management. Furthermore, post-project road user and maintenance costs are
likely to be far higher than anticipated, because of lack of maintenance. In the case of the
Kumba-Bakundo-Mfaitok road, the Government-financed contract for the construction of
the first 50 km was not completed because of lack of funds, so that road users do not have
full access and therefore do not benefit from the Bank-financed works on the following
two sections of the road.
C.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
C.1   Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
22.   The major factor that dominated project outcome was the severe economic crisis.
It was essentially triggered, in 1986, by the fall of raw materials and oil product prices on
the world market, combined with a simultaneous drop of the US dollar rate of exchange
versus the CFA Franc. Internal political strife also affected the Project.
C.2   Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
23.   The Government did not acknowledge the economic crisis and did not take the
actions necessary to mitigate the adverse impact on sectors.  Lack of Government
commitment to institutional reform and understanding of the implications of neglecting
road maintenance caused a shortfall in performance and delays throughout Project
implementation. The economic crisis also resulted in shortages of counterpart funding and
chronic inability to pay civil servants' salaries on time.
24.   Considerable Central Government control over road organization and strong
political interference in technical decision-making, procurement and staff appointments
also hampered the functioning of the road system and made it highly unproductive.
25.   The transfer of responsibility for large road works from the Ministry of Public
Works to a new procurement agency (DGTC), reporting initially directly to the
Presidency, then to the Prime Minister, and ambiguities in the responsibility for road



7
management, caused delays and conflicts between the institutions, while not improving
sector and contract management.
C.3   Factors Subject to Implementing Agency Control
26.   The major factor negatively affecting the Project was the absence of leadership that
was competent, responsible, accountable and committed to reform at the helm of the Civil
Works and Transport institutions in their three functions: planning, design and execution,
and monitoring and evaluation.
27.   Other factors too played a role: (i) lack of incentives and reluctance to take
sanctions; (ii) poor management skills; (iii) lack of rigor in bookkeeping, associated with
poor financial management skills; (iv) poor adherence to Bank guidelines; and (v)
inadequate design and cost estimate of works at the preparation stage.
C.4   Cost Changes
28.   Changes in exchange rates had a major impact on the Project. The exchange rate
fell from CFAF 490 for one US dollar at project appraisal to CFAF 275 for one US dollar
in 1991. The average rate during project execution was 291. This reduced significantly
the amount in CFAF of resources available under the Project while the cost of works,
goods and services remained constant.
C.5  Implementation Delays
29.   Shortage  of counterpart funds, poor detailed  engineering  studies, slow
procurement procedures related to centralized authorization at top levels, political
interference and political strife were the major reasons for implementation delays. The
project start-up was delayed by about two years and accordingly, disbursements were
behind schedule. Following two extensions of the Closing Date, Loan 2584-CM was
closed on October 31, 1993, against an initial Closing Date of June 30, 1991, in the SAR.
D.    SUSTAINABILITY
30.   The project is unsustainable because its objectives were not achieved:
(a)   The physical component of the Project is unsustainable because the roads
built or strengthened under the Project have not been maintained, resulting
in steady deterioration.
(b)   The institutional development of the Project was either not implemented
(restructuring of MATGENIE and LABOGENIE) or unsustainable
because of poor commitment of sector institutions to good management
and reliance on long-term technical assistance with no strengthening of
local capacity.



8
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE
31.   Overall Bank performance is rated deficient:
(a)    The Bank assessment of the capacity of the Administration to manage,
finance and execute road maintenance was unrealistic. However, this
assessment reflected the general optimism vis-a-vis Cameroon economic
management capacity and performance shared at that time among all
donors as well as among private banks and investors. Therefore, the
judgment cannot be attributed only to the team which prepared the project.
(b)   Preliminary studies used for project appraisal were of poor quality and
were not updated before execution of works, resulting in delays and cost
overruns.
(c)    Although the Bank realized one year after effectiveness that the project
objectives had to be revised to take into account the deteriorating
economic situation, the amendment to the project did not reflect those
changes.
(d)   During supervision, the Bank focused on procurement and monitoring of
technical assistance. Bank's supervision was unsuccessful to obtain from
the Borrower a satisfactory project management, which resulted in
unreliable information regarding the Project's financial execution. The first
project audit was produced only in 1992, six years after effectiveness,
without any corrective actions being taken by the Bank other than letters
sent to request the audits. The audits of LABOGENIE and MATGENIE
were always qualified, and there was no corrective action. The Project was
not amended to reflect changes in institutions, which resulted in conflict
between institutions and confusion in project management.  The high
number of successive task managers during the last three years of project
implementation apparently contributed to the lack of consistency in Bank
follow-up on project management, delays in the decision-making process,
and lack of decisions on project restructuring. Overall, the Bank failed to
apply remedies against poor project management. Missions visited the field
regularly, with an annual average of 14 staffweeks on supervision,
somewhat below the typical coefficient for problem projects.
(e)    The Bank realized in 1988 after having prepared a Transport Sector
Strategy Note that a new strategy was necessary for the transport sector,
but did not apply this conclusion to the Project by discussing with the
Government its restructuring. A Feeder Roads Project had been under
preparation since 1987 and a Transport Sector Public Enterprise
Restructuring Project since 1989, the Bank decided in 1991 to put its



9
Restructuring Project since 1989, the Bank decided in 1991 to put its
lending program in the transport sector on hold until the Government
showed enough commitment to implementation of a sector-wide reform.
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
32.   The Borrower's performance is rated deficient:
(a)   The Government did not recognize in time that its macro-economic
situation was quickly deteriorating, and lacked commitment to implement a
new strategy in the public works sector to give priority to road
maintenance and restructuring of the equipment pool or the road
laboratory.   The Borrower was mostly interested in the physical
components of the Project, especially the construction of new roads.
(b)   Project management was poor.  Sector institutions lacked coordination.
The Project lacked strong leadership dedicated to its objectives and their
achievement.
(c)   When the macro-economic situation deteriorated soon after effectiveness,
the Borrower did not make counterpart funds available, resulting in delays
in the Project's launch. The Borrower did not allocate adequate funds to
road maintenance, resulting in a bankrupt equipment pool and road
laboratory, and in a road network in poor condition requiring costly
rehabilitation.
(d)   The Borrower complied  with the Project's legal covenants with
considerable delays. However, no action was taken to correct issues
indicated in qualified audit reports.  Poor management and lack of
compliance with procurement procedures also resulted in delays,
unsatisfactory execution of works, and claims. Two civil works contracts
were not completed because of unpaid claims.
(e)   The Borrower did not seek to improve sector policies.
(f)    The use of technical assistance was unsatisfactory. Strengthening of the
highway department, an objective of one large contract, was unsustainable
as local counterparts to foreign technical experts lacked incentives and
almost all department staff moved to other services after the departure of
technical experts. Another large technical assistance contract had no result
other than a pilot operation for computerization of vehicle certification
implemented with what funds remained at the end of the contract.



lo
G.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
33.   The assessment of the Project's outcome is rated highly unsatisfactory as the
Project failed to achieve most of its objectives, and has not, and is not expected to yield
worthwhile development results.  The assessment with regard to the initial project
objectives is as follows:
(a)   Road capacity did not increase as expected because roads have
deteriorated since their construction due to a lack of maintenance, some
works have not been completed, and, in a specific case, works were
executed on a central section without working on the sections on either
end, making the investment less economic.
(b)   Reduction in transport costs and protection of existing investments on the
paved road network were not achieved because of the lack of maintenance.
(c)   Institutional development regarding transport planning, road safety,
highway planning, maintenance planning and execution was not
consolidated. This objective was expected to be achieved through a large
program  of technical assistance.  In the transport sector, technical
assistance had negligible impact because of its poor performance, and the
lack of supervision by the Government. In the public works sector, the
impact of the technical assistance was unsustainable because of the
dependance on expatriate experts and became insignificant when the
contract was completed and the technical assistants left.
(d)   The management system of MATGENIE was not strengthened.  The
improvements disappeared when the technical assistance provided under
the Project ended. MATGENEIE initially refused, and eventually accepted,
but only at the end of the Project, assistance to overhaul its accounting
system. Productivity did not increase due to poor management of the
equipment and the lack of resources because of accumulated arrears from
the Government.
34.   The assessment with regard to the revised objectives is as follows:
(a)   Restructuring of MA TGENIE and LABOGENIE: Restructuring studies
were carried out for both companies, but were discarded because of the
inadequacy of their recommendations with regard to the bankruptcy of
both companies, and the lack of strategy for road maintenance to make the
companies financially viable.
(b)   Cost Recovery Improvement: Some recommendations of the studies carried
out during the Project were implemented but additional resources thus



11
created were not allocated to road maintenance. Road tolls were created in
1993. Axle loads of trucks started to be controlled in 1995.
(c)   Preservation of Road Investment Capital: Once the Project ended, all
efforts stopped and past efforts became vain.
H.  FUTURE OPERATIONS
35.   The Government, with the support of donors involved in the transport sector, has
developed an overall transport sector reform program to adjust the sector institutions and
address the financial issues in the sector. The program seeks to enable the sector to
resume its contribution to development rather than being a constraint to the country's
economic growth. It is aimed at improving mobilization and allocation of resources,
maintenance of transport infrastructure and the overall efficiency of the sector. These
objectives would be achieved through State divestiture from transport operations,
increased competition, more focused institutions to improve their effectiveness, and an
improved regulatory framework. The program would be implemented in three phases
over a three-year period. The first phase of the program would privatize or liquidate five
major transport Public Enterprises (PEs) with most impact on the Treasury, i.e., the
national airline, railways, shipping line, urban bus company and container transport and
freight forwarder company. The Ministry of Transport (MINT) 's role would be revised to
focus on planning, regulation and policy. The regulatory framework for air, maritime and
urban transport would be revised to develop competition and entry of private operators in
the subsectors. The subsequent phases would downsize the port authority and implement
an efficiency-driven organization for dredging execution, reorganize road maintenance,
and improvement in customs procedures for local and international transit. The role of the
Ministry of Public Works (MINTP) would be revised to shift from carrying out road
maintenance by force account to management of road maintenance by contract. The State
would divest from MATGENIE in parallel with the progressive contracting-out of road
maintenance.  Investment in the sector, with an initial focus on maintenance and
rehabilitation, would resume once implementation of the reforms has begun.
36.   IDA would assist the Government through both adjustment and investment
operations:
(a)    State divestiture from  transport operations is on-going and will be
completed under the proposed Enterprise Reform and Divestiture Credit
(FY98). Revision of the regulatory framework for maritime transport is
included in the proposed Structural Adjustment Credit (FY96).  The
Infrastructure Division will assist other divisions in the Department which
will manage these two adjustment operations.
(b)   Implementation of the subsequent phases of the transport sector reform
program, as well as revision of the regulatory framework for urban and air
transport, and restructuring of the Ministry of Transport included in the



12
first phase will be supported by the proposed Transport Sector Project
(TSP, FY96). The TSP will also finance a portion of the Public Investment
Program in the sector.
(c)   The Transport Sector Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 2703-CM,
approved on April 11, 1995), cofinanced by IDA, the European Union
(EU), the French Ministry of Cooperation, and the German Ministry for
Cooperation will provide the necessary expertise in institutional
development to assist in the implementation of the transport reform
program.
37.   The institutional setup was defined during the preparation of the sector reform to
ensure effective implementation of the reform. An Interministerial Committee was created
which prepared the new strategy for the sector. In addition, the reform program was
discussed with all stakeholders, public and private, in the sector. Several meetings and
seminars were organized to discuss the new strategy for road maintenance, the regulatory
framework in the maritime sector, the liquidation of the urban bus company and the
privatization of the other priority PEs in the sector. Several donor meetings have been
held in Cameroon. Understanding of the issues and consensus for reform have been
strengthened by the intervention of the Minister of Transport in the media and discussions
with the employees of the PEs to be privatized/liquidated. The institutional framework for
privatization is being strengthened as part of the proposed Structural Adjustment Credit
(FY96).
38.   M1NT and MINTP would be responsible, in their relative subsectors, for the
preparation of subsequent phases of the reform program--including investments--in close
collaboration with other interested Government agencies.  The existing Transport
Interministerial Coordination Unit, which has diligently assisted the Government in the
preparation of the reform program, will continue to assist MINT and MINTP. Almost all
technical assistance to be provided under the proposed IDA operations is of a short-term
nature and is designed to strengthen national capacity to manage the transport sector.
Technical assistance will not, therefore, be a long-term substitute for local staff.
39.   Clear indicators and detailed timetables were agreed by the Government during the
negotiations of the Transport Sector Technical Assistance Project. They will be used to
closely monitor the implementation of transport reform.
I.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
40.   Key lessons learned are related to:
(a)   Project Context: Bank assistance strategy and operations should be based
on a sector-wide analysis to determine priorities and reforms which would
prevent some sub-sectors from undermining efforts in others, especially in a
deteriorating or weak economy, when resources are scarce. The
commitment of the Government, consistency of investment programs with



13
the macro-economic situation, and donors' coordination, are key factors
towards the achievement of sector reform.
(b)   Road Maintenance Organization: When the sector lacks strong leadership
and commitment to efficiency and accountability, the role of the institution
in charge of road maintenance needs to be concentrated on planning,
programming, budgeting and supervising road maintenance works. Work
execution should be contracted-out to achieve better efficiency and
adequacy between the program of works and available resources.
Financing of road maintenance inputs (fiel, spare parts) as done under the
Project should definitely be discarded.
(c)   Project Design and Implementation: To continue in a direction which has
become inappropriate is likely to result in poor implementation and
performance and lack of achievement of the Project objectives. In such a
case, the Project ought to be restructured expediously, with consistent
follow-up on the key areas of weakness.
(d)   Technical Assistance,  Capacity  Building  and  Human  Resource
Development: Technical assistance should be provided in an environment
which is committed to building on the expertise thus provided.  This
requires a strong leadership capable of developing and implementing a
human resource development strategy.  Capacity building has to be
considered on a long-term basis. Training is most useful when immediately
applicable in the day-to-day work environment.



14
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives Substantial  Partial   Negli2ible   Not Applicable
Macro Policies                                                       x
Sector Policies                                         x
Financial Objectives                                    x
Institutional Development                               x
Physical Objectives                         x
Poverty Reduction                                                    x
Gender Issues                                                        x
Other Social Objectives                                              x
Environmental Objectives                                              x
Public Sector Management                                x
Private Sector Development                              x
Other (specify)                                                      x
B. Proiect Sustainability   Likelv    Unlikely     Uncertain
x



15
C. Bank Performance          Highly       Satisfactory   Deficient   Highly
Satisfactory                           Unsatisfactory
Identification                               x
Preparation Assistance                                     x
Appraisal                                                  x
Supervision                                                x
D. Borrower Performance    Highly         Satisfactorv   Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation                                                x
Implementation                                             x
Covenant Compliance                                        x
E. Assessment of Outcome    Highly         Satisfactorv   Deficient   Highly
Satisfactory                           Unsatisfactorv
x



16
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title      Purpose                                             Year of    Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
1. Feeder Roads Project  Establish an efficient institutional framework for planning,  1977  Disbursed
developing and maintaining feeder roads.
2. Fourth Highway     Improve the Government's capacity to maintain roads; to   1979  Disbursed
Project               promote small- and medium-scale contractors; to control
vehicle load and improve road maintenance planning.
3. Fifth Highway      Construction of the Douala-Yaounde road; technical   1982       Disbursed
Project               assistance to the Ministry of Public Works and Transport;
strengthening of the National Road Laboratory;
preinvestment studies.
Following Operations
Transport Sector      Launch the transport sector reform program, which would   1995  Approved
Technical Assistance    result in the creation of a new private civil aviation
Project               company, private operation of rail services, liquidation of
the urban bus company, sale of public shares in the
national shipping line, restructuring of the Ministry of
Transport and reform of the regulatory framework for air,
urban and maritime transport.
Continue preparation of the subsequent phases of the
reform program, which would result in: (a) restructuring of
the Ministry of Public Works, execution by contract of
most of the road maintenance work program, and
implementation of a sustainable financing mechanism for
road maintenance; (b) restructuring and down-sizing of the
port authority, and implementation of an efficiency-driven
organization for dredging; and (c) an improved customs
institutional framework, overhaul of the customs
computerized information system, and implementation of a
new international transit system.



17
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle       Date Planned                  Date actual
Identification
Preparation                                                November 14, 1983
Appraisal                    June 1984 '                   May 28, 1984
Negotiations                 February 1985'                 April 22, 1985
Board presentation           June 19852                    June 18, 1985
Signing                                                    November 19, 1985
Effectiveness                 October 31, 1985 2           April 8, 1986
Project completion           June 30, 19902                October 31, 1993
Loan closing                  June 30, 1991 2              May 5, 1994
1 in final project brief (April 24, 1984)
2 in SAR



18
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94
Appraisal      6.0    29.0   65.00   99.00   120.00   125.00   125.00   125.00   125.00
estimate
Actual         0.0     1.7  15.03   33.81    57.38    95.86   112.96  122.42   124.41
Actual as        0       6      23      34       48        77       90       98      100
% of
estimate
The data above does not include US$20 million disbursed in January 1987 from the Loan Account
B018-CM.



19
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
Key Indicators in SAR        Estimated           Actual
Road Maintenance Budget
1985                            21,774            27,095
1986                            23,063            26,795
1987                            24,421             14,843
1988                            25,843              8,399
1989                            26,968              9,645
1990                            28,103             12,658
1991                            29,253             11,298
1992                            30,428              9,900
Road Construction (kin)           116 2              217
265 3
The road maintenance budget is given in miillion CFAF. The estimated budget is in constant 1984 prices.
The actual budget is in current prices.
At appraisal.
3 1988 amendment.
MATGENIE
Key Indicators in SAR        Estimated           Actual
Working Ratio
1986                              35%
1987 and thereafter               30%               84%
Return on Fixed Assets             10%                <0
Equipment Availability
1986                              70%
1987 and thereafter               80%               64%
LABOGENIE
Key Indicators in SAR        Estimated           Actual
Accounts Receivables/Gross
Operating Revenue
1988 and thereafter               67%              384%
Ratio of Profitability on Sales    15%                <0



20
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study         Purpose as Defined at     Status                Impact of Study
Appraisal/ Redefined
Road Kumba-Mamfe  Update of tender         Completed    Negligible. Funds were not available to
(lot 2)             documents                            execute the works. Study is now outdated.
Road Ebolowa-Knrbi  Feasibility and detailed   Completed  Partial. Funds were not available to
engineering design                   execute the works, the study will need to be
updated.
Road Febadi-        Feasibility and detailed   Completed  Partial. Funds were not available to
Ngaoundere          engineering design                   execute the works, the study will need to be
updated.
Road Obala-Nanga   Feasibility and detailed   Completed  Partial. Funds were not available to
Eboko-Bouam         engineering design                   execute the works, the study will need to be
updated.
Road taxation and    Improve cost recovery    Completed'   Provided the basis for an increase in
cost recovery       from road users                      taxation of petroleum products and creation
of a tax on axle load.
Data base on        Monitoring of transport  Completed   Provided data to discuss a new strategy for
transport           sector performance     for 1991      the transport sector, but was not maintained
after 1991.
Feeder roads        Update of the study    Completed'   Provided the basis for the definition of a
development plan    financed under the Fifth             rehabilitation and maintenance program
Highway Project                      using small and medium-scale enterprises
(SMEs) and labor-based methods.
Road component of   Preparation of a road    Completed'   Provided the basis for the definition of a
the Transport Sector  maintenance program                new strategy for road maintenance executed
Project                                                  by contract instead of force account.
Small- and medium-  Identification of SMEs   Completed'   Established the potential of using SMEs for
scale enterprises   in Cameroon                          road maintenance.
MATGENIE            Restructuring study    Completed'   Negligible. The study did not take into
account the impact of the economic crisis
on the availability of funds for road
maintenance, and the shift toward road
maintenance execution bv contract.
LABOGENIE           Restructuring study    Completed'   Partial. Labogenie's management team
used the study to implement some
restructuring actions. The study did not
take into account the opening of the market
to the competition.
LABOGENIE           Data base              Uncompleted'
Studies carried out as part of technical assistance contracts.



21
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 7A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (USS '000)    Actual
(USS '000)
Institution     Item        Local      Foreign     Total       Total
Costs      Costs
Ministry of   Civil Works   64,825.0   125,675.0   190,500.0   225,359.4
Public Works
Equipment        30.6       275.4       306.0    55,733.5
Consultant     2,990.0    14,950.4    17,940.4    24,230.4
Services
Fellowships       0.0       120.0       120.0      536.5
MATGENE    Civil Works         360.0       440.0      800.0         9.4
Equipment       513.0     4,617.0     5,130.0     3,170.5
Consultant      734.2     2,937.0     3,671.2     8,891.9
Services
Fellowships       0.0       210.0       210.0      161.7
LABOGENIE   Civil Works        180.0       220.0      400.0      1,622.4
Equipment        70.0       630.0       700.0     1.395.7
Consultant      273.6      1,094.4    1,368.0     1,945.9
Services
Fellowships       0.0       150.0       150.0       43.0
Ministry of   Civil Works      135.0       165.0       300.0        0.0
Transport
Equipment       110.0       990.0     1,100.0      171.4
Consultant      762.1     3,048.5     3,810.6     5,570.0
Services
Fellowships       0.0       120.0       120.0       131.6
Sub-total                   70,983.6   152,652.6   223,636.2   329,055.2
Contingencies               24,026.0    47,327.2    71.353.1        0.0
Total                        95,009.6   199,979.8   294,989.3   329,055.2
Distribution of actual costs between foreign and local costs is unavailable.



22
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 7B: Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source                           Appraisal Estimate               Actual
Local Costs    Foreign Costs    Total    Total
IBRD                                         0.0           125.0      125.0    144.4
Private    Banks   and    other
cofinanciers
- Private Banks                                                                100.0
- AfDB                                                                          48.9
-EU                                                                              6.9
- CIDA                                                                           0.2
Sub-total                                                   75.0       75.0    156.0
Government                                 95.0              0.0       95.0     28.7
Total                                       95-0           200.0      295.0    329.1



23
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section   Covenant   Status         Original      Revised          Description             Comments
Type                Fulfillment   Fulfillment       of Covenant
Date          Date
Loan         3.01      4           NC        General                     Borrower .o cause      Arrears from the
MATGENIE to           Govermnent have been
perform in accordance   accumulating and total
with the Project      about CFAF 13.5 M
Agreement, to take all   Loan.
action, including
provision of funds,
facilities, services and
other resources to
enable MATGENIE to
perform such
obligations.
3.04      12          C         Not later                   Government to furnish   Completed.
than three                  such annual program
months                      to the Bank for review
before                      and approval.
inviting                    Rehabilitation works
tenders for                 included in such
works under                 program to have an
road                        economic rate of return
strengthenin                not less than 12%
g program
3.05      9           C         Before                      Review by the Bank of  Completed.
undertaking                terms of reference, and
studies                     concurrence
under Parts
A(c) and
B(c)(iii) of
the Proiect.
3.06      13          C         12/31/86 or                 Selection for training    Training activities were
such other                  of MINEQ staff with    stopped at the end of the
date that the               qualifications and    Project because of a lack
Bank may                    proposed training     of adequacy between the
agree                       programs satisfactory   training program and the
to the Bank.          training requirements, as
well as between the
training program and the
qualification of staff
proposed to be trained
3.07      9           C         03/31/86 or                 Review by the Bank of  Completed.
such other                 list and cost of
date that the               equipment to be
Bank may                    purchased under Part
agree                       B of the Project.



24
Agreement  Section   Covenant   Status        Original      Revised         Description              Comments
Type               Fulfillment  Fulfillment       of Covenant
Date         Date
4. 01 (a)   9        CP         Continuous                 Borrower to maintain   Maintenance was poor at
separate records and    the start of the project
accounts adequate to   because of lack of
reflect in accordance    coordination between the
with sound accounting   executing agencies;
practices the         deteriorated when MINTP
operations, resources   was split between two
and expenditures in   ministries and DGTC was
respect of the Project   created; and improved at
the end of the project
when it was centralized in
a single unit.
4.01      1          CD         Not later                  Audit of the Project    The first audit was
than sixth                 Accounts              carried out in 1992. All
months after                                     audits were unqualified.
the end of
each fiscal
I_year
4.02 (a)   9         CP         Continuous                 LABOGENIE to          Records and accounts
maintain separate     were not maintained in
records and accounts   accordance with sound
adequate to reflect in   accounting practices (see
accordance with sound  clause on audits below)
accounting practices
the operations, and
financial condition of
LABOGENIE.
4.02 (b)   1         CD         Not later                  Audit of LABOGENIE  All audits were qualified.
than sixth
months after
the end of
each fiscal
I year
4.03 (a)   2         C          Every fiscal               LABOGENIE to          Completed.
year                      include fixed assets in
use other than those
presently included at
their current value in
its balance sheets.
4.03 (b)   2         NC                                    Ratio of profitability    LABOGENIE became
on sales exceeding or   unprofitable due to
FY86                       equal to:             accumulating Government
FY87 and                   10%;                  arrears
I_        J after                      15%                  _
4.04 (a)   12         C         03/31/86 or                 MINEQ to             Exchange of views were
such other                  exchange views      not followed by actions.
date that the               with the Bank on    Restructuring of MINNEQ
Bank may                    institutional      is part of the new project
agree                       measures            under preparation.
with a view to
strengthen transport
planning and
coordination.



25
Agreement   Section   Covenant   Status        Original      Revised         Description            Comments
Type               Fulfillment  Fulfillment       of Covenant
Date         Date
4.04 (b)   12         CD        November                    MINEQ to exchange  Recommendations aimed
30 of each                 views with the Bank  at improving force account
year                       on:                 failed because of the
(a) technical       budget collapse, high
assistance provided   turnover of Ministry staff
and to be provided,   and lack of commitment
and actions taken or  from the Ministry.
proposed to be taken
on the basis of
consultants'
recommendations;
(b) its investment
program in the
transport sector
4.04 (b)   12         CD        Beginning                   MINEQ to exchange  The survey became
March 31,                  views with the Bank  obsolete due to the
1986 or                    on the              economic crisis.
such other                 recommendations
date as the                included in the
bank may                   national transport
agree                      survey carried out
under the Fifth
_           ~~~~Highway Project,
4.05       9          CP        Not later                   Borrower to         Borrower sent its annual
than April                 exchange views with  budget for road
30 of each                 the Bank on its draft  maintenance.
year, until                annual road         Implementation reports
two years                  maintenance         were no more prepared and
after project              program.            furnished when the
completion                 Borrower to furnish  technical assistance left.
to the Bank a report
on the
implementation of
its road maintenance
program for the
preceding fiscal
year.
Project      4.01       1          CD        Not later                   Audit of            All audits were qualified.
than sixth                 MATGENIE
months
after the
end of each
fiscal vear
Schedule   2          NC        Continuous                  MATGENIE will       Never complied with due
follow a financial    to Governments &-rears.
policy enabling it to
finance an
equipment and
I acquisition program  I



26
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 9: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title        Description and Comment on Lack of Compliance
ODI 1.00: Procurement             Loan B018-CM financed rental of equipment by
MATGENIE, the national equipment pool, which should
not have been eligible because of lack of managerial
autonomy. Contracts were awarded without competition.
OD10.60: Accounting, financial    No corrective action was taken to make the Borrower
reporting, and auditing           comply with the Loan Agreement regarding the timely
OD 13.10: Borrower compliance with  provision of project audits, and improve financial
audit covenants                   accounting and control systems as recommended in the
audits during the first six years of project execution.
OD13.05: Project supervision      Legal documents were not amended to reflect changes in
pnriorities (road maintenance versus road construction),
circumstances surrounding the project (the econormic
crisis), and organizational and managerial arrangements
(split of NTNEQ into two ministries and creation of
DGTC).
OD4.01: Environmental assessment   The environmental impact of the project was not assessed.



27
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs"
Stage of Project Cycle           Planned                    Actual
Preparation to Appraisal           N.A.                       64.9
Negotiations through               N.A.                        13.2
Board Approval
Supervision                        N.A.                      143.1
Completion                         N.A.                        2.4
Total                              N.A.                      223.6
"1The staff inputs are expressed in staff-weeks.
2'N.A.: Not available in SAR.



28
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of project   Month   No. of   Days  Specialized  Implemen  Develop-        Types of Problems
cycle        /year   persons  in the   staff skills   -tation   ment
field  represented    status    objectives
Through appraisal  12/83   3        21      HE, TE,
FA
03/84   3         14     HE, TE,          -          -
ES
06/84   5        21      HE, FA,          -          -
TE, ES, TS
Appraisal through   12/84   1       9       HE
Board approval
03/85   2         15     HE, TE           -          -
Supervision        10/85   3        12      HE, TE,    N.A.         N.A.       Loan signature pending
FA
03/86   3        16     HE, TE,      1           1          Delays in the institutional
FA                                 development program
06/86   2        6      HE, FA       N.A.       N.A.
10/86   3        14     HE, TE,      1           1         Project start-up delayed by
FA                                 one year. Institutional
development program
remains to be defined for
MINT and LABOGENIE.
03/87   1        5      HE           1           1          Project start-up delaved by
one year and expected to
be delayed by one addition
year due to delays in
completion of engineering
studies and slow
procurement. More delays
expected for the
institutional development
program (MINT and
LABOGENIE)
11/87  4         18     HE, TE,      3          3          Only 3% of funds
FA, TS                             disbursed and 10%
committed due to slow
procurement. Government
reluctant to hire
consultants agreed during
negotiations.



29
Performance Rating
Stage of project    Month   No. of   Days  Specialized  Implemen  Develop-     Types of Problems
cycle             /year   persons  in the  staff skills   -tation   ment
field  represented    status    objectives
07/88  3          21   HE, TE,    2            2         Government arrears on
PS                               contracts financed by the
project; and insufficient
funds for road
maintenance
03/89   1        15     TE          2          2          Delay in the road
maintenance component.
Deterioration of the
financial situation of
MATGENIE and
LABOGENIE
06/89   2        10     TE,FA       N.A.       N.A.       N.A.
12/89   3        14     TE, HE,    2           2          Slow procurement
ES                               procedures; inadequate
management in the Road
Directorate; aggravating
financial situation of
LABOGENIE and
MATGENIE due to
financial constraints of
the State.
03/90   2        14     TE, FA,    N.A.        N.A.       Ambiguities in the role of
HE                               sector institutions due to
creation of DGTC
02/91   1        13     TE          2          2          Serious financial
problems for MATGENIE
and LABOGENIE
06/91   3        7      TE, PO,    N.A.        N.A.       N.A.
HE
10/91   2        5      TE, PO      3          2          Lack of coordination
between implementing
agencies; lack of
compliance with Loan
covenants regarding
audits; lack of compliance
with Bank procurement
guidelines.
02/92   1        5      TE          2          2          Serious financial
problems for MATGENIE
and LABOGENIE; lack of
compliance with Bank
procurement guidelines;
lack of funds to complete
civil works contracts;
draft project audit
qualified; LABOGENIE
and MATGENIE audits
still unavailable.



30
Performance Rating
Stage of project    Month   No. of   Days  Specialized  Implemen  Develop-    Types of Problems
cycle             /year  persons  in the  staff skills   -tation   ment
field  represented    status   objectives
06/92   1       7       CS            N A.       NA.    N. A.
12/92   1       5      TE              2          2      Final audit reports not yet
available
03/93                                   2         2      FY91 and FY92 final
audit reports for
MATGENIE and
LABOGENIE not yet
available
Completion        06/94-  1        42     TE
11/94
Almost all supervision missions were carried out in parallel with the supervision or the preparation
of other Bank projects.
The project was not supervised in the field in 1993 because 12 categories had been closed in June
1992, and project activities consisted in completion of two civil works contracts, and contracts
with project auditors.
HE: Highway Engineer
TE: Transport Economist
PS: Procurement Specialist
ES: Civil Works Equipment Specialist
FA: Financial Analyst
TS: Training Specialist
PO: Project Officer
CS: Computer Specialist



3'
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SIXTH HIGHIWAY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Appendix A: Borrower Contribution to ICR
The 91-page report prepared by the Borrower is available in the project files. It does not include a
summary. The Borrower did not comment on the report prepared by the Bank.






IERD 27082
MALI            NIGER
~SUDAN 
FJRKINA                                    CHAD                                   The boundaries, colors,
FASO                                                                             denominations and any
GEN N                         N                                           other information sho-t
7 6     NIGERIA                                                         on th,s mao   do  nor
)     NIGERIA        (f  <          r/        \                        Imply, on t e part of
o                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The World Bank Grasp,
hANAZ~  I              *-~ i            CENTRAL AFRICAN                       any judgment on the legal
SHANA                   /            (          REPUBLIC                         status of any territory,
CAM-ROON       X             or any endorsement
)C/AMEROON                                ~~~ ~~~~~~or  cepace of such                                            CHuADri
CAMEROON   ~~~                             boundaries.~b
EQUATORJAL LAIRE
GLJINEA             tN              iAR./
GABON                    Z             KLOMErERS  0  20  40 60  0O  100 120 140 160
MILES O    20   40    60   80     IM r
CAMEROON                                                                                                   Y - YOOa
G~~
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
o      SELECTED TOWNS
GAROUA               '
       PROVINCE CAPITALS
PAVED ROADS                                              j
UNPAVED ROADS                                         j
-|---------   RAILROADS                                    .....                   Guibliba
Pol,
R VERS                                      ,J                    .
Tctho l,r
PROV NCE BOUNDARIES
_   INTERNAT ONAL
_ 8-                                  BOUNDARIES
/             T,gn66re            \  nTg
5              /  t) NGAOUNDERE
f-I       |,            (.          .J'                   I.'                                                ,
' Nkornbe  I,           Banyo    Malorba                                      eldugou/
INIGERA  Wp-
/   \          iSmbo                                 F~~~~          ~~                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~Tibah    .
Nb-en9   BAMENDA                    . .bnt 
5 Mar                                    F Jo mborn                                                    Ndokoyo                         CENTRAL
. gut      Dschong                U       '                                                            o 0   '                   AFRICAN
N| ,1                    BAFOUSSAM                               .                       \              -         .               REPUBLIC
j,  t .-  (bSupe    g      t     e~'.ngt
Mjundemba               Nko   ,                                                                 ob.
.  Yoboss,                                                                                           B.tgvo 
-,      Idenao  B/MonaA                                                                                  Abong                        NdeI616 
Limbs DOUALA                                         YAOUNDE                          u Mbong
Lim    DO  Ed6o                                  ~ ~Akonol,ngo                                      ooom 
tYok.doum.
E:QUA#TOR .LX            Krii         EBOLOWA3  )   Songntiman )
GUINEA
' f                                                 -;~   ~r -;- wMoloundau,
JUNE 1995












