Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16370
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
TEXTILE II PROJECT
LOAN 1837-EGT
March 12, 1997
Private Sector Development and Infrastructure Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
GOE          Government of Egypt
GOFI         General Organization for Industrialization
NSWC         National Spinning and Weaving Company
Vice President:    Kemal Dervis
Director:        Inder K. Sud
Division Chief:    Alastair J. McKechnie
Task Manager:    Y. T. Shetty



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
TEXTILE II PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Background and Project Scope ........................................    1
Project Cost and Financing Plan .......................................    1
Change in Goverrunent Approach ......................................    1
Suggested Modification in Project Scope  .................................    2
Reasons for Cancellation  ...........................................    3
Lessons Learned.3
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
TEXTILE II PROJECT
(Loan 1837-EGT)
Background and Project Scope
1.    In April 1980, the World Bank Group provided a total of US$ 69 million (Ln. 1837-EGT) to
the Government of Egypt (GOE) to finance the Textile II Project of the National Spinning and
Weaving Co. (NSWC), a public sector enterprise. The Project was designed to help
modernize/expand NSWC's existing facilities, increase production and exports, strengthen company
management, promote management autonomy, reduce financial losses and return the Company to
profitability. The Project consisted of: (i) modernizing an existing weaving mill and a finishing plant;
(ii) constructing a new 4,000 tons per year spinning mill and a new 25 million meters per year
weaving mill at a new site; (iii) scrapping two spinning mills and two weaving mills (which were old
and obsolete) when the proposed new mills started production; and, (iv) technical assistance for
operational and management improvement and training.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
2.    The total financing required for the Project was estimated at US$134 million, of which the
Bank Group was to finance about 52 percent and the remaining 48 percent was to be financed by
GOE. The Bank Group was to finance: (i) selected equipment and spare parts; and (ii) a substantial
part (nearly 70 percent) of the total TA cost estimated at US$5.1 million. The proceeds of the Bank
Group funds were to be onlent by GOE to NSWC for 15 years, including four years of grace. The
foreign exchange risk was to be borne by GOE. The initial loan effectiveness date was set for
November 4, 1980 (five months from loan signing which took place on June 4, 1980), after
ratification of the Loan and Project Agreements by the Parliament. There were no conditions for loan
effectiveness. However, for reasons explained below, the loan never became effective and was
cancelled as of April 1, 1982.
Change in Government Approach
3.    Soon after the loan approval, a new Minister of Industry was appointed who had serious
differences of opinion with the Bank, initially on the organization and management of NSWC and
later on the re-appraisal of the viability of the Project taking into account prolonged delays in getting
the loan effective and sharp increases in project costs in the interim. As a result of the difficulty in
reaching agreements with the Minister, the effectiveness date was extended six times in a bid to find a
compromise solution. The first extension was for two months; the second, the third and the fourth
extensions were for three months each; the fifth extension was for two months; and the sixth
extension was for 15 days (from March 15-31, 1982).
4.    At the time of appraisal, major risks in the Project were identified as the weak organization
and management and poor financial position of NSWC. Therefore, one main loan agreement was the
conversion of the status of the Government-owned NSWC to a Law 43 company (a joint stock
company) allowing it to operate on commercial lines with management autonomy and accountability.



2                                                                 Project Completion Note
However, GOE changed its position in June 1980 with respect to converting NSWC to a Law 43
enterprise, saying that organizational improvements could be achieved through administrative
measures, without changing the status of the company. GOE suggested that it was enacting a separate
law which would help public enterprises like NSWC achieve the management autonomy and flexibility
required in determining wages and salaries, pricing, investment and related matters. On this basis,
the Bank agreed to amend the legal documents without any reference to Law 43.
5.    However, considering the time that had elapsed and the sharp increase in project costs in the
interim, the Bank wanted to review the company's financial and operating performance and confirm
whether the Project was still economically and financially viable.
Suggested Modification in Project Scope
6.    The confirmation mission which visited Egypt in March 1981 reported that considering the
serious deterioration of NSWC's financial, managerial, technical and commercial position, it was not
advisable to proceed with the large-scale Project as originally envisaged. The mission found that
NSWC would not be in a position to invest in a new mill (major part of the original Project) until the
rationalization of the existing facilities and the management improvement program yielded significant
positive results. Therefore, the mission recommended a scaled down project focussing on the
rationalization and management improvement component of the original Project. GOE disagreed with
this approach.
7.    An explanatory mission, headed by a senior manager, visited Egypt in May 1981 to explain
the findings of the previous mission. Soon after the return of the mission, the Bank sent a letter to
GOE on June 9, 1981, elaborating on the reasons for concluding that the project as originally
envisaged was not viable. Following this letter, GOE requested an opportunity to discuss in detail the
assumptions used and conclusions reached from the Bank's revised financial and economic analyses.
Accordingly, a mission visited Egypt in November 1981 which reviewed with GOE and company
management the assumptions behind the Bank's revised analyses and conclusions reached. At this
time, the mission was informed that there were new developments which had to be taken into account.
They pertained to the appointment of the Chief of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), signing of a
contract with an engineering firm for project design and engineering, the provision of budget funds by
GOE to cover NSWC losses and initial investment needs, decision to reduce the number of surplus
labor, and the impact of the ongoing rehabilitation work. The mission agreed to take the new
developments into account in updating its analyses and left a questionnaire with GOE to detail any
new data, assumptions and projections supporting any improvements in NSWC's situation.
8.    On December 16, 1981, GOE delivered to the Bank limited answers to the questionnaire.
The answers did not cover all the questions. Moreover, the projections provided by GOE were based
on unrealistic and questionable assumptions. Even the questionable financial projections showed
continued losses through 1984 which were substantially higher than the appraisal estimate. The
package of information received did not warrant a change in the Bank position on the unsatisfactory
situation of NSWC and the absence of acceptable conditions to support the original project scope
(primarily the new mill). However, the government authorities felt that the Bank Group lost interest
in the Project after GOE changed its mind on the agreement to change the status of the company. At
one point, they observed that if the revised estimate of financing requirements (which were over 50



Project Completion Note                                                                   3
percent of the appraisal estimate in about one year from project approval) presented by the Bank
missions were correct, then the appraisal estimate was an underestimation. In retrospect, it seems the
Bank appraisal mission was over-optimistic about the viability of the project and the company.
9.     The Bank reaffirmed its conclusions in its telex of December 31, 1981, stressing the need to
scale down the Project with a view to focusing on rehabilitation of the existing facilities. On January
6, 1982, GOE telexed further explanations to NSWC's action plan and financial projections, but this
information did not include any new data to support reconsideration of the Bank's position.
Meanwhile, there was another change in the Ministry of Industry, with the appointment of a new
minister. GOE requested another extension of the effectiveness date from January 15, 1982 to March
15, 1982 so that the new Minister could have enough time to review the Project. Accordingly, the
Bank agreed to extend the effectiveness date to March 15, 1982.
Reasons for Cancellation
10.   Subsequently, GOE appointed a committee to prepare a study of NSWC with representatives
from the General Organization for Industrialization (GOFI), the Technical Secretariat of the Ministry
of Industry, and the NSWC. This study was received by the Bank on January 26, 1982. The Bank
review of the study revealed that it did not warrant substantial changes in the Bank position since the
November 1981 mission and the review of the Company's projections in December 1981. The Bank
felt that the study reflected some "cosmetic" improvements, but it did not come to grips with the basic
management and organizational problems of the Company. The recruitment and training program
suggested was vague. Further, the financial projections provided were still based on some unrealistic
assumptions (about labor reduction, energy efficiency improvement, etc.). Even on the basis of those
unrealistic assumptions, the Company showed substantial losses through 1984, about 50 percent
higher than the appraisal estimate. Therefore, the Bank felt that the Company was not in a position,
then or in the foreseeable future, to undertake the modernization and expansion components of the
Project as appraised. On the basis of this conclusion, during a visit to Egypt, the Vice President of
EMENA conveyed the Bank position to GOE in mid-March 1982. Following his visit, the Bank
officially cancelled the loan with effect from April 1, 1982.
Lessons Learned
11.   The following lessons can be learned from the project:
*     To ensure the successful restructuring of a public enterprise, commitment to reform
needs to be widely shared to avoid possible policy shifts resulting from the change of
top government officials. 'With hindsight, the team preparing the project should have
ensured that broader support for the enterprise reforms existed, and a decision to
terminate project processing should have been taken if there was insufficient country
commitment. Loan conditionality is not a substitute for borrower commitment.
However, such political analysis is difficult in countries where decision making is
highly concentrated at the sector minister level and where ministries are weakly
coordinated.
*     Attempting to pursue the implementation of a project in the absence of clear
government commitment to its objectives is unlikely to be successful. The Bank took



4                                                                    Project Completion Note
reasonable steps to see whether the project could be saved and closed the project when
it became clear that success was unlikely.
*     Realistic assessment of risks should be carried out during project preparation and
projects dropped if the chance of a successful project is low, even if large costs have
been sunk in preparation by the Bank. The rapid deterioration in the finances of the
enterprise and the financial and economic viability of the project within a year of
Board presentation suggests that the appraisal analysis was inadequate.












IMAGING
Report No.:         16370
Type:     PCN



