Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY    FiLE COpy
Roert No. P-2764-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
SECOND TEXTILE PROJECT
April 8, 1980
lTis doment hs a resited distribution Ns may be used by recipients only In the performnce of
thdir omcil duties. Its cotents may not oherise be disc__sd withot World Dank avtorbtIon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Egyptian Pound (LE) - US$ 1.43
1 US Dollar ($)        -  LE 0.70
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
GODE        -   Gulf Organization for the Development of Egypt
EGOSW       -   Egyptian General Organization for Spinning
and Weaving
National    -   National Spinning and Weaving Company
REP         -   Rehabilitation and Expansion Program
LMPY        -   Linear meters per years
TPY         -   Tons per year
BCE         -   Base Cost Estimate
icb         -   international competitive bidding
LA          -   Loan Agreement
PA          -  Project Agreement



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EGYPT - SECOND TEXTILE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Arab Republic of Egypt
Beneficiary:            National Spinning and Weaving Company (National)
Amount:                  $69 million
Terms:                   15 years, including 4-1/2 years grace with interest
at 8.25 percent.
On-lending Terms:        The loan proceeds will be onlent to National for 15
years, including 4-1/2 years grace, at an interest rate
of 10 percent per annum.
Project
Description:
The prime objective of the project is to transform
National into a financially viable and competitive
enterprise capable of producing high quality products.
To help achieve this objective, National, a public
sector company, would establish a s- cessor company in
the joint venture sector which woult.   sume all assets
and liabilities of the old National  OAzlpany.  This
would give autonomy to the successor ~mpany regarding
pricing, profit retention and more importantly enable
the company to implement personnel policies and a
compensation system adequate to attract and retain
qualified employees. In order to help achieve this
goal a large technical assistance and training program
forms part of the project. The project is also designed
to improve the planning mechanism of the textile sector
and develop a training program for Egypt's textile
sector as a whole. The project would consist of the
following:
(a)  construction of a new polyester/cotton spinning
mill and a new polyester/cotton weaving mill with
a production of 6,600 tons per year (TPY) of yarn
and of 20 million linear meters per year (LMPY) of
fabrics, respectively.  About 70 percen t of the
spinning equipment for the new mill will be rehab-
ilitated units from existing facilities;
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(b)  modernization of National's existing converting
plant to process wide fabrics and polyester/cotton
blends;
(c) rehabilitation of two weaving mills to increase
their production capacity from 14 to 17 million
LMPY, and allow production of polyester/cotton
fabrics;
(d) reorganization of the garment and towel making
unit and installation of a new bedsheet-making
unit;
(e) scrapping of two obsolete weaving mills and two
obsolete spinning mills;
(f) construction of 60 housing units for National's
management and supervisory staff;
(g) technical assistance for project implementation;
establishment of a training program for operators
and maintenance labor for the new and rehabilitated
mills, and for improving the organizational and
financial systems of National;
(h) carrying out of a review and analysis of the
functions, responsibilities and procedures of
agencies involved in the textile sector and
preparation of an action program to help improve
efficiency and sector planning, including prepa-
ration of a 5-year investment plan for the textile
industry with pre-feasibility studies for high
priority projects;
(i) review of man-power and training requirements of
the textile sector and preparation of a training
program.
The major risk of the project is related to the orga-
nizational improvement of National which is expected to
be achieved through the establishment of a successor
company in the joint venture sector. Otherwise, the
project does not face any major commercial risks.



- liii -
Estimated Project                                         US$ Million
Cost:                                        Foreign        Local         Total
Equipment, Materials and
Spares (FOB)                        36.1          0.3           36.4
Freight, Insurance                     2.5           1.2            3.7
Erection and Relocation                1.3          0.8             2.1
General Import Tax                      -            1.9            1.9
Civil Works and Site Improvements   9.9             5.3            15.2
Project Supervision, Technical
Assistance Training and
Commissioning                          3.4          1.7             5.1
Base Cost Estimate                    53.2         11.2            64.4
Physical Contingencies                 5.3           1.1            6.4
Price Contingencies                   10.9          2.6            13.5
Installed Cost                        69.4         14.9            84.3
Working Capital                         -           8.0             8.0
Interest During Construction           9.6          2.4            12.0
Total                   79.0         25.3          104.3
Financing Plan:                                           US$ Million
Foreign        Local         Total
Equity:
Government                             4.7         25.3            30.0
Private Shareholders                   4.9           -              4.9
Total Equity                9.6         25.3            34.9
Loans:
Bank                                  69.0           -             69.0
Government                              .4           -              0.4
Total Loans                69.4-- _                      94
Total Financing                          79.0          25.3          104.3
Estimated Bank                                           US$ Million
Disbursement:                    Bank           FY81      82    83    84
Annual                   11.4    28.4  21.2   8.0
Cumulative               11.4    39.8  61.0  69.0
Cost of Consultants
Services:               $11,000 per man/month on average
Estimated Economic
Rate of Return:        22 percent
Appraisal Report:        Egypt, Staff Appraisal Report, Second Textile Project,
No. 1959-EGT, dated March, 1980.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A SECOND TEXTILE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
of US69.0 million to the Arab Republic of Egypt to help finarnce part of the
foreign exchange costs of a Second Textile Project. The loan would have a
term of 15 years including 4-1/2 years grace, with interest at 8.25 percent
per annum. The proceeds of the loan would be on-lent to the National Spinning
and Weaving Company (National) at an interest rate of ten percent per annum
with the same maturities as those granted to the Arab Republic of Egypt.
National would bear the foreign exchange risk on the loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The latest economic mission visited Egypt during September-October
1979. Subsequent to that a report on "Recent Economic Development and
External Capital Requirements" (SecM 79-839) was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on November 28, 1979. The findings of this report are incor-
porated in the following. Country data sheets are attached.
The Open-Door Strategy
3.        Economic trends in Egypt have been strongly influenced by the "open-
door" strategy enunciated by President Sadat in October 1973 and approved in a
national referendum in May 1974. This strategy aims at accelerating economic
development through modernization and making Egypt's largely publicly-owned
and centrally-controlled economy more market-oriented. Specifically, the
strategy envisages (i) a gradual dismantling of government regulations, many
of which are to be replaced by the price mechanism; (ii) the decentralization
of decision-making in state-owned enterprises; (iii) a more active role for
the private sector, including private foreign investors; and (iv) expanded
economic cooperation with other countries. Substantial inflows of external
assistance are considered essential to support the strategy.
4.        To implement the open-door strategy the Government has taken a
number of specific policy actions. Among the more important ones were the
gradual devaluation of the Egyptian pound, and the concurrent liberalization
of foreign exchange regulations. Starting in 1973 when the parallel market
rate was introduced, Egypt's currency has been effectively devalued by 44
percent from US$2.56 to US$1.43 per pound at present. Exchange restrictions
were eased, specific import allocations were replaced by general import quotas,
and more foreign exchange was made available to both the public and private
sector. A new investment law (1974, amended in 1977) offers attractive
1/   Part I is identical to Part I of the recent President's Report for the
Development Industrial Bank (DIB) Project, distributed to the Executive
Directors on February 20, 1980.



incentives to foreign firms. Trade agreements, especially with the EEC, opened
new markets for export products; at the same time, bilateral trade with COMECON
countries was much reduced. A debt management unit was established in the
Central Bank, and became operative in mid-1978.
5.        A Five-Year Plan was adopted in 1978 and is currently under revision,
in accordance with the Government's desire to periodically reassess development
perspectives and respond to changing economic conditions and investment options.
In support of the overall plan, a number of sector and subsector programs are
currently under preparation with the assistance of the Bank and other donors.
These include a Water Master Plan, various industrial subsector studies, a
review of the transport sector, and an electrification program.
6.        In accordance with the objective of greater decentralization, the
autonomy of public enterprises has been somewhat strengthened, especially by
a new law issued in 1978 which grants greater flexibility to individual enter-
prises in (i) setting up organizational structures, (ii) introducing material
incentives, (iii) establishing productivity related wage scales, (iv) adjust-
ing the work force to production requirements by not having to hire additional
people, and (v) undertaking some investments from their own resources.
Provincial authority to undertake regional development programs has also been
expanded. Central bureau-cratic control remains strong, however, over most
investment decisions.
7.        A start has been made in rationalizing the price structure and
increasing price flexibility. The share of industrial output subject to
centralized price control has decreased, and prices for a number of controlled
products (including agricultural crops and some public service tariffs) were
substantially increased. Interest rates have been raised several times and now
stand at 10 to 12 percent for lending (to non-government sector) and 6 to 8.5
percent for term deposits. Private sector activity is being encouraged and
has been freed from many previous restrictions. Moreover, a growing number of
foreign investment contracts are being signed, especially in the important oil
and tourist sectors.
Impact of the "Open-Door" Strategy
8.        The open-door strategy and subsequent policy actions have yielded
impressive results. Above all, they have led to a rapid increase in Egypt's
foreign exchange earnings which rose from $1.4 billion in 1973 to $5.5 billion
in 1978. During this period, oil exports, workers' remittances, tourism and
the Suez Canal emerged as major new sources of foreign exchange. This was
accompanied by a major shift of agricultural and industrial exports from
COMECON countries to the hard currency area. In addition, the Government
managed to attract large amounts of foreign assistance. Gross inflows of
medium- and long-term capital averaged $3.4 billion per annum during 1975-78,
compared with an average of only $0.6 billion during 1967-72. The bulk of
these aid flows came from Arab and western donors and were provided at highly
concessional terms.



- 3 -
9.        Increased exchange earnings and foreign aid inflows have resulted in
a consolidation of Egypt's external debt and have strengthened the country's
creditworthiness. Short-term credits owed by the Government to commercial banks
were reduced from $1.4 billion at the end of 1976 to $443 million at end-1978,
largely with the help of loans granted by the Gulf Organization for the
Development of Egypt (GODE). During the same period substantial arrears in
debt payments, which had built up in previous years, were cleared. These
changes have solved the pressing liquidity problems that threatened Egypt's
financial position in 1975 and 1976. Favorable terms on new borrowings have
also eased the burden on the country's medium- and long-term debt. Although
Egypt's total medium- and long-term public debt increased sharply during
recent years--from $2.1 billion at the end 1973 to an estimated $10.0 billion
at the end-1978--the debt service ratio declined from 33 percent to 24 percent,
during the same period. This reflects not only more favorable credit terms --
i.e., lower interest rates and longer maturities--but also the rapid increase
in foreign exchange earnings.
10.       The increased availability of foreign exchange from Egypt's own
exports of goods and services and from external assistance has allowed much
higher levels of imports. This in turn paved the way for a rapid increase of
investment, larger domestic consumption, and a better utilization of existing
production capacities. Imports of goods and services (excluding interest
payments) rose from about $2.0 billion in 1973 to an estimated $6.5 billion in
1978; imports of capital goods increased at an even faster rate. Increased
availabili'ty of foreign exchange to industrial producers and farmers enabled
them to import more raw materials, intermediate goods--including fertilizer
and pesticides--and spare parts, thus breaking crucial bottlenecks that had
constrained local production. Together with investments in new capacities and
a vigorous expansion of services such as trade, tourism and shipping, these
developments sharply accelerated the rate of economic growth.
11.       The Ministry of Planning estimates that GDP at constant prices rose
at an average rate of close to 9 percent per annum during 1974-78. Much of
the growth was concentrated in petroleum, construction, manufacturing, transport
and public utilities. Agricultural production, on the other hand, increased
very slowly (about 1 percent per annum). The growth rate of GNP was very high,
about 13 percent per annum, because of the massive growth in workers' remit-
tances from $189 million in 1974 to $1,760 million in 1978. The higher level
of economic activity together with large-scale labor migration to neighboring
oil exporting countries has absorbed much of the excess labor force that
existed in the early 1970s. In fact, serious labor shortages have begun to
emerge in a number of occupations, especially in the construction sector.
*         12.        Since 1974 Egypt's investment rate (investment/GNP) increased from
about 18 percent to about 25 percent on average in the 1976-78 period. This
increase was made possible by the substantial contribution of foreign savings
including the massive growth in workers' remittances. National savings increased
from 2.3 percent of GNP in 1974 to more than 12 percent in 1978, reflecting the
rise in remittance income. The domestic savings rate, however, while showing
some growth since 1974, financed less than a quarter of investment in the 1974-
78 period. A major cause for this inadequate level of domestic savings was the



- 4 -
continuously low and sometimes even negative savings generated by the government
budget. During 1974-78 current budget surpluses averaged less than one percent
of GNP, and their contribution to the financing of public investment averaged
less than 10 percent. This was the result of high defense and security expendi-
tures, large consumer subsidies and fast growing interest payments which, taken
together, claimed 79 percent of the government's tax revenues in 1978. At the
same time, savings generated by public enterprises remained constrained by
price regulations. The result has been a continuous shortage of domestic
funds, which in many instances has slowed down the implementation of investment
projects.
Recent Economic Developments
13.       Preliminary estimates indicate that GDP growth in 1979 was about 8.6
percent, close to the average achieved during 1975-78. The increase of agri-
cultural value added (2.6 percent) was significantly above the long-term trend
because of favourable climatic conditions and improved distribution of inputs.
Growth in industry and mining accelerated in 1979 to 11.5 percent above the
1975-78 average of 7.6 percent. There was, however, a marked slowdown in the
growth of the petroleum sector, 20 percent in 1979 compared to 34 percent
in 1978, reflecting the lack of major discoveries in recent years and the
approaching "peak" in production from existing fields. Overall, the growth
rate in the commodity sectors realized in 1979 (6.9 percent) was close to the
1975-78 average (7.6 percent). Growth in the distributive and service sectors,
about 12 percent and 9 percent respectively, continued to be significantly
higher than in the commodity sectors.
14.        Egypt's foreign exchange earnings continued to grow rapidly in 1979.
Based on preliminary estimates, merchandise exports increased by about 38 per-
cent in value due to a major increase in petroleum revenue made possible by the
surge in world prices. Merchandise imports, on the other hand, increased by
only 11 percent in current value. With the continued growth in Suez Canal
earnings (17 percent) and officially recorded workers' remittances (11 percent),
the current account deficit declined by about 15 percent from its 1978 value
to about $1.5 billion. While the current account improved substantially, esti-
mated medium- and long-term capital inflow in 1979 ($2,410 million) was about 29
percent below its 1978 value ($3,373 million) reflecting the cessation of cash
inflows from GODE ($500 million in 1978), and a drastic decline in bilateral
disbursements from Arab sources (about $70 million in 1979 compared to about
$300 million in 1978). As a result, the overall balance (current account plus
net MLT capital flows) showed a small deficit ($18 million), and there was
some net short-term borrowing (about $150 million). Prospects for 1980 are
reasonably good, with petroleum revenue expected to exceed $2 billion and Suez
Canal earnings increasing as a result of recent increases in the Canal's
capacity as well as higher tariffs. In addition net MLT capital flows are
projected to grow significantly. Growth in these sources of foreign exchange,
and continued growth in workers' remittances and tourism receipts, would
permit the resumption of rapid growth in imports of producer goods essential
for sustaining high rates of investment and GDP growth.



15.       Reforms in trade, exchange rate and incentive policies have contri-
buted significantly to the recent improvements in the balance of payments.
Continued care must be taken, however, that incentives remain appropriate and
are adapted to changing circumstances. The gap between interest rates on
foreign and domestic deposits will have to be closed to channel more workers'
remittances and tourism receipts into official channels and prevent the
re-emergence of a large dual foreign exchange market. Periodic adjustments in
the exchange rate may also become necessary if the unofficial "free market"
rate were to start deviating substantially from the "unified" official rate.
In 1979 the free market premium fluctuated around 8 percent and significant
downward pressure on the exchange rate did not develop.
16.       The domestic fiscal situation remains an area of major concern.  The
overall budget deficit increased to reach about 22 percent of GNP in 1979.
Domestic financing of this deficit has gone up from 5.9 percent of GNP in 1977
to about 13.2 percent in 1979, increasing the pressure on money supply and
prices. While public revenue increased by 21 percent, current expenditure
alone increased by about 37 percent, principally because of a doubling of
subsidy payments linked to the exchange rate adjustment. Furthermore, in
spite of increasing revenue from petroleum and the Suez Canal, the public
enterprise sector still generated only half of the surplus that would be
required to finance its investment program.
17.       There are indications of a growing Government effort to contain
widening budgetary deficits. Already in 1979 two major agricultural input
prices (e.g., fertilizers and pesticides) and a wide range of other prices
(e.g., cement, gasoline, railway freights, etc.,) have been substantially
raised. The 1980 budget contains similar provisions and net domestic borrowing
is projected to decline. This is expected to be achieved through a variety of
measures: a new sales tax and elimination of tax loopholes, increases of 20
to 30 percent in consumer prices of mass consumption articles such as cloth,
cigarettes, soft drinks, sugar, petrol, kerosene, as well as limiting the
ration card system to the lowest income groups and eliminating subsidies
on flour for uses other than the production of traditional bread. The net
revenues derived from these measures will be complemented by a large increase
in revenue from the petroleum sector. The overall fiscal situation is,
therefore, likely to improve in 1980, unless massive increases in public
investment expenditures are allowed to outweigh the increase in revenues.
Development Potential and Constraints
18.       Egypt has considerable potential for further development.  The rea-
sons for this are, in brief: a large domestic market, a relatively skilled
and literate population, an agricultural resource base not yet fully developed,
varied raw materials (including oil and gas), and a key geographical location.
In addition, there are good prospects for continued growth of foreign exchange
earnings from tourism, workers' remittances and the Suez Canal which is under-
going a major expansion. While oil exports are likely to decline in volume
in the long-run--in the light of increasing domestic consumption and less
optimistic assumptions on new discoveries--the outlook for exports of new
industrial and agricultural products is promising.



- 6 -
19.       Future economic growth may come less easily, however, than during
the past years. The need to gradually substitute domestic for foreign savings
will become more pressing as foreign contributions decline in relation to GNP.
Capacities are now strained in a number of sectors, including infrastructure.
Investment in new capacities has been slowed down by administrative inefficiency,
inadequate fiscal resources and weakness in national coordination and sector
programming. Managerial effectiveness in public enterprises and financial
incentives for production are inadequate in many instances. Higher levels of
economic activity together with labor emigration have led to shortages in
critical professional and technical skills. Educational facilities in Egypt
still reflect a non-technical bias and their quality needs to be upgraded.
20.       Another key issue is population.  Already very large for Egypt's
limited living space--about 39 million in 1978 with an average density exceed-
ing 1,300 per square kilometer of agricultural land--the population was
growing at a rate of about 2.2 percent per annum in the mid-1970's, adding
almost one million people every year. This continues to create great pressures
on resources for consumption and investment and aggravates the employment
problem in the longer run. In the past years the Government has made a new
commitment to direct action on population matters. While it has already
initiated such action (e.g., an intensified home visiting program under the
second IDA financed population project), it will take time for measurable
results in fertility reduction to be achieved.
21.       A serious side-effect of the open-door strategy has been a growing
disparity in consumption levels. Currently the lower 40 percent of the rural
population receive about 25 percent of the rural incomes while in the urban
areas the proportion is about 21 percent. About 30 percent of the rural
and 22 percent of the urban population live in absolute poverty. Although
this pattern of inequality and incidence of absolute poverty is no worse
than in most economies at similar income levels, it is nevertheless a serious
problem, which could become more severe if no effective policy action is taken.
22.       To maintain the momentum of development, major efforts are required
to overcome present structural constraints. Specifically, action is needed
to (i) increase the efficiency of government administration through organiza-
tional and procedural modifications and selective changes in salary struc-
tures; (ii) strengthen the capacity for development programming and project
preparation/implementation; (iii) pursue a vigorous and balanced program to
upgrade the country's physical infrastructure; (iv) substantially expand the
program to curb population growth; (v) articulate urban and rural strategies
aimed at decentralizing urban agglomeration and economic opportunities; (vi)
further increase the use of prices as indicators of relative scarcities;
(vii) strengthen the management of public enterprises; (viii) improve pro-
fessional and technical education; (ix) increase domestic savings; and (x)
develop a coordinated export promotion policy. There is an ongoing dialogue
on all these issues between the Egyptian authorities and the Bank; they have
also been the focus of the discussion among the members of the Consultative
Group for Egypt.



- 7-
External Debt and Creditworthiness
23.       Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term public debt outstanding
and disbursed as of July 31, 1979 was estimated at about $10.6 billion.
Bilat eral loans comprised about $6.5 billion or about 62 percent of the debt
outstanding while the shares of multilateral credit and suppliers' credit were
about 24 percent ($2.5 billion) and 8 percent ($0.8 billion) respectively, with
the remainder being held by financial institutions. Major creditors were the
GODE and USA, followed by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and the Federal Republic of
Germany. IBRD/IDA debt comprised about 4 percent of the total disbursed debt.
The estimated end-December 1979 total disbursed debt was about $11.0 billion.
Debt service on medium- and long-term debt was estimated at $1.4 billion in
1979 giving a debt service ratio of about 20 percent. No reliable estimates
of military debt are available.
24.       The Government's recent policy actions have initiated structural
adjustments called for by Egypt's economic situation and international environ-
ment. If progress towards overcoming present constraints is maintained and
the country's foreign exchange earning potential realized, the average deficit
on current account is estimated to be about $2.5 billion per annum for the
coming five years. The required capital inflows are large--but if they are
available on concessional terms, Egypt would have the debt servicing capacity
to borrow the amounts envisaged, including a limited amount on harder terms.
The burden of servicing medium- and long-term debt as a percentage of total
foreign exchange earnings is estimated to fluctuate around 20 percent during
1980-84, and to decline gradually thereafter.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT 1/
25.       The proposed loan would be the World Bank's forty-sixth lending
operation in Egypt. It would bring Bank and IDA commitments made since 1970
to $1,594.5 million. Annex II contains a Summary of Bank loans and IDA
credits as of January 31, 1980 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
26.       Egypt faces a host of basic structural problems:  pressure of
population on resources; inadequate economic infrastructure; a large but
inefficient public sector constrained by out of date equipment, overstaffing,
weak management and a network of controls over investment, production, distri-
bution and prices; significant balance of payments deficits and shortages of
domestic resources.  The Bank's response has been tailored to address these
long-term developmental issues in a very broad fashion and in close coopera-
tion with other donors. Its strategy involves entry into the spectrum
of sectors in order to provide not only direct finance with its relatively
1/   Paragraphs 26 to 30 are identical to the recent President's Report for
the Development Industrial Bank (DIB) Project, distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on February 20, 1980.



- 8 -
limited resources but, equally, to act as a catalyst for other agencies,
bilateral and multilateral, and as a spur for initiating discussion and,
hopefully, positive action on a coherent framework of policies and investment
proposals which can tackle the substantive issues. The approach also includes
delivery of technical assistance not only for adequate implementation of
specific investment programs but for developing the domestic institutional
capability to devise and implement future policies and investment programs.
The Bank's deliberately broad multisectoral intervention has been differen-
tiated by sectors and tailored to the pace at which the Egyptian authorities
can reasonably be expected to address these issues and implement the programs.
27.       Industry, which has received the largest portion of Bank resources
and significant attention over the past five years, illustrates the nature and
scope of the Bank's intervention. The Government looks to industry to create
productive employment, cater to basic consumer needs, generate an "export
surplus", and stimulate growth of the economy. However, this sector is beset
by a complex set of problems which stem largely from the rigidity of central-
ized control and lack of management autonomy, distorted pricing, and the lack
of incentives for better use of productive capacity. Efforts under Bank
financed projects have gone beyond the immediate objective of improving
capacity utilization (imports loans and credits Nos: Cr. 524, Ln. 1062 and
Ln. 1456) and increasing production capacity and supply of essential commodi-
ties in resource-based industries (cotton ginning, textiles, cement and
fertilizer projects). The more fundamental effort is directed at introducing
policy and structural improvements. Towards this end the Bank is assisting
the Government in reviewing the planning apparatus and strengthening sectoral
planning and project preparation and implementation capabilities with the
objective of formulating an industrial strategy and plan for the 1980's. It
has also financed six subsector studies in textiles, building materials, pulp
and paper, food processing, metallurgy, and engineering industries, in order
to assist the Government in formulating a package of policy and investment
proposals, which would be embodied in future projects. Two subsectors,
textiles and steel, are planned for study in greater detail with a view to
developing specific recommendations concerning the major issues facing public
enterprises in Egypt, such as those relating to employment, wages, prices,
profit retention and the relationship between the public and private sectors.
To complement these efforts the Bank has also carried out a study on small-
scale industries which is laying the basis for joint Egyptian/Bank efforts in
this area. In addition, the Bank is assisting the Government in undertaking a
major study of the construction/contracting industry, which is one of the most
critical bottlenecks facing Egyptian industry today, as well as in initiating
studies to develop a brick master plan and cement distribution master plan.
28.       The above sketch illustrating the scope and breadth of the Bank's
intervention in one sector is representative of the multifaceted approach that
it has adopted in varying degrees in the other sectors of the Egyptian economy.
It is a role that is in harmony not only with the Egyptian Government's wishes
but is welcomed by the various bilateral and multilateral donors as an appro-
priate function for the Bank as the Chairman of the Consultative Group for
Egypt. Preparation of projects for future lending follows this strategy, and



- 9 -
the pipeline includes projects in education, power, gas distribution, rural
and urban development, transportation, rural water supply, agriculture (includ-
ing drainage), agro-industry, development finance and industry.
29.        Bank Group disbursements in 1978 represent 2.8 perc-nt of Egypt's
medium- and long-term capital inflow. The Bank and IDA sharres of total
external debt outstanding and disbursed were about 1.8 percent and 2.4 per-
cent, respectively, as of July 31, 1979. For the future, the Bank and IDA
shares of total external debt outstanding and disbursed (excluding military
debts) are estimated to reach about 5.0 and 3.5 percent respectively in 1981.
It is estimated that in 1981, debt service payments due to the Bank and IDA
will represent about 2.3 percent and 0.2 percent, respectively of service
payments due on Egypt's external debt.
30.       Total IFC participation and lending for projects in Egypt now total
about $37 million and include: a ceramics project (approved in 1976) a ready-
made garment project (1977); a project for an agricultural complex primarily
for sugar beet (May 1978); a poultry project (July 1978); and a fish farming
project (December 1979). IFC is discussing several other private sector and
joint venture projects.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE SECTOR
Background_and Structure
31.        Industry 1/ has become a significant sector of the Egyptian economy
with its share in GDP rising from 8 percent in 1946 to 17 percent in 1979.
In 1978, industry employed about 1.3 million persons, or nearly 13 percent of
the civilian labor force. Industrial exports provided about 30 percent of
commodity exports and amounted to about LE 50 million (14 percent of indus-
trial output). The industrial structure is weighted heavily in favor of
industries producing basic consumer goods. These goods account for about 58
percent of industrial gross value added; intermediate products (building
materials, fertilizers, chemicals, and metals) account for about 34 percent;
and capital goods, for only 8 percent.
32.       As a result of the nationalizations of the early 1960s, the public
sector, comprising some 200 enterprises, accounts for almost all large and
medium scale industrial enterprises. It generates some two-thirds of the
value added in industry and mining and provides slightly more than half of
the total industrial employment, mainly in four subsectors: textiles, food
products, metal and engineering, and chemicals. Egypt's basic industries are
all in the public sector and include iron and steel, aluminum and fertilizer.
The private sector accounts for about one-third of total value-added in
industry and about half of the sector's work force. Textiles, food products,
1/   Manufacturing and mining excluding petroleum.



- 10 -
leather, woodworking and furniture, and engineering are the important indus-
tries of private activity. About three-quarters of private manufacturing
capacity is located in Greater Cairo and Alexandria. The performance of the
industrial sector has improved following the adoption of the "open door"
policy in 1973 which resulted in the relaxation of controls and greater
availability of foreign exchange. This period was followed by a temporary
slowdown in the growth of industrial output in 1978 (5.7 percent), followed
by a recovery in 1979 (11.5 percent), which points to the increasing impact
on production of investment efforts during the last few years. While the
growth of industrial output in the public sector in 1973 and 1974 was low (2.1
and 2.6 percent), it jumped to about 8-9 percent per annum during 1975-79.
Private sector output, which stagnated during 1972-74, increased by 10 percent
annually during 1974-79 and dropped to about 8 percent in 1977 partly because
of sharply reduced exports to East European countries. While total industrial
investment by the private sector averaged only about 4 percent during 1969-74,
following the adoption of the "open door" policy, it increased to about 10-12
percent during 1975-78, reflecting the favorable response to the Government's
initiatives.
33.       Egyptian industry has significant long-term prospects to grow and
broaden its base deriving primarily from the large and growing domestic mar-
ket and a strategic location with access to markets in Europe. An industrial
structure and tradition already exist, as well as a large relatively low-
cost labor force. Since development of agriculture is proceeding slowly and
the service sector (mainly Government) is overstaffed, it is primarily to
industry that the Government looks to provide stimulus to growth through
continued expansion, efficient import substitution emphasizing intermediate
and capital goods, expanded exports, as well as to absorb the growing labor
force. This is reflected in the 1978-82 Industrial Plan which allocates
LE 2.7 billion, or about 24 percent of total investment to industry. The
Plan which is being revised also recognizes the potential of the private
sector for Egypt's industrial development and growth: private investment
is planned at about 20 percent of total industrial investment during 1978-82
which is almost twice the level attained during 1975-77.
Recent Bank Actions Relating to Industry
34.       As part of the industrial policy dialogue, the Bank is assisting
the Government in undertaking several studies directed towards policy reform,
and in developing an appropriate industrial strategy (para 27 above). The
Bank's recent loans to industry include: (i) program loans to alleviate
foreign exchange constraints and thereby improve capacity utilization; (ii)
assistance to individual, large, high priority projects; (iii) attempts to
address the principal issues affecting the productivity of major subsectors;
and (iv) assistance to financial intermediaries to enable them to provide
financial and technical assistance to private sector firms, including small
scale industrial enterprises. Lending commitments, including IFC, amount to
$390 million for industry from FY73 to FY79, of which about $260 million has
been disbursed as of February 28, 1980.



- 11 -
The Textile Industry
35.       The textile industry is Egypt's largest and most important indus-
trial sub-sector. Some 330,000 people are employed in spinning, weaving,
finishing and garment making, representing about one-fourth of the industrial
work force. Gross value added in textile and apparel industries in 1978 was
about 25 percent of the manufacturing industry's value added. Textile
products represented 50 percent of industrial exports (excluding petroleum)
and 18 percent of the country's total exports in 1978. Past growth of the
textile industry has been substantially below that of the other industrial
sub-sectors and its share in total industrial value added decreased from
45 percent in 1947 to 38 percent in 1966/67 and about 25 percent in 1978.
The market has never presented a constraint to the expansion of the textile
industry, as the domestic demand is large and quotas in foreign markets
largely unfilled. The relative decline of the textile industry was especially
marked during 1969-1979, when the output of textile products increased by only
3 percent per year on average as compared to an estimated 4.5 percent for
industry as a whole. During this period, employment in the textile industry
increased only marginally and thus contributed little to the improvement of
the country's severe underemployment problem. As to textile exports, they
were mainly performed in the framework of bilateral trade agreements mostly
with Eastern European countries, where export earnings are usually in non-
convertible currencies. Exports of textiles in 1979 is estimated at an
equivalent of 61,000 tons, which represents a 10 percent increase in quantity
as compared to 1978. As to export quotas applying to Egyptian yarn and fabric
during 1979 in Egypt's major markets, they are expected to be filled, i.e.
17,000 tons in the USSR; 10,000 tons in the European Community and 3,000 tons
in the People's Republic of China. The United States of America have not
imposed quotas on Egyptian yarn and fabric since the quantities exported thus
far have been moderate, i.e. 2,000 to 4,000 tons of yarn only.
36.       While Egypt accounts for only 3 to 4 percent of world cotton produc-
tion and 4 percent of world exports, it is an important exporter of medium,
long, and extra long-staple cotton, accounting for about 40 percent of world
trade of medium and long-staple cotton, and about 60 percent of extra long-
staple cotton. International prices of medium, long and extra long-staple
cotton have been about 40 percent, 60 percent and 75 percent, respectively,
higher than the world market prices of the standard short-staple cotton.
Organization of the Textile Industry
37.        In the process of nationalizing industrial enterprises in Egypt
in 1961, most of the existing textile companies became state-owned and were,
until the end of 1975, incorporated in the Egyptian General Organization
for Spinning and Weaving (EGOSW). Effective January 1, 1976, EGOSW together
with all other General Organizations was dissolved by Presidential Decree and
all shares of its former subsidiary companies were transferred to the Govern-
ment.  The Decree removed EGOSW as an intermediary and made the companies
directly responsible to the Ministry of Industry.  Since nationalization, all
spinning, two thirds of weaving, about one half of knitting and one third of
garment manufacturing have been part of the public sector, the balance being



- 12 -
carried out by several hundred small companies in the private sector. The
public sector companies produce mostly cotton textiles but also manufacture
synthetic fibers, jute products, carpets and spare parts for textile machinery.
Sectoral Issues
38.       The public textile industry in Egypt faces a number of serious
problems which affect its present performance and future development. The
key problem areas refer to the industry's low productive efficiency, its poor
financial situation, and the lack of an effective investment planning and
export promotion. During the appraisal of the first textile project and
in the course of a textile sector study, these sectoral problems began to
be identified and analyzed. One major question in this regard is how to plan
and coordinate industrial development and review and analyze the problems
facing the various agencies involved in that process. It is for this reason
that the Government, within the context of a broader industrial sector
dialogue, agreed with the Bank on draft terms of reference of a study on
the functions, responsibilities and procedures of the textile sector and an
action program for the textile industry including institutional aspects of
the sector. The draft terms of reference will be further refined and the
Government agreed to review with the Bank the study's findings and an imple-
mentation schedule for its action program (Loan Agreement (LA), Section
3.01).
39.       Current operational conditions in the public sector industry are
characterized by widespread underutilization of capacity, deteriorated and
obsolete equipment, over-employment in plants and offices, and a low level
of technical skill of the work force. As a result, the product quality is
generally poor, the waste level is relatively high and productivity is low.
As a first step to improve plant operation, a large number of workers urgently
need technical training to upgrade their skills, or retraining for employment
in areas where currently skilled labor is in short supply. At present,
most of the technical training is performed on the job; this has shown limited
results and also has contributed to the perpetuation of bad industrial habits.
There are a number of formal training programs in the textile field in Govern-
mental training centers which, however, have not produced the quantity and
quality of skilled labor required by the textile industry. The Government
as part of an IDA-financed education project (Cr. No. 681-EGT, 1977) has
completed a study on the manpower requirements of various industries, includ-
ing the textile industry. This should be followed by the preparation of a
specific industry - wide training/re-training program which the Government has
agreed to complete by July 1981 and to subsequently implement on an agreed
schedule (LA, Section 3.01).
Marketing and Pricing of Textiles
40.       Apart from small quantities of specialty imports, locally produced
cotton fabrics are distributed to two different domestic market segments: one
for low quality fabrics allocated as rations at Government-controlled prices
and another for non-rationed, higher quality, novelty fabrics. Approximately
one-half of the total fabric production is retailed by public sector firms and



- 13 -
the other one-half by private sector firms. The price of rationed fabrics
is still substantially below production cost and represents a burden on the
government budget. However, during the past two years the Government took
a number of important pricing policy decisions which will have a favorable
impact on the financial position of the textile companies. The Government
decided to (i) increase the price of cotton by 185 percent which together with
the excise tax and treasury tax will bring it to about 80 percent of the
present world market price, (ii) allow the textile companies to pass on the
full price increase to the consumers and in effect allow the companies to set
their own prices for non-rationed fabrics, and (iii) provide a subsidy to the
companies for rationed fabrics to cover the full difference between production
cost and the ex-factory price. As to non-rationed fabrics, their prices have
reached almost 90 percent of export prices. The overall financial impact of
the price policy change on the textile companies is favorable. The lower
profitability as a result of the higher cotton prices will be more than offset
by the full subsidy on the rationed fabrics as well as the higher prices of
non-rationed fabrics. As domestic textile prices increase and come closer
to the export prices, the built-in incentive (i.e. higher profitability) to
export will diminish and export promotion or incentives will be required to
ensure export growth.
Demand and Supply
41.        The domestic demand for textiles is forecast, on the basis of the
observed GDP-textile-demand elasticity 1/ of 0.56, to grow at about 3.9
percent annually during 1980-86 compared to the average rate of 4.3 percent
recorded during 1970-79. The slower growth in demand is due to the assumed
moderation in the growth of GDP (7 percent per year) in the next few years
compared to the average rate (8 percent) during the last three years.
Exports of textile products, other than yarn, is assumed to grow at 3 percent
per year, in line with the expected growth of international textile trade.
Domestic fabric production, however, is expected to increase by 4.3 percent
per year during 1980-86. Thus, the forecast indicates that a small deficit
(up to 10 percent of demand) will persist through 1982 but the demand and
supply situation will be more or less in balance from 1983 through 1986.
By 1987 a deficit can be expected to occur if investment plans in the early
1980s are not augmented accordingly. The present textile investment program
on which the supply forecast for 1980-86 is based already involves about US$1
billion for on-going new, as well as modernization, projects in both the
public and the private sector.
Previous Bank and IDA Lending in the Textile Sector
42.        Besides an IDA credit of US$18.5 million made in 1973 for the Cotton
Ginning Rehabilitation Project (Cr. No. 423-UAR), Bank Group involvement in
the Egyptian textile sector started with a consultant survey of the textile
sector as part of the Bank Group's Agricultural and Industrial Imports Project
1/   GDP at factor costs expressed in 1975 prices (LE million) and apparent
textile consumption in terms of million m2 of fabric equivalent.



- 14 -
(Cr. No. 524-EGT and Loan No. 1062-EGT) of December 1974. This study was
completed in April 1976 and its preliminary findings provided the basis for
the first textile project which was approved in June 1976 (Loan No. 1292-EGT)
and which assists two public sector firms, Misr Fine Spinning and Weaving
Company--Kafr El Dawar (KED) and Misr El Beida Dyers (EB), in their expansion
programs. The project also included funds for a feasibility study of the
project which is the subject of this report. Additional funds of about $11
million have been provided from the Second Industrial Import Loan (Loan No.
1456-EGT) for the rehabilitation and modernization of existing textile firms
with the prime objective of increasing productivity. Overall implementation
of the Bank's first textile project is satisfactory, although initial delays
in the mobilization of the civil works contractor has postponed project
completion by about 19 months--to December 1980. Estimated cost of the
project has increased by about US$20 million, or 13 percent, all due to local
cost increases primarily for civil works. Additional local financing on
satisfactory terms has already been arranged with the Government. No increase
in the foreign exchange cost has occurred or is anticipated.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
43.       The project was identified in the context of the textile sector
survey (see para. 42 above) which listed the National Spinning and Weaving
Company (National) in Alexandria as one of the companies in most urgent need
for rehabilitation. National, which was established in 1891 and nationalized
in 1963, is the oldest textile company in Egypt and with a work force of about
15,000, the sixth largest employer in the sector. It is an integrated mill
with spinning, weaving, knitting, garment manufacturing and converting facil-
ities.
44.       With the assistance of foreign consultants financed through the
first textile project, National in 1977 developed a multi-phase Rehabilitation
and Expansion Program (REP) to rehabilitate its facilities with a view of
restoring the competitiveness and financial viability of the company. After
the proposed REP was reviewed and its first phase appraised by the Bank as
a possible project in October 1977, a large private sector project (the El
Ameria project) sponsored by Bank Misr, a major public sector bank, was also
confirmed to be planned for implementation concurrently with the proposed
National project. To determine the appropriate capacity of the El Ameria
Project, the Government undertook a review of the future textile supply and
demand situation as well as the investment plans in the industry to ensure
that a serious over-capacity situation would not develop which would endanger
the economic viability of all textile projects in Egypt. The Government
review was completed in August 1979 when the El Ameria project was granted
an industrial license with a capacity of about 45,000 tpy of yarn and 300
million of m2 of fabric per year. Following the Government's request to
resume consideration of the proposed project, the Bank undertook in October
and November 1979 a re-appraisal of the REP including an evaluation of the



- 15 -
market impact of the El Ameria project scope as well as the other rehabilita-
tion and modernization projects in the textile sector to ascertain the most
appropriate product mix and scope for National's modernization project and to
assess the market risks the project would face. This evaluation, which was
done in conjunction with National's management, led to a revision of the REP
into a single phase (the proposed Project) at a lower final capacity. Nego-
tiations for the project were held in Washington from February 19 to 22, 1980.
The Government was represented by Mr. El Gammal, Acting Director General,
Ministry of Economy, Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation; National was
represented by its chairman, Mr. Salama Ismail. A Staff Appraisal Report is
being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Objective and Description
45.       The prime objective of the project is to transform National into
a financially viable and competitive enterprise capable of producing high
quality products. To help achieve this objective, National, a public sector
company, would establish a successor company in the joint venture sector which
would assume all assets and liabilities of the old National company. This
would give autonomy to the successor company regarding pricing, profit reten-
tion and more importantly enable the company to implement personnel policies
and a compensation system to attract and retain qualified employees. In order
to help achieve this goal a large technical assistance and training program
forms part of the project. The project is also designed to improve the
planning mechanism of the textile sector, assist in developing an investment
program and develop a training program for Egypt's textile sector as a whole.
The project would consist of the following:
(a) construction of a new polyester/cotton spinning mill and a new
polyester/cotton weaving mill with a production of 6,600 tons per
year (TPY) of yarn and of 20 million linear meters per year (LNPY)
of fabrics, respectively. About 70 percent of the spinning equip-
ment for the new mill will be rehabilitated units from existing
facilities;
(b)  modernization of National's existing converting plant to process
wide fabrics and polyester/cotton blends;
(c) rehabilitation of two weaving mills to increase their production
capacity from 14 to 17 million LMPY, and allow production of
polyester/cotton fabrics;
(d) reorganization of the garment and towel making unit and installa-
tion of a new bedsheet-making unit;
(e) scrapping of two obsolete weaving mills and two obsolete spinning
mills;
(f) construction of 60 housing units for National's management and
supervisory staff;



- 16 -
(g)  technical assistance for project implementation; establish-
ment of a training program for operators and maintenance
labor for the new and rehabilitated mills, and for improving
the organizational and financial systems of National;
(h)  carrying out of a review and analysis of the functions, respon-
sibilities and procedures of agencies involved in the textile
sector and preparation of action program to help improve
efficiency and sector planning, including preparation of a
5-year investment plan for the textile industry with pre-
feasibility studies for high priority projects; and
(i) review of man-power and training requirements of the textile
sector and preparation of training program.
Potential exports of textile products generated by the proposed project are
modest, i.e. 825 tons in 1986 as compared to overall projected Egyptian
textile exports of 75,000 tons.
46.       National's existing production facilities are located on two sites,
Karmouz and Maharrem Bey, about 2 km apart, in the southern part of Alexandria
(see Map). All cotton spinning mills (four) are located at Karmouz while
all weaving mills (also four), the knitting mill, the garments plant and the
converting plant are all located at Maharrem Bey. Largely due to the obsolete
production facilities, National plans to scrap most of the spinning equipment
within the next 10 years. It also plans to abandon the Karmouz site which has
turned into a residential area unsuitable for large industrial development,
and to relocate the spinning facilities at a site, owned by National, adjacent
to the Maharrem Bey mills.
Machinery and Buildings
47.        National's spinning and weaving mills would be equipped with new
but conventional equipment and machinery. As for the converting plant the
latest processing technology would be chosen to ensure internationally accept-
able product quality and also to economize on the use of water, fuel, dyestuffs
and chemicals. The buildings for the new spinning and weaving mills would be
of prefabricated steel frame structure to reduce the time required for civil
works. The Government has agreed that it would give high priority regarding
the availability of construction materials and supplies (LA, Section 3.04(b)).
Raw Materials and Utilities
48.       The main raw materials for the project are cotton, polyester, dye-
stuffs and chemicals. In order to maximize foreign exchange resources, Egypt
will, however, have to import cheaper short staple cotton to release the more
valuable long and extra-long staple cotton for exports. Polyester will be
supplied locally by a public sector polyester plant which has recently started
production in Alexandria. Seventy-five percent of the required chemicals and
dyestuffs will be imported with the remainder supplied locally. The Government
has agreed that National will have access to all the raw materials required



- 17 -
for the efficient operation of the project facilities and have an adequate
supply of power and water (LA, Sections 3.04(c) and (a)).
Ecological Considerations
49.       As the output of the new mills will only be yarn ar.d grey fabrics,
no water and air pollution problems are expected. The new spinning and weav-
ing facilities will be equipped with air filters to control fibers and dust
being exhausted into the atmosphere. As for National's converting plant, its
effluent is likely to be alkaline. An effluent treatment plant will, there-
fore, be built under the project with the result that the treated effluent
discharged to the municipal sewer system will not cause any ecological
hazards. Finally, the boilers and the chimneys will meet the necessary
environmental standards. National agreed to install the above facilities and
to properly maintain and operate them (Project Agreement (PA), Section 3.05).
Consequently, the project does not introduce any environmental dangers.
Project Costs
50.        Capital costs of the project are estimated at the equivalent of
US$84.3 million, working capital at $8.0 million and interest during construc-
tion at $12.0 million. Of the total financing requirements of $104.3 million,
$79 million, or 76 percent, would be in foreign exchange including $9.6 mil-
lion for the foreign exchange portion of the interest during construction.
The capital cost estimate is based on prices at the end of 1979. The cost
for equipment have been derived from the equipment list and cost estimates
prepared by National and reviewed by the Bank on the basis of ongoing procure-
ment for other textile projects. The cost of the foreign technical assistance,
including salary, costs, fees, international travel and subsistence, is based
on an already signed contract with engineering consultants at an average
$11,000 per man-month and an estimated $10,200 per man-month for the financial
and accounting consultants which are to be employed by October 31, 1980. The
cost of civil works has been estimated on the basis of the actual construction
cost of the first textile project. Physical contingencies have been estimated
at 10 percent for all base cost estimate (BCE) items.
51.       Price escalation for equipment is calculated on the basis of pro-
jected price increases falling from 10.5 percent in 1980 to 7 percent annually
during 1983-85 in major equipment supplying countries. The same rates have
been used for about US$7 million (BCE basis) worth of local supplies and
services (except civil works) on the assumption that price escalation on these
items will follow the rates in those countries. On civil works, however, a
price escalation rate of 12 percent in 1980, 10 percent in 1981 and 9 percent
in 1982 has been assumed, based on experience in the recent past and the
expectation that the cost of civil works in Egypt will continue to rise
slightly faster than the international price level.
Financing Plan
52.       The proposed loan of $69 million would finance 87 percent of the
foreign exchange requirements of the project. The Government agreed that,
as the majority shareholder, it would (i) provide the successor company to



- 18 -
National (see para. 53 below) with a capital contribution of not less than
$30 million equivalent, and (ii) ensure an additional capital contribution of
not less than $5 million equivalent to be provided to the successor company
by the Government or other shareholders to cover the remaining cost of the
project and operating cash deficits which may be incurred until project
completion (LA, Sections 3.02(c) and (d)). The proposed Bank loan will
be made to the Arab Republic of Egypt for 15 years, including 4-1/2 years
grace, at 8.25 percent per annum. The Government will onlend the loan pro-
ceeds to National at the same maturities and interest at 10 percent per annum.
National would bear the foreign exchange risk on the loan.
Project Implementation
53.       Except for the sectoral studies and sector training aspects which
will be carried out by the Ministry of Industry (see paras. 38 and 39 above),
the project will be implemented by the National Spinning and Weaving Company
(National) over a four year period, and it is expected that commercial pro-
duction will begin in April 1984. Because of obsolete and inadequately
maintained production facilities, a weak management and insufficient skilled
labor, National has one of the lowest productivity levels in the industry.
Thus, the main thrust of the project is the strengthening of the institution.
To succeed in this, it is necessary that the company adopt personnel policies
and a compensation system adequate to attract and retain qualified staff.
However, this would be impossible within the near future without a substan-
tial revision of the policies governing all public sector enterprises. The
Government, National's largest shareholder with 81 percent, and National have
therefore agreed to establish by March 31, 1981 a successor company with
the Government, investment banks and private investors as shareholders (LA,
Section 3.02(a) and (b) and PA, Section 2.09). This successor company would
assume all the assets and liabilities of National as well as operate all of
National's production facilities including those related to the project. It
would be incorporated under Law 43 of 1974 (concerning the investment of Arab
and Foreign Funds and the Free Zones as amended by Law No 32 of 1977). Under
this law National's successor company would be free to design personnel
policies, job classifications and a compensation system as well as pricing
and profit retention policies needed to make the enterprise financially and
economically successful. To support National in designing the appropriate
management and organizational improvement program, it has employed consultants
which will be partly financed from the technical assistance component of the
Second Industrial Imports Loan (Ln. 1456-EGT) with the major portion to be
financed under the proposed loan.  The same foreign consultants will also
provide technical assistance during project implementation and commissioning.
Also, they will support National in designing a compensation package for its
operating and management staff that will, under conditions of efficient opera-
tion, be adequate to attract and retain qualified staff. National agreed
to prepare the above compensation package by December 31, 1980 and following
review and comment by the Bank and the establishment of the successor company,
implement it promptly thereafter; the Government in turn agreed to assist
National in complying with this provision (PA, Sections 3.04 and LA, Section
3.03). As to National's staffing, a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) headed
by an experienced and qualified engineer has already been established.



- 19 -
Financial Status
54.       National's financial performance is one of the poorest among the
30 public sector textile companies. During 1974-1978, it earned a net income
(after taxes) corresponding to about 1 percent of sales revenue and had a
current ratio of 1.0, reflecting the company's difficult cash flow and
liquidity position. From 1977 up to 1979, the company has experienced operat-
ing losses. To ensure that the equity funds for the project are not utilized
to cover operating cash deficits as well as to cover any cost overruns, the
Government has agreed to provide National with additional equity in such
proportion that will help National towards maintaining the debt/equity ratio
at 60:40 or better (LA, Section 3.02(d) and 3.03).
Organizational Improvement and Training
55.       As mentioned previously, National is organizationally weak.  In
addition to the Chairman, there are only a few qualified management personnel
in the company, but not enough to make an adequate impact in its operation.
Also, a number of management positions have not been filled for some time.
The lack of management talent is further compounded by non-existing or in-
effective management planning and control systems and by National's inability
to attract sufficiently qualified staff because of the general constraints of
the public sector of which National forms part. A substantial improvement in
the organizational and labor efficiency of National is expected to result from
the establ'ishment of the successor company to National which will operate in
the joint venture sector and will thus be able to pay sufficiently attractive
salaries for highly qualified managerial and operating staff. However, addi-
tional assistance is required to accompany the physical rehabilitation and
expansion program if the company is to realize the potential return from its
capital investments. National has, therefore, engaged consultants to assist
in the development and implementation of an organizational, financial, opera-
tions and management improvement program, including training of management and
administrative staff. In general, the objective of the program is to adapt
the company's organizational structure and its management, planning and
financial systems to the needs of a modern and large scale joint venture
sector textile operation. The program will provide assistance in three main
areas: (a) management and organizational improvement; (b) project implementa-
tion, start-up and technical training; and (c) financial and accounting
system. The study for the financial improvement program will start in July
1980, and will last for about one year. The consultants will provide about
265 man-months of consulting services. In addition, technical consultancy
services for project implementation as well as overall organizational design,
manpower planning and the design of a compensation package started in March
1980. They will last almost 4 years (about 150 man-months). The assistance
in project implementation will cover three main areas: (a) constructing and
commissioning the project facilities; (b) reorganizing the Company's existing
garment operations and its marketing organization including the establishment
of an export marketing group; and (c) preparation of a feasibility study, if
needed, for any major capital investment that may appear to be attractive for
the company after the project is completed.



- 20 -
56.       The training of skilled workers as well as plant supervisors are
critical functions that the consultants will program and monitor. Some for-
eign technical training will be needed, mostly in the facilities of the major
equipment (spinning and weaving) suppliers and the foreign exchange cost of
this technical training component is included in the project cost.
Procurement
57.       Out of a total of $49 million worth of equipment, materials and
spares to be financed by the Bank loan, goods with a total value of about
$46 million would be procured through international competitive bidding (icb)
in accordance with the Bank Group guidelines. Miscellaneous small items
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, proprietary items and items in
limited international supply or whose delivery periods are critical to the
timely completion of the project will be purchased through limited interna-
tional tendering on the basis of suitability, availability and price consid-
erations following approval by the Bank of the list of items involved. The
aggregate amount of these items combined will not exceed $3 million. For
internationally bid items to be financed by the Bank, the list of goods will
require prior Bank approval and suppliers will be prequalified. Qualified
local equipment suppliers will be allowed to participate in icb with a 15
percent (or the import duty rate if lower) preference margin. However,
because of the limited capacity and capability of the domestic equipment
industry, practically all of the plant equipment and materials bid inter-
nationally are expected to be supplied from abroad.
58.       The main civil works contract will also be bid under icb; it will
include: (a) construction, management and supervision fees, (b) the cost
of imported construction equipment and materials, and (c) the cost of locally
procured materials and subcontracted services. The total value of this
contract is estimated at $14 million, including about $8.4 million in foreign
exchange ($6.3 million for directly imported equipment and materials and $2.1
million for expatriate services). In addition, cement, which is imported
exclusively by the Government, and some structural steel produced in Egypt,
will be purchased directly from Government enterprises. Some imported con-
struction equipment not included in the scope of the main civil works contract
with a value of about $1.5 million will be procured through limited inter-
national tendering. The remaining civil works items, costing about $5 mil-
lion, will be procured locally and will not be financed by the Bank loan.
Contractors participating in international competition will be required to
submit a list of equipment they intend to import into the country for the
project in accordance with the construction schedule. A fixed mobilization
advance, estimated at about 20 percent of the contract value will be provided.
Because the construction services and materials that would be tendered inter-
nationally are all in short supply in Egypt, it is expected that most, if
not all, of these will be supplied by foreign vendors or by joint venture
(foreign/local) firms.
Disbursement
59.       The proposed loan would be disbursed against (i) 100 percent of the
foreign expenditures for: (a) imported plant and construction equipment,



- 21 -
spares and materials; (b) training; and (c) technical assistance; (ii) 60
percent of the purchase price of locally procured construction materials and;
(iii) 100 percent of the foreign and 35 percent of local expenditures for the
main civil works contract. Foreign expenditures incurred after February 1,
1980, in connection with technical assistance ($0.3 million), and civil works
items ($0.7 million) would be eligible for retroactive financing. Disburse-
ments under the proposed loan are estimated as follows:
--$ Million ------------
Bank FY            81        82          83          84
Annual                        11.4      28.4        21.2        8.0
Cumulative                   11.4       39.8        61.0       69.0
Financial Projections 1/
60.       With the project, National's sales revenues are forecast to increase
145 percent above the estimated 1979 level to LE 43 ($63) million by 1986,
when the project reaches full production. Net profit after taxes is projected
to increase as a result of the project from a loss of LE 5 ($7.2) million
in 1979 to a profit of LE 8 ($12) million in 1986. This would result in a
increase in the return on assets (revalued) employed of about 12 percent in
1986. The financial statements of the company are audited by the Central
Agency for Auditing, a Government agency. Once the successor company has been
established, it will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank.
61.       To safeguard the financial position of the company, especially in
the area of cotton pricing and the product mix of the enterprise, National
agreed that it would: (a) not to take any action (other than concluding the
subsidiary loan for the Bank funds) which would raise its debt/equity ratio
above 60:40 or make the ratio larger if it already exceeds 60:40   (PA,
Section 4.06(a); and (b) set its product mix (or production program) in a
manner that will, under conditions of efficient operation: (i) generate
sufficient revenues to meet all expenses and service the company's debt; and
(ii) earn a reasonable return on its investment (PA, Section 4.05). National
also agreed to observe the following: (a) not incur any additional long-term
debt if its future debt service ratio will fall below 1.5 before and below
1.2 after profit distributions (PA, Section 4.06(b)); (b) until December 31,
1987, consult with the Bank before undertaking any other modernization or
expansion program or any other investment not related to the project exceed-
ing in the aggregate US$3 million equivalent annually (PA, Section 4.04);
(c) operate the new spinning mill, the new weaving mill, and the modernized
converting plant as separate profit/cost centers and maintain separate
accounts for each unit (PA, Section 4.02); and (d) utilize funds resulting
1/   The financial analysis was carried out in current LE terms but the
figures in para. 60 and the rate of return have been calculated in terms
of constant end of 1979 LE terms.



- 22 -
from sales of property or other assets no longer required for its operations
in a manner which would promote its operations and comply with the above
financial covenants (PA, Section 3.02(b)). The Government agreed to exercise
its statutory powers over National in such a way that National will be in a
position to comply with the above financial covenants (LA, Section 3.03).
62.       The financial rate of return of the project is estimated at 19
percent before and 20 percent after taxes. The returns before and after
taxes are not very different because of the five-year tax holiday for law
43 companies and because the income tax rate of 40 percent applies only to
retained earnings. Sensitivity tests show that even under moderately adverse
conditions, such as a 10 percent increase in capital costs, or a 10 percent
fall in product prices, or a 20 percent increase in the cash production costs
(equivalent to a 78 percent increase in the cotton price if all other costs
are unchanged), the after-tax return would still be at least 15 percent.
Project Justification and Risk
63.       As mentioned above, one of the main objectives of the project is
to improve the organizational and financial performance of one of Egypt's
major textile companies. Although National has a substantial sunk investment,
it has not been in a position to take advantage of it. On the contrary, many
of National's facilities have reached a state of deterioration that they have
either to be scrapped or to be rehabilitated immediately. The mechanical
deficiencies which in many cases are to be explained by lack of proper handl-
ing and maintenance have contributed to the company's poor financial record.
A simple replacement program of machinery would however not be sufficient
to remedy the situation. In recognition thereof, a major organizational,
management, financial systems and training improvement program forms an
essential part of the project (see para. 55 above). With the help of such
program, coupled with an adequate compensation and benefit package which will
be implemented following the establishment of the joint venture successor
company to National, it should be able to attract and retain an adequate
number of qualified staff and thus take advantage of the physical rehabilita-
tion financed under the project. As a result, it is hoped that National will
become a financially viable and internationally competitive enterprise capable
of producing high quality products.
64.       In addition to the above benefits, the project will set in motion
the eventual relocation of National's spinning facilities out of one of the
two existing sites, which has turned into a residential area unsuited for a
large industrial operation. This move should provide additional urban space
for housing which is in great demand in Alexandria. About half of the fabric
output of the new mill will be sold locally, and considering the high product
quality expected, should provide opportunities for establishing small-scale
garments businesses not only for the local market but also for exports.
Garment production requires only modest capital investment and is labor
intensive. As the project will utilize imported short-staple cotton and
polyester fiber for about 73 percent of its fiber consumption, it will help
conserve Egypt's more valuable long-staple cotton for better economic utiliza-
tion. Finally, the project will create about 1,250 new jobs.



- 23 -
65.       The economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 22
percent and justifies the high priority accorded by the Government to the
rehabilitation and expansion of the textile industry. International prices
for the tradeable inputs and outputs as well as conservative assumption about
the build-up of capacity utilization were used in calculating the rate of
return.
66.       National embodies all the major problems facing the Egyptian textile
industry--a weak management, obsolete physical plant facilities, inefficient
production system, low machine and labor productivity, poor product quality
and poor financial performance. The measures included under the proposed
project, i.e. organizational improvement, technical assistance and training
and financial covenants combined with the physical facilities are designed
to provide a solution to these problems. The establishment of a successor
company to National which will operate the project facilities under the provi-
sions of the law governing joint venture sector enterprises, should facilitate
the above. The financial forecast of the project assumes that through the
institution building measures the company will have the necessary complement
of qualified management and factory personnel. Should this not be the case,
the project implementation will be longer than provided in the schedule,
capacity utilization lower and the export volume much less than envisaged in
the financial forecasts. A financial analysis of such a contingency indicates
that the financial rate of return could drop to about 9 percent and the profit-
ability (i.e. profit as a percent of revenue or the return on assets employed)
might only be about one half of what it otherwise would be. However, the
assurances received from the Government with respect to the institution build-
ing measures should keep the above risks to a minimum. Also, risks related
to the expected large cash operating deficits during project implementation
appear to be manageable, since the Government has agreed (para. 54 above) to
provide additional equity funds to cover such deficits.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Arab Republic of Egypt and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the National Spinning
and Weaving Company, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately.
68.       Features of the draft, Loan and Project Agreements of special interest
are listed in Section III of Annex III.
69.        1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 24 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By Ernest Stern
Attachments
April 8, 1980
Washington D.C.



- 25 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET               rage  1  of  5
EGYPT                    REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED A!jRAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                               - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL           1001.4                                                 SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     29.6                                MOST RECENT     GEOcRAPrHIC   INCOME    INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c  GROUP /d  GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 90.0       150.0    400.0            1532.5      209.6       467.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    298.0       275.0    473.0            838.1       d3.9       262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-TEAR (MILLIONS)    25.9        32.6      37.8
UERAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 38.0       42.3      43.9            49.0       16.2        24.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     58.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       90.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACED                 2105
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      26.0        33.0      39.0            19.9       49.4        45.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    982.0      1125.0   1324.0            99.0      252.0        149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        42.0        42.1      40.0            45.6       43.1        45.2
15-64 YES.                        55.0        54.7      56.0            51.4       53.2        51.9
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.0         3.2       4.0             2.8        3.0         2.8
POPULATION GROWTN RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.4         2.3       2.1             3.0        2.4         2.7
URBAN                             6.0         3.4       2.7             5.2        4.6         4.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    44.0        40.0      36.0            43.7       42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     19.0       15.0      13.0            13.5       15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             2.8/f       3.0       2.3             3.2        2.9         2.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..       206.0    187.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          9.0     21.1                       12.2         13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         92.6        99.0      95.0            90.8       98.2        99.6
P;ER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  95.0       106.0    113.0             99.0       93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         66.0        66.0      70.7            63.6       52.1        54.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.0o.     16.0      16.0            16.0       13.6        17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    31.0        23.0      18.0            15.9       18.5        11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   46.0        51.0      54.0            53.8       49.3        54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..          ..    108.0               ..      105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..      66.0            56.4       26.3        34.4
URBAN                               ..         ..      88.0            83.4       58.5        57.9
RURAL                              ..          ..      50.0            34.3       15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..            59.1       16.0        40.8
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..            78.2       65.1        71.3
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..            26.4        3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         2600.0      1910.0    1190.0/h        3677.0   11396.4       6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    2730.0/h    1640.0/h  1150.o7W        1730.6    5552.4       1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           480.0       460.0    460.0            577.0    1417.1        726.5
URBAN                              ..       290.0    250.0               ..      197.3       272.7
RURAL                              ..      2110.0   2090.0               ..    2445.9       1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED          ..          ..        ..            21.8       24.8        27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.0          ..       5.8             5.8        5.3         5.4
URBAN                             4.8          ..       5.6             5.5        4.9         5.1
RURAL                              ..          ..       6.0             6.0        5.4         5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             1.9          ..       1.8
URBAN                             1.6          ..        ..
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..              .           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                            38.0          ..      45.7            45.1       23.5        28.1
URBAN                            37.8          ..      77.0            67.9       17.8        45.1
RURAL                              ..          ..      19.6              ..         ..         9.9



- 26 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                         Page  2  of  5
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EGYPT                      REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED A)ARAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIHATE)
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 Jb     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP  e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 66.0         69.0      72.0             85.0        63.3        82.7
MALE                  80.0        84.0       88.0            103.7       79.1         87.3
FEMALE                52.0        53.0       56.0             66.0       48.4         75.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 16.0         32.0      42.0             27.6        16.7        21.4
MALE                  24.0        44.0       54.0             39.2       22.1         33.0
FEMALE                 9.0        21.0       29.0             20.8       10.2         15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  22.0          19.0       18.0             4.3         5.6          9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            39.0         38.0      40.0             32.6        41.0        34.1
SECONDARY                          16.0         25.0      29.0             23.4        21.7        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        26.0           ..       44.0            41.4        31.2         54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0          4.0       6.4             16.7         2.8         9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         58.0        132.0     138.0            147.9        27.2        76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.9         16.0      17.0             36.0         2.4        13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..         22.0      21.0             17.9         5.3        18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0           2.0         *-             2.9         1.1          2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      7482.0       9319.0    9600.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    7.3          7.2       7.6              8.6        24.8        29.2
AGRISULTURE (PERCENT)              58.4         54.4      51.0             43.0        69.4        62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 12.2         18.8      26.0             23.7        10.0        11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                28.9         28.0      28.0             26.7        36.9        37.1
MALE                                  53.2        51.5       51.3            46.4        52.4         48.8
FEMALE                                4.2          4.1        4.3             5.1        18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6         1.6        1.8             1.8         1.2          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5LI        17.4LLJ  22.0              21.4          ..        15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.4L|        42.8LL1  49.2              48.6         ..         48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.6LI         7.0L,J   5.1               5.3         ..          6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5L        18.7/i.   14.8             15.0          *-        16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..     116.0            201.3        99.2       241.3
RURAL                                 ..          ..      84.0            134.2        78.9       136.6
ESTI'MATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     153.0            288.6        91.9       179.7
RURAL                                ..           ..      65.0            107.0        54.8       103.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      21.0             22.9        44.1        24.8
RURAL                                ..           ..      25.0             31.2        53.9        37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
A    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    North Africa & Middle East;  /d   Low Income ($280 or less per capita, 1976);  /e  Lower Middle
Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);   /f  1950-55;  /L  1960-62;   /h  Registered, not all
practicing in the country; /i 1964-65; Li rural expenditure only.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



- 27   -                                                            Aqc 
P"!PJflOLj f BM. inICATIMS                                                          M"Y.3 . S
IW:The odjantod gra..p everogna for Oach indicatIt arm pOPulatl.t-6erlht1d mocotriC . .... ... iodlod  the eetroe  vaol.e  of tho Indicator end th. esat
pepIatOd c-unsy in  .. *ebenu ...ena. .1  -aceirf. aa.s Sb.. Indt..t.r. 4.pl.d  -c  n-i l.bitlly of dat  at . ..j ini-  atIcr..  tDua t  tack oFdo.
faePevr0,ro  CapIt.L   ryu  Oi  oport.re .An  Indla-t... of "C.*.s to "Cot and recrota .li.0..a. L.             leg  lCtee dietrib.taco   sod ponerty er,
otopL. VP.LuiClca-coght.d aaenaticL  sean. vithCi th. .-ecL-ss  of onrs.  al-             .
L _AND hA (tho,usosi   . be)                                                              Pee  etto_ejor hijoA2I_t!_ ba-oe     r.,adrot Population Itotal,
tota  - 'totl sur7fact.  e   opriigid   ar.aS  nod   .r.r.ura,od  --r.I) tividod by thsit  -op-nt fo  nunI,ot of hoapLt.l bod,
~T~uicurl - Mostrococo otlooofKric           eltrl  r.o osod treporoily             eatlabi. in pubIce end pti-rot  -osra  and op.ctislnd hospitta  and t-
or Peruo...otty for crops. PoA.Cree. sOrket and kitchen garden. ar to                    hebLlit.tion  cInt.tot.  ItOoPitalO  ate nt.bL.Lohmsocs P.r-as...l  flaIle(d by
10falloc.                                                                             ot beat one phy.ictsa.  f,teblisehat.n   pr.nIdtng prt.Iop.LLy C-..td1.l
saaeaso   nidpd.  L                    Iap l.; I .  r, Itclula h-alth and endi-
[ypi  ft TA IVUSl  - COt p.r Capito O-lstimet    at Corrent Oan.t Prig-.,             Ia  Cotoo   o  p Iaotty ..10   h    phy,tti..i   (but bn . seAl-d  -n
naltalotod by scOtaoriosthod no Ifogid Loch Atl.. (L975-77 haia)i                      otetant. on-o. *td.if.. sec.) oblo  offer te-patioct actommodation and
1940. 1970, cod 1977 data.                                     previd. I1L.Lto   r.nt. of*otts  f.cILtoc.
Ad.lelon  parbo..tro  bed- Toal  ook.  f  dltoato or dift.h.rgo.
*ggao CottSiyq;Os PER CAPITA - Annual coessuptIOM Of Cossorcia01 01                         Ores  osI'tal. dIttndod by the s.m:r ofhd..
(tOol cod IlioLt.. potroloan, satural S.*avaco hydra-. ocloar nod go.-
tbermal ole.ttiLLty) Js kilogram. of tedl  R.Ietvloet Pot Capit..                   4062010
Avoras eks ofhousoold  nootss sPA.h.. b ahald) - total. urb.   In url
PP0WlATIO3 A.'tl VITAL SWISTIOTCS                                                           A  oohJdOolt  f0aopo ndLalduals oto searslnit                           (aOt
Ttoe1  tea.ln1          -ynvflln          - As of illy 1; if cot avoilablo.                end their main ...Le.  A baacdsr0  lor1dger smy or cay not ho L.i,d.d in
average 01 too end-yeat estlse.  L9600. 1970. aod 1977 data,                            the hoaa.k.Ld C.,  c.ti.tolc.l p-rpoene.  Statt,tical d.ft.itioso of h....-
tO-I.. enlto   onnt of totafL)- lade of urba, to toatl popula-                     bold vary.
tisC    ifrn   o  nit.lons at uh"banreas may offact to"obrility                       Averas  number of p.rsone Or ron. -  oa.ab&.sdrrL - Aver.ge nsa-
of "C&e sosg aatio.a   of rporno. per room In  ll.. urt.n. And rural occupied co-*oetionai
poeqelation d ...ity                                                                      dueolli.eo. r-poctinoly.  Oc-llings..ncbue  s-4          naon  etcrtoros and
P, E   - Kid-year poPaIatioo Par a90ro  Wousotet (100 hoctoets)                   lamccuplad parts.
.f totall oro.                                                                        Ac.8.00  to olacltrlety (Parc..t of d.uIllrso) - total, orba.. eod rural -
for eq. hm. ar-icuture land - Couotad Km shov  for aglc,s1tur.1 laud                     Cas"satWon1na   twilioga arieb nictrielCy in lining quortera Aa percent.sa
oily,                                                                                   of total Irb.,, cod rAl derollso roeap.ci1,oy.
Noplelon UKo  truct.ro  (p*rt..t) - Cbildnon t0-lb yoars), vorkiag-ogo
(13-   yer  -,cdoLc-d (hI yo.r. and o-I) ma p..cc.t.ge.  at mid-                   OOVCATTOOt
yapouaion                                                                     A#I..tod ....isen.t ratios
lomulntloo                                    KM.hrt   nren)-ttl   n  urban - Compound aoaua  prier, school - total. and fearl. - Total and feaide onro11-st of all ago.
grooth rato  of 000.1 ad urban .idyear popuelationa for 1950-h0.              at the ptloary le-sI .a_Perca,tla9o   of respecti-oly primary school-age
1940-70.  "o 19y0-75.                                                                   pop.at l...os; nornally iociud.a thcldr.. agd 6-11 y..r. but adjuatad far
Crcedo birth rate (Per thou...ad) - Annual liv  births per thousand of                     diflonent is-acha of prImary adu...cta; for ..o.stels wIth  unora   du-
mid-year populatlen; tea-y.ar arithmetic avrg.ending in 1960 and                        cetlon orrolbont may oncoed 100 percent sisca s.., pupil. are bol. or
1970 cod fIve-year av-cage ..dicg Js 1975 for moot rscont aettoate.                     above the official Schtool age.
_rue  eoh  o. (or_thcaaardl - Annual deth. par t housand at ald-                  SOcondarY ochool - totLl. cr8 female - Coep.t*d ea Above; secoadary oduaca-
yoar populatian; tan-your eltneth ci av ..rag    eeding Is 1960 and 19?0                tiom requIres an l...t fot- y.rn of appr....d p,rlery instruction; pro-
and fine-year avrage ending ia 1975 for moat recent estloate.                           old.. geo.ral nocationsl. or teachor traleing  instructtions for p.pIls
C,oa  rerodctIn rte -AveagenwI     r o  daughter:. a n..-  ill bear                ceutLly sof 12 no 17 yreer  of ago; co,rrspoadonca  .Coorse  are generally
1. hotnral cerdclepro   fseeaeine   rn                             g-ecludd.
Opocit  foatr"tLy retest uaually flee-year avrg.edin5 I  1960,                          oatoa  mnolet(Ps,Int of secondary) - Vocational tnstlt-tl... Is-
1970, SAn  1975.                                                                        clIed  techniIca, indastell.  or  1hcr yr-greme  hich op.ret. indap.ndastly
laosll 91ianla - acceptror. annua  (thuaeande) - Anmual eabor of                          or a. dbpert.Cetts of ....oodary Loctiztutlae.        -
acceptors  ft birth-control don-oe  uod.r nuapica. of -totlnaI family                Fuili-toach.r ratio  - oia.and bodan- Total stdenta unrollad in
plaami.g  proIjam.                                                                      primary end4 ..ccodary Iev-ls dlnbod by, nmbors of  oaschere In tha o.
Wall, PlnIn..g.  - usera (P.rcant af satnied coma) - Perots.tg  of                        epodlg  evls
maWind cocat of(Lld-b-arlng age (15-44 yrear) seh  .- bIrtb-coetrol                  Adult lit ....y r.at  (percent) - Litarate edult. (able ts read end saita) as
device, to all martrial acsan Is same age group.                                        e porceetage of :noa1 Adult papulatimn  ged 13 years and over.
900  ID TT1011                                                                    acUSUtUttIOt
Lado   at o      rdo,,ductlnpa   ap-      (1970-100) - Ind"e ojabar of Pmr              Paseoner cor  (nhor tbIouemnd POnal1:lon)   Paesangtr care coeprcon motor car
capIta                        "I.ulpodcino   al  odraiiaLotn   maO.  ih   ess;ecdas ambulanc.e, hear9aa cd Anlit.ry
per caPita ...o,n of caloriae (n..a-  at r.cairoemnta) - Ceputad foes                  vehicloa.
ecergy equiv-lac  at ran trod oup          -sanilable in courtry ;,r capita          Radiorroretoors (tor thousan.d pnlt)-All typesa .f.recIver  for radio
Pe" day.  Anailha I   .pplis. cacrio  onecc pnoductlo., Ieporta loss                  bracac  to ae..ara1 public ye- th.ussand af poyueti.on; o..cludo. anli....oed
scport., and*changes is stack.  Nat suypli.s  xclude anima  fsd  aeeda                r" te a"nr  in countrla. end to yoar.  h.. raglirat-ios of rodia oats see In
qaetittias used is food prsc.scna;. esd lase.. in dlstributio.   -- 9:offec't; data for retes  roe.. say eat ho  amparabla'ainc.  me  C.u.tleg
qnirme-to core. satimarad by FAO b.sad es rhyniolagic.1 nee ds for ma-                ablished lcnt
ad activity and health coniA.dring es-lrunseet.1tpnaua  badly                        TV vec!i....rs (nor tiCaovd  0apultt-t) - TVrete   es  .o  broadcaat c   no .gesat
'elgta,., aS. andtee. dtstrlhuttone af popuI.AtIon. and alloe alag 10Par-               pub lc: per thousan  poultion; a.Clu.. unliC* aaed ITVrnln    is ioun-
oat foC vast 'at hon..aho1d 1a-1.                                                       trio. mdin years uhan 1rogictratloi at TV  set  ... is effect.
War cpitaouyov 01proelo (orest. per dat) - Protef. costoent of per                Oo,     cr crulation .(per troah   tapul.ati.r) - Shoes the average circula-
aepit  mat  upply01 tod pC day.  Set aupplY of food is 4sf ie4sdetlof  dIygarlitracrppr. defined a. a periodical yisbli-
aboso.  Eaq.iremate  f or all coun,tries eatabllmhod by USDA provide for                cation devoted primarily to rCo..rding'  ...rerel amu .  It L. ..sid.red te
UtWAiM  all""'anc  of.60 Seems of total prot.lo per day and 20 grao                   ha ~'dal1y' iE it appoaro at leust fourtine  a  ok.
ef aaimal and Peel.e proteIn, fat     cl  10 gram  shold be animal prot.i..          Ci.e  annuaL attendance ocr capite nr nee  - 1soed on thin smber of tc.keta
Tures  watanart  .rc Loner than th... of 75 gram.  ft  ctal pro.t.i end                 KaId durIng th. year. Including         a     naolo  t. dri--o-, Li-.n no  mobile
23 gems of amimul Pratin . An ..n-sage for the enrld. PrP.oped by                       Mite.
* PercapiM n'Ie eu ofrnoinlad al.-Prot.le supply of food                                  ori
deiva  Ironalel  u.pusciaaepndy.oal Ino  lopos (thb..... a) - tsn.l tlp   nov  paracs. ioludtng armad
Cild  (age. 1-I  eortaiitv ra . me  tna-eaed) - Annual. deatho per thoca-         fern,. ed unespiny.d but encladlng h-swevlve. atadorta.  etc.  Defiel-
dla smeae group 1-.  eas  to childoen ia thin uag  gracp.                               timeto -0Tei.u. C-cutie   resI    eparhi*..
.ea .torat) t  FonlsIlbr  oc  as Peota.o  totai labor force.
c..uias(arnt) - Labor foreIn. to Osrei. fraretry. henting end fishing
Mie  eeCtaooT at birth (year.) - Avermegmober of y.ams of life                            aipratase a  totAI labT or fa..
rmaimlng at birth; uauaLly  tlv-ye-r av-nagco eding La 1940. 1970.                   Industry (P ....rn) - Labor farce to oin   ig. cooetrc-ttoe. eanufact-rlog and
end I'll.            *eletricity, cart.  and faa am parcentecem of t...i labor f-arc.
wenat mortaItty coo. (par tbouj.nd)   Aenual. deach. of itf-amt  under                 Pe3lj(stgg .lo  rota (nercent) - Itatl. noI, and (n-ea   - Total, male, and
e "oetar   oaprtouadlc  hirhis.t                                                      Inale  tabot fcrcea   fcco n          tr hotr rccpe.ctL- poru-iatlea
Acee.   o safe  .ao  Inecce  Cfpplto)-ttl,!bn   n   aa                                     Thane ere It'  od factd Perticipstgo  ran ts.. r.ilactineae-n...
h t o  people (totaL, ura. an  .rur) cith C.aen aiacestootructure of th. populaticn. and nlfttme trasd.
ate catar suppLy (Inclu4eon ..reatd outface .4tratr  or  ontreated but               fconosi   !ZVjndanc  mlob   - Anti. of p,psiatien under i  sand 6S and ever tc
inetm od cant  eu-h a. that Iron prtemtad  ot.hala..  ortmaga                    the labor  ccaLe -,. SC-op oi 11-c. yeasn.
mil ascicaty call.) ao pore.ntaaea of thair respecti-e fOpuiattt"..
to amuban arm . aPublic faueeais or ntaedpat lo.catd no C  ore                      terrr O1SfTetTBtIf
thie  00 maste fes ahua.  may ha caniardacba  citbiSea. C---eoc  o  pt-nee  isome (both In ceeh mad bind) recoi,ed by richeet 
oesehie aaaaae of  hab.ua.:: 10 rural ar.ao re.asnoe. sccaeo leuld                porcant. Ol, oota 20 Partaud  pooaeet 210 poeCaeet  sod poeoroa  4.1 porrant
lePly that toe       -iuaat. or  .M.-n af the houehaaold do  -o  have to,               at hc ede..
opoed a  iPrort=amt  Part Of the da, is fething the famtipy
wtota  note.                                                                        POyptff TAgiET CAPff~S
&E*   to onrt   leqjgr.t.   o.lsiai   tet.l. ub-s                                      fstlntsaId  b...tiu.   -rtv incoee            .   L     sui,4~1.Lratta  -_orb., a-  rural-
atrfl -  tboa   opo(uo.ubn   n   uai   undboort                                             bouopnrnice co   ana   aoatvL bales cAtcha.te
dipoegnpo     orcnoege  at thi   eeatvepauitae. fcotetrlIous, iv od.qmate diet PI.* ecestlal. sos-food reqeiCoaCa  La*0
dlaIpoeaIour isoira nb ch.    l.gia  an  dap .. L. 5tCh or  Ithon                       affordable.
1.troatee. of bamae..     a aslect-aa  by caaobrn                  toei                                                                               ob.anrul-
erUa  s   pi t prit.1.so    air ..Atotlaiaae.                                     OebCtoL pcat  tr-e  iaeol in alhe  le--. 1-r1 L... Ibo. u.- hbt
IILekettscs for fAyekian Populatandvie  ho embe   01prac ti ag                     par capita Prre.... Lncpeo of the.anta
phyailtae. qaallt tn  irse  a  a.tl.aI a".Ltois   c r l    it to-eel.                EeeIl   "11   ,:   I Ittint .jPalar I..o b.1-nc.~tt.a).vj    fe....uru   n 
~jt.nf t.-Ote.& er-,c  -toulttn  Lvittes  by n,berO                                 erecr .    p..raan-o  (urala..   rual  thu  cecbr             baIc. pecn'ce
pradain e4  at. ant Iaale gaut   ,ea  pratcaic  earc"o, ae                         -relmgive poea  otetherr ie er-oetr.
moognogt mresas.
geoomala end Sonfat Dat. D,sa



- 28-                               ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC IlNDICATORS
GNP PER CAPITA (1978)-US$400                                           MID-1978 POPULATION - 38.7 Million
(World Bank Atlas Methodology)
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978                                         ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. Constant Prices)
US$ Mln.       _                     1961-66 1/       i967-74 1/       1975-78 2/
GNP at Market Prices              13,600       100.0                      5.4              3.6             13.3
Gross Domestic Investment          3,590        26.4                     10.7              5.4             24.9
Current Account Balance           -1,760        12.9
Export of Goods, NFS               3,530        26.0                      4.3               6.2              7.8
Import of Goods, NFS               6,490        47.7                      8.8              9.2              7.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added                  Labor Force 3/             V. A. Per Worker
US$ Min.       7                Ml.       %                US $          %
Agriculture                        3,350        28.7              4.135   41.1                  810       15.7
Industry 4/                        3,460        29.6              1.902   18.9                1820        35.4
Distributive Sector                2,340        20.0              1.560   15.5                1500        29.1
Services                           2,530        21.7              2.472   24.5                1020        19.8
Total/Average             11680/2920       100.0             10,069  100.0                1160       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government 5/
US$ Mln.           % of GNP
1978        1974         1978
Current Receipts                   5,310           33.9         39.1
Current Expenditure                4,640           34.0         34.2
Current Surplus/Deficit              670           -0.1          4.9
Capital Expenditures               3,310           13.8         24.3
External Financing (net)           1,140            3.3          8.4
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES
1973        1974         1975         1976         1977         1978
(Million L.E. outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                    1207         1515        1883          2417        3185         4090
Bank Credit to Public Sector             1852         2338        3527         4123         4775         6035
Bank Credit to Private Sector             102         149          230          251          434          570
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as 'i of GDP       31.7         36.1         38.5         38.5        43.4          47.5
Wholesale Price Index (1973 = 100)   100.0          112.4        119.1        131.4        145.0         157.7
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                    10.4         12.4          6.0         10.3        10.3           8.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector              9.6        26.2         50.9          16.9        15.8          26.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector           10.9         46.1         54.4          9.1         72.9          31.3
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the 1978 weighted exchange rate of US$1.496 = 1 LE.
1/ At 1965 Constant Prices.
2/ At 1975 Constant Prices.
3/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
4/ Manufacturing and Mining, Petroleum, Electricity and Construction.
5/ Local Government comprises a small part of General Government.
not applicable



-29-                                   ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                            MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-78)
1975       1976       1977      1978                                      us$ Ml.   %
(US$ million)
Cotton                      354       19.8
Exports of Goods, NFS           2,194       2,759     3,537      3,530         Yarin and Textiles           364       20.4
Imports of Goods, NFS          -4,931     -4,910    -5,486    -6,490            Petroleum                   442       24.7
Other Agriculture           224       12.5
Imports of Foreign               -140       -240       -330      -290          All other commodities        405       22.6
oil Companies                                                                      Total               1,789      100.0
Workers' Remittances              366         755       894      1,760
Other Factor Services (Net)    -104         -202       -205      -270
Net Factor Services               262         553       689     1,490
EXTERNAL DEBT (MLT)  DECEMBER 31, 1978
Balance on Current Account   -2,615       -1,838    -1,590    -1,760
Amortization                     -600       -734       -812       -900                                           US$ Mln
Total Deficit                  -3,215     -2 572    -2 402    -2,660
Tot_al_Deficit_-3,215   -2,402    -2,660         Public debt, incl. guaranteed  9,970 1/
Repayments on public debt          900
Direct Foreign Investment         140        300        434       440           Interest on public debt            390
Grants                          1,076         792       445        345
MLT Borro-,ing                  2,509        1,622    3,027     2,585
J 725      2,714      3,0       3,3~70
3,725     2,714     3.906      3.370          DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978 2   23.7%
Other Capital 'Net)              -152        236       -961      -495
Residual                         -420       -333       -348      -145
Tnrrease in Reserves '+)          -62         45        195        71
Gross Reserves lend year)         294         339       534        605
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports
of '-hich: Petroteum        -477        -385      -250       -200
Exports
of v'hich: Petroleum         164         268       600        730
1/ $10,590 million as of July :1, 1979.
2/ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and services.
February 4, 1980



ANNEX II
-30 -                                               Page 1 of B
THE STATUS OF'BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of January 31, 1980)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit        Approved                                                                        less cancellations
Numbers              FY        Borrower        Purpose                                 Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Ln 243-UAR             60          SCA           Suez Canal Expansion                    56.5      --            __
Cr 181-UAR             70          UAR           Nile Delta Drainage                      --    26.0             2.1
Cr 284-UAR             72          ARE           Railways I                               __    30.0             1.0
Cr 393-UAR             73          ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage                      --    36.0            4.6
Cr 412-UAR             73          ARE           Development Industrial Bank 1/           --    15.0             0.3
Cr 423-UAR             74          ARE           Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation             --    18.5            3.5
Cr 437-UAR             74          ARE           Population                                --     5.0            0.2
Cr 484-UAR             74          ARE           Talkha Fertilizer                         --    20.0            0.6
Cr 524-EGT             75          ARE           Ag/Ind Imports                            --    35.0            0.3
Ln 1062-EGT            75          ARE           Ag/Ind Imports                          35.0       --           1.2
Ln 1064-EGT            75          SCA           Suez Canal Rehabilitation               50.0       --          27.5
Ln 1085-EGT            75          ARE           Tourah Cement                           40.0      --            4.3
Ln 1098-EGT            75          ER            Railways II                             37.0      --           10.7
Cr 548-EGT             75          ARE           Telecommunications                        --    30.0            3.7
Cr 576-EGT             76          ARE           Development Industrial Bank II 1/    --    25.0                 0.5
Ln 1239-EGT            76          APA           Alexandria Port                         45.0      --           33.8
Ln 1276-T-EGT 2/       76          ARE           Fruit and Vegetable Dev.                50.0      --           43.2
Cr 637-EGT             76          ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage II                  --    40.0            24.5
Ln 1285-EGT            76          ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage II                 10.0      __           10.0
Ln 1292-EST            76          ARE           Textile Rehabilitation                  52.0      --           38.4
Ln 1369-ECT            77          AWA           Alexandria Water Supply                 56.0       -           47.3
Cr 681-EST             77          ARE           Education                                --    25.0             6.1
Cr 719-EGT             77          ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                   --    27.0            13.9
Ln 1439 EST            77          ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                  27.0      --           27.0
Ln 1440-T-EGT 2/       77          ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                  12.0      --           12.0
Ln 1453-EGT            77          EEA           Regional Electrification                48.0      --           30.5
Ln 1456-EGT            77          ARE           Industrial Imports                      70.0      --           40.0
Ln 5-005-EGT           77          ARE           Iron Ore Beneficiacion and                2.5     __            1.1
Engineering
Lon  482-EGT           78          SCA           Suez Canal Expansion                   100.0      __           44.8
Cr 5-20-EGT            78          ARE           Water Supply Engineering                  --     2.0            0.3
Cr 774-EGT             78          ARE           Telecommunications II                     --    53.0           53.0
Ln 1533-EGT            78          DIB           Development Industrial Bank III         40.0      --           30.2
Cr 830-EGT             78          ARE           Agricultural Development                  --    32.0           32.0
Cr 831-EGT             78          ARE           Urban Development                        --    14.0            13.7
Cr 850-EST             79          ARE           Second Population                        --    25.0            24.9
Cr 868-EGT             79          ARE           Second Education                         --    40.0            39.5
Ln 8-14-EGT            79          ARE           New Valley Phosphate Engineering         11.0                   8.3
and Technical Assistance
Cr 909-EGT             79          ARE           Tourism 3/                               __    32.5            32.5
tn 1732-EGT            79          ARE           Gulf of Suez Gas                        75.0      --           75.0
Cr 935-EGT             79          ARE           Shoubrah El Kheima                              37.0           37.0
Thermal Power 3/
tn 1733-EGT            79          EEA           Shoubrah E1 Kheima                     102.0      --          102.0
Thermal Power 3/ 5/
80          ARE           Agroindustries 4/                        --    45.0           45.0
80          DIB           DIB 4/                                  50.0      --          50.0
Totals                                                                                  969.0  613.0           976.5
Of which has been repaid                                                                 58.5
Total now outstanding                                                                   910.5
Amount sold                                                            -7 5
Of which has been repaid                                                 7.4               0.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                          910.4  613.0           976.5
B. STATEMENT OF IPC INVESTMENTS
(Amount in US$ million)
Year           Obligor                       Type of Business                       Loan          Equity        Total
1976           Arab Ceramic Company          Ceramic Industry                       4.25             .75         5.0
(Plus .635 contingency commitment)  (5.635)
1977           Nile Clothing Company         Ready-Made Garment Industry            0.40           0.20          0.60
1978           Delta Sugar Company           Agricultural Production,              20.0            2.00         22.00
mainly sugar             (Plus 1.0 standby commitment)          (23.00)
1979           Ismailia Misr Poultry         Food and Food Processing               5.97           1.52          7.49
Company
1979           Ismailia Fish Farming         Food and Food Processing               1.929            .453        2.382
Company                                             (Plus 0.1 contingency commitment)   (2.482)
1/   Formerly Bank of Alexandria
2/   Third Window Loan
3/   Not yet effective
4/   Not yet signed
5/   Not included is EEC Sp. Action Credit 20 of $35.0 million



- 31 -
ANNEX II
P-ge 2 of 8
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage I Project; US$26 million Credit
of April 17, 1970; Effective Date: December 22, 1970; Closing Dace:
December 31, 1980
Work on surface drains (1,700 km in about 950,000 feddans) is complete
and all eleven pumping stations are operational. Progress on field drainage
has been slow due to various reasons, including inadequate construction
management by contractors, shortage of cement (1978) and uncertainty as to
full allocation of needed local funds. However, full completion of the
project is expected to be achieved by the end of December 1980.
Cr. No. 284-UAR - Egyptian Railway Project; US$30 million Credit of February
9, 1972; Effective Date:  July 17, 1972; Closing Date:  June 30, 1980.
The project generally was implemented satisfactorily but progress
on the electrical signalling items has been slow. An assurance by ER has
been given that work will be completed in time to enable disbursement of the
remaining $1.0 million of funds under the Credit by the revised closing date.
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Project; US$36 million Credit of
June 8, 1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: July 31, 1981.
Remodelling/excavation of open drains (1,640 km in 300,000 feddans)
is nearly complete. Construction of five pumping stations is 80 percent com-
plete. The Credit's closing date has recently been extended to July 31, 1981
to accommodate slow progress on installation of sub-surface drains due to
various factors including inadequate management by contractors and sugar
cane cropped in 50 percent of the project area. As of December 31, 1980,
this activity had been completed in about 60 percent of the planned area.
The Bilharzia Control Program is on schedule. Procurement is proceeding
sat-isfactorily.
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effective Date: February 15, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The scaled-down project financed by IDA is estimated to be completed
in early 1981 and the remainder of the full project, financed by a loan from
the Saudi Fund for Development, which became effective in July 1976, is
expected to be completed in 1981-82. The foreign costs of the project ($43.8
million) have remained basically unchanged since all procurement has been
completed or is in an advanced stage, but the local component continues to
escalate mainly due to steady increase in the cost of civil works and delays
because of shortage of local funds.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
Cr. No. 484-UAR - Talkha II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million Credit of June
24, 1974; Effective Date: January 22, 1975; Closing Date: April 1, 1980.
Procurement has been completed except for some small items. Accord-
ing to the latest indication, the project is expected to be commissioned by
mid-1980, about two years behind schedule, partly because of delays in civil
works and procurement.
Cr. No. 524-EGT and Ln. No. 1062-EGT - Agricultural and Industrial Imports
Project; US$35 million Credit and US$35 million Loan of December 20, 1974;
Effective Date: March 19, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The bulk of the procurement actions has been completed and only
about $0.4 million and $1.2 million remain to be disbursed under the credit
and loan, respectively. Discussions are presently taking place with the
Government regarding the utilization of the uncommitted funds prior to the
closing date which has been extended by one year.
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effective Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Progress in implementation has improved and about 85 percent of the
project funds have been committed. The design of the last major item of
equipment to be financed from the loan is now being undertaken. Because of
the initial delay in implementation, the project is now expected to be com-
pleted only by December 1981; the closing date of the loan will, therefore,
have to be extended.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
Procurement of machinery and equipment is completed. Most items are
already on site being erected. Slow civil works execution has further delayed
project execution. Thus start-up of commercial operations is expected to be
only towards early 1981.
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Investment in mobile assets has been satisfactory but progress on
fixed instaliations is slow. The Egyptian Railways' (ER) operations and
maintenance situation remains very poor with low availability of locomotives
and rolling stock. Recommendations from a study by consultants are designed
to improve the rolling stock maintenance situation. Track maintenance is
lagging far behind program, principally because of a lack of traction for
work trains but also because effort is directed to the construction of new
lines. The 1979/83 draft investment program contained many large investments



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
including new lines for which economic justification is doubtful. The finan-
cial situation is poor and a deficit of LE 33 million was recorded for 1978.
Substantial freight tariff increases approved in 1979 should ameliorate the
situation, and proposals for increases in passenger fares are currently being
considered by the Government. A draft decree which would establish a National
Railway authority aims to give the railways inter alia considerably more
autonomy in relation to tariffs and staff salaries.
Cr. No. 548-EGT - Telecommunications Project; US$30 million Credit of May 16,
1975; Effective Date: August 14, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Procurement has now been completed and the IDA credit has been
fully committed. Procurement of the telex exchanges was transferred to
the Telecommunications II project. Physical installations are about two
years behind the appraisal schedule mainly because of initial delays in
procurement actions and in building construction.
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of
Alexandria) Project; US$25 million Credit of July 30, 1975; Effective Date:
February 19, 1976; Closing Date: October 31, 1980.
The credit is now fully committed and $24.4 million has been dis-
bursed as of January 25, 1980.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The contract for the major part of the civil works and dredging was
awarded in April 1979 and work is now progressing. Procurement of equipment is
also progressing satisfactorily. Because of the delayed start of the main
civil works, the project is now expected to be completed only by June 1982; the
closing date of the loan will, therefore, have to be extended.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effective Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project is now over two years behind schedule. Work on the
drainage and irrigation components of the project is proceeding although
behind schedule. The seed component has major problems, which the Bank is now
discussing with Egyptian officials. The Agricultural Development Lending Unit
in Bank Misr is attempting, with assistance from the World Bank, to ensure
that the various sub-borrowers proceed with their respective investments, and
to identify additional sub-borrowers. The project scope has been expanded
to allow financing of agroindustries subprojects, and terms of financing
liberalized.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976. Effective
Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Work on surface drains (1,602 km in 500,000 feddans) is about
55 percent complete. Progress on field drainage has fallen 30 percent behind
appraisal schedule mainly because of a delay of some two years with the supply
and erection of USAID financed equipment for three PVC pipe manufacturing
factories. It is expected that these factories will become operable between
February and May 1980. Seven contracts for installation of tile drains in the
entire project area (500,000 feddans) have been let out. Procurement is now
proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20, 1976.
Effective Date: February 16, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project is proceeding with a year and a half delay caused by a
later and sLower than anticipated start of the civil works. The project is
now estimated to cost about US$21 million equivalent (all in local currency)
more than appraised, due to increased scope of civil works and general price
increases of construction materials beyond what was expected at appraisal.
No difficulties are foreseen in financing this, although some government
equity contribution would be required in the next two years to supplement the
companies' internal cash generation in order to adhere to the financial
covenants as well as project costs. Early management problems have now been
overcome and both companies have developed effective project implementation
units. Disbursements are slower than anticipated reflecting initial delays in
procurement. However, about 90 percent of the contracts for machinery and
equipment have now been awarded and the balance is expected to be awarded in
the near future.
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Delays have occurred in implementing two main components (pipelines
and water treatment plant extensions) of this project. Pipeline construction
is now out for rebid (after a false start) and the civil works bid documents
are being finalized for the treatment plants; meanwhile pipes for the former
have been delivered and equipment for the latter is being manufactured and
delivery may commence shortly. Proposals for data processing equipment and
training have been called for. Meter replacement to improve AWA's operations
continues at a satisfactory pace. An application for a general tariff increase
is with the Governor for consideration by the Alexandria Local Council but
approval is still pending.
Cr. No. 681-EGT - Education Project; US$25 million Credit of March 7, 1977;
Effective Date: August 19, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project implementation through project units in the different
ministries is generally proceeding satisfactorily. All technical assistance



- 35
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
contracts have been awarded and most of the fellowship and specialist assign-
ments have been completed. Ninety percent of equipment and furniture under
the project has been procured. Technical problems had been encountered with
the construction of the two technical institutes which needed to be redesigned,
resulting in a two year delay for this project item; and consequently, these
were transferred to Credit 868. However, the other 45 institutions are either
operational or are expected to open classes with only minor delays in the
schedule.
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and Ln. No. 1440T-EGT - Nile Delta Drainage
II Project; $27 Million Credit, $27 Million Loan and $12 Million Third Window
Loan of July 15, 1977; Effective Date: April 17, 1978J Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Procurement is now proceeding satisfactorily. However, implementation
is behind schedule. Construction of surface drains (1,565 km in 810,000 fed-
dans) is about 30 percent complete. Contracts for construction of four new,
and renovation of two existing, pumping stations were awarded in November 1979.
Progress on field drainage (400,000 feddans) will depend on KfW financed PVC
pipe manufacturing factory for which consultants were appointed in October 1979
to select the site and to prepare tender documents. As commissioning of this
factory will be achieved about one year behind scheduled completion of
December 1979, it may accordingly defer full completion of the project.
Ln. No. 1453-EGT - Regional Electrification Project; US$48 Million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Effective Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Physical progress is good. Consultants for the extension of the
UNDP Power Sector Survey have completed their work. The Tariff Study has
started. Consultants for the distribution companies have been engaged. All
contracts for technical assistance have been awarded.
Ln. No. 1456-EGT - Industrial Imports Project; US$70.0 Million Loan of July 15,
1977; Effective Date: November 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
As of January 25, 1980, about $29.5 million had been disbursed and
about $38.3 million committed, representing some 55 percent of the total loan.
Utilization of the loan proceeds has been slow mainly because of delays in
procurement of equipment for public sector firms.
Ln No. S-5 EGT - Iron Ore Engineering and Beneficiation Project; US$2.5 Million
Loan of July 15, 1977. Effective Date: February 2, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Consultants preparing both iron ore beneficiation and diagnostic
studies have submitted the final feasibility studies. The closing date was
extended to help finance consulting services to help prepare a rehabilitation
and balancing project for Egyptian Iron and Steel Company.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 1482-EGT - Suez Canal Expansion Project; US$100 Million Loan of
September 28, 1977; Effective Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Progress in the execution of the project is close to appraisal
estimates although in some areas, such as demolition and procurement of tugs,
there is some delay. This, however, is not expected to materially affect
the project completion date. The financial situation of the borrower is
sound, canal traffic and revenue being higher than appraisal estimates.
Cr. No. S-20-EGT - Water Supply Engineering Project; US$2.0 Million Engineering
Credit of December 29, 1977; Effective Date; April 28, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Formal presentation of final draft report took place in December
1979. Project definition is evolving and preliminary discussions of possible
issues have started.
Ln No. 1533-EGT - Development Industrial Bank III; US$40.0 Million Loan of
April 12, 1978; Effective Date: July 18, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Commitments and disbursements are progressing satisfactorily. As of
January 25, 1980, $8.8 million had been disbursed and $32.2 million had been
committed. The balance of the Loan is expected to be committed by the first
quarter of 1980.
Cr. No. 774-EGT - Second Telecommunications Project; US$53.0 Million Credit
of March 21, 1978; Effective Date: September 19, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Some reallocation of Credit proceeds was agreed to in September
1979. Bid documents for a substantial part of the equipment and materials to
be financed under the Credit had been processed by January 1980, and the rest
are expected by April 1980.
Cr. No. 830-EGT - Agricultural Development Project; US$32.0 Million Credit of
July 24, 1978; Effective Date: February 20, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1983.
Satisfactory progress has been made in procurement of farm machin-
ery. Institutional development is lagging behind appraisal expectations.
Cr. No. 831-EGT - Egypt Urban Development Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
August 30, 1978; Effective Date: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Project implementation has started.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Cr. No. 850-EGT - Second Population Project; US$25.0 Million Credit of
October 30, 1978; Effective Date: May 1, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1983.
Project implementation has started.
Cr. No. 868-EGT - Second Education Project; US$40.0 Million Credit of
January 26, 1979; Effective Date:  July 18, 1979; Closing Date:  March 31,
1984.
All equipment lists and specifications have been approved; tenders
have been advertised and procurement is underway. All technical assistance
has been contracted. Of 21 institutions to be constructed, two have been
completed, eight are from 15 to 70 percent complete, and the remainder are
ready to be contracted.
Ln. No. 5-14-EGT - New Valley Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project; US$11.0 Million Loan of May 25, 1979; Effective Date: October 19,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Procurement of mining equipment is underway and laboratory tests of
phosphate rock are being carried out.
Cr. No. 909-EGT - Tourism Project; US$32.5 Million of June 13, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: March 31, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
As action on effectiveness is still underway, effectiveness date has
been extended to March 31, 1980.
Ln. No. 1732-EGT - Gulf of Suez Gas Project; US$75.0 Million of June 29, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: January 29, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1982.
Project became effective on January 29, 1980; project implementation
has started.
Ln. No. 1733-EGT, Cr. No. 935-EGT and Special Action Cr. No. 20-EGT - Shoubrah
El Kheima Thermal Power Project of September 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date:
April 8, 1980; Closing Date:  June 30, 1986.
As action on effectiveness is still underway, effectiveness date was
extended by 90 days.



- 38 -                           ANNEX III
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND TEXTILE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project: 1/        Two and one half years
(b)  Date of first presentation to Bank:   February 1977
(c)  Agency preparing project:                National Spinning and Weaving
Company (National)
(d) Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                                 October 1977
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:   February 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:           October 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
1.   Preparation by Government of textile sector study and textile related
training programs (paras. 38 and 39).
2.   Availability of water, electricity, construction and raw materials
required for project (paras. 47 and 48).
3.   Environmental safeguards (para. 49).
4.   Establishment of successor company to National operating in joint venture
sector (para. 53).
5.   Preparation of compensation package for National (para. 53).
6.   Financial covenants (paras. 60 and 61).
1/   Para. 44 of President's Report provides explanation for time required
to prepare project.



os  E                                  _                          '   <ir    , .
0 -                              C2    0- 
I                                           ;d\) ,
w                                                                7It   0'wX -',
! L   ir       -7                               !                      3Ez
0~~~
:;~~                 ~                              '- <-    :0V/St
-     rJ   w
"I'~
~~~~~~ I-~~~~~~~~~~~A
<  a.~~~~N
ET  U



