OCMLOAN NUMBER 1837 EGT
Loan Agreement
(Second Textile Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1837 EGT
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             ,1980, between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of Parts I through IV of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter
provided;
(B) Parts I through IV of the Project will be carried out by
National Spinning and Weaving Company (hereinafter called NSWC)
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to NSWC proceeds of the Loan as
hereinafter provided; and
(C) the Borrower, as the majority shareholder of NSWC's
capital stock, intends to take all the decisions and legal mea-
sures required to reestablish NSWC, currently a public sector
company, as a joint stock company (hereinafter called the
Successor Company), under the Borrower's Law No. 43 of 1974
Concerning the Investment of Arab and Foreign Funds and the Free
Zones, as amended by the Borrower's Law No. 32 of 1977.
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and NSWC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).


﻿- 2 -
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and NSWC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project
Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project Agree-
ment.
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and NSWC pursuant to Section
3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes, if any, all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and "Subsidiary Loan" means the proceeds
of the Loan relent to NSWC by t-ie Borrower pursuant to such
agreement, as provided in such Section.
(c)  "Completion Date" means the date at which the new
spinning and weaving mills included in Part I (A) of the Project
shall have operated at an average production rate of at least 75%
of their design capacity during a consecutive 60-day period.
(d)  "Main civil works" means the civil works included
in Part I (A) of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixty nine million dollars ($69,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank 'shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. NSWC is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permit-
ted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) through its
ministries responsible for industry, education or manpower, as
the case may be, carry out Part V of the Project with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate finan-
cial, technical, and administrative practices, and shall,
promptly as needed, provide the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose; (ii) by July 31,
1981 (or such other date as the Bank may agree) complete such
Part of the Project; and (iii) promptly upon the completion of
such Part of the Project submit to the Bank the studies included


﻿therein to enable the Bank to exchange views with the Borrower on
the recommendations contained in such studies and the action, if
any, to be undertaken as a result therefrom.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Part V of the Project, the Borrower shall, by October 31, 1980
(or such other date as the Bank may agree), employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause NSWC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable NSWC to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(d) The Borrower shall, for Parts I through IV of the
Project, relend to NSWC the equivalent of the procecds of the Loan
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and NSWC, on terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
such terms and conditions shall include the following:
(i) the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan
repayable by NSWC shall be the equivalent in
Egyptian Pounds (determined as of the date, or the
respective dates, of repayment) of the value of the
currency or currencies withdrawn from the Loan
Account;
(ii) the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid by NSWC in
twenty-one equal or approximately equal semi-
annual installments over fifteen years (including
four and one half years of grace); and
(iii) the Borrower shall charge NSWC interest at ten per
cent (10%) per annum on the outstanding balance of
the Subsidiary Loan in addition to any charges
payable by the Borrower to the Bank on the Loan.


﻿- 5 -
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes
of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(f) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value the proceeds of the Loan in terms of Egyptian
Pounds, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the highest
rate of exchange for the foreign currencies concerned declared by
the Central Bank of Egypt.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) complete, in conjunction with NSWC, by March 31,
1981, all the procedures required under the Borrower's legis-
lation, including Law No. 43 of 1974, to reestablish NSWC as the
Successor Company;
(b) ensure that such reestablishment includes the transfer
to the Successor Company of all the assets, liabilities of NSWC
and of all its contractual obligt ,ions and rights contained
in or derived from the Project Agr,,ement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(c) provide, as the majority shareholder, the Successor
Company with a capital contribution towards meeting the cost of
the Project in an amount of not less than $30 million equivalent;
and
(d) ensure an additional capital contribution, to be pro-
vided to the Successor Company by the Borrower or other share-
holders, in an amount of not less than US$5 million equivalent to
cover the remaining cost of the Project and the operating cash
deficits which may be incurred until the Completion Date.
Section 3.03. Without limitations upon the generality of
its obligations under Section 3.01 (c) hereof, the Borrower shall
exercise its statutory powers over NSWC in such a way as shall
assist NSWC in complying with the provisions of Section 3.04 and
Article IV of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall take., or cause to be
taken, all measures necessary to ensure an adequate and timely


﻿- 6 -
supply to NSWC of the water and electricity required for the
efficient operation of the facilities to be constructed under the
Project.
(b) The Borrower shall take all measures necessary on its
part to ensure the availability to NSWC of building materials and
supplies required for the timely execution of the civil works
included under the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall take all measures necessary on its
part to ensure the supply to NSWC of cotton, polyester, chemicals,
dyestuffs and other domestic and foreign input materials required
for the full and efficient operation of the facilities provided
for under the Project. To that end, the Borrower shall promptly
issue import and foreign exchange licenses or permits as shall
be required to enable NSWC to obtai.n aforesaid materials not
immediately available locally.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on
assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the
Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an
equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 7 -
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or
any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that:
(a) NSWC shall have failed to perform any of its covenants,
agreements or obligations under the Project Agreement or the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b) the Borrower's Law No. 72 of 1963 or, upon the estab-
lishment of the Successor Company, the Borrower's Law No. 43 of
1974, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived in such a way as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of NSWC to carry out the covenants, agreements or obliga-
tions set forth in the Project Agreement;
(c) the Borrower, or any other authority having jurisdition,
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestab-
lishment of NSWC (or the Successor Company after its establish-
ment) or for the suspension of its operations; and
(d) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that NSWC will be able to perform its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment.


﻿- 8 -
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower and NSWC; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and NSWC.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly author zed
or ratified by NSWC, and is legally binding upon NSWC in accor-
dance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and NSWC and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and NSWC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date Ore2           I9      , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy, Foreign Trade and
Economic Cooperation and the Under Secretary for International
Finance of the Borrower are designated as representatives of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.


﻿- 9 -
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Economic Cooperation
8 Adly Street
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND              348 GAFEC
ECONOMIC COOPERATION
Cairo
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By
/                 Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By             7)
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category,                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Plant equipment,             45,700,000         100% of for-
materials and spare                            eign expendi-
parts (including                               tures and
foreign erection                               100% of
services) for Part I                           local expendi-
of the Project                                 tures ex-fac-
tory
(2) Main civil works             10,400,000         100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures and 30%
of local
expenditures
(3) (a) Construction equipment    1,500,000         100% of for-
for Parts I and III                        eign expendi-
of the Project                             tures
(b) Construction                               60% of local
materials (such as                         expenditures
cement and steel)
for Parts I and III
of the Project             500,000
(4) Technical assis-              3,500,000         100% of for-
tance and training                             eign expendi-
for NSWC under                                 tures
Parts I, II and IV
of the Project
(5) Unallocated                   7,400,000
TOTAL        69,000,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures 'prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$1,000,000 may be made in respect of Categories (3) and (4) on
account of payments made for such expenditures before that date
but after February 1, 1980.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuf-
ficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocatei
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallo-
cation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 12 -
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project aims at modernizing NSWC's production facilities
and increasing its profitability. The Project consists of the
following Parts:
Part I:   At Maharrem Bey
(A) Construction, equipping (including the transfer and
rehabilitation of about 48,000 spindles from Karmouz) and oper-
ation of (i) a spinning mill with about 73,000 spindles and a
capacity of about 6,600 tons per year (TPY) of yarn; and (ii) a
weaving mill with about 770 looms and a capacity of about 20
million linear meters per year (LMPY) of fabric.
(B) Simultaneously with the commencement of the operations
of the weaving mill under Sub-Part A (ii) hereof, the closure of
Weaving Mill No. 2 and Weaving Mill No. 3 and the retiring and
disposal of about 1,100 obsolete looms.
(C) Improvements to (including air conditioning) and oper-
ation of ;eaving Mills No. 1 and 4 to increase their production to
an aggregate of about 17 million LMPY.
(D) Improvements to the operation of the converting plant to
increase its production to about 55 million LMPY, including
installation of effluent treatment facilities.
(E) (i) Reorganization of the garment-making unit to
produce about 1,000,000 institutional types of
garments per year, to discontinue the production of
knitted fabrics and knitted garments, and the sale
of the existing knitting machines; and
(ii) installation of a bedsheet-making unit to produce
about 0.6 million bedsheet sets per year.
(F) Introduction of improved production methods, financial
and accounting systems and marketing procedures.
Part II: At Karmouz
Simultaneously with the commencement of the operations of
the spinning mill under Part I (A) (i) hereof, the retiring and


﻿- 14 -
disposal of about 52,000 obsolete spindles, and the sale of the
land occupied by spinning mills No. 1 and 2.
Part III:
Construction of about 60 housing units for the supervisory
and managerial staff of NSWC.
Part IV:
The carrying out of a training program, including training
abroad for NSWC's staff.
Part V:
(A) Carrying out of studies by the Borrower's ministry
responsible for industry to define the functions, responsibilities
and procedures of the Borrower's agencies concerned with the
textile sector and prepare an action plan to increase the effec-
tiveness of the planning and support functions of such sector.
(B) Carrying out of studies by the Borrower's ministries
responsible for industry, education and manpower to prepare a
training program for the textile sector.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1984.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 1985
through   September 15, 1994               3,285,000
On March 15, 1995                               3,300,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than tiree years
before maturity                             1.65%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                     3.30%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             6.00%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                             7.15%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                             8.25%


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  4    Lday of       ! ,194-2.
FOR SECRETARY


