 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14730

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 05/26/2015

               Country: Vietnam
             Project ID: P084871                                                   Appraisal                Actual
         Project Name: Second Transmission           Project Costs (US$M):                 324.02                634.95
                         And Distribution
                         Project
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                     200.0              387.65
      Sector Board:      Energy and Mining            Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                                 Board Approval Date :                               07/28/2005
                                                                 Closing Date:           12/31/2010          06/30/2014
          Sector(s):       Transmission and Distribution of Electricity (100%)
          Theme(s):        Infrastructure services for private sector development (100%)


Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Victoria Alexeeva          Christopher David       Christopher David         IEGPS1
                           Nelson                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
  "To assist the Borrower in developing an efficient electricity transmission and distribution system, thus enabling the
timely evacuation of power from new electricity generation plants to growing load centers and maintenance of system
security, reliability and power quality; and contributing to the restructuring of the power sector." (IDA Development
Credit Agreement DCA, Schedule 2, p.17)

The project appraisal documentation reports the same objective in a truncated form, namely "the efficient
development of Vietnam's transmission and distribution system." (Project Appraisal Document PAD p. 4)

Following IEG procedures, this ICR Review is based upon IEG’s assessment of the achievement of the project
objective as formulated in the legal document.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
No

 c. Components:
 Component 1: Transmission and Distribution (T&D) Systems Expansion and Reinforcement (appraisal cost
US$297.75 million; additional financing of US$371.9 million; actual cost US$558.7 million excl. contingencies and
taxes) consisted of subprojects to build new, or reinforce existing, 500 kV, 220 kV and 110 kV T&D lines and
substations . Subprojects included in this component were identified in the government’s fifth and sixth Power
Development Master Plans.This component consisted of three subcomponents: (i) 500 kV and 220 kV Transmission
System Expansion and Reinforcement; (ii) 220 kV/110 kV gas- insulated switchgear (GIS) substations; and (iii)
Regional Distribution System Expansion and Reinforcement.

Component 2: Electricity Market and System Operations Modernization (appraisal cost US$22.8 million; additional
financing of US$0 million; actual cost US$13.4 million excl. contingencies and taxes) consisted of: (i) the supply and
installation of the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition/ Energy Management System (SCADA/EMS) for the
National Load Dispatch Center (NLDC); (ii) replacement of the existing VietPool Interim Market System with a fully
functional market management system; and (iii) improving the telecommunication backbone to support the new
systems. SCADA/EMS and market systems were expected to include both hardware and software to support NLDC’s
system operator and market operator responsibilities.

Component 3: Market Transition Support (appraisal cost US$1.65 million; additional financing of US$0.50 million;
actual cost US$0.49 million excl. contingencies and taxes ) aimed to provide technical assistance to the Vietnam
electricity company EVN to develop its transmission business as a separate entity and establish an internal power
market, with particular focus on: (i) enabling EVN to manage power market operations; (ii) reviewing future
investments in transmission and regional interconnections; (iii) developing a generation expansion investment plan;
(iv) preparing a business plan; and (v) providing training and support in the development of a power market.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project cost: The total project cost was originally estimated at US$324.02 million. At closure, the actual project cost
was US$634.95 million, with the increase due to additional financing approved in 2011 to scale up the project
activities.

Financing: The Bank initially committed an IDA credit in the amount of US$200 million, then during implementation the
Additional Financing (AF) was approved in the amount of US$180 million as an IBRD loan to total US$380 million of
Bank financing. At project closure, the Bank IDA credit disbursed at US$207.65 million and the IBRD loan at US$180
million; the final disbursed amount was US$387.65 million, slightly higher in US dollars than the lending commitment
due to exchange rate variations, as was subsequently confirmed by the project team.

Borrower contribution : The Borrower committed US$124.02 million at appraisal, and additional US$196.06 million
during AF to total US$320.08 million. At closure, the Borrower contribution totaled US$269.08 million.

Dates: The project closing date was extended twice by a total of 3.5 years from the original closing date of December
31, 2010 to June 30, 2014. The first extension in 2010 was for half a year to June 30, 2011, through the first
restructuring to allow adequate time for processing the additional financing (AF). The second extension was approved
in conjunction with AF, which was approved on March 29, 2011 to scale up the transmission system expansion and
reinforcement sub-component of the project to meet growing demand (i.e., scale-up of the 500 kilovolt (kV) and 220kV
transmission lines and substations). Also, a new sub-component was added to provide capacity building to the newly
established National Power Transmission Corporation (NPT). The targets for the outcome indicators were revised,
along with the output indicators which were updated in line with the project scale- up.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
High.
At appraisal, Vietnam's electricity demand was projected to continue to grow by 7-8% per year. To meet that demand,
the Government aimed to expand power generation capacity from 9,956 MW in 2004 to 20,636 MW in 2010. Further
transmission and distribution (T&D) investments were required to complement new generation capacity, complete key
transmission rings, and improve load dispatch, metering and communication across the entire national network. The
project development objectives were consistent with the focus on the T&D development of Vietnam's 5th- 7th Power
Development Master Plans covering the period from 2004 up to 2020,the Government’s Socio-Economic
Development Plan (SEDP) for 2011-2015 and the Socio-Economic Development strategy (SEDS) for 2011-2020. The
project development objectives also remain relevant to the Bank's Country Partnership Strategy for FY 2012-2016,
which aimed at improving the quality and efficiency of infrastructure services, in particular the electricity distribution
infrastructure. The objectives were also in line with the main priorities of the Bank's country strategies at appraisal
FY2003-2006 and during implementation FY2007- 2011, which aimed at more efficient and reliable provision of
infrastructure services, in particular energy.

 b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial.
The project results framework indicated a clear causal chain between the activities financed by the project and the
outputs and outcomes that would attain the project's development objectives. The objective of developing an efficient
electricity transmission and distribution system could be achieved through project investments in the transmission and
distribution (T&D) systems expansion and reinforcement, and electricity market and system operations modernization,
including technical assistance in the market transition reform.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   To assist the Borrower in developing an efficient electricity transmission and distribution system , thus enabling the
timely evacuation of power from new electricity generation plants to growing load centers and maintenance of
system security, reliability and power quality ; and contributing to the restructuring of the power sector . Substantial.

Outputs
  541 circuit km of 500kV transmission lines were constructed, exceeding the revised target of 502km and slightly
    below the original target of 567km.
  155.36 circuit km of 220 kV transmission lines were constructed, against the revised target of 180km (added at
    AF).
  6.27 circuit km of 110kV transmission lines were constructed, above the revised target of 0 and below the original
    target of 59km.
  Total capacity of the 500kV/220 kV transformers installed was 2,700 MVA, exceeding both the original (1,950)
    and revised (2,550) targets.
  Total capacity of the 220kV/110 kV transformers installed was 1,875 MVA, exceeding the original target of 1,250
    MVA but below the revised target of 2,500 MVA.
  Total capacity of the 110kV/ MV transformers installed was 493 MVA, exceeding both the original and revised
    target of 400 MVA.
  The Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition/ Energy Management System (SCADA/EMS) developed under the
    project for the National Load Dispatch Center (NLDC) was to be fully operational in July 2015 (ICR, Results
    Framework). The SCADA system is expected to yield efficiency benefits of electricity transmission and
    distribution by: (i) reducing power generation cost by approximately 0.1% per year through improved economic
    dispatch; (ii) reducing fuel cost by approximately 0.05% per year due to better hydrothermal scheduling; and (iii)
    reducing transmission losses by 1% per year through optimizing power flow (ICR, p.16).
  The VietPool Interim Market System was planned to be replaced with a fully functional market management
    system but was not implemented due to decision of EVN/ NLDC in 2007.
  Two technical outputs were delivered under the project: (i) a transmission system planning study was partially
    produced in 2010, however, due to delay in completion and quality concerns, the consultancy contract was
    terminated; and (ii) a methodology for economic and financial analysis was developed for NPT in 2014. The other
    planned TA activities were dropped, in particular related to management of liabilities to minimize the impact of
    currency depreciation and high interest rates, and determination of tariff adjustment requirements (ICR, p.31-32).



Outcome
  The target of 1,200 MW for new generation capacity connected via 500 kV transmission system links was
    substantially overachieved- 2,250 MW.
  For 500 kV transmission system, the frequency of interruptions (number of faults/100km) reduced from 0.33 to
    0.148, substantially exceeding both the original (0.315) and revised (0.300) targets; and the average duration of
    interruptions reduced from 15.75 minutes to 8.98 minutes, substantially exceeding both the original (14.98) and
    revised (13.50) targets.
  For 220 kV transmission system, the frequency of interruptions reduced from 0.596 to 0.243, substantially
    exceeding both the original (0.566) and revised (0.450) targets; and the average duration of interruptions reduced
    from 21.2 minutes to 20.85 minutes, exceeding both the original (20.16) and revised (23.80) targets.
  For 110 kV distribution system, the frequency of interruptions reduced from 3.32 to 1.849, substantially exceeding
    both the original and revised targets of 3.166; and the average duration of interruptions reduced from 28.80
    minutes to 25.82 minutes, exceeding both the original (27.39) and revised (28.22) targets.
  The ICR reports in the Results Framework that the outcome indicators for development of a single transmission
    subsidiary within the Vietnam Electricity (EVN) company and a functioning internal power market were fully
    achieved. The National Power Transmission Corporation (NPT) was established by EVN’s decision
    No.223/QD-EVN of April 11, 2008 for construction and operation of the national power transmission system, and
    eleven power companies (PCs) were merged into five PCs in 2010 to create economies of scale and scope in
    distribution. The ICR does not claim that this result could be attributed to the project under review, however.
    There was no project outcome arising from technical assistance to NPT: the draft transmission system planning
    study was not used by NPT, and the methodology for economic and financial analysis was still to be approved by
    NPT and EVN for use.

5. Efficiency:
Economic Analysis. At project closing, the economic internal rate of return (EIRR) for the transmission and
distribution component was estimated to be 22.9% as compared with 21.8% at appraisal. The same methodology
based on “with project’ and ‘without project” scenarios was applied to both estimates. Only conservative economic
benefits derived from the incremental power sales were measured; other possible economic benefits such as those
arising from the reduction of transmission/distribution losses and the improvement of supply reliability were not used
as they were difficult to estimate, according to the PAD (Annex 9, p.66). The analysis was not conducted for
Component 2 (SCADA/EMS), because the component was still ongoing at project closure and the final technical
quality of the installed system would determine the benefits. An EIRR estimate for Component 2, through which a
much smaller project investment was made, would have little impact upon the overall EIRR for the project as a whole.
For Component 3- Market Transition Support. on which even less was spent, no EIRR was estimated.

Financial Analysis. At 16.6%, the Financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR) and NPV of US$385 million at completion
were higher than the appraisal FIRR estimate of 9.6% with NPV of US$105.7 million. These higher values at
completion were mainly due to the increase of general tariff levels during project implementation.

Despite high ex-post EIRR and FIRR, the project's efficiency is rated modest, mainly due to slow implementation in
technical assistance and installation of the SCADA system (part of the original activities), which was still not
completed at project closure. Delay in completion of three remaining transmission sub-projects (out of 24 total) was
caused by land acquisition issues; one sub-project was completed in October 2014, and the remaining two were
planned to be completed in 2015, as confirmed by the NPT (ICR, p.28).

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                  Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

      Appraisal                       Yes                                      21.8%                                    92%

      ICR estimate                    Yes                                      22.9%                                    90%
                                          * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The relevance of objectives is high, and that of design is substantial. The project substantially helped the Borrower
in developing an efficient electricity transmission and distribution system, albeit with modest efficiency. Overall, there
were moderate shortcomings in the project implementation. The project outcome rating under both the original and
revised outcome targets is Moderately Satisfactory. Thus a restructuring split calculation based on disbursements was
not required.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

     Unduly rapid growth in electricity consumption in project areas may result in deterioration of reliability and
      quality of the power supply . The Government of Vietnam remained strongly committed to the expansion and
      modernization of T&D, and will have to continue to be so to avoid interruption in supply. The risk is mitigated by a
      follow-up Bank- supported transmission efficiency project approved in August 2014 finances about 15% of the
      transmission investment demand up to 2020.

     Financial viability of NPT and PCs . Since creation, NPT suffered net operating losses, mainly due to
      transmission tariffs that did not reflect costs. The Government has been increasing the electricity tariffs to help
      improve its financial position, albeit not sufficient to fully cover the costs.


     a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The project design was built on the experience of past and then on-going projects in support of the power
sector in Vietnam. The project was expected to support further development of T&D systems and Vietnam's power
sector reform agenda. As the ICR p. 6 highlights the project thoroughly analyzed the sectoral context and correctly
identified the key needs for Vietnam at appraisal, namely, (a) to develop electricity infrastructure which keeps
pace with rapidly growing electricity demand; and (b) to consolidate and coordinate transmission functions,
leading to a single transmission legal entity conducting reliable grid operations. This analysis was supplemented
by in-depth discussions with EVN. Relevant analytic work included a ‘Transmission and Distribution Study’, which
was carried out under the Bank-supported Transmission Distribution and Disaster Reconstruction Project
(P045628). All the investment sub-projects included in the project were incorporated into the Government's Power
Development Master Plans. The ICR p.19 reports that the social and environmental safeguard issues were
addressed adequately in the project design to minimize social and environmental impacts and ensure compliance
with the relevant Bank policies.

The ICR p.19 finds that not all the risks had been identified at project appraisal, which included EVN’s
potential financial difficulties during implementation, and potential delay of the SCADA/EMS component arising
from a technically complex nature of the sub-project.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The ICR p.19 reports that the project team was able to properly monitor the progress of each sub-project under
the transmission and distribution expansion component identifying the challenges associated with land acquisition
and compensation. The team also provided detailed guidance to EVN and its subsidiary implementing agencies.
Careful monitoring of key performance indicators by supervision missions and a timely mid-term review allowed
the sub-projects to be revised for AF. Bank experts identified fiduciary and safeguard issues in a timely manner,
and responded to the clients by providing suitable advice on how to address them and achieve full compliance
with Bank policies (ICR,. p.20).

The ICR p.20 finds that the project supervision team could have provided a more critical review of the
implementation progress and work plan reported by the National Load Dispatch Center, considering the
technically complex nature of the SCADA system. Also, the team could have paid more attention to the monitoring
of project TA implementation progress, through a more intensive review of the technical outputs, and discussions
with the National Power Transmission Corporation on utilization of these outputs.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
     The Government of Vietnam' strong commitment to power sector reform is demonstrated by its enactment of
the Electricity Law in 2005 and the issuance of the sector reform roadmap in 2006. Since then, the government
has adopted a gradual approach for power sector restructuring, through the creation of affiliate companies to take
charge of operations in generation (3 Gencos), transmission (NPT), distribution and retail (5 power companies
(PCs)), and system and market operation (NLDC). In addition, the general tariff system was restructured to allow
periodic adjustment increasing tariffs by 44% on average in 2010-2013; at the same time, social tariff was
introduced to protect vulnerable and poor customers.

The ICR p.21 also commends local governments for their vigorous efforts in resolving land acquisition and
compensation challenges. People’s Committees at district and city/province levels coordinated with local
compensation councils to arrange meetings to actively provide information and guidance to individuals and
communities affected by the project.


   Government Performance Rating                                Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:
The Southern Power Projects Management Board (SPPMB) and the Central Power Projects Management Board
(CPPMB) of the National Power Transmission Corporation (NPT) were the implementing agencies for the T&D
subprojects. The ICR p. 21 reports that SPPMB and CPPMB worked very closely with the Bank team to monitor
the progress of each sub-project, identify the challenges associated with land acquisition and compensation, and
implement guidance provided by the government and the Bank. However, three sub-projects were not fully
completed by project closure.

The power companies, including Ho Chi Minh City Power Corporation (HCMCPC) and Central Power Corporation
(CPC), were responsible for second and third sub-components of Component 1. The ICR p.21 assesses their
performance as satisfactory. Both entities were able to complete the sub-projects before project closure. For
HCMCPC, although it faced several implementation difficulties, including temporary debilitation of the Hiep Binh
Phuoc 220 kV and associated sub-stations due to the pending completion of the linked Hoc Mon – Hiep Binh
Phuoc 220 kV transmission line, and land acquisition issues in a factory location and crowded residential areas, it
consulted with the Bank and relevant authorities in a timely manner, and successfully resolved the issue by the
end of the project. For CPC, although it faced difficulties regarding materials already purchased for a canceled
sub-project, it was able to utilize these materials by identifying two new similar sub-projects.

The National Load Dispatch Center was responsible for implementing the SCADA/EMS (Component 2). The
system was partially incomplete at project closure, however, as noted by the ICR p.21, the delay in
implementation were not under NLDC’s control, rather EVN's (in terms of decision-making on the location of the
new system).

The National Power Transmission Corporation (NPT) was responsible for technical assistance (Component 3).
The ICR p. 22 finds that NPT should have coordinated more closely and intensively with the project team and the
consultants to address implementation delay and ensure that acceptable technical outputs were delivered in a
timely manner.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   Chosen project indicators were appropriate ones for monitoring the achievement of the project’s intermediate
outcomes. The key outcome indicators were selected to measure the effect of the project in facilitating the new
generation capacity to alleviate power shortages, reduce transmission interruptions and overloading, and improve
quality of supply by reducing voltage excursions in the transmission system. The indicators included baseline data
and measurable targets set at appraisal (PAD, Annex 3).

During AF, two modifications were made to M&E: (i) the outcome targets of system reliability indicators (the number
and duration of power interruptions) were revised to reflect only 'technical' interruptions and exclude those caused by
natural phenomena such as typhoons; (ii) the values of intermediate indicators were updated in line with new
sub-projects finalized at AF.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   The ICR p.9 reports that data for the indicators were regularly collected and reported by EVN. The quality of
information provided was good as it was part of EVN’s internal management data, supplemented by progress reports
of the implementing agencies based upon their field visits.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The ICR p.21 reports that a careful monitoring of key performance indicators and a timely MTR allowed the
sub-projects to be revised during AF.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial
11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
This was a Category “B” project that triggered three safeguards policies – OP4.01 Environmental Assessment, OP
4.12 Involuntary Resettlement, and OP4.10 Indigenous People.

Environmental Assessment and Management : The ICR p.10 reports that the environmental performance was rated
as ‘satisfactory’ during project implementation, and there were no outstanding environmental safeguard issues. The
Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) of sub-projects were prepared for the transmission lines and sub-stations
in line with the project environmental guidelines and include detailed practical mitigation measures and estimated
budgets for their implementation, institutional responsibilities, monitoring plans, and building capacity for
environmental management and supervision. The EMPs were implemented satisfactorily as confirmed by field and
supervision engineers in project progress reports.The project management boards strictly followed government
regulations on electricity safety, fire prevention, and waste management during operation of the transmission lines
and sub-stations (ICR, p.10).

Social safeguards. The ICR p.10 assessed the overall compliance with the triggered social safeguard policies as
‘satisfactory’. All required safeguard documents were prepared, reviewed, cleared and publicly disclosed as per Bank
safeguard policies. The ICR p.10 reports that the implementation of involuntary resettlement arising from project
transmission investments (especially 220 kV-500 kV subprojects) was challenging. The magnitude of impacts for
transmission subprojects is more significant than lower voltage investments due to: (i) larger area of land required for
tower foundations or substations; (ii) wider rights-of-way, resulting in land use restriction across larger areas; (iii) more
actual physical relocation needed. During implementation, the implementing agencies faced a lot of difficulties in: (i)
negotiating with affected households about compensation packages; (ii) collaborating with local authorities in daily
activities of land acquisition, compensation and resettlement; and (iii) dealing with unexpected changes in the
transmission line sub-project design (because of the modification of local urban planning led by the government (ICR,
p.27)). The ICR p.10 notes that the implementing agencies adequately managed activities related to involuntary
resettlement, including the relocation of a private religious structure (Phu My – Song May 500 kV TL subproject), the
completion of a complex sub-project (Quang Ninh – Hiep Hoa 500 kV TL subproject); and the usage of monitoring
reports as a tool for performance improvement (Southern Projects Management Board-SPMB).

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Procurement: The ICR p.11 reports that the overall procurement performance of the project was ‘satisfactory’ during
implementation, and no cases of fraud and corruption were detected. Also, no misprocurement was reported. The
project procurement packages covered civil works, electrical and mechanical equipment, erection and installation, and
consulting services, which were carried out in accordance with the Bank’s guidelines (ICR, p.11). The ICR p.11 notes
that the implementing agencies were effective following the procurement process to overcome issues such as delays
in the procurement and delivery of the main equipment and lag between the delivery of material/equipment and
construction work. Some procurement delays during early stages of the project implementation were largely due to
lack of familiarity with the Bank procurement process, as well as to complex approval processes that were beyond the
control of the project.

Financial management. The ICR p.11 reports that financial management performance was rated moderately
satisfactory and satisfactory throughout the project implementation period. The project FM system and arrangement
provided adequate assurance that the use of project funds was exclusively for the intended purposes. The ICR p.11
notes that the IAs were proactive in dealing with the recommendations from the Bank team’s missions, with the
exception of noncompliance with some financial covenants, later found to be a sector- wide issue rather than project
specific one.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                  IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                        Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately                 Moderately
                               Satisfactory               Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

 13. Lessons:
  The following lessons are selected from a longer list of lessons identified by the ICR, with some adaptation of the
language:

    Flexibility is important for project with a large number of sub -projects that are implemented through a phased
     approach. This is particularly important for T&D projects in order to accommodate changing priorities as load
     grows and demand patterns change.

    In T&D project, key performance indicators should be disaggregated to capture outcomes that are brought by
     specific investments . A nation-wide System Average Interruption Frequency Index (SAIFI), System Average
     Interruption Duration Index (SAIDI) or voltage level are used as key performance indicators for electricity
     projects. These, however, generally measure not only the impact of investment under a project but also the
     effects of the overall investment in T&D. One should consider regional interruption statistics for measuring the
     benefits of sub-projects that prevail within a specific area.

    Project financial covenants could be ineffective . The financial challenges need to be addressed more
     holistically at the overall sector level. Under this project, NPT was not able to comply with the financial
     covenants required for loans received from various international financial institutions during the project period.
     The Bank, jointly with EVN, a Government Working Group (GWG) and in close cooperation with other
     institutional financial institutions, conducted a relevant technical study and jointly developed a Financial
     Recovery Plan for EVN, NPT and the PCs in 2014. The Plan covers the period up to 2020 and includes a
     gliding tariff adjustment path to ensure full cost recovery of NPT’s transmission business and recommends
     operational and technical improvements to increase its overall efficiency.

    Technical assistance outputs should be supervised intensively , along with monitoring the intended outcomes .
     TA activities should be completed well before the project closure to allow sufficient time to monitor the related
     impact.



14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

 The ICR is concise and outcome oriented. The quality of evidence is adequate. The ICR provides good level of detail
in covering the issues that affected project implementation, in particular in its very thorough Annex 2 on outputs. It
also offers useful insights into designing M&E for transmission and distribution projects. Lessons are useful and
evidence-based, though readers would have benefitted more from them had they been more succinctly presented.
There were some minor discrepancies: (i) in the actual amount for disbursements under the IBRD loan and IDA credit
in Annex 1 vs. the main data sheet; (ii) inconsistent reporting of rating in text of Bank performance at quality at entry,
in particular as satisfactory on p.20.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
