OfFiIAL
DOCUMENTS
The World Bank                                            .           (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION         U.S.A.                  Cable Address: INDEVAS
June 21, 2013
H.E Nguyen Van Binh
Governor
State Bank of Vietnam
49 Ly Thai To
Hanoi
Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Re: IBRD Loan No. 8026 - VN
(Vietnam: Additional Financing for the Second Transmission and Distribution Project)
Additional Instructions: Revised Disbursement Letter
Excellency:
I refer to the Loan Agreement between the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development ("Bank") and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam ("Borrower") for the above-
referenced project, dated May 31, 2011. The Loan Agreement provides that the Bank may issue
additional instructions regarding the withdrawal of the proceeds of Loan No. 8026 - VN
("Loan"). This letter ("Disbursement Letter"), as revised from time to time, constitutes the
additional instructions and replaces the previous version dated May 31, 2011.
The attached World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006,
("Disbursement Guidelines") (Attachment 1), are an integral part of the Disbursement Letter.
The manner in which the provisions in the Disbursement Guidelines apply to the Loan is
specified below. Sections and subsections in parentheses below refer to the relevant sections and
subsections in the Disbursement Guidelines and, unless otherwise defined in this letter, the
capitalized terms used have the meanings ascribed to them in the Disbursement Guidelines.
I. Disbursement Arrangements
(i) Disbursement Methods (section 2). The following Disbursement Methods may be used
under the Loan:
* Advance
* Reimbursement
* Direct Payment
* Special Commitment
(ii) Disbursement Deadline Date (subsection 3.7). The Disbursement Deadline Date is four
months after the Closing Date specified in the Loan Agreement. Any changes to this date will be
notified by the Bank.
Page 1 of 29


﻿II. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
(i) Authorized Signatures (subsection 3.1). An authorized signatory letter in the Form attached
(Attachment 2) should be furnished to the Bank at the address indicated below providing the
name(s) and specimen signature(s) of the official(s) authorized to sign Applications:
The World Bank
8th Floor
63 Lf Thai T6
HA N6i, Vietnam
Attention: Ms. Victoria Kwakwa, Country Director
(ii) Applications (subsections 3.2 - 3.3). Please provide completed and signed (a) Applications
for withdrawal, together with supporting documents, and (b) Applications for special
commitments, together with a copy of the commercial bank letter of credit, to the address
indicated below:
The World Bank
26th Floor - One Global Place
5th Avenue Corner 25th Street
Bonifacio Global City
Taguig City, Philippines 1634
Attention: Loan Department
(iii) Electronic Delivery (subsection 3.4). The Bank may permit the Borrower to electronically
deliver to the Bank Applications (with supporting documents) through the Bank's Client
Connection, web-based portal. The option to deliver Applications to the Bank by electronic
means may be effected if: (a) the Borrower has designated in writing, pursuant to the terms of
subparagraph (i) of this Section, its officials who are authorized to sign and deliver Applications
and to receive secure identification credentials ("SIDC") from the Bank for the purpose of
delivering such Applications by electronic means; and (b) all such officials designated by the
Borrower have registered as users of Client Connection. If the Bank agrees, the Bank will
provide the Borrower with SIDC for the designated officials. Following which, the designated
officials may deliver Applications electronically by completing Form 2380, which is accessible
through Client Connection (https://clientconnection.worldbank.org). The Borrower may
continue to exercise the option of preparing and delivering Applications in paper form. The
Bank reserves the right and may, in its sole discretion, temporarily or permanently disallow the
electronic delivery of Applications by the Borrower.
(iv) Terms and Conditions of Use of SIDC to Process Applications. By designating officials to
use SIDC and by choosing to deliver the Applications electronically, the Borrower confirms
through the authorized signatory letter its agreement to: (a) abide by the Terms and Conditions of
Use of Secure Identification Credentials in connection with Use of Electronic Means to Process
Applications and Supporting Documentation ("Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure
Identification Credentials") provided in Attachment 3, and (b) to cause such official to abide by
those terms and conditions.
Page 2 of 29


﻿(v) Minimum Value of Applications (subsection 3.5). The Minimum Value of Applications for
Reimbursement, Direct Payment and Special Commitment is United States Dollars (USD)
1,000,000 equivalent.
(vi) Advances (sections 5 and 6).
* Type of Designated Account (subsection 5.3): One Segregated Account
*  Currency of Designated Account (subsection 5.4): USD
*  Financial Institution at which the Designated Account is Opened (subsection 5.5):
Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
*  Ceiling (subsection 6.1): USD 5,000,000
III. Reporting on Use of Loan Proceeds
(i) Supporting Documentation (section 4). Supporting documentation should be provided with
each Application for withdrawal as set out below:
* For requests for Reimbursement:
o  Statement of Expenditure in the form attached (Attachment 4) for all
expenditures/ contracts not subject to the Bank's Prior Review.
o  List of payments against contracts that are subject to the Bank's Prior Review,
in the form attached (Attachment 5) together with Records evidencing eligible
expenditures (e.g. copies of receipts, supplier invoices).
* For reporting eligible expenditures paid from the Designated Account:
o  Statement of Expenditure in the form attached (Attachment 4) for all
expenditures/ contracts not subject to the Bank's Prior Review.
o  List of payments against contracts that are subject to the Bank's Prior Review,
in the form attached (Attachment 5) together with Records evidencing eligible
expenditures (e.g. copies of receipts, supplier invoices).
o  DA Reconciliation Statement (Attachment 6) with copies of the bank statements
* For requests for Direct Payment:
o Records evidencing eligible expenditures, e.g. copies of receipts, supplier
invoices
Page 3 of 29


﻿(ii) Frequency of Reporting Eligible Expenditures Paid from the Designated Account
(subsection 6.3): Monthly
IV. Other Important Information
For additional information on disbursement arrangements, please refer to the
Disbursement Handbook available on the Bank's public website at https://www.worldbank.org
and its secure website "Client Connection" at https://clientconnection.worldbank.org. Print
copies are available upon request.
If you have not already done so, the Bank recommends that you register as a user of the
Client Connection website (https://clientconnection.worldbank.org). From this website you will
be able to prepare and deliver Applications, monitor the near real-time status of the Loan, and
retrieve related policy, financial, and procurement information. All Borrower officials
authorized to sign and deliver Applications by electronic means are required to register with
Client Connection before electronic delivery can be effected. For more information about the
website and registration arrangements, please contact the Bank by email at
<clientconnection@worldbank.org>.
If you have any queries in relation to the above, please contact Miguel Santiago Oliveira,
Senior Finance Officer at moliveira(@ worldbank.org using the above reference.
Yours sincerely,
Miguel Santiago Oliveira
Senior Finance Officer
Loan Department
Page 4 of 29


﻿Attachments
1. World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006
2. Form for Authorized Signatures
3. Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Credentials in connection with Use of
Electronic Means to Process Applications and Supporting Documentation, dated March 1,
2013
4. Form of "Statement of Expenditure"
5. Form of Payments Against Contracts Subject to the Bank's Prior Review
6. Form of DA Reconciliation Statement
Cleared with and cc: Hung Tan Tran, EASVS
Huong Thi Mai Nong, LEGES
Page 5 of 29


﻿Attachmet I
Il  \\(R'  BA 1) IY\N K
DISBURSEMENTI
GUIDELINES
FOR PRO)JECFS
MANY 2006
Page 6 of 29


﻿WORLD BANK
DISBURSEMENT GUIDELINES
FOR PROJECTS
LOAN DEPARTMENT
May 1, 2006
Page 7 of 29


﻿Copyright rj) 2(xxi
The International lank for Recorstruction and I)evelopneit/
111-·WOt, I BANK
1818 Il Street, N.W.
Washirigtoi. D.C. 20433, :.S.A.
Iirst Printing: July 2(Xx;
Page 8 of 29


﻿CONTENTS
Page
1. Purpose                    ..............5..... ................5
2. Disbursement Methods                      ....... 6
3. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds ...................... 6
4. Supporting Documentation Requirements ..  ......... 9
5. Designated Accounts.......................... 10
6. Terms and Conditions Applicable to Advances ........... 12
7. Ineligible Expenditures ........................ 14
8. Refunds                     ..................5.... ............15
31
Page 9 of 29


﻿World Bank
Disbursement Guidelines
for Projects
May 1, 2006
1. Purpose
1.1 The purpose of these Guidelines is to set out the Bank's
procedures for disbursement of loan proceeds for projects.'
Specifically. the Guidelines explain (a) the different methods
used by the Bank to disburse loan proceeds, (b) the require-
ments for withdrawal from the Loan Account, (c) the types
of supporting documentation that the borrower may be re-
quircd to provide to dcmonstrate the use of loan proceeds
for eligible expenditures. (d) the criteria for establishing des-
ignated accounts, (e) the terms and conditions applicable to
advances, (f) the types of actions that the Bank may take
if it determines that loan proceeds are not needed or have
been used for ineligible purposes, and (g) the consequence of
refunds.
"Hank" includes 111111) and II)A: "oan" includes credit and grant; "bor-
rower" includes the borrower of an I11) loRmi, IDA credit. or Project Prepa-
ration Facility advance and the recipient of a grant; and "Loan Agreement"
includes the agreement with the Bank providing for a credit. grant, or ad-
vance. These DLisbursement Guidelines apply to all loans, credits. advances
under the Project Preparation FHcility, and grants fimanced under the In-
stitutional Development Fund and Clobal Environment Facility unless oth-
erwise provided in Operational Policy 10.20, Global Envimmronmct Facility
OpemJtIorV Jforthcoming). I hese Guidelines also apply to other recipient-
executed grants fimanced from trust funds unless. exceptionally, the terms
of the agreement with the donor make provision for different requirements.
They do not apply to Development Policy loans.
5
Page 10 of 29


﻿WORIP  I %%, I)N  11SI INIC [I li.LIIS2 FOR I'llolixck's
2. Disbursement Methods
2.1 The Bank establishes disbursement arrangements for an op-
cration in consultation with the borrower and taking into
consideration, tmtcr aba, an assessment of the borrower's
financial management and procurement arrangements, the
procurement plan and cash flow needs of the operation, and
its disbursement experience with the borrower.
2.2 The Bank disburses proceeds from the Loan Account estab-
lished for each loan, to or on the order of the borrower, using
one or more of the disbursement, methods set forth below, as
determined by the Bank.
(a) Reimbursement: The Bank may reimburse the bor-
rower for expenditures eligible for financing pursuant to
the Loan Agreement ("cligible expenditures") that the
borrower has prefinanced from its own resources.
(b) Advance: The Bank may advance loan proceeds into
a designated account of the borrower to finance eligible
expenditures as they are incurred and for which sup-
porting documents will be provided at. a later date (see
section 5, "Designated Accounts").
(c) Direct Payment: The Bank may make payments, at
the borrower's request, directly to a third party (e.g.,
supplier, contractor, consultant) for eligible expendi-
tures.
(d) Special Commitment: The Bank may pay amounts
to a third party for eligible expenditures under special
commitments entered into. in writing, at the borrower's
request and on terms and conditions agreed between the
Bank and the borrower.
3. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
3.1 Authorized Signatures. Before loan proceeds may be
withdrawn or committed from the Loan Account. the au-
6
Page 11 of 29


﻿[,(V )iA11%1M1_\1 MAN 1. 20ME
thorized representative of the borrower (as designated in the
Loan Agreement) must furnish to the Bank (a) the name(s)
of the official(s) authorized to sign applications for with-
drawal and applications for a special commitment (collec-
tively, "Applications"). and (b) the authenticated specimen
signature(s) of the official(s). The borrower must indicate
clearly if more than one signature is required on Applica-
tions and must notify the Bank promptly of any changes in
signature authority.
3.2 Applications. Applications must be provided to the Bank
in such form and include such information as the Bank may
reasonably request. Application forms are available online
from the Client Connection Web site at http://cheintconnc-
tion. worldbank. org or from the Bank upon request.
3.3 For withdrawal from the Loan Account for advances, the
borrower should provide an original signed application for
withdrawal. For withdrawal from the Loan Account for re-
imbursements and direct payments and for reporting on the
use of advances, the borrower should provide an original
signed application for withdrawal together with one copy
of supporting documents (see section 4, "Supporting Docu-
mentation Requirements"). For a special commitment from
the Loan Account, the borrower should provide an original
signed application for a special commitment together with
one copy of the letter of credit. The Bank reserves the right
not to accept or review duplicate copies of Applications and
supporting documents and may at its discretion return or
destroy the duplicates.
3.4 Electronic Delivery. The Bank may authorize the bor-
rower to use electronic means. in a manner and on terms
and conditions specified by the Bank., to deliver Applications
and supporting documentation to the Bank. Applications
and supporting documentation delivered in accordance with
this subsection will be deemed to have been provided to the
Bank for the purposes of satisfying the requirements of sub-
sections 3.2 and 3.3 of these Guidelines.
71
Page 12 of 29


﻿Wowj 011.i DISt wm1)4! .uv'- C I G \I vs Foll 1,1h),wels  ON *ff
3.5 Minimum Value of Applications. The Bank establishes
a minimum value for Applications for reimbursement, direct
payment, and special commitment. The Bank reserves the
right not to accept Applications that are below such mini-
mum value.
3.6 Loan Disbursing Period. The Bank processes Appli-
cations only after the LA)an Agreement has been declared
effective in accordance with the terms of the Loan Agree-
ment. The expenditures for which the Applications are
made must be:
(a) paid for (i) on or after the date of the Loan Agreement,
or (ii) in the case of operations that permit retroactive
financing, on or after the earlier date specified in the
Loan Agreement for that purpose, and
(b) incurred on or before the closing date specified or re-
ferred to in the Loan Agreement ("Closing Date"). ex-
cept as otherwise specifically agreed with the Bank.
3.7 The loan disbursing period ends on the final date established
by the Baik for receipt by the Bank of applications for with-
drawal and supporting documentation (the "Disbursement
Deadline Date"). The Disbursement Deadline Date may be
the same as the Closing Date, or up to four months after the
Closing Date. Normally, to support orderly project comple-
tion and closure of the Loan Account, the Bank does not ac-
cept applications for withdrawal or supporting documentation
received after the Disbursement Deadline Date. The borrower
should promptly inform the Bank of any expected implemen-
tation delays or exceptional administrative issues before these
dates. The Bank notifies the borrower of any exception that
the Bank may make to the Disbursement Deadline Date.
3.8 Disbursement Conditions. If the Loan Agreement con-
tains a disbursement condition for a specific expenditure cat-
egory. the Bank will disburse loan proceeds for that category
only after the disbursement condition has been fulfilled and
the Bank has notified the borrower to this effect.
18
Page 13 of 29


﻿I.gg                       oA\IilR tr..  MANY 1. 2006
4. Supporting Documentation Requirements
4.1 The borrower provides supporting documentation to the
Bank to show that loan proceeds have been or are being
used to finance eligible expenditures.
4.2 For special commitments, the commercial bank provides its
confirmation directly to the Bank that conditions for release
of paymcnts committed for withdrawal have been met.
4.3 'Tpes of Supporting Documentation. The Bank re-
quires cither copies of the original documents evidencing
eligible exenditures ("Records") or summary reports of ex-
perditure (-Summary Reports") in such form and substance
as the Bank may specify. Records include such documents
as invoices and receipts. A Summary Report may be either
(a) the interim un-audited financial report required under
the Loan Agreement ("Interim Financial Report") or (b)
a statement of expenditure summarizing eligible expendi-
tures paid (luring a stated period ("Statement of Expendi-
ture"). In all cases, the borrower is responsible for retaining
the original documents evidencing eligible expenditures and
making them available for audit or inspection.
4.4 The Bank determines the types of supporting documentation
that the borrower should provide, taking into consideration
the disbursement method used. The supporting documenta-
tion may be the following:
(a) For applications for reimbursement: (i) Interim
Financial Reports. (ii) Statements of Expenditure, (iii)
Records, or (iv) Records required by the Bank for spe-
cific expenditures and Statements of Expenditure for all
other expenditures;
(b) For reporting on the use of advances: (i) Interim
Financial Reports. (ii) Statements of Expenditure, (iii)
Records, or (iv) Records required by the Bank for spe-
cific expenditures and Statements of Expenditure for all
other expenditures;
91
Page 14 of 29


﻿W~(J411!?I AN k Di l) I sx.t. I r GI)t I  Folt I'MmIci  M M M If f
(c) For applications for direct payments: Records;
arid
(d) Any other supporting documentation that the Bank
may request by notice to the borrower.
4.5 Failure to Provide Audited Financial Statements. If
the borrower fails to provide any of the audited Fiiancial
Statements required in accordance with, and within the pe-
riodx of time specified in, the Loan Agreement, the Bank may
at its discretion decide not to accept applications for with-
drawal supported by Summary Reports, even if such reports
are accompanied by Records.
5. Designated Accounts
5.1 The borrower may open one or more designated accounts
into which the Bank may, at the borrower's request, de-
posit amounts withdrawn from the Loan Account for the
purpose of paying for eligible expenditures as they are in-
curred ("Designated Accounit"). Before the Bank authorizes
establishment of a Designated Account, the borrower must
have adequate administrative capability, internal controls,
and accounting and auditing procedures to ensure effective
use of the Designated Account.
5.2 The Bank may decide not to permit the use of )esignated
Accounts in new projects if the borrower has failed to re-
fund undocumented advances in the Designated Account of
any other loan to, or guarantecd by, the borrower within
two months after the Disbursement Deadline Date for such
loan.
5.3 Type of Designated Account. A Designated Account may
be established in one of the two ways set out below, as ap-
propriate for the operation concerned. as determined and
notified by the Bank.
1 10
Page 15 of 29


﻿E                        .LOI-AMM'INI MAY 1,At
(a) Segregated Account: this is an account of the borrower
into which only proceeds of the loan may be deposited;
or
(b) Pooled Account: this is an account of the borrower
into which the loan proceeds and proceeds of other fi-
nancing for the operation (e.g., borrower resources and/
or financing by other development partners) may be de-
posited.
5.4 Currency of the Designated Account. Designated Ac-
counts must be in a currency acceptable to the Bank. In
countries that have a freely convertible currency, Designated
Accounts may be held in the currency of the borrower or
any freely convertible currency. The Bank may also agree
to local currency Designated Accounts when, intcr alia, the
country's currency (even if not freely convertible) is stable
and the cxpenditures to be financed are primarily in lo-
cal currency. The borrower bears all risks associated with
foreign exchange fluctuations between (a) the currency of
denomination of the loan and that of the borrower's Desig-
nated Account, and (b) the currency of denomination of the
borrower's Designated Account and the currency or curren-
cies of project expenditures.
5.5 Financial Institution. Designated Accounts must be
opened and maintained in a financial institution accept-
able to the Bank on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank. To be acceptable to the Bank, the financial institution
proposed by the borrower should generally meet all the fol-
lowing requirements:
(a) be financially sound:
(b) be authorized to maintain the Designated Account in
the currency agreed between the Bank and the bor-
rower;
(c) be audited regularly, and receive satisfactory audit re-
ports;
11  I
Page 16 of 29


﻿Wom.l)H I&%4. ISIm  Is 1  G~ 11)4.I.I'.I.S UoR 1M).1ivs   E N
(d) be able to execute a large number of transactions
promptly:
(e) be able to perform a wide range of banking services sat-
isfactorily;
(f) be able to provide a detailed statement of the Desig-
nated Account:
(g) be part of a satisfactory correspondent banking network;
and
(h) charge reasonable fees for its services.
5.6 The Bank reserves the right not to accept a financial insti-
tution for the opening and/or maintenance of a Designated
Account if such institution has asserted or asserts a claim
to set off, seize, or attach the proceeds of any Bank loan on
deposit in a Designated Account maintained by it.
6. Terms and Conditions Applicable to Advances
6.1 Ceiling. The Bank notifies the borrower of the maximum
amount of loan proceeds that may be on deposit in a Desig-
nated Account (the "Ceiling"). The Bank, at its discretion,
may establish the Ceiling as either (a) a fixed amount, or (b)
an amount that is adjusted from time to time during project
implementation based on periodic forecasts of project cash
flow needs.
6.2 Applications for Advances. The borrower may apply for
an advance in an amount up to the Ceiling less the aggre-
gate amount of those advances previously received by the
borrower for which the borrower has not yet provided sup-
porting documentation. Normally, to support orderly closure
of the Loan Account, the Bank does not advance loan pro-
ceeds into the Designated Account after the Closing Date.
6.3 requency of Reporting Eligible Expenditures Paid
from the Designated Account. The borrower reports on
the use of loan proceeds advanced to the Designated Account
1 12
Page 17 of 29


﻿HUE                                IALos thMati Ul  MN 200t
at, intervals specified by the Bank by notice to the borrower
("Reporting Period"). The borrower should ensure that all
amounts deposited in the Designated Account are accounted
for and their use reported prior to the Disbursement Dead-
line Date. After this date. the borrower must refund to the
Bank any advances still unaccounted for or remaining in the
Designated Account.
6.4 Withholding Advances. The Bank is not required to make
any deposit into the Designated Account if:
(a) The Bank determines that payment of the deposit would
result in exceeding the Cciling (see subsection 6.2, "Ap-
plications for Advances");
(b) The Bank is not satisfied that the borrower's planned
project expenditures justify the deposit. The Bank may,
by notice to the borrower, adjust the amount it deposits
or withhold further deposits into the Designated Ac-
count until it is satisfied that the financial needs of the
project warrant further deposits;
(c) The borrower fails to take the action required pursuant
to the determinations made by the Bank under subsec-
tions 7.1 and 7.2 of these Guidelines;
(d) The borrower fails to provide any of the audited Finani-
cial Statements required in accordance with, and within
the period of time specified in, the Loan Agreement;
(e) The Bank determines that all further withdrawals of
loan proceeds should be made by the borrower directly
from the Loan Account; or
(f) The Bank has notified the borrower of its intention to
suspend in whole or in part the borrower's right to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account.
6.5 Excess Advances. If at any time the Bank determines that
any amount deposited in the Designated Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures
("Excess Amount"), it may, at its discretion, require the
borrower to take one of the two actions listed below. Upon
13 I
Page 18 of 29


﻿notification by the Bank, the borrower must promptly take
the action requested:
(a) Provide evidence satisfactory to the Bank within a pe-
riod specified by the Bank that the Excess Amount will
be used to pay for eligible expenditures. If the evidence
is not furnished within the time period specified, the
borrower must promptly refund the Excess Amount to
the Bank; or
(b) Refund the Excess Amount promptly.
7. Ineligible Expenditures
7.1 Ineligible E2xpenditures Generally. If the Bank deter-
mines that any amount of the loan was used to pay for an
expenditure that is not eligible pursuant to the Loan Agree-
ment ("ineligible expenditure"). the Bank may. at its dis-
cretion, require the borrower to take one of the two actions
listed below. Upon notification by the Bank. the borrower
must promptly take the action requested:
(a) Refund an equivaleiit amount to the Bank; or
(b) Exceptionally, provide substitute documentation cvi-
dencing other eligible expenditures.
7.2 Ineligible E:penditures Paid from the Designated
Account. If the Bank determines that any payment out of
the Designated Account was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank or was made for an ineligible expen-
diture. the Batik may, at its discretion, require the borrower
to take one of the actions listed below. Upon notification
by the Bank, the borrower must promptly take the action
requested:
(a) Provide the additional evidence requested by the Bank;
(b) Deposit an equivalent amount into the Designated Ac-
count;
1 14
Page 19 of 29


﻿(c) Refund an equivalent amount to the Bank; or
(d) Exceptionally, provide substitute documentation evi-
dencing other eligible expenditures.
8. Refunds
8.1 Borrower Decision to Refund. The borrower may, upon
notice to the Bank. refund al or any amount of the loan on
deposit in the Designated Account to the Bank for credit to
the Loan Account.
8.2 Consequence of Refunds. The Bank shall determine
whether refunds made to the Bank in accordance with sec-
tions 6 and 7 and subsection 8.1 of these Disbursement
Guidelines will be credited to the Loan Account for subse-
quent withdrawal or for cancellation. Borrowers should be
aware that refunds of loan proceeds may result in swap ter-
miniation fees and/or unwinding costs for amounts for which
the interest rate basis or currency has been converted or
hedged.
8.3 Other Obligations Unaffected by Refunds. Refunds of
amounts of the loan do not affect any remedies of the Bank
under the Loan Agreement.
15 I
Page 20 of 29


﻿llI \W( )RI 1 AN K
\ '  l I Nnk
s gn,1  20433
Page 21 of 29


﻿Attachment 2
Form of Authorized Signatory Letter
[Letterhead]
Ministry of Finance
[Street address]
[DATE]
The World Bank
8th Floor
63 Lf ThAi T5
Hd N6i, Vietnam
Attention: Ms. Victoria Kwakwa, Country Director
Re: IBRD Loan No. 8026 - VN
(Vietnam: Additional Financin2 for the Second Transmission and Distribution Project)
Dear Victoria
I refer to the Loan Agreement between the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development ("Bank") and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam ("Borrower") for the above-
referenced project, dated May 31, 2011, providing the above Loan. For the purposes of Section
2.03 of the General Conditions as defined in the Agreement, any '[one] of the persons whose
authenticated specimen signatures appear below is authorized on behalf of the Borrower to sign
Applications for withdrawal and Applications for a special commitment under this Loan.
2
For the purpose of delivering Applications to the Bank, [each] of the persons whose
authenticated specimen signatures appears below is authorized on behalf of the Borrower, acting
3[individually] 4[jointly], to deliver Applications, and evidence in support thereof on the terms
and conditions specified by the Bank.
5[This confirms that the Borrower is authorizing such persons to accept Secure
Identification Credentials (SIDC) and to deliver the Applications and supporting documents to
.  Instruction to the Borrower: Stipulate if more than one person needs to sign Applications, and how many or which
positions, and if any thresholds apply. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Bank
2 Instruction to the Borrower: Stipulate if more than one person needs to jointly sign Applications, if so, please
indicate the actual number. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Bank
3 Instruction to the Borrower: Use this bracket if any one of the authorized persons may sign; if this is not
applicable, please delete. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Bank.
4 Instruction to the Borrower: Use this bracket only if several individuals must jointly sign each Application; if this
is not applicable, please delete. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Bank.
Instruction to the Borrower: Add this paragraph if the Borrower wishes to authorize the listed persons to accept
Secure Identification Credentials and to deliver Applications by electronic means; if this is not applicable, please
delete the paragraph. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Bank.
Page 22 of 29


﻿the Bank by electronic means. In full recognition that the Bank shall rely upon such
representations and warranties, including without limitation, the representations and warranties
contained in the Terms and Conditions of Use ofSecure Identification Credentials in connection
with Use ofElectronic Means to Process Applications and Supporting Documentation ("Terms
and Conditions of Use of SIDC"), the Borrower represents and warrants to the Bank that it will
cause such persons to abide by those terms and conditions.]
This Authorization replaces and supersedes any Authorization currently in the Bank
records with respect to this Agreement.
[Name], [position]     Specimen Signature:
[Name], [position]     Specimen Signature:
[Name], [position]     Specimen Signature:
Yours truly,
/ signed /
Page 23 of 29


﻿Attachment 3
Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Credentials
in connection with Use of Electronic Means
to Process Applications
and Supporting Documentation
March 1, 2013
The World Bank (Bank)' will provide secure identification credentials (SIDC) to permit the
Borrower2 to deliver applications for withdrawal and applications for special commitments under
the Agreement(s) and supporting documentation (such applications and supporting
documentation together referred to in these Terms and Conditions of Use as Applications) to the
Bank electronically, on the terms and conditions of use specified herein.
SIDC can be either: (a) hardware-based (Physical Token), or (b) software-based (Soft Token).
The Bank reserves the right to determine which type of SIDC is most appropriate.
A.    Identification of Users.
1.    The Borrower will be required to identify in a completed Authorized Signatory Letter
(ASL) duly delivered to and received by the Bank each person who will be authorized to
deliver Applications. The Bank will provide SIDC to each person identified in the ASL
(Signatory), as provided below. The Borrower shall also immediately notify the Bank if
a Signatory is no longer authorized by the Borrower to act as a Signatory.
2.    Each Signatory must register as a user on the Bank's Client Connection (CC) website
(https://clientconnection.worldbank.org) prior to receipt of his/her SIDC. Registration on
CC will require that the Signatory establish a CC password (CC Password). The
Signatory shall not reveal his/her CC Password to anyone or store or record the CC
Password in written or other form. Upon registration as a CC user, the Signatory will be
assigned a unique identifying account name.
B.    Initialization of SIDC.
1.    Prior to initialization of SIDC by a Signatory, the Signatory will acknowledge having
read, understood and agreed to be bound by these Terms and Conditions of Use.
2.    Where a Physical Token is to be used, promptly upon receipt of the Physical Token, the
Signatory will access CC using his/her account name and CC Password and register
his/her Physical Token and set a personal identification number (PIN) to be used in
connection with the use of his/her Physical Token, after which the Physical Token will be
"Bank" includes IBRD and IDA.
2 "Borrower" includes the borrower of an IBRD loan, IDA credit, or Project Preparation Facility advance and the
recipient of a grant.
Page 24 of 29


﻿initialized for use by the Signatory exclusively for purposes of delivering Applications.
Where a Soft Token is to be used, the Signatory will access CC using his/her account
name and CC Password and set a personal identification number (PIN) to be used in
connection with the use of his/her Soft Token, after which the Soft Token will be
initialized for use by the Signatory exclusively for purposes of delivering Applications.
Upon initialization of the SIDC, the Signatory will be a "SIDC User". The Bank will
maintain in its database a user account (Account) for each SIDC User for purposes of
managing the SIDC of the SIDC User. Neither the Borrower nor the SIDC User will
have any access to the Account.
3.    Prior to first use of the SIDC by the SIDC User, the Borrower shall ensure that the SIDC
User has received training materials provided by the Bank in use of the SIDC.
C.    Use of SIDC.
1. Use of the SIDC is strictly limited to use in the delivery of Applications by the SIDC
User in the manner prescribed by the Bank in the Agreement(s) and these Terms and
Conditions. Any other use of the SIDC is prohibited.
2.    The Bank assumes no responsibility or liability whatsoever for any misuse of the SIDC
by the SIDC User, other representatives of the Borrower, or third parties.
3.    The Borrower undertakes to ensure, and represents and warrants to the Bank (such
representation and warranty being expressly relied upon by the Bank in granting SIDC)
that each SIDC User understands and will abide by, these Terms and Conditions of Use,
including without limitation the following:
4.    Security
4.1. The SIDC User shall not reveal his/her PIN to anyone or store or record the PIN in
written or other form.
4.2. The SIDC User shall not allow anyone else to utilize his/her SIDC to deliver an
Application to the Bank.
4.3. The SIDC User shall always logout from CC when not using the system. Failure to
logout properly can create a route into the system that is unprotected.
4.4. If the SIDC User believes a third party has learned his/her PIN or has lost his/her
Physical Token he/she shall immediately notify clientconnection@worldbank.org.
4.5. The Borrower shall immediately notify the Bank at
clientconnectiond@worldbank.org of any lost, stolen or compromised SIDC, and take
other reasonable steps to ensure such SIDC are disabled immediately.
Page 25 of 29


﻿5.   Reservation of Right to Disable SIDC
5.1. The Borrower shall reserve the right to revoke the authorization of a SIDC User to
use a SIDC for any reason.
5.2. The Bank reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to temporarily or permanently
disable a SIDC, de-activate a SIDC User's Account or both.
6.   Care of Physical Tokens
6.1.  Physical Tokens will remain the property of the Bank.
6.2.  The Bank will physically deliver a Physical Token to each Signatory designated
to receive one in a manner to be determined by and satisfactory to the Bank.
6.3.  Physical Tokens contain delicate and sophisticated instrumentation and therefore
should be handled with due care, and should not be immersed in liquids, exposed to
extreme temperatures, crushed or bent. Also, Physical Tokens should be kept more than
five (5) cm from devices that generate electromagnetic radiation (EMR), such as mobile
phones, phone-enabled PDAs, smart phones and other similar devices. Physical Tokens
should be carried and stored separate from any EMR device. At close range (less than 5
cm), these devices can output high levels of EMR that can interfere with the proper
operation of electronic equipment, including the Physical Token.
6.4.  Without derogating from these Terms and Conditions of Use, other technical
instructions on the proper use and care of Physical Tokens are available at
http://www.rsa.com.
7.    Replacement
7.1.  Lost, damaged, compromised (in terms of 4.5, above) or destroyed Physical
Tokens will be replaced at the expense of the Borrower.
7.2.  The Bank reserves the right, in its sole discretion, not to replace any Physical
Token in the case of misuse, or not to reactivate a SIDC User's Account.
Page 26 of 29


﻿Attachment 4
Statement of Expenditures (SOE)
Payments made during the period from               to                                               Date:
Application No.:
For expenditures against the contracts not subject to the World Bank's Prior                     Loan no.:
Review
SOE No.:
1         2           3               4             5           6             7               8              9
Item No.  Category  Currency and    Currency and   Eligible %   Amount      Currency and    Exchange Rate    Remarks
No. (")  Total Amount of  Total Amount of  from Grant  Eligible for  Amount Paid from  (Col. 7 divided
Contract    Invoice Covered  Agreement    Financing    Designated       by Col. 6)
by Application               (4 x 5)      Account (if
(Net of                                Applicable)
Retention)
TOTALS
Supporting documents for this SOE retained at
(insert
location)
()        A separate SOE form should be used for retroactive financing
(")       Items should be grouped by category; or alternatively, a separate SOE form may be used for each
category
Page 27 of 29


﻿Attachment 5
Paymemt Made during Reporting Period
Against Contracts Subject to the World Bank's Prior Review
Date of
Wodd                        World Bank's
Bank's No-   Anun Paid to   Share of Anm Phid
Contract                     Contract      Contract       Objection   Swppler during   to Suppler during
Number         Supplier        Date        Ammovnt      to Contract       Period           Period
Page 28 of 29


﻿Attachment 6
DESIGNATED ACCOUNT RECONCILIATION STATEMENT
LOAN NUMBER
ACCOUNT NUMBER     -    --- WITH (BANK)
L   TOTAL ADVANCED BY WORLD BANK (OR COFINANCIER)   s
2   LESS TOTAL AMOUNT RECOVERED BY WORLD BANK   - S
3-    EQUALS PRESENT OUTSTANDING AMOUNT ADVANCED TO
THE DESIGNATED ACCOUNT (NUMBER 1 LESS NUMBER 2)  = S
".a "am" a  m""n **a. f *  ...- =
4.    BALANCE OF DESIGNATED ACCOUNT PER ATTACHED BANK
STATEMENT AS OF DATE                            S
5.    PLUS. TOTAL AMOUNT CLAIMED IN TfIIS
APPLICATION NO.                             +   ___
6.    PLUS: TOTAL AMOUNT WITHDRAWN AND NOT YET CLAIMED
REASON:                                      + $_*
7.    PL US: AMOUNTS CLAIMED IN PREVIOUS APPLICATIONS
NOT YET CREDITED AT DATE OF BANK STATEMENTS
APPLICATION NO.          AMOUNT
SUBTOTAL 01 PREVIOUS
APPLICATIONS NOT YET CREDITED           + S
IL  MINUS: INTEREST EARNED                       - S
9.  TOTAL ADVANCE ACCOUNTED FOR (NO. 4 THROUGH NO.9) = S
10   EXPLANATlON OF ANY DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE TOTALS APPEARING ON LINES 3 AND 9-
11. DAT:                              SIGNATURE.
TITLE:
ALL ITEMS SHOULD BE INDICATED ON THE BANK STATEMENT


