Docunentof
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10636
PROJEC1 PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1877-BR)
AND
CEARA SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                a0Q
(LOAN 1924-BR)
g~
CD
MAY 12, 1992                       CO
0 \
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
BNDES          National Economic and Social Development Bank
CE             Ceara
CE-RD          Ceara Rural Development Project
CPATSA         Semi-arid Agriculture Research Center
EMATERCE       Ceara Extension Service
EMBRAPA        Brazilian Agricultural Research Company
EPACE          Ceara Agricultural Research Company
ERR            Econcmic Rate of Return
ha             Hectar
IBGE           Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics
k=m            Kilometer
MG             Minas Gerais
MG-RD          Minas Gerais Rural Development Project
NE             Northeast
OED            Operations Evaluation Department
PCNU           Project Coordination and Management Unit
PCR            Project Completion Report
PCU            Project Coordination Unit
POLONORDESTE   Development Program for Integrated Areas of the Northeast
PPAR           Project Performance Audit Report
RD             Rural Development
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SUDENE         Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast
8-v            Staff-weeks



FOR OFCIAI USE ONLY
4    w       THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
0MMi. of Directnr-Genewal
Opratam Evakatkim
May 12, 1992
MEMORANUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND T-HE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Performance Audit Report on Brazil Minas Gerais Second Rural
Development Project (Loan 1877-BR) and Ceara Second Rural
Development Project (Loan 1924-BR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled" Project
Performance Audit Report on Brazil Minas Gerais Second Rural Development Project
(Loan 1877-BR) and Ceara Second Rural Development Project (Loan 1924-BR)" pre-
pared by the Operations Evaluation Department.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reciplents only In the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LN. 1877-BR)
and
CEARA SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJLCT (LN. 1924-BR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE                               ............... ...         i
BASIC DATA - MINAS GERAIS SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT      iii
BASIC DATA - CEARA SECOND RURAL DEVE-LOPMENT PROJECT ......       iv
EVALUATION SU1A'ARY  o.ooooooo .o      ..o... .o.o.o... ....       v
I.      INTRODUCTION  .Qo.oo. *    e*.., o..o.o.............     1
iI.      PROJECT OBJECTIVES, DESIGN AND COMPONENTS ......        4
ITI.      PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ......... . .. . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  8
IV.      PROJECT RESULTS ..o..o*oo.oo.*o........ ...........     11
V.      PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .. . . ... . .. .o.o..o...o. .......... .  19
VI.      PROJECT LESSONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ............        20
ANNEXES
ANNEX   I:     COMMENTS BY CEARA STATE GOVERNMENT .....o...       25
ANNEX  II:     COMMENTS BY MINAS GERAIS STATE GOVERNMENT .        29
ANNEX III:     COMMENTS BY FEDERAL GOVERNMENT - NATIONAL
PLANNING SECRETARIAT .. .o.  ... .  .  -.   .     31
ANNEX  IV:     COMMENTS BY FEDERAL GOVERNMENT - REGIONAL
DEVELOPMENT SETRETARIAT.........                  32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrmance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



i
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LN. 1877-BR)
and
CEARA SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LN. 1924-BR)
PREFACE
This is u Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) for the Brazil
Minas Gerais Second Rural Development Project and the Ceara Second Rural
Development Project. The Nlinas Gerais project was supported by Loan 1877-BR
for US$ 63 million, of which US$ 32.3 million were disbursed and US$ 30.7
million were cancelled. The Ceara project was supported by Loan 1924-BR for
US$ 56 million, of which about US$ 48.2 million were disbursed and about US$
7.8 million were cancelled. The Ceara project was co-financed by IFAD.
The PPAR was written in the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The Project Completion Report (PCR), which combined both lending operations,
was issued on February 9, 1990 as Report No. 8380. Bank staff, making use of
a completion document by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme, wrote
Parts I and III, and the borrower, Part II of the PCR.
In preparation of the PPAR, OED reviewed the President's Reports,
the Staff Appraisal Reports (SARs), the legal documents, the Transcripts of
Board Proceedings, project correspondence files, the PCR and documentation
for other Brazil, including rural development, projects. The PCR was an
good source of information on project implementation. OED discussed the
projects, during a mission in February and March 1991, with officials of
federal ministries and departments, state governments and municipalities,
with representatives of implementing agencies, social services and rural
cooperatives, and with farmers. OED particularly benefitted from the cooper-
ation extended by the Office of Impact and Performance Evaluation and the
Regional Planning Division, both in the federal Ministry of Economics,
Finance and Planning. OED also reviewed the projects with Bank operational
staff. Further, Bank staff provided written comments on the draft PPAR which,
for the most part, are reproduced verbatim as footnotes in the main body of
the report.
Following standard procedures, OED invited comments on the draft
PPAR from federal and state governments and the cofinancier. The replies are
appended as Annexes I-IV.



ilt
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS bECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LN. 1877-BR)
and
CEARA SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LN. 1924-BRj
BASIC DATA - MINAS GERAIS SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KEY PROJECT DATA
Original Plan       Actual
Total Project Costs (US$ million)              184.6             69.3
Overrun (Z)                                                     (62)
Loan Amount (US$ million)                       63.0             33.0
Disbursed (US$ million)                    63.0            32.3
Estimated Economic Rate of Return (Z)           16               NA
Physical Components Completed (Date)         06/30/85        09/30/88
Proportion Completed by Target Date            100               NA
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original Plan       Actual
Identification                               05/--/79        05/--/79
Appraisal                                       NA           01/--/80
Negotiations                                    NA           05/--/80
Approval                                        NA           06/19/80
Loan Agreement                                  NA           09/15/80
Effectiveness                                    -            12/16/80
Reformulation                                    -           05/--/86
Closing                                      06/30/85         12/31/87
Borrower                  State of Minas Gerais
Executing Agencies        Some twenty State Agencies
Follow-up Project         Northeast Rural Development - Minas Gerais
Ln. 2861-BR
Fiscal Year of Borrower  January 1 to December 31
NA - Not available



iv
PROJECT PERvORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LN. 1877-ER)
and
CEARA SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LN. 1924-BR)
BASIC DATA - CEARA SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KEY PROJECT DATA
Original Plan       Actual
Total Project Costs (US$ million)             163.2            86.7
Overrun (Z)                                                    (47)
Loan Amount (US$ million)                      56.0            54.0
Disbursed (US$ million)                   56.0            48.2
Estimated Economic Rate of Return (x)          19              NA
Physical Components Completed (Date)        06/30/85        03/31/88
Proportion Completed by Target Date           100              NA
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original Plan       Actual
Identification                                 NA           11/--/78
Appraisal                                   02/--/80        02/--/80
Negotiations                                09/--/80        09/--/80
Approval                                    12/--/80        12/02/80
Loan Agreement                                 NA           01/14/81
Effectiveness                                   -           07/07/81
Closing                                     06/30/85        12/31/87
Borrower                 Federative Republic of Brazil
Executing Agencies       Some twenty Federal and State Agencies
Follow-up Project        Northeast Rural Development - Ceara
Ln. 2763-BR
Fiscal Year of Borrower  January 1 to December 31
NA - Not available



v
PROJECT PERFORMANCE QD-ITJRPOR=
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS SECOND RUrAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LN. 1877-Bk)
and
CEARA SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PRQlECT (LN. 1924-BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction                              proving their economic and social
conditions (paras. 1-2).
The Minas Gerais and
Ceara  Second  Rural  Development         Objectives
Projects (MG-RD II and CE-RD II)
were part of a comprehensive (and                   Both projects had remark-
ongoing)  Bank program to support         ably ambitious objectives and tar-
the rural economies of Brazil. in         gets, and both had high demands on
particular those of the Northeast         state implementation and coordina-
(NEj. To date, the Bank financed          tion  capacities.   The   projects
some  20  rural  development  (RD)        sought to: increase production and
projects for the NE alone, for a          productivity  in  agriculture  and
total approved lending volume of          small businesses; raise rural in-
some US$ 1.2 billion. In addition,        comes and employment opportunities
it financed a string of parallel          (in particular for the poor); im-
sector  operations,  such  as  for        prove institutional capacities for
rural education, transport, irriga-       RD programs; dampen the rural-urban
tion and sanitation.                      migration (MG only); and provide a
range of "social" services (for
The NE. to which northern      health, education, etc.). MG-RD II
Minas Gerais (MG) and Ceara (CE)          was to benefit,  directly and in-
belong, is Brazil's foremost prob-        directly, over 0.4 million people.
lem area. Wealth and income, as in        CE-RD II was to reach at least some
all of Brazil, are most unevenly          2 million people, which was no less
distributed among its population of       than  60X  of  the  state's  entire
over 40 million, which is about 30X       rural population, though the "bene-
of the country's total. While sig-        ficiary"  arithmetic  and  concept
nificant parts of the NE have high        were difficult to grasp (paras. 6-
agricultural potential, some 70% of       9).
the area belong to the semi-arid
"sertao", where agricultural condi-                 Both projects  had many
tions are difficult and many rural        project components and comparable
poor live. Under favorable condi-         financial  scopes.  The  principal
tions, they own small patches of          component categories were; agricul-
land, and otherwise, they work as         tural support services; credit (MG
tenants, sharecroppers or in off-         only); social infrastructure; phys-
farm employment. Many migrate to          ical  infrastructure;  and project
large  cities  of  the  center  or        management.  The  projects  largely
south, but without necessarilv im-        skirted around land reform and ir-



vi
rigation. Main items of social in-        MG. officials professed disinelina-
frastructure were education, health       tion to give projects with equally
and sanitation components. Physical       complex design and management fea-
infrastructure   meant   primarily        tures another try (paras. 14-20).
roads, the staple of many Bank-fi-
nanced RD projects and often, as in       Results
MG-RD and CE-RD II, the principal
item by cost. To facilitate ade-                    Progress  and completion
quate  project  managemlent,  both        reports were deficient in assessing
projects created dense institution-       impact. They failed to systemati-
al  webs  of  agencies  and  agency       cally trace achievements in project
functions. MG-RD II had 21 separate       objectives,  and to esteblish the
implementing agencies and over 70         identity ar.d number of 1. -ene-
inter-agency links. without count-        ficiaries. The failings a_... note-
ing project-associated communities.       worthy  for  two  reasons:  At  the
CE-RD II had 20 and 18, respective-       Board  discussion  of  CE-RD  II,
ly, also without the communities.         speakers expressed their desire to
Total apprailsed costs for MG were        see  good and  speedy  performance
about US$ '.85 million, of which the      evaluations of RD lendirg in the
state was to finance US$ 122 mil-         NE; and impact evaluation was also
lion. The costs for CE were about         inadequate under the first Ceara RD
US$ 165 million, of which the fed-        project.
eral government was to finance US$
80 million, and the state govern-                   Many sources, which the
ment, some US$ 5 million. Bank ap-        audit polled in the country (in-
praisal staff concluded that gover-       cluding in the project areas), be-
nment capacities were adequate for        lieve that the projects did not, or
project financing (paras. 11-13).         not  perceptively:  raise  agricul-
tural production and productivity,
Implementation Exgerience                 rural incomes and employment; im-
prove the state income distribu-
Project  implementation,       tion; and dampen rural-urban migra-
on which much preparation efforts         tion.      It is widely held that
were centered,  suffered from two         the  projects  generated  economic
main  problems:  a  fiscal  crisis,       rates of return (ERRs) below the
which afflicted state and federal         16% for MG-RD II and 19% for CE-RD
governments alike, and difficulty         II established at appraisal. Five
of managing the myriad of implemen-       project-specific  factors  limited
tation tasks. As a consequence, in        the chances for economic success:
particular of the fiscal issue, the       the  spatial  diffusion  of  actual
projects underwent dramatic reduc-        project activities (CE). the handl-
tior,s in scope, and the implemen-        ing of land ownership issues (CE),
tation periods  were  extended by         the absence of sizable irrigation
years.  Actual costs were 38% of          components for the sertao (northern
appraised costs, in cas- of MG-RD         MG and CE),  conditions for con-
II, and 53%, in case of CE-RD II.         tracting  credit  (MG),  and  the
The overall reduction in project          quality of agricultural extension
financing affected all components,        services (paras. 21-23).
but not in the same proportion.
Project management costs were high,                 The projects' social in-
in particular in Ceara. Implementa-       frastructure  investments  led  to
,ion of even the scaled-down proj-        improvements  in  the  education,
ects taxed heavily the administra-        health,  sanitation  and community
tive machineries of both states. In       support systems. However, achieve-



vii
ments were much less than original-       community and farmers' levels. By
ly expected.  Education seemed to         the  appraisals'   estimates,  the
perform ahead of the other com-           projects  were  to  generate  large
pononts, especially sanitation and        cash incomes in the form of taxes
health. The health system functions       on increased production. user fees
poorly  and health  standards  are        and the like. T'hese incomes, which
desperately low in areas supported        were implied to be important tor
by CE-RD II. The health component,        achieving sustainability. did not
being part of a complex project and       seem  to materialize  as  expected
planted into a weak institutional         (paras. 27-28).
environment, could only be patch-
work  in  a  sector with  daunting        Findings and Recommendations
problems. In the view of MG farm-
ers, community development (includ-                 The review of MG-RD II
ing social extension) was the most        and CE-RD II conveyed the impres-
beneficial among all project com-         sion, that RD lending mt.y not (yet)
ponents (para. 24).                       be an effective form of development
assistance   to   the   rural   im-
Rural  roads,  physical       poverished parts of the two states.
infrastructure's  main  item,  were       The impression is shared by Brazil-
well received by local populations.       ian technocrats. To many, the ap-
Most road sections, which the audit       praisal  euphoria  was  misplaced.
mission visited, were in adequate         progressive   RD   experimentation
condition, but government officials       without credible stock taking is
voiced  soncern  about  maintenance       uncalled for, and the time has come
prospects. In the assessment of the       to judge these operations strictly
PCR,  the quality of construction         by results. The audit, therefore,
was poor, and maintenance capaci-         recommends that the Bank: evaluate
ties were not properly built  ip          the   impact   of   completed   RD
(para. 25).                               operations in MG and CE, before em-
barking on new RD lending (if any)
The  projects'  "instit-       to these states; demonstrate, how
utional packages", designed to de-        the RD lessons from MG and CE are
velop institutional capacities for        being reflected in the design of
RD. increase local participation in       future (if any) RD projects in oth-
RD and test the replicability of          er  states;  assume  responsibility
project formats, had seemingly mix-       for full-fledged impact evaluations
ed  results.  For many  government        of the ongoing RD lending to MG and
officials, the projects were a val-       CE, if not to other NE states; and
uable  training  ground.  But much        give adequate attention in future
expertise was lost again when staff       (if any) RD lending in Brazil to
were released or rotated upon the         the assessment of project benefi-
periodic government changes. If for       ciaries,  balance  of  "productive"
no other reason than complex and          and social investments, and choice
costly management, governments are        between "integrated" RD and free-
unlikely to copy the format of the        standing sector projects - bank-
two Bank projects (para. 26).             wide issues already identified in
OED's 1987 comprehensive review of
Sustainability                            Bank RD lending (paras. 29-35).
The prospects for sus-
tainability of project benefits
seem poor, primarily because of
financial constraints at state,



1
PROJECT PERPORANCE AIIDIT REPORT
BAZIL
MINAS GERAIS SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LN. 1877-BR)
and
CLARA SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LN. 1924-BR)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Minas Gerais and Ceara Second Rural Development Projects (MG-
RD II and CE-RD II) had their origins in the early seventies, when the Bank
anounced a dramatic world-wide expension of rural development (RD) lending.
In Brazil, the reorientation of Bank activities produced quick results. As
soon as the government, in 1914, embarked on a priority program for the
troubled Northeast (POLONORDESTE - Development Program for Integrated Areas
of the Northeast), the Bank stood ready to support it. In 1976, it approved
the first RD project in the area, to which Ceara and northern Minas Gerais
belongl/, fallowing up with a long string of more RD operations. In addition,
it funded many "traditional" (sectoral) types of projects. The early pace of
RD lending was fast, and in both Minas Gerais and Ceara, repeater projects
were launched well before the inaugurating projects (MG-RD T ard CE-RD I) had
much advanced.2/ Todate, the Bank's total approved RD lending for the
Northeast (NE) alone, spread over some 20 operations, stands at almost US$
1.2 billion.
1/   There are different definitions for the Northeast. By the most common
(administrative-political) definition, that of the Brazilian Institute
of Geography and Statistics (IBGE), the NE comprises ten states in the
geographic NE of Brazil, excluding Minas Gerais, but including Ceara.
By another (socio-economic) definition, used by some other Brazilian
agencies, the NE covers Brazil's northeastern drought-prone areas, which
include the ten states 3 ]sted by IBGE and northern Minas Gerais. The
Bank has worked with both terms and more recently adopted the second.
This audit also uses the wider definition.
2/   The (first) Minas Gerair Rural Development Prolect (MG-RD I), Ln. 1362-
BR, was approved in 1977 and completed in 1984. The (first) Ceara Rural
Development groiect (CE-RD I), Ln. 1488-BR, was also approved in 1977,
but completed in 1985. In the meantime, each state was the beneficiary
of a third RD project: Northeast Rural Development Project - Minas
Gerais (MG-RD III), Ln. 2861-BR, approved in 1987; and Northeast Rural
Development Proiect - Ceara (CE-RD III), Ln. 2763-BR, approved in 1986.
Both are under implementation.



2
2.        The Northeast (We) is Bazil's problem area. Following a brief
spell of sugar-based prosperity in the late 1800., it ie well behind the rest
of Brazil in economic and social development. Wealth and income, as in all
of Brazil, are most unevenly distributed among its population of over 40
million, which represent about 302 of the country's total. Whlile parts of the
NE have good potential for agriculture, which to some extent is already being
tapped, some 702 of the land belong to che semi-arid "sertao". T}ere, water
from any source is scarce. Droughts are common, sotetimes lasting uninter-
rupted for years. This is also where many rural poor are settled, ownin3,
under favorable conditions, small patches of land, and otherwise working as
tenants, sharecroppers or in off-farm employment. For some, work is only
lntermittent. In general, their farming technologies are poor. Even when they
own land, their income potential is low. Large groups earn incomas well below
the official minimum wage. Many individuals and frmilies, with little mea-is
to survive, migrate to large cities, in particulat Rio de Janeiro and Sao
Paulo, wh'ere they add to the millions of un- or underemployed living in slums
("favelas") and often continue to stay in the cycle of poverty, from which
they tried to escape. Some migrants return to the Northeast as relative
regional conditions change. More recently, re-migration was triggered when
the ongoing recession reached the urban areas of the contry's center-east and
south.
3.          Much of the Bank's conceptional framework for the Brazilian RD
projects, and for that matter for RD projects in other countries, was
contained in a ground-breaking sector p.licy paper (aD Policy Paper) issued
in 1975.3/ T3 rationalize and guide the Bank's increased rural lending, the
document elaLorated on a set of rules - how to identify target populations,
plan and organize lending and design and implement operations. The "new-
style" projects had three main elements:
design to benefit large numbers of the rural poor, under the condition
that economic rates of return (ERRs) were at least equal to the oppor-
tunity cost of capital;
"comprehensiveness" in approach to supporting agriculture, with a
balance between "directly productive" and "other" components; and
costs per beneficiary, which were to be low enough to allow project
replication.A/
4.        While these elements remain the cornerstones of Bank RD lending,
some adjustments in project design have since taken place, in accordance with
country and local conditions and the experience gained along the way. In this
spirit, the Bank distinguishes in Brazil "first" and "second generation" RD
3/   Rural Develonment Sector Policy Pa2er, 1975.
4/   RD  Policy  Paper,  pages  60-61.  The  distinction  between  "directly
productive" and "other" investments was not fully made clear. One
distinction, presumably, rests on the investments' capacitv and time
profile of income generation. "Directly productive" investments may
induce higher, and more immediate, income streams than "other" (such as
"social") investments.



3
projects. MG-RD I and II and CE-RD I and II belong to the first, and MG-RD
III and CE-RD III to the se_.ond category. The adjustments in project detail,
and the creation of "second generation" projects, in Brazil, were notably
triggered b, a 1983 Bank RD review of the Northeast, made against the back-
ground of advanced implementation progress (though not yet completion) of
several RD operations, including MG-RD I and CE-RD 1.5/ The Project
Completion Reports (PCRs) for the inaugurating projects and a better under-
standing of actual impact became available only years after MG-RD II and CE-
RD II were launched.6/
5.        Without the results of the 1983 RD review and with MG-RD I and CE-
RD I still under implementation, RD experience was limited for the design of
MG-RD II and CE-RD II. Despite this, at Board presentation for MG-RD II, Bank
staff was emphatic that much had been learned from MG-RD I and optimism was
appropriate.7/ In case of Minas Gerais. the appraisal cited lessons from two
sources: the ongoing MG-RD I; and other unidentified, though completed, RD
projects (none of them, however, in the Northeast). The lessons dealt
primarily with implementation issues. In reference to MG-RD I, whose
implementation at MG-RD II approval was to last another four and one-half
years,8/ the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) listed these issues:
improved selection (increase in number) of project components;
improvement  of implementation monito:-'n:  and better  coordination
between implementing agencies.
In reference to other RD projects, the issues were:
realistic appraisal estimates of implementation capacities and rates of
(agricultural) productivity increases; flexibility of project implemen-
5/   Brazil - An Interim Assessment of Rural Development Programs for the
Northeast, 1983.
6/   Project  Performance  Audit  Report  (PPAR),  Brazilt Experience  in
Development of the Rural Sector - Second Afro-Industries Credit Proiect
(Loan 1317-BR). Minas Gerais Rural Development Proiect (Loan 1362-BR).
First ARzicultural Extension Prolect (Loan 1568-BR). Bahia Rural
Develonment Project - Para2uacu (Loan 1589-BR), 1988; PPAR, Brazil:
Sunportins Rural Development in the Northeast - Ceara Rural Develooment
Prolect - IbiaDaba (Loan 1488-BR). Paraiba Rural Development Proiect -
Brelo (Loan 1537-BR). Pernambuco Rural Development Project - Aareste
Setentrional (Loan 1728-BR), 1989.
Z/   Board Presentation Speech for MG-RD II. Transcript of Proceedings, June
19, 1980.
8/   The SAR's difficulties to learn from the MG-RD I experience may be
illustrated by the fact, that in its mid-1980 final version, it
erroneously estimated MG-RD I completion by December 1981. Actually,
completion lasted until December 1984. Refer to SAR, State of Minas
Gerais Second Rural Develooment Project, Ln. 1877-BR, 1980, para. 4.03.



4
tatLon in situations of changing circumstances; and increased 1 )litical
commitments by governments and involvement of targeted beneficiaries.9/
In case of CE-RD II (which followed MG-RD II after six months), the reference
to project experience was more limited. The SAR announced "special efforts"
to deal with two main problems which had surfaced under CE-RD Is
inadequacy of project management capacity; and problems with government
funding of project costs.101
II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES. DESIGN AND COMPONENTS
6.        Despite the acknowledged warnings received from other RD projects,
MG-RD II and CE-RD II were remarkably ambitious in objectives and targets,
and demanding in terms of implementation and coordinatior. capacities. The
listing of formal objectives was particularly long and impressive in case of
the Minas Gerais project, which sought to:
increase production and productivity in agriculture and small busi-
nesses; raise rural per capita income and employment opportunities;
promote a better income distribution in the state; dampen rural-urban
migration; improve institutional capacities for RD programs; improve
physical and social infrastructure; widen local participation in project
implementation; and serve as catalyst for similar undertakings in the
general project areas and the rest of the state.11/
7.        In setting quantitative targets, the SAR was also prolific, in
particular in its tables for implementation indicators and in the farming
models, which, inter alia, estimated post-implementation income levels. The
project was to benefit directly some 31,000, and indirectly, some 54,000
families, for a total of about 85,000. About 3,000 of the direct beneficia-
ries were land-less, and about 11,500 owned land of less than 10 hectares
(ha) each. All were located in some 100 pre-defined municipalities, charac-
terized as "development pockets". New employment creation, incorporated into
the population numbers, was estimated at 18,000 worker-years. Assuming five
persons per household, the project was to reach somewhat over 0.4 million
people, though this number was not quoted. Perhaps somewhat less than 501 of
9/   SAR, Ln. 1.77-BR, paras. 4.03 and 4.04.
10/ SAR, Northeast Brazil - Ceara Second Rural Development Proiect, Ln.
1924-BR, 1980, para. 2.08.
11/ SAR, Ln. 1877-BR, para. 4.05. The project had the potential to stimulate
a self-sustaining development process, Bank staff said. Board Presenta-
tion Speech, Transcript of Proceedings, June 19, 1980.



5
the population, at which the project was directed, lived in areas forming
part of the Northeast.12/
8.        Implicitly, the Ceara project had similarly large ambitions, though
explicitly, it was more modest. Its formal objectives were to:
increase production (for local and export markets) and productivity in
agriculture and small businesses; raise rural incomes and employment
opportunities; improve institutional capacities for RD programs; raise
standards of living; and to serve as pilot operation for other states.
9.        As under MG-RD II, the SAR for CE-RD II contained a plethora of
quantitative implementation targets. However, in accounting for project
beneficiaries, it was more elaborate, and the number of beneficiaries was
much higher, though the arithmetic for calculating some totals and the
beneficiary concept were difficult to grasp. The implied definition of a
beneficiary raised the question, under what conditions it was reasonable to
count a person as "beneficiary". Specifically, the report noted that some
60,000 families (with perhaps 300,000 people), holding less than 50 ha land
each, would directly benefit from the project. The benefits included employ-
ment creation in the order of 48,000 worker-years.13/ Indirectly, the report
expected some 2 million people to draw benefits from improved physical
infrastructure, and 0.5 million people from improved social infrastructure
and other services.14/ This meant that at least one-third of Ceara's total
population of 6 milli3n people at that time, and at least 60% of the rural
population of 3.3 million people, were expected to be better off through the
project. These were eye-catching numbers.151
12/ SAR, Ln. 1877-BR, paras. 4.06, 4.08, 9.07 and Annexes 15 and 16.
Improvements in "physical and social infrastructure" meant primarily
improvements in education, health and sanitation facilities, services
and delivery aystems. Refer to SAR, Ln. 1877-BR, paras. 4.38 and 4.40.
13/ A speaker of the Board found the employment creation, and the projected
increase in annual farm family income (from about US$ 900 to about US$
1,600, over 8-12 years) particularly attractive project features.
Transcript of Proceedings, December 2, 1980.
14/  For the beneficiary discussion, refer to SAR, Ln. 1924-BR, paras. 2.01,
4.02-4.03, 4.05 and 4.23. For the beneficiaries of social infrastruc-
ture, the SAR actually gave two contradictory estimates: the one of 0.5
million people, for the overall total (para. 4.02), and another one, of
1.2 million people, for the health and sanitation subcomponent only
(para. 4.23). The SAR defined improvements in social infrastructure
(which were apparently grouped under "raising the standard of living")
primarily as upgrading of education and health delivery systems. SAR,
Ln. 1924-BR, paras. 4.18 and 4.23.
15/ How questionable the beneficiary calculation was, may be seen from the
case of physical infrastructure, which overwhelmingly meant rural
(municipal) roads. As it is evident from the SAR and actual project
implementation, the project sought primarily to improve some 2,250 km
of such roads, which were to ssrve local traffic generated by the local



6
10.       As all RD operations, MG-RD II and CE-RD II faced the practical and
immensely difficult design problem of identifying and scaling those project
components, which, subject to implementation (including financial) capa^i-
ties, were to achieve the desired results. In the case of Minas Gerais, the
SAR elaborated little on the design strategy, except that it higlighted the
need to fund rural roads and marketing services. Under MG-RD I, the absence
of the two components was believed to have limited the "full participation"
of isolated communities and farmers' groups in the development process.16/
The SAR for CE-RD II explained in more detail the conceptual framework for
project design, though, in reality, many project permutations might have
satisfied the design prescriptions. Perhaps the central design features of
this project were the following:
that it include "mainly activities ... to set in motion specific actions
meant to break rural development bottlenecks and resolve difficulties
that impede rural development, rather that providing the entire range
of production and social services and infrastructure in every part of
the state"; and that it begin concentrating "on areas with the highest
development potential ... where sufficient basic infrastructure already
exists and ... the spill-over effect would be higher".17/
This presupposed operationally adequate information about the state's socio-
economic structure, and particularly the nature and location of RD bottle-
necks and impediments.
11.       Both MG-RD II and CE-RD II had similar project components and
comparable financial scopes. There were five principal categories of project
population settled in the vicinity of the roads. Thus, if 2 million
people were expected to benefit from these roads, the population should
have been some 900 people per road-km. However, such a population
density was patently unreasonable in light of the project's demographic
parameters. - Bank staff had these comments: "The definition of
'beneficiary', especially of 'indirect beneficiary' is indeed a problem,
as exemplified by the road component. The road component was expected
to cover eome 60Z of Ceara's rural roads. Assuming even distribution,
the SAR estimated that 60Z of the rural population would benefit. If one
accepts that road beneficiaries include the transport industry and -
through lower food prices - the consumers as well, this figure appears
not unreasonable." - Actually, the road component (some 2,250 km of
municipal roads) covered not 60%, but only some 61 of the state's
network (of about 35,000 km of municipal roads as of 1979). Thus,
following the Bank staff's arithmetic, the road component's, if not the
project's, indirect beneficiaries should have numbered 0.2 million, and
not 2 million, people. For road network statistics, refer to SAR, Third
Feeder Roads Proiect, Ln. 2224-BR (1982), Table 1.2.
16/  SAR, Ln. 1877-BR, para. 4.03.
17/  SAR,  Ln.  1924-BR,  para.  4.02.  At Board Presentation,  Bank staff
reiterated that the project was to concentrate on priority areas.
Transcript of Proceedings, December 2, 1980.



7
components: agricultural support services ("agro-services"); credit; social
infrastructure; physical infrastructure; and project management.18/ Agro-
services, which by definition carried the main burden for generating agri-
cultural productivity and production gains, included as main items rural
extension (MG and CE) and cadastral surveys, land titling and a land purchase
scheme (CE). The Minas Gerais project also financed land titling, but on a
small scale. Credit, for on-farm investment and rural electrification, was
a component of the MG project only. Kotably absent from both projects were
a comprehensive approach to land reform and substantial irrigation schemes.
19/ Main items of the social infrastructure component were education, health
and sanitation components, to which, under the MG project, community develop-
ment was added. Physical infrastructure meant primarily rural roads, the
staple of many Bank-financed agricultural and RD projects, and often (as in
the MG and CE projects), the principal project item by cost.20/ Project
management, almost exclusively by state government units, included general
management, coordination, monitoring, evaluation and study functions. As
specified in the SAR summary project cost tables alone, the MG project had
18 distinct project components, and the CE project had 11.
12.       MG-RD II, with total estimated costs of about US$ 185 million, was
to be financed by the state government (about US$ 122 million) and the Bank
(US$ 63 million). CE-RD II, with total projected costs of close to US$ 165
million, was to be financed by the federal government (close to US$ 80
million), the state government (at least US$ 4.5 million), IFAD (US$ 25
million), and the Bank (US $ 56 million). The federal and CE state govern-
ments were to fund complementary investments (amounting to over US$ 70
million) during the project period. The SARs contained no analyses of
government capacities to meet the financial commitments, though Bank staff
assured the Board verbally that adequate capacities existed.21/
18/ The component grouping did not appear in the SARs, but in the PCR.
19/ Bank staff had these comments: "The critical reference to the project's
failure to comprehensively approach land tenure and irrigation would
seem inconsistent with the PPAR's suggestion (paras. 13 and 171 that the
project was already excessively complex. The fact that both problems
could not be properly dealt with in a component approach justifies their
exclusion. It may be worth pointing out that both of these issues have
been addressed in the subsequent NFrtheast Land Tenure Improvement and
various Northeast irrigation projects." In the audit's view, land and
irrigation issues could have been more forcefully addressed, without
prejudice to project compldxity, if the project had shed some other,
less important, items.
20/ According to Bank staff, rural roads were common only in the first
generation and not second generation and ongoing rural development
programs.
21/ At Board Presentation of MG-RD II, Bank staff predicted that the project
would "enjoy sustained, timely a-d adequate counterpart funding". Trans-
cript of Proceedings, June 19, 1980. In presenting CE-RD II, Bank staff
voiced optimism that the counterpart funding (and management) problems,
which had afflicted POLONORDESTE activities, were being resolved.



8
13.       To facilitate adequate project management, both projects created
dense institutional webs of agencies (most already in existence) and agency
fur-ctions, the latter being distinguished by lead and support assignments.
The systems were heavy at the top, where main decision powers (in particular
for budgets) were concentrated, though they gave local communities and
beneficiaries some space for consultation and participation. The SAR for MG-
RD Il listed 21 separate implementing agencies (typically line agencies) and
over 70 inter-agency links, not even including individually the many communi-
ties, which in some way were associated with the project. The SAR for CE-RD
II listed 20 ard 18, respectively, also without enumerating all communi-
ties.22/ Superimposed on each state agency network was a project management
council (coordinating committee), nominally or de facto chaired by the state
governor and consisting of heads of all state secretariats involved in the
projects. In turn, each council was assisted by a project coordination unit
(PCU) or coordination and management unit (PCMU). The institutional
structures were matched by a plethora of legal operating agreements (conve-
nios) among agencies. Both projects were programmed as large-scale users of
scarce institutional, administrative and planning resources in the states.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
14.       Project implementation, on which much preparation efforts were
centered, suffered severely from two main problems: difficulty of managing
the myriad of implementation tasks, and a fiscal crisis which afflicted state
and federal governments alike. The two problems were precisely those which
CE-RD II had identified, on the experience with CE-RD I, and was trying to
avert. In anticipating the fiscal crisis, the two projects were typical of
Bank projects in Brazil. As a consequence, in particular of the fiscal issue,
the projects underwent dramatic reductions in overall scope,23/ and the
implementation periods were extended by years. Further, the project re-
scaling changed the "balance" of project components and altered the projects'
character. However, some component re-sizing was also the result of other
factors, such as changed assessments of development priorities and implemen-
tation constraints.
15.       Actual project costs of MG-RD II were some US$ 70 million, against
the US$ 185 million appraised, which implies an ex,k nditure "achievement"
rate of 38%. For CE-RD II, the actual costs were US$ 8. million, against the
Detailed projections of counterpart funding requirements had been worked
out and fully discussed with the federal government, staff said.
Responding to a Board member's query, Bank staff were also confident
that municipalities could adequately finance project follow-up costs.
TranscriDt of Proceedings, December 2, 1980.
22/ MG-RD II aimed at some 100 communities, and CE-RD II, at possibly the
same number. Thus, the cooperative links ran in the hundreds.
23/ MG-RD II was formally redesigned in 1986, when the Bank loan was
reduced.



9
US$ 163 million appraised, and the "achievement" rate was 53%. In a similar
fashion, actual project financing by the Bank dropped to about US$ 32 million
from the US$ 63 million projected at appraisal, in case of MG; and to about
US$ 48 million from the US$ 56 million appraised, in case of CE. Actual
implementation time for the reformulated MG-RD II project was over eight
years, compared to five originally estimated, for a time overrun of more than
601. In case of CE-RD II, the actual time was over seven years, the appraisal
estimate was four and one-half years, and the time overrun was also in excess
of 60%.24/ On average, Minas Gerais spent US$ 8.5 million per year on its
project (with double tho amount in the last year), while Ceara spent US$ 12
million.
16.       The reduction of overall project financing affected all compo-
nents, but not in the same proportion. Under both projects, spending cuts for
rural extension were less severe than on average, presumably to preserve the
projects' production and productivity stimulus. In Minas Gerais, the spending
reduction for credit was high, though this was less a function of budget
constraints than a lack of credit demand. Also in Minas Gerais, marketing,
to which the appraisal had drawn special attention (since it was missing in
MG-RD I), was hit hard. Social infrastructure suffered, in particular, under
the Ceara project, which ultimately seemed to abandon the idea of having much
impact on rural health and sanitation. Ceara's cadastral surveys were also
greatly reduced. However, the actually recorded costs of project management,
in Ceara, were close to the appraisal costs, partly because the true extent
of required management had not been anticipated. In reality, actual
management costs may have been much higher, but the billing was not consis-
tently made to the project's "management" account. Under CE-RD II, the costs,
established under the official cost nomenclature, were about US$ 13.5 million
or 16% of total costs. Under MG-RD II, they were about US$ 4.5 million or
6.5%.251
17.       Implementation of even the scaled-down projects heavily taxed the
administrative machineries of both states, with Ceara seemingly coping
better, but not consistently well. In Minas Gerais, officials professed
disinclination to give projects with equally complex design and management
features another try. In their experience, the project's great complexity
strained the management system, and the quality and timeliness of project
decisions suffered. In Ceara, a smaller number of project components reduced
project complexity and demands on project administration. Further, the
governor became directly and personally involved in project management,
presiding over coordination committees. However, even in this state, the
sheer number of agency links, coupled with unavoidable agency inertia, inter-
24/ Refer to PCR, Brazil Ceara Second Rural Develovment . :)ject (Loan 1924-
BR). Minas Gerais Second Rural Development Prclect (Loan 1877-BR), 1990,
Tables 2, 3, 5, 11, 12 and 14.
25/ More recently, the Bank stepped up efforts to curtail "excessively" high
project managemen- costs of NE projects, by placing a ceiling on the
costs eligible for reimbursement. As a result, costs are now being more
widely absorbed under different project categories or simply charged to
non-project accounts. Nonetheless, and irrespective of the accounting
method, these costs are real.



10
agency frictions and political conflicts, took their toll. In Minas Gerais,
the coordinating committee seldom met and effective coordination was
delegated to the suparintendent of the lead secretariat. Since the economy
of this state is much bigger than that of Ceara, its project, though an
important plank of the government's program, was not so important proportio-
nally and did not receive so much personal attention from the governor.
18.       One of the management tasks was monitoring of implementation
progress. Time-consuming and conceptionally complicated, the task was made
difficult in Ceara by the fact that the performance indicators underwent
several revisions during implementation, confusing monitoring staff and
project administrators alike. The indicators were principally designed by the
Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast (SUDENE), which monitors
federally funded programs. The indicator listings used in Ceara filled about
half a dozen type-written pages, considerably more than those summarized in
the PCR.26/
19.       Measured by key (implementation) performance indicators, Minas
Gerais did poorly in credit and most categories of agro-services. However,
in land titling (agro-services), it did well, substantially exceeding in
area, but not in number of titles, the appraisal targets. Another well
performing item was reforestation (agro-services), where actual results about
equalled the original targets. Marketing (agro-services) did much better than
could be expected from the severe budget reduction. On-farm and rural elec-
trification credit performed equally badly. Particularly disappointing were
agricultural and social extension. Despite the doubling of originally planned
extension offices, the number of farmers and families assisted was far below
appraisal estimates. Implementation performance of social infrastructure was
mixed, with education showing better results than health and sanitation
(water supply and sanitary installations). Feeder roads, the main item under
physical infrastructure, had a much higher achievement rate (number of km
constructed) than seemed to be indicated by the reduced budget allocation.27/
20.        In Ceara, agro-services showed mixed results in the (implementa-
tion) monitoring ctatistics. In extension, the number of farmers contacted
vas close to appraisal projections. In agricultural research, the number of
experiments exceeded the appraisal targets, but the shortfall in seed
production was raost severe. Land surveyed was much less than expected, and
land purchased was a tiny fraction of targets. But land titling substantially
exceeded the target. The picture for the social component was also mixed. In
education (including vocational training), the success rate was high. In
health, it was fairly low, and in water supply and sanitation, it was even
lower. In the category of physical infrastructure, both roads and small-
26/  PCR, Ln. 1877-BR and 1924-BR, Tables 3 and 14. One of the conceptional
difficulties of monitoring systems is defining meaningful implementation
indicators, which measure progress toward achievement of ultimate
project goals. Implementation indicators are comparable to project costs
to the extent that they measure activities, but do not necessarily allow
conclusions about end-results.
ZZ/ PCR, Ln. 1877-BR and Ln. 1924-BR, Table 13.



11
scale irrigation had partial results, broadly consistent with the overall
budget cuts.28/
IV. PROJECT RESULTS
21.       Progress and completion reports for both MG-RD II and CE-RD II were
remarkably deficient in assessing impact. They failed to systematically trace
ultimate, or even intermediate, achievements in project objectives, and to
establish the identity and size of the population, which benefitted.29/ The
smail amount of impact information assembled was in striking contrast to the
projections of a wide spectrum of future events, contained in the SARs, and
to the long listings of implementation ("performance") indicators, contained
in the CE-RD II progress reports.30/ In the absence of adequate impact
analyses, the ex-post evaluation rests much on circumstantial evidence,
anecdotal testimony, and the like. The failings are noteworthy for two
reasons: at the Board discussion of CE-RD II, speakers emphasized their
desire to see good and speedy performance evaluations of the Ceara and other
RD lending in the NE;31/ and, impact evaluation was also an unresolved issue
in the PCR for CE-RD I (and other NE RD projects), published in mid-1988 (one
and one-half years before publication of the PCR for MG-RD 1I and CE-RD
11).32/ Given the importance of understanding what actually happened as a
result of Bank RD lending, the treatment of impact monitoring raises
questions about the purpose of elaborate appraisal predictions, the basis for
28/ PCR, Ln. 1877-BR and Ln. 1924-BR, Table 4.
L9/ The SARs specified that the project management units (with outside
support, in Minas Gerais), would conduct post-project evaluations,
making use, inter alia, of baseline studies. The SAR for MG-RD II was
particularly explicit about methods and other details of measuring
impact. In fact, MG produced a final evaluation report, and CE, compre-
hensive implementation information, but with little impact assessment.
Refer to: SAR, Ln. 1877-BR, paras. 6.06 and 6.07; SAR, Ln. 1924-BR,
para. 4.39; and Universidade Federal de Vicosa, ProRrama Estadual de
Promocao dos Peauenos Produtores de Minas Gerais - MG-II. Informe Final,
1989.
301  Bank staff had these comments: "While it is correct that progress and
completion reports failed to 'systematically trace the achievements in
project objectives', it may be appropriate to refer to the fact that the
erratic counterpart funding, and the dramatic results of the drought,
would have made such a quantitative assessment of project results
extremely difficult and unlikely to generate meaningful results."
31/  Transcript of Proceedin&s, December 2, 1980.
32/ Bank staff noted: n ... the benefits of more intensive efforts to assess
the project impact would have been limited because of the severe fiscal
crisis (counterpart funding) and the drought distorted the project
impact to an extent which would have made it virtually impossible to
determine the project's impact."



12
project sponsors to learn from experience, and Bank-operational priori-
ties.33/
22.       Many sources, which the audit polled in the country (including in
the project areas)34/, believe that the projects did not, or not perceptive-
lyt raise agricultural production and productivity,  rural incomes  and
employment; improve the state income distribution; and dampen rural-urban
migration. While they recognize that a prolonged NE drought, depressed
markets for farm products, pests and the macro-economic slump had a bearing
on results, many are unconvinced that without these factors, the projects
would have necessarily done well. In the view of the PCR, agricultural
production increases, induced by the projects, were below (MG) or well below
(CE) the appraisal projections.35/ Consistent with these beliefs and views,
it is widely held that the projects generated economic rates of return (ERRs)
below the 162 for MG-RD II and 192 for CE-RD II, which were established at
appraisal.36/ Following general Bank practice, the SAR calculations excluded
the costs, aa well as benefits, of the projects' "non-economic" (such as
health and social extension) components.37/
23.       Five project-specific factors limited the chances for economic
success: the spatial diffusion of project activities (CE) during implementa-
tion, the handling of land ownership issues (CE), the absence of sizable
irrigation components for the sertao (northern MG and CE), conditions for
33/ In this context, it may be noted how limited Bank supervision efforts
(in staff-time) were, in absolute and relative terms. For MG, total
supervision time was 89 staff-weeks (s-w) only, against 160 s-w for
identification through negotiations, even though implementation spanned
over more than eight years, and the project was complex. For CE, total
supervision time, under similar conditions, was 131 s-w, against 245 s-
v for identification through negotiations. Refer to PCR, Ln. 1877-BR and
Ln. 1924-BR, Tables 6 and 15. In the Board discussion for CE-RD II, two
speakers made pointed inquiries abo't the level of planned Bank super-
vision. Bank management replied that this type of projects was receiving
more supervision time than other agricultural projects in the Region.
TranscriRt of Proceedings, December 2, 1980. Though in line with
standard Bank coefficients, actual supervision was clearly inadequate
for complex projects with major implementation problems.
34/ The information sources polled by the audit missions were state govern-
ment agencies, including extension services, farmers and cooperatives.
35/ PCR, Ln. 1877-BR and Ln. 1924-BR, paras. 1.34-1.43.
36/  The PCR, Ln. 1877-BR and 1924-BR, in paras. 1.40 and 1.43, came to the
same conclusion, without an ex-post ERR calculation. The Federal Uni-
versity of Vicosa (Programa Estadual de Promocao dos Peauenos Produtores
de Minas Gerais - MG-II. Informe Final, pages 185 and 186) calculated
an ex-post ERR of 272, but without showing adequate support.
3Z/ SAR, Ln. 1877-BR, paras. 9.01 and 9.02; and SAR, Ln. 1924-BR, 9.01-
9.03. Inclusion of "non-economic" components in the calculus would have
lowered the ERRs.



13
contracting credit (MG), and the quality of agricultural extension services
(particularly in CE).38/
a.   The  appraisal  for CE-RD II had postulated  an  implementation
process, under which project activities would be taylored to the nature
and location of RD bottlenecks and impediments, for maximum development
effect. Specifically, the project was to concentrate on areas with the
highest development potential, where sufficient basic infrastructure
already existed and the "spill-over" effect would be highest.39/ In
reality, the project scattered components all over the state, apparently
on the idea to distribute activities, infrastructure and funds over as
wide an area and as many communities as possible. If there was a guiding
principle behind, it was more inspired by state politics than develop-
ment economics.40/
b.   CE-RD II's objectives on the land issue were modest, and results
were modest as well. The project sought to survey 300,000 ha of public
land (out of 14 million ha of total farm land in the state), and it
accomplished less than half. It sought to purchase land for 3,700
farmers, and it obtained land for about 200. In land titling, the
project greatly exceeded its numerical target, with about 11,700 actual
titles conveyed against some 6,500 projected.41/ Bu-, many plots were
tiny, suitable only for residential (and not farming) use, though for
many poor people, this was a substantial benefit. The program was truly
successful only in that it established (for the time being) a good
institutional basis for land titling operations and contributed toward
breaking the "tabu" of the land distribution issue.
C.   CE-RD II's small-scale irrigation component had several limita-
tions, even though it could be invaluable for salvaging crops at times
of insufficient rains. First and foremost, the component was small,
compared to the needs, and implementation was poorly arranged. Second,
its very popularity caused great difficulty in execution, because the
temptation for political interference was irresistible, and the
implementing agency had difficulty coping with that. Third, the land
38/  In the view of Bank staff, I ... it is difficult to agree to the
statement that spatial diffusion, and the lack of comprehensive approach
to resolve land tenure issues and promote irrigation development, were
project-specific (design) factors limiting the project's economic
success. "
39/ SAR, Ln. 1924-BR, para. 4.02.
40/ SAR, Ln. 1924-BR, para. 4.02. Bank staff had these comments: "The Ceara
project design included a concentration on priority (good potential)
areas. 'Spatial diffusion' was in this case not a significant limiting
factor (of project success]."
41/  SAR, Ln. 1924-BR, paras. 4.12-4.13; and PCR, Ln. 1924-BR and Ln. 1877-
BR, para. 1.29 and Table 4.



14
tenure structure complicated water use, as farmers, who owned the land,
would often disallow other farmers access to the water.421
d.   MG-RD II sought to provide 30,000 investment and 30,000 seasonal
credit loans, as an innovative service to small-scale farmers who
typically were shut-out from credit markets.43/ In accordance with
normal Bank practice, the project funded only investment credit
directly, but the government agreed to fund seasonal credit separate-
ly.441 The investment loans were available for up to US$ 4,600 (equi-
valent) and ten years maturity, with a grace period of four to six
years, depending on the activity financed. At the time of appraisal, and
in the early 1980s, the credit was subsidized. The up-take of credit was
far short of expectations, as only 2,500 investment loans (5Z of the
appraisal estimate) and about 7,ROO seasonal loans (251) were made.
Initially, the banks, although officially obliged to direct a proportion
of their lending to small loans in the rural sector, had no enthusiasm
for what they considered low-volume and high-risk business, and did
their best to avoid it. Subsequently, as inflation soared, ::he rural
credit rules started changing: The banks were often unable to specify
in advance exact repayment schedules; interest subsidies were abolished
(in 1986); and farmers were reluctant to accept credit under theue
conditions, fearing they might be faced with obligations, which they
could not honour, and loss of property and means to make a living.
42/  Bank staff commented: "The 'absence of a sizeable irrigation component'
referred to as a factor limiting economic success, reflects the failure
of the PPAR to appreciate the limitation of including irrigation
development. No technical and institutional experience in irrigation
development was available in the two states and - partly for this reason
- irrigation development could not be handled as a component in the time
frame of these projects. In addition, inclusion of such components would
also have further increased the complexity of the project which,
according to the audit, was already excessive." - Bank staff may be
correct in observing that information about irrigation Was missing, when
CE-RD II was appraised. But lack of similar information did not prevent
the Bank from including other components (such as health) in the
project. A desirable approach to the information gaps would have been
to defer the project, until more knowledge about key components had been
gained. At the least, completion and a full impact analysis of CE-RD I
should have been awaited before CE-RD II was appraised. A delay in CE-
RD II processing could also have given more clues about the project
"complexity" issue.
43/  Agricultural credit was not financed by the Bank loan for the Ceara
project, nor was it included in the project costs, because of highly
negative real interest rates. But it was considered an important
supporting element for which the government assured funding in the Loan
Agreement. For reasons similar as in Minas Gerais, the scope of credit
actions remained small.
44/ For more details on the credit component, refer to SAR, Ln. 1877-BR,
paras. 4.09-4.12.



15
e.    CE-RD II assumed that agricultural extension would be a key factor
in (modest) increases in crop yields in the sertao (to be achieved
against a long-term trend of declining yieldn), increases in cultivated
area per farm, a change in cropping patterns to more intercropping of
cotton with maize and beans and the substitution of broad beans by
manioc. But the appraisal gave no indication of the technical recommen-
dations that would trigger these changes. Actually, despite consuming
the larg6it portion of project resources (about US$ 24 million or 28Z
of total costs) and virtually meeting its target of farmers attended,45/
extension failed to produce the expected efrects. Main reasons were
inappropriate methodology and inadequate technology.
CE-RD II's extension methodology was based on the assumption that -an
intensive contact with small groups of farmers would have a spread
effect, allowing the technology passed to the contact group to diffuse
to neighbours. The Ceara extension service (EMATERCE) concentrated its
efforts on very small numbers of farmers, in a ratio of one extension
worker to abo'Lt 120 farmers grouped around contact farmers. But farmers
in the sertao did not respond to working in artificially created groups.
Furthermore, extension officers tended to make infrequent irregular
visits and to confine activities to theoretical discussions, rather than
"hands-on" demonstrations in farmers' fields. Given the generally urban
middle-class technocrat orientation of EMATERCE, its staff had diffi-
culties to overcome the cultural gap without establishing credibility
by showing intimate practical kr.owledge of farming.
Even if the methodology had been better, extension impact might have
been limited by the failure of the Ceara Agricultural Research Company
(EPACE) to build on the basic research done by the Semi-arid Agriculture
Research Center (CPATSA) or the Brazilian Agricultural Research Company
(EMBRAPA) and adapt these research results into technology suitable for
extension. The apparent failure of extension to develop a two-way flow
of information with EPACE meant that research efforts were not directed
to providing the most appropriate technology. Given small farmers'
limited up-take of credit and the high risk of crop failure from
drought, actual recommendations made, based only on the use of improved
seed and fertilizer, were unsuited to local conditions. Agronomically,
it is hard to imagine a more unsuitable crop for the NE than maize,
which at project time accounted for the largest area planted to
foodcrops. Since the yield potential of other grains such as sorghum
and millet, and pulses such as cow-peas, is much higher and the basic
research on them has been done, one would have expected an effort to
develop markets for these alternatives, but this was not done.
The performance of agricultural extension was similar under MG-RD II.
By project costs, extensiGn was the second biggest component (US$ 13
million or 19Z of the actual total costs). The results were better than
in Ceara, as some new varieties and techniques were adopted in some
45/ The appraisal costs, including physical and price contingencies, were
about US$ 35 million. The appraisal target was some 60,000 farmers
attended, and the actual achievement was some 58,000. SAR, Ln. 1924-
BR, para. 5.01; and PCR, Ln. 1877-BR and Ln. 1924-BR, Table 4.



16
areas. But in general, problems of soil fertility, sparse plant
populations and poor soil moisture conservation practices are everywhere
evident. Since Minas Gerais is one of the more important agricultural
areas on the continent, results from extension and research are
disappointing in the light of the substantial resources expended.
24.       The projects' social infrastructure investments led to improvements
in the education, health, sanitation and community support systems, in
particular in physical installations. However, system achievements were much
less than originally expected, partly because of the project's reduction in
scope, and partly because of other implementation, including irnstitutional,
constraints. As recorded by the implementation indicators, education
performed ahead of the other components, especially health and sanitation.
How much the projects actually raised rural education and health levels, is
unclear because no impact analyses (which would preferably include pre-
project baseline data) exist. Even post-project surveys alone are unavail-
able. Thus, it is also difficult to judge, whether results justified ts'e
financial and other efforts. Mission observations and testimony by project
beneficiaries and government officials suggest that education and community
support investments had a more substantial, and health and sanitation invest-
ments, a much less substantial impact. A key to the relative success of
education facilities may have been, that they were usually attached to
existing and functioning schools. Farmers in Minas Gerais told the audit
mission that they valued community development (including social extension)
the most among all project items. Though small in expenditures, these
investments were perceived as strongly promoting social cohesiveness and
rural cooperative programs. About one-half of Ceara's potable water supply
systems, which the mission irspected, had operational problems. Either they
were improperly sited, or they had fallen into disuse because of lack of
funds, unclear operational responsibilities, or other factors. The CE-RD II
water supply component had no apparent linkage with the Bank's Water Supply
and Sewerage Project, which also dealt with Ceara and was approved in
1979.46/ The rural health system in the same state functions poorly, and
health standards are desparately low in areas supported by CE-RD II, which
46/ The Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage Project aimed at three states
- Bahia, Ceara and Pernambuco. In Ceara, the project sought to construct
or expand water supply systems in some 60 villages, apart from medium-
sized cities and the capital area (Fortaleza). A major project objective
was to develop the sector on sound technical, administrative, organiza-
tional and financial principles, within the framework of a unified water
supply management by the state water company. Under CE-RD II, the State
Secretariat of Health (and not the state water company) was in charge
of project activities, and the Secretariat and local communities were
to assume responsibilities for subsequent system operation, maintenance
and financing. The SAR did not explain why CR-RD II took an approach
different from the sector project ane what the consequences might be,
and it did not even refer to the sector project. SAR, Northeast Water
SuDD1Y and Sewerage Project, Ln. 1656-BR, paras. 6.02 and 6.03; and SAR,
Ln. 1924-BR, paras. 4.23-4.27.



17
is typical for much of rural Brazil.47t Coz-bined with many other difficult
project components, this item could only be patch-work in a sector with
daunting problems.48/ The project brought rural health posts to locations
where none existed before. But doctors' visits are rare, unknown or symbolic,
essential vaccines are in short supply, basic medication and other medical
supplies are unavailable, and para-medics try to provide health care mostly
empty-handed, occasionally equipped with a text-book on general health
matters. Many poor cannot affcrd a ride to the nearest health center or
hospital, being forced to walk for hours, if able, or forego treatment.
25.       MG-RD II and CE-RD II's physical infrastructure investments, pri-
marily in roads, were welcomed by local populations, which saw them as means
to foster economic and social development. Most road sections visited by the
audit mission were in adequate condition. Traffic was uniformly low. The
mission could not determine whether road design standards and route selection
were fully adequate and met the stringent economic and technical criteria
laid down under (free-standing) Bank-financed feeder roads projects, though
state highway officials noted that standards had been reduced to improve the
investment economics. Neither could the mission assess maintenance capaci-
ties, though several government officials voiced grave concern. The PCR
painted a negative picture, suggesting that in both MG and CE the quality of
construction was poor and maintenance capacities were not built up to proper
standards, despite project intent to the contrary.49/ A main objective of the
feeder roads projects, of which the Bank approved three so far in 1976 to
1982 and which led to construction or improvement of some 20,000 km of roads,
was to raise standards of planning, design and implementation in partici-
pating states. Minas Gerais and Ceara were each beneficiaries of two lending
operations, but ex-post reviews made it clear that institutional impact is
difficult to sustain without adequate reinforcement. A key feature of these
projects was the strong role played by a financial intermediary (National
Economic and Social Development Bank - BNDES) in preparing and implementing
47/  For a current assessment of Brazil's health system and access to it by
the poor, refer to: Brazil. The New Challenge of Adult Health, A World
Bank Country Study, 1990.
48/  Already in the early etages of implementation, it became apparent that
the project was overambitious in health. Bank staff quickly saw the need
for a review of the health delivery system in the state, and in fact in
the entire NE, and suggested that the rural health issues be properly
addressed under a regional sector project, which was then under con-
sideration. Proiect Correspondence Files for Ln. 1924-BR. This project,
aimed at raising health standards of poor peasants, was approved in
1986. But, focused on four NE states including Minas Gerais, it excluded
Ceara. It dealt with Ceara only to th-e extent that it financed some
basic equipment, as well as consulting services to prepare the state for
an eventual follow-up project. The main reason for excluding Ceara, for
which CE-RD II had financed a health component, was that its health
sector was institutionally too weak. SAR, Northeast Basic Health
Services Proiect, Ln. 2699-BR, 1986, paras. 2.28, 3.01-3.02, 3.05 (b)
and 3.24.
49/ PCR, Ln. 1877-BR and Ln. 1924-BR, para. 1.30.



18
project components. In MG-RD II or CE-RD II roads, BNDES had no role, which
was a ._ssed opportunity for shoring up its feeder roads impact. Dealing with
feeder roads maintenance,  through the back-door of RD lending,  seemed
questionable. Though requiring seemingly simplo engineering, road maintenance
(including  programming,  monitoring,  financing,  accounting,  training,
equipment maintenance, etc.) is difficult to organize and sustain in a
primarily local context, outside of a state-wide framework.50/ Further, it
is debatable whether state-wide rural development is served well by commit-
ting the borrower to road maintenance solely in c;he project areas (as it was
done under MG-RD II and CE-RD II), at the risk of reducing non-project areas'
access to scarce (financial and institutional) maintenance resources.51/
26.       The two projects' 'institutional packages", designed to develop
institutional capacities for RD, increase local participation in RD anid test
the replicability of project formats, had seemingly mixed results.52/ Lacking
formal institution-building plans, the projects sought to increase institu-
tional capacities primarily through agency and community participation in the
projects. Beneficiaries had a limited place in project proceedings. A few
institutions had been exposed to Bank lending before, but for most, the
projects were to impart new lending experiences on them. Virtually all
institutions had been in existence before the projects and been operational
(in some form) in their designated line of work. Many agency and community
officials, whom the audit mission met, noted that the projects had been a
valuable training ground, regardless of the success of the undertakings. But,
much expertise was also lost again when staff were released or rotated upon
the periodic government changes, a practice common in all of Brazil. The
project management/coordination teams were, in any case, disbandened upon
project completion, and staff were transferred to other services.53/ Much
experience was also specific to Bank projects and not germane to programs
exclusively funded internally. If for no other reason than complex and costly
management, governments are unlikely to copy the format of the two Bank
projects. Lack of conviction that these projects (as a whole, or in critical
50/  For a review of Bank feeder roads projects, refer to: PPAR, Brazil
Secondary and Feeder Roads Prolect (Loan 1206-BR), Report No. 6568,
1986; PCR, Brazil Second Feeder Roads Project (Ln. 1730-BR), Report No.
8160, 1989; and PPAR, Brazil Second Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1730-
BR), Report No. 9376, 1991. Both audits advocated Bank sector operations
aimed at feeder roads maintenance.
51/ For details on the projects' feeder roads components, refer to: SAR, Ln.
1877-BR, paras. 4.34-4.36; and SAR, Ln. 1924-BR, paras. 4.28-4.31.
52/ Bank staff noted that the "referred 'testing of the replicability of the
project formats' was probably successful in the sense that the project
demonstrated its limited replicability."
53/  According to Bank staff, "the loss of expertise is only relevant for the
project but not for the country".



19
parts) are affordable or work,54/ could be another reason why federal and
state governments may chose their own approach, as the audit mission learned.
V. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
27.       The prospects for sustainability of project benefits seem poor,
primarily because of financial constraints at state, community and farmers'
levels. Amori other constraints are institutional shortcomings, such as in
Ceara, wh.ere the audit observed weak organizational structures to maintain
water sapply points, and where the rural health sector seems to be in
disarray. By the appraisals' estimates, the projects were to generate large
caih incomes in the form of utility revenues, user fees, taxes on increased
production and beneficiaries' financial contributions to investment and
operation. In MG, these incomes were to off-set substantial parts of project
costs during implementation. In CE, they were to exceed project costs after
implementation.55/ The incomes, it was implied, were important for achieving
project sustainability. Actually, the projects did not seem to produce the
expected financial results, and state economies and rural sectors did,
apparently, not prosper. State and municipal investment and operations
budgets are chronically in crises, and painful decisions are routinely needed
to keep spending in line with resources.56/ rhis has already produced a
visible impact on segments of the health, water supply and sanitation
sectors, where systems reviewed by the audit mission bogged down, in part,
due to the financial crisis. Only the roads sector saems to do reasonably
well so far (based on limited audit information), despite reportedly
insufficient maintenance budgets. But lack of operating funds, if perpetu-
ated, will ultimately show up in road conditions. Power generation and
distribution related to MG-RD II appear unprofitable, according to industry
sources. Most power supplied is for consumptive (and not productive)
purposes. Cash flows for rural electrification lending are negative as
credits for linking farms with power grids, some as high as US$ 2,000 per
541 Thi aoes not mean that the states, increasingly sensitized to rural
development issues, may discontinue rural programs. Neither does it
mean that poor states, such as Ceara, may reject future external offers
of RD financing. Such states depend critically on diverse sources of
financing, they highly value the projects' impact on state (in
particular public sector) employment, and they may be willing to
accommodate a lender. About 50% of the CE-RD II appraised project costs
(some US$ 80 million out of US$ 165 million) were "operating" costs
(largely salaries such as for extension, agricultural research, health
and education services). Transcri2t of Proceedings, December 2, 1980.
No such figures became available for MG-RD II, but they could have been
in a similar order of magnitude because of similarity of project design.
55/ SAR, Ln. 1877-BR, para. 9.09; and SAR, Ln. 1924-BR, paras. 9.10-9.11.
56/ Since 1987, the Ceara government is engaged in a campaign to restore its
(previously corrupted) finances to health. The campaign has had success,
but at the cost of curtailing government programs and services.



20
household, were granted at subsidized interest rates without compensation
for inflation.
28.       To the extent that farmers have a role in financing system opera-
tions and maintenance, the picture is possibly bleaker, as the project.,
reportedly, did not succeed in raising average farm incomes. Further, the
income from two important cash crops in some project areas - coffee (southern
MG) and cotton (CE) - was hit hard in the eighties. Coffee suffered from a
general and prolonged decline in world coffee prices, and cotton suffered
from infestation by the boll-weevil. As a result of their income situation,
farmers could and can contribute little or nothing to operation and
maintenance of project-funded community facilities, as it was evident during
the audit mission.57/ They also were and are hardly able to fund investments
in new facilities, to replicate project initiatives with their own resources,
thus remaining dependent on govertment and external aid.
VI. PROJECT LESSONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
29.       This review of MG-RD II and CE-RD II conveyed the impression that
RD lending may not (yet) be an effective form of development assistance for
the rural impoverished parts of the two states. The impression, which is
strong despite gross deficiencies in PCR impact monitoring and evaluation,
is the more serious, as:
each project was the second of so far three RD operations in each state,
based on (partial) experience from MG-RD I or CE-RD I, apart from other,
unspecified, RD lending;58/
the PCR, written as recently as early 1990 (with the benefit of infor-
mation on the ongoing RD operations), does not argue and demonstrate
that improvements in project design or implementation arrangements can
measurably improve results;59/ 60/ and
57/ The projects' community facilities, funded as part of agro-services or
social infrastructure, included manioc flour plants, rice mills and
vegetable gardens.
58/ Bank staff, correctly, noted that "operational development experience
from Minas Gerais-RDI and Ceara-RDI ... (was) still incipient when the
two follow-up projects were designed."
59/ Among the PCR recommendations for RD lending to the NE (and not only
MG and CE) were: adaptation of project design (size and comolexity) to
existing institutional capacities and availability of viable agricultu-
ral technologies; "realistic" assessments of political, sociological and
technical constraints to affect changes; treatment of land distribution
as a major (and not minor) project component; and proper attention of
Bank supervision to impact evaluation procedures. PCR, Ln. 1877-BR and
Ln. 1924-BR, para. 1.68.



21
the two projects were integral parts uf broad-based etate development
programs (funded by government and external sources), which in principle
should have increased the projects' chances for success.j1/
30.       The impression about RD lending to the two states (if not to the
NE as a whole) is being shared by Brazilian technocru4s, who are familiar
with this project type.621 Even those technocrats subscribe to it, who see
in RD operations for the NE principally a global mechanism for lnter-
regional shifts of wealth, rather than precision instruments applied for the
achievement of stated project goals. To many, the appraisal euphoria was
misplaced, good lending intentions by themselves do not count anymore (after
a series of RD operations), progressive RD experimentation without credible
stock-taking is uncalled for, and the time has come to judge these operations
strictly by actual results (which would include beneficiaries' ability to
make sustained use of project services and infrastructure).
31.       The audit, therefore, recommends that the Bank:
evaluate the impact of completed RD operations in Minas Gerais and
Ceara, perhaps in combination with reviews of completed MG-RD III and
CE-RD III (and even other completed RD projects in the NE), before
embarking on new (if any) RD lending to these states;s3/
60/ Bank staff commenteds " The implementation experience and impact of
these two projecto and other ongoing rural development projects,
although considerably blurred by such external factors as the financial
crisis and the drought, did provide sufficient experience for modifying
the strategy for rural development in Brazil; and ... The Northeast
program was indeed modified in the mid-80s, reflecting the lessons
learned and resulting in changed project design in the second-generation
rural development project which is currently again subject to a
comprehensive review by the Government and the Bank."
611  Among the Bank-financed projects were: CE-RD III (approved 1986) and MG-
RD III (1987); Northeast Water SupDlv and Sewerage Proiect, Ln. 1656-
BR (1979), with CE components; Third Minas Gerais Water Suiply and
Seweraee Proiect, Ln.1850-BR (1980); Secondary and Feeder Roads Project,
Ln.1207-BR (1976), with MG components; Second Feeder Roads Proiect, Ln.
1730-BR (1979), with CE components; Third Feeder Roads Proiect, Ln.
2224-BR (1982), with MG and CE components; and Northeast Basic Education
Proiect, Ln. 1867-BR (1980), with CE components.
62/  The impression in the country about RD lending is influenced, in part,
by the experience from the ongoing second-generation RD projects in the
NE. Implementation of these projects is proceeding badly and a cause
of grave concern to the federal and state governments and the Bank.
63/  Bank staff had these comments: "With hindsight, the 'appraisal euphoria'
was apparently misplaced but it is fair to say that a stock-taking had
taken place which resulted in non-extension of the loan and a reformula-
tion of POLONORDESTE into the second generation rural development pro-
jects (PAPP) with a simpler design. ... these second-generation projects



22
demonstrate how the RD lessons for Minas Gerais and Ceara are being
reflected in the design of future (if any) RD projects in other
Brazilian states;
assume responsibility for generating full-fledged impact evaluations of
the ongoing RD lending for Minas Gerais and Ceara (if not for other
parts of the NE), to discontinue the practice of submitting PCRs, which
plead lack of data when discussing impact; and
give adequate attention, in the design of future (if any) RD projects
in Brazil, to (i) procedures for assessing RD beneficiaries, (ii)
balance of "productive" and social project components, and (iii) choice
between "integrated" RD and free-standing sector projects; these issues,
which surfaced under the MG and CE projects, are much in line with
systemic problems already identified in OED's 1987 comprehensive review
of RD lending.64/
32.       The impact evaluations (referred to in para. 31) should, as fea-
sible, be based on actually observed information on the post-implementation
situation and track the formal project objectives and principal project
performance targets, as specified at appraisal. The evaluations should
attempt to establish the identity and number of actual beneficiaries, and
actual project effects on public sector (state and municipal) and household
budgets. Further, the analyses should discuss to what extent effective RD
lending (in the sertao) depends on genuine progress on land reform. Other
issues should be the importance and potential scope of irrigation (in the
sertao) and agricultural credit, as well as methodologies and technologies
for agricultural extension. OED understands that elements of this evaluation
exercice have already been addressed in the context of mid-term reviews of
RD projects for Brazil late last year.
33.       The concept of project beneficiary needs careful review in project
justification and design. Ir particular, a meaningful benefit thresh-hold
needs to be defined for beneficiary calculations. Otherwise, the concept's
creative use can lead to such huge numbers of "beneficiaries", even though
per capita benefits may be minuscule, that accounting for beneficiaries
becomes meaningless. Appraisal reports should also strive to document in full
the beneficiary arithmetic.
34.       The importance of balancing "productive" and social project com-
ponents (a topic already raised in the 1975 RD Sector Policy Paper) arises
from the fact that income from the former may be needed to supplement income
from the latter (at least) in the early post-implementation stages. Unless
the balancing succeeds, for all categories of project beneficiaries (state
and municipal governments, community organizations and individual farmers),
have been reviewed recently with the results of a further modification
to reduce the financing risk and the 'supply driven' nature of these
schemes."
64/ World Bank Experience with Rural Development 1965-1986, Report No. 6883,
1987.



23
or unless adequate cross-flows of income (income transfers between project
beneficiaries) can be organized, the sustained use of social (if not
"productive") investments is threatened. In the final analysis, the scope of
social investments in RD projects may need to be explicitly tailored to the
income-generating capacity of the "productive" investments, with an emple
cushion for eventual project risks.
35.       While "integration" is believed to boost the inter-play and effec-
tiveness of sector components, the complexity of such projects can negate
this effect. Also, integration may mean little else than combination of
sector elements in one and the same lending operation. In some instances,
sector items may simply serve as enhancement of RD appeal (particularly in
case of social investments) or overall lending volume (typically in case of
rural roads). Sector performance by itself may suffer, as desirable standards
of sector design and implementation may be sacrificed, and free-standing
sector projects may be preempted, reduced in scope or under-cut in their
objectives. A conceivable Bank operational rule could be to treat "integra-
ted" RD lending as an exception, which ought to be justified on a case by
case basis, curtail the number of sector components in RD projects (to
"manageable" configurations), deal with sector problems frontally through
sector projects (if opportunities exist or can be created), and seek "inte-
gration" of sector investments outside the RD lending context. In fact,
"integrated" RD lending has been scaled back Bank-wide since the mid-
eighties.



- 25 -
Page 1 of4
COMMENTS BY CEARA STATE GOVERNMENT
92E0378     February 7, 1992
Portuguese (Brazil)
OEDD3       PS/TS:ecw
State of Ceara
Secretariat of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
Fortaleza, December 18, 1991
SEARA GS. No. 855/91
Mr. Graham Donaldson
Chief, Agriculture and Human Development Division
Operations Evaluation Department
World Bank
Washingt'r!, D C.
Dear Sir:
Comments on the Pro1ect Performance Report on the Ceara Integrated
Rural Development Proiect - Loan Aereement 1924-BR
The Ceark Integrated Rural Development Projoet (IRDP - Cear& II,
Loan Agreement 1924-BR) appears to have been designed on the assumption that
the positive impact of the action would be in direct proportion to the
coverage of that action. In other words, the broader the coverage of the
Project, the better the results would be.
In our opinion, this does not appear to be correct in strategic
terms, given the fact that available resources are almost always insufficient
to cover the needs observed in the various areas of government responsibility
in Third World countries.



Annex I
Page 2 of 4
- 26 -
In the case of the IRDP - Cear6, priorities were not clearly
identified, particularly in terms of the geographic area to be served by the
project. The predetermined objectives were rather broad and their operating
structure became rather unwieldy because of its complexity.
In fact the project's cumbersome technical and administrative
structure used up a large proportion of its budget, to the detriment of what
was to have been channeled to the final beneficiary.
There also appears to have been no institutional involvement at
the grassroots level -- or of the target population at all -- in the project
planning process, a factor that probably compromised the success of the
program.
The overambitious scope given the project in spatial terms (the
entire State) resulted in dispersal of available funds, which, combined with
the lack of continuity in their use, made it impossible-for the action planned
to have an impact on the scale envisaged in terms of economic and social
development.
On the basis of the technical findings of the evaluation of the
Northeast Integrated Rural Development Projects conducted by the State Agri-
cultural Planning Commission (CEPA-CE), it can be said that, even after ten
years of project implementation, the desired socioeconomic changes have yet to
take place to any significant degree while there are still many distortions in
the performance of the components of these projects, including the following
in particular:
-and reform Continuation of the unsatisfactory profile of land tenure
structure in the Region, where unproductive large estates persist side by side
with overcrowded smallholdings. There were delays in the disbursement of
funds, a lack of continuity and complementarity in the project's expropriation,
purchase and settlement activities, in the organization-relatsd technical
assistance and in the establishment of social and productive infrastructure.
The State Government managed to partially overcome the problem by endeavoring



Aunex I
Page 3 of 4
- 27 -
to fill the gaps left by the slow action on the part of the Federal Government.
Purchases of land for the settlement of families were recently amade exclusively
out of State funds.
Health and Sanitation: With respect to these components the Project
evaluations indicate the absence of an efficient supervision process, little
coordinated effort among the executing agencies, and also delays in provision
of Federal funds.
rrigation: Blurred responsibilities and changes in executing agencies during -
project implementation. Operating problems in the systems due to shortage of
rural credit, lack of experience on the part of the irrigators and inadequate
support infrastructure.
Local road: Problems with prioritizing and dimensioning works and also
shortage of funds.
Technical assistance: weaknesses in quality of service, resulting from failure
to establish a clear work strategy plus possible political interference.
It is also apposite to note that the lack of any standardization of
indicators, which would have allowed analyses of performance to be made over
time, greatly complicated the evaluation process and made it ipossible to
correct any irregularities as and when they occurred.  It is nevertheless
clear that the project has not brought about any major changes in the level of
social well-being" of the target populations, which was its main purpose.
On the positive side, the project can be said to have helped
further the process of getting rural producers organized, which has been most
valuable for establishing other development projects.
In closing, we would emphaize that lessons have been learned from
the experience of this project - primarily the need to set more realLstic
objectives -- which can and are being incorporated in onping and future
development projects and the effects of this new approach are already being



Annex I
Page 4 of 4
- 28 -
felt in certain areas of the State. The State's action, begun under the
previous Government and continued under the present one, involves far-reaching
changes in the way in which public resources are administered and has already
attracted considerable attention at both the national and the international
level.
We will be pleased to provide any further information you may
require.
Very truly yours,
Is/ Ant6nio Enock de Vasconcelos
Secretary of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform



- 29 -
of ~~2
COQWETS BY MINAS GERAIS STT  GOENMN
92E0409     February 27, 1992
Portuguese (Brazil)
OEDD3       PS/McM:uh
Office of the Secretariat of State
for Agriculture, Stockraising and Supplies
State of Minas Gerais
Brazil
Belo Horizonte, January 8, 1992
Oficio No. G/164/92
Mr. Graham Donaldson
Chief, Agriculture and Human Development Division
Operations Evaluation Department
World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Sir:
We acknowledge receipt of the Project Performance Audit Report
(PPAR), prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED), on the Minas
Gerais Second Rural Development Project (Loan 1877-BR).
We must inform you, in response, that we find that the PPAR, as
presented, effectively reflects both the constraints encountered by the MG II
Project and some of the benefits resulting from it.



Annex II
Page 2 of 2
- 30 -
We also believe that further work could usefully be undertaken
with the small-scale farmers in settlements resulting from either the agrarian
reform or other initiatives.
If you share our view on the relevance of this proposal we are at
your disposal for further discussion of this matter.
Very truly yours,
/s/ Alysson Paulinelli
Secretary of State for Agriculture,
Stockraising and Supplies



- 31 -
Anexc 111
Page I of 1
COMMENS BY FEDERAL GOVERNME   - NATIONAL PLANING SECRETARIAT
92E0424     March 6, 1992
Portuguese (Brazil)
OEDD3       RP:uh
TECHNICAL NOTE:  DNPA/SNP/MEFP/s/No...                  Brasilia,
February 27, 1992
RE:   Project Performance Audit Report on the CearA II and Minas Gerais II
Integrated Rural Development Projects, prepared by the Operations
Evaluation Department of the World Bank.
The OED/IBRD Report on the above projects provides an absolutely
accurate account of these projects, and its conclusions are totally
irrefutable.
In fact, there is nothing new in pointing out that the results of
the integrated rural development projects planned and implemented in Brazil
with technical and financial support from the World Bank tend to be very
unrevealing, and the Bank itself acknowledges this.
We believe there is no need to engage in any in-depth examination
of the Report which, we reiterate, is frank, honest and realistic.
We can only wait and see to what extent this Report will make a
real contribution toward the planning of future Bank activities.
/s/ Gilvan Cordeiro de Araijo
Regional and Environmental Planning Coordinator



- 32 -
Armex IV
page I or 10
COMMETS BY FEDERAL GOVERNMENT - REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT SECRETARIAT
OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBL.C [BRAZIL]
Regional Development Secretariat
Official Communication/SDR-PR/DPA
No. 015/92                                Brasilia, March 11, 1992
Graham Donaldson, Chief
Agriculture and Human Development Division
Operations Evaluation Department
The World Bank
Dear Sir:
I refer to the draft of the report entitled "PROJECT PERFORMANCE
AUDIT REPORT (PPAR), BRAZIL - MINAS GERAIS SECOND RURAL DEVELOPHENT
PROJECT (LOAN 1877-BR), AND CEARA SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJErCT (LOAN
1924-BR)," which was forwarded by the World Bank to the Department of
International Affairs of the Ministry of the Econcmy, Finance, and
Planning, for analysis and comment by the Brazilian Government.
In this regard, and on behalf of the Regional Development
Secretariat, I am sending you the enclosed technical note containing the
comments developed by this office.
Very truly yours,
[Signature]
Persio Marco Antonio Davison, Director
Department of Planning and Evaluation, SDR-PR



- 33 -
Annex IV
Page 2 of 10
OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC [BRAZIL]
Regional Development Secretariat
Note/SDR-PR/DPA/DAA No. 005/92                        January 28, 1992
Subject:    "Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR), Brazil - Minas Gerais
Second Rural Development Project (Loan 1877-BR), and Ceara Second
Rural Development Project (Loan 1924-BR.)"
Comments by the Regional Development Secretariat (SDR)
I     INTRODUCTION
The camments by the Regional Developient Secretariat on IBRD Report
"PPAR MG-RD/II and CE-RD/II" presented in this Note focus on the general and
specific aspects involved, as well as on current federal government policy for
the Northeast.
It is appropriate at this point to emphasize that the ccmments which
follow are based on an attentive reading of the IBRD report in question,
inasmuch as it was impossible to arrange a visit to the areas covered by the
two projects that are the subject of the report.
tt   GENERAL CIMMENTS
During three decades of continued economic growth, the Northeast
underwent a significant socioeconamic transformation because of
industrialization and urbanization. That process coincided with an
expansionary cycle in the national economy and resulted, to a great extent,
from the motivating and corrective mechanisms that the Goverrment created
through the Authority for the Development of the Northeast - SUDENE.
On the basis of this process, the Northeast became more deeply and
productively integrated into the Brazilian economy--as did this country's
peripheral spaces in terms of their relationship with the dynamics of the
center that radiated the modernizing energy.
However this modernizatimn, that in the critical view of several
researchers was internalized only to a limited extent, did not produce
satisfactory solutions to the serious problems that have historically
afflicted the NE region, and which were duly analyzed by the Northeast
Development Working Group (GTDN), i.e.: spatial disparities in income growth,
economic fragility in the face of climatic fluctuations, insufficient capital
accumulation, uneaployment and underemployment, and the consequent generation
of pockets of misery as a spatial expression of those obstacles to
development.
During the 1960-90 period, the econwmic growth of the Northeast,
measured by the average annual rate of change in the GDP (real, at factor
cost), was estimted at 5.4 percent, the same as for the Brazilian economyq as



Annex IV
Page 3 of 10
- 34 -
a whole. During that period, the region's share of the country's GDP rose
frcxn 13.4 percent to 15.6 percent. That increase should be credited primarily
to changes in relative prices since, as was indicated above, the rates of
growth in the GDP of the Northeast and of Brazil were equal.
The average annual rate of growth in real GDP per capita in the
Northeast, estimated at 3.1 percent, exceeded the Brazilian rate, which was
2.7 percent. As a consequence of this differential, the Northeast's share in
the national figure rose by 23 percent, frmn 42.3 percent in 1960 to 51.9
percent in 1990. However, that gain was motivated partly by the greater
vitality of the Northeastern economy and partly by lower rates of demographic
growth in the region.
With regard to the structural composition of the economy, the Northeast
experienced a substantial reduction in the role of the agricultural sector in
generating GDP (at factor cost); it fell from 30.4 percent in 1960 to 15.1
percent in 1990. That decline was accaTpanied by the increase in the role of
industry fron 22.1 percent to 27.0 percent and in the role of services, which
rose from 47.5 percent to 57.9 percent.
During 1970-89, a period for which available statistics permit sectoral
ccopariscns between the Northeastern and Brazilian economies, the average
annual growth rates for agriculture and services, estimated for the Northeast
at 6.2 percent and 8.5 percent respectively, exceeded the corresponding rates
calculated for Brazil (4.1 percent and 6.4 percent). In compensation, the
average annual growth rate for Brazilian industry, calculated at 5.7 percent,
was pegged slightly above that of the Northeast, which was about 5.6 percent.
With respect to demographic variables, it is worth noting that the
average annual gewmetric rate of growth in the Northeastern population--
situated at about 2.2 percent during the decade 1940 to 1950--reached 2.4
percent during the decade 1960-70, but has tended to decline since then.
Between 1970 and 1980, the econcfifcally active population in the region
grew by an average annual rate of 2.9 percent, while the working population
expanded by 2.7 percent per armmn. In Brazil, the average annual increment in
the econanically active population was 3.9 percent and in the working
population 4.1 percent. Thus in 1980, the rate of open unewployment was lower
in Brazil (2.2 percent) than in the Northeast (2.9 percent). Since between
1985 and 1988 the econonically active population in the Northeast grew by 2.7
percent a year, while that of the working population was 2.3 percent, the rate
of open unemiployment climbed to 3.8 percent.
It is estimated that disguised unemployment affects 47.1 percent of the
total working population of the Northeast, according to the latest available
data (IBGE-PNAD, 1989), if one adopts the hypothesis that persons who earn no
more than two wininumu monthly wages and work more than 40 hours a week belong
in this category. A significant portion of this group would certainly be
found in the informl sector, which in 1989 accounted for 31.7 percent of
total employfment.



Annex IV
35 -              Page 4 of s0
Statistics available on monthly remiuneration of the working population
in Brazil reveal the poor distribution of incone. This is most serious in the
Northeast: in 1980, 51.5 percent of the working population of the Northeast
earned no more than one mininum monthly wage, and 70.6 percent earned a
maxiunm of two minimum wages. In 1985, these proportions were 48.2 percent
and 67.1 percent respectively, and in 1988, they were 46.8 percent and 67.4
percent.
In concluding this sketch of the regional socioeconomic situation, we
should add that most of the indicators of the quality of life of the
Northeastern population, when compared with those referring to the most
developed areas of Brazil, reveal large gaps, as can be observed fran the
following statements:
*     In 1987, the region had 52 percent of Brazil's population in
the 15 years and over age bracket;
*     In that same year, the illiteracy rate among Northeasterners
age 15 years and over (38.3 percent) was double that of
Brazil and triple the rate for the South and Southeastern
regions;
*     UAbout half of Brazil's substandard housing units are
situated in the Northeast;
* .eAlmost 2/3 of Brazilians who have a calorie deficit greater
than 200 calories/day live in the Northeast;
*    Life expectancy for residents of the Northeast (52 years) is
ten years lower than for residents of the Southeast; and
*    Almost half of the working population that earns one mininun
monthly wage or less resides in the Northeast.
Despite the relative success of the regional development policy and the
prolonged use of instruments to correct inequalities and remedy social
problems, the Northeast continues to need the support and intervention of the
State if it is not to lapse into economic stagnation and social collapse.   It
has changed, true, but still lags behind, subject to the whims of Nature and
afflicted with serious social problems.
Even so, the changes that occurred in the region during these years--
starting with the integration into the national economy and industrialization-
-place the Northeast in a qualitatively new situation that demands different
policies, different actions by the State, and a program of economic and social
transfornmation that establishes new patterns of growth and economic
articulation with the national process of accumulaticn and development.
The context of the new cycle on which the national economy is embarked
will heavily inpact and create strong determinants for the development of the
Northeast, whether because of the nature of the political process, the nature



Annex IV
Page 5 of 10
- 36 -
of capital expansion within Brazil, or even because of the attractions and
potential offered by the Northeast.
The greater the challenges and the obstacles, the more necessary will be
the planned and articulated intervention of the State as a motivating and
corrective force in the concentrated process of capital accumulation in the
Brazilian space. But that intervention is justified only when oriented toward
contributing to the development and higher living standards for the people in
the region, and to national development. That way, the Northeast will cease
to be, or to be seen as being, an eternal problem child.
III   SPECIFIC CXHTS
The Minas Gerais Second Rural Developnent Project (MG-RD/II) and the
Cear& Second Rural Development Project (CE-RD/II) that are the subject of the
IERD evaluation to which this Note refers are part of an International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development program whose basic objective is to support
the rural econcmnies of Brazil, especially in the Northeast Region.
In all, under the program, the Bank financed 20 integrated rural
development projects in the Northeast of Brazil, involving loans of US$1.2
billion. Parallel sectoral projects such as rural education, transportation,
irrigation, and sanitation were also financed.
Both projects were intended to: increase production and productivity in
agriculture; raise rural incomes and employment opportunities; improve
institutional capacities for rural development program; dampen rural-urban
migration; and provide a range of social services for the population.
Following are some basic data concerning the two projects in question:
INDICATORS               MG-RD/II                  CE-RD/II
Loan No.                 1877 - BR                1924-BR
Total Value              US$63.0 million          US$56.0 million
* Dispersed              US$32.23 million (51%)   US$48.2 million (86%)
* Cancelled              US$30.7 million (49%)    US$ 7.8 million (14%)
Beneficiaries            400,000 people           2 million people
The principal camponent categories were: agricultural support services;
credit (Minas Gerais project only); social infrastructure (health, education,
and sanitation); econwic infrastructure, consisting basically of primary
roads that represent the principal project item by cost; and project
nuagenent.



Annex IV
Page 6 of 10
As for the imrplementation of the pr3jects, the IBRD report identifies
two main problems that affected the process: the fiscal crisis, which
afflicted the state and federal goverrments alike, and the difficulty of
managing a large number of components--which led to a drastic reduction in the
planned goals and the extension of the original implementation periods.
As regards appraisal of the results, the Bank's report says that neither
project fully achieved the proposed objectives mentioned above in the third
paragraph of Section III, and cites some of the factors that harpered their
success, namely: the spatial diffusion of project activities, land ownership
issues, the absence of an irrigation ccmponent compatible with the physical
characteristics of the region, conditions for contracting credit, and the
quality of rural extension and assistance services.
In the social area, despite the improvements achieved in education,
health, sanitation and commumity support systems, the results fell below the
original expectations. As regards rural roads, the quality of the
construction was poor and the prospects for their maintenance are a source of
concern.
As a consequence of that appraisal, the IBRD report questions the
rationale behind loans for rural development projects, conveying the
iwnression that they might not (now) be an effective form of developmnt
assistance for the rural irrpoverished parts of the two states.
Well now, the modest results achieved through rural development projects
and prograns require an analysis of the social dynamics of the rural counuxity
in relation to society as a whole, so as to permit a new approach that would
make more effective proposals viable. Inasmuch as econoiwc crisis--
acccopanied, to a greater or lesser extent, by a political crisis--is the
camon denaminator among the majority of developing countries, this task
becomes urgent.
The World Bank's Integrated Rural Developument projects (IRD/IBERD) are
multi-sectoral projects that are not actually integrated, but prioritize
sectors that affect the beneficiaries in an ad hoc and isolated manner without
inserting the Integrated Rural DevelopTent (DRI) [IRD] into a broader spatial
and time perspective.
As a general rule, World Bank appraisal reports announce the failure of
its IRD/IBRD projects--but this does not necessarily mean that Integrated
Rural Development has failed.
on the contrary, real IRD helps alert us to distortions in the
traditional design of IRD/IBRD projects, warn against the premature
demobilization of efforts at integration, and argue in favor of their
correction via sub-regional decentralization and the participation of society
at large.
It is inportant to emphasize, further, that involvement of the
miunicipalities in development projects and programs is of fundamental
importance in reducing the distance between the beneficiaries and the donors



E      Annex IV
- 38 -                 Page7-of 10
of the financial resources, by ensuring that the general public participates
and can monitor the actions taken by government authorities.
Furthermore, one nmst recognize the presence of a bureaucratic bias,
that emerges fron the reality by virtue of the circumstantial instability
under which the processes of allocation and operation are carried out in
Brazil. Well now, without "ex-ante" planning and continuity of action, any
program lines are bound to detour into a process of trial and error.
With very few exceptions, as long as the sectoral hegemony persists,
real IRD will not gain ground. Overall planning is not implemented in
specific projects without first passing through the intermediate stage of
sectoral and/or regional programming. In Brazil, a heterogenous country of
continental dimensions where the great majority of the people are living in
poverty--the progranming is necessarily regional.
IV   FEDERAL GOVERMENT POLICY FOR THE NORTHEAST
In August 1990, President Fernando Collor approved the "Guidelines for
Government Action for the Northeast (1991-1995-2000)," a document prepared by
the Regional Development Secretariat in conjunction with the Authority for the
Developinent of the Northeast - SUDENE.
Those guidelines establish an orientation for governnent actions in the
Northeastern Region. The ultirmate objective is to achieve better living
conditions for the entire Northeastern society in a more egalitarian manner
and, by embarking on a concentrated and joint effort to attenuate regional and
intra-regional disparities, to take better advantage of the areas having the
highest potential, and encourage industrial de-concentration and the
decentralization of the tertiary sector, thereby relieving saturated urban
areas.
All efforts nmust contribute, by opting for a new way of organizing
society and its resources in regional terms, to the adoption of a new
socioeconmcic equation--centered on a model of development internalization
that presupposes the synergistic effect of the caobination of public
participation and government action--whose success could represent the
foundation for a new development philosophy.
Furthermore, these Guidelines are consistent with the Multiyear Plan,
the Administrative Refonm, the Industrial and Foreign Trade Policy, the
Agricultural Policy, and the Deregulation Program, all of which reveal the
shape of a new kind of State that more oriented to strategic and non-
interventionist functions.
Those Guidelines constituted the parameters for the preparation of the
Integrated Regional Developient Plan for the Northeast - PDRI-NE [IRDP-NE],
and, consistent with the orientation found in the "National Reconstruction
Project," ccnply with the constitutional requirement that the government
submit "regional plans that establish programs designed to address each
region's specific issues."



Annex IV
-39 -                Page   of 10
Furthermore, the IRDP-NE incorporates sowe inportant instruments, now
redefined by the current administration, such as the Northeast Investment Fumd
(FINOR), the National Integration Programs (PIN) and the Land Redistribution
and Agricultural-Livestock Incentive Program for the Northeast and North
(PROTERRA). Also available is the Constitutional Fund for Northeast Financing
(FNE).
The Plan proposes, first of all, to assure econcmic growth as an
indispensable, albeit insufficient, precondition for the desired social
progress. It is based on structural changes and the exploitation of
productive opportunities in the various sectors and sub-regional spaces of the
Northeast. It is believed, however, that the economy of the region will have
to expand faster than the econcmy of Brazil as a whole. Otherwise the
enormous quantitative and qualitative gap that has developed over the years
will not be closed. By growing at a higher rate, the region will be able to
collaborate in moving beyond the present stage of verticalized integration of
the national market to reach a new level that is characterized by a greater
degree of interaction and hanm,ny among macro-regional spaces.
The ultimate objective of the IRDP-NE is improvement of the social
context of the Region by raising its incame and improving its social and
spatial distribution. This is why the structural transformation of the
economy is being conceived in such a way as to expand opportunities for
productive work, as well as to program short-term actions aimed at dealing
with the most pressing social needs, the ones that cannot wait for mediun and
long-term effects to be felt.
The reorganization of the regional space of the Northeast and the
reduction of intra-regional development disparities is another inportant
means/objective of the IRDP-NE.
The raising of social standards in the region and, concomitantly, the
organization and mobilization of the general public will drive the efforts to
use the various physical and geographical units of the region and exploit its
natural and economic resources--while preserving its ecosystems--with a view
to meeting human needs and consolidating a sense of national identity.
For that very reason, it is vital that efforts be made to see that
development is internalized, particularly a development that gives priority to
urbanization to support the restructuring of the rural economy and dampen the
rural-urban migration.
The investments called for under the IRDP-NE will be integrated into
sub-regional spaces. This spatial focus is one of the unique features of the
Plan. This approach is intended to guarantee nexirunn efficiency and
effectiveness in the allocation of public funds and to see that they converge,
in selected areas, on the most promising elements, those that have the most
power to propagate the results. Actions will be grouped in Program-Areas and
Complexes of Basic Industries and these two will be connected by
Transportat4rn Corridors.



Annex IV
-40-                       Page 9 of 10
This method of handling Northeastern issues assumes the presence of
dense institutional coordination. Therefore, not only will the Federal
Government take responsibility for carrying out the planned activities, but
state and mmmicipal governments will also assume that duty.
Such an undertaking materializes in the kind of pr-.a nTming that seeks
to deal with the key issues of the region, i.e.:
*     Transformation of the agricultural economy, with a view to
increasing its contribution to formation of gross regional
product, thereby strengthening the Northeastern urban-
industrial econony;
*     Consolidation of the urban-industrial econom.v by which is
meant actions to ccomplement the industrial camrlexes, intra-
and inter-sectoral integration of manufacturin. Eacilities,
and diversification of the processing industry in both the
dynamic and traditional branches;
*     Expansion of the economic infrastructure, a prerequisite for
intervention in the rural and urban areas, particularly in
the energy and transportation sectors, without which no
socioeconomic development is possible;
*     Installation of the equipment and operation of the social
services that are vital to the satisfaction of human needs,
confronting the problem of the low living standards observed
in the Northeast, prioritizing actions in the segments of
education, health, sanitation, and housing;
*     Mobilization of the science and technology capacity already
installed in the region, thereby allowing scientific and
technological development to be directed toward the
practical and effective solution of the major problems of
the Northeast--particularly in the realms of the
agricultural economy, energy, industrial competitiveness and
the basic needs of the population (health, sanitation,
housing, and nutrition)--so as to assure the people of that
region irmportant qualitative advances by enabling them to
share in the progress made by the Brazilian and world
economies; and
*     Conquering the pockets of absolute povetty in order to
facilitate an advanced process of economL% and
sociopolitical integration and to launch, in the Northeast,
a major effort to raise the real income of families who have
been completely untouched by the regional modernization
process.



- 41 -                Annex IV
Page 10 of 10
[SignaMureJ
JOEL HERBERT PRADO TAPIA, Advisor
[Signature]
INES ARARIPE DE PAULA FreITAS
Chief, Project Follow-up & Evaluation
Division - DAA/DPA



